The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End A roll of drums. You hear them on pretty important occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Colonel McGowan, commanding officer of this mechanized cavalry regiment. I'm not appearing on this program to make a talk. The time for talk has passed, and the men of the 102nd Cavalry are interested in action. Already they are well grounded in the fundamentals of warfare, learned during long months of training here in the Carolinas. In the field, under battle conditions, they will be part of a fast-moving, hard-hitting, self-contained reconnaissance regiment, whose job is to seek out the enemy. Carefully, each individual cameraman is instructed in the operation of the weapons he uses. To fire the pistol, insert the clip with the left hand, draw back the slide. This action automatically cocks the piece. When the slide is released, the force applied by the recoil spring moves the slide to its forward position. During this motion, the slide picks up the first round from the clip and feeds it into the chamber. The trigger is squeezed. The firing pin is slammed against the primer of the cartridge. In such a manner, a man is taught to use a pistol, primarily a weapon of defense. But today, there are many other weapons used by the mechanized cavalry. There is the rifle, the .30 and .50 caliber machine gun. The men of the 102nd must be expert in the handling of all of these, for they must know how to meet any emergency. The light machine gun, which can be carried on the small, fast Bantam, is operated by a crew of two men. The gun is carried in two pieces. The tripod strapped to the side of the car, the gun itself mounted in a movable cradle. If necessary, it can be fired from the moving vehicle. When the gun is put into action, you dismount the tripod and set it into position. At the same time, the other man is dismounting the piece. When the gun is mounted on the tripod, you clamp it, level it, blade. The fire order is given. Range 700. Range 700. Direct front. Direct front. Patrol on road. Patrol on road. Commence firing. When the gun jams or fails to fire, pull the bolt to the rear. Release it and attempt to fire. If it still fails to fire, tap the cover to make sure it is firmly relaxed. Jerk the ammunition belt to the right. Place the left hand on the belt where the cartridge enters the feedway, at the same time pulling the bolt to the rear and releasing it. If it feeds but fails to fire, change the bolt. If it doesn't feed, raise the cover. Remove the first round from the belt and look or feel for an obstruction in the gun. When this is done, reload, relay, and fire when ready. And so the men of 102nd learn to operate the light machine gun. Learn what to do in case of trouble. Another weapon used by the mechanized cavalry is the trim and powerful 37-millimeter anti-tank gun. It is told into the field by a bantam or scout car. When it is set up for practice, a corporal instructs the squad in every detail of its mechanism. When the gun reaches the firing position, number three man releases the trail lock, and with the help of number four, pulls open the trail to allow the maximum lateral movement. As the spades at the end of the trail dig into the ground, one and two insert the trail lock pin, keeping the trails in open position. Number three and number four leave the gun and bring up the ammunition from the towing vehicle. At the same time, number one man releases the traveling lock mechanism. Number two opens the breech of the gun, ready to receive the shell while number one is clamping on the sight. The gun is ready to fire. Target. Target. Immediate front moving from right to left. Immediate front moving from right to left. Enemy light tank. Enemy light tank. Range 500. Range 500. Fire three rounds at my command. Commend fire. These are just a few of the many weapons cavalrymen are taught to use. The training of each man must be so thorough that he will understand the operation and care of any weapon he may be called upon to use. Only through such intensive work on the training field will the individual soldier be able to protect himself and aid his regiment in accomplishing its mission on the field of combat. Well, New York, that's a picture of what we're doing here, and believe me, it's tough. Plenty tough. It means scaling a seven-foot wall with a 60-pound pack. It means a day under a hot Carolina sun with one canteen of water. It means the handling of a hundred superhuman jobs that make a man a soldier. But back of all this training, there's an idea in the mind of every one of us. An idea that keeps our heads up and our eyes front. I saw a peaceful old valley with a carpet of corn for a floor. And I heard a voice within me whisper. This is worth fighting for. I saw a lonely old cabin And that river Float by the door And I heard a voice within me whisper. This is worth fighting for. Didn't I build that cabin Didn't I plant that corn Didn't my folks before me Fight for this country before I was born I gathered my loved ones around me And I gazed at each face I saw And a million voices sing to understand This is worth fighting for mighty Alternatively I used my clock To death And Not But This How Is Did Green She Didn't I build that cabin And didn't I plant that corn Didn't my folks before me Fight for this country when I was born I gathered my loved ones around me And I gazed at each face I adore Then I heard a voice with illy thunder This is worth fighting for For that song, our thanks go to Corporal Buddy Hughes, who used to live over on Staten Island. And right here, maybe you'd like to meet some more of the men who are down here at Fort Jackson with the 100th Sacker. Corporal Andre Meyer, for instance. Andre is what you might call the guiding genius of an army jeep. Careful, Stark. You shall have everybody thinking I'm a robot. Well, from your speech, Andre, I'd say you were a Frenchman. There was only one thing in the way of me being a Frenchman. And what was that? The Jura Mountain. I get it. You're from Switzerland. Well, I was born there, but I also spent lots of time traveling through Germany, France, and Italy. Sort of a continental globetrotter, I suppose. No, it wasn't exactly an adventure for me. I was more or less an itinerant hairdresser and barber who couldn't settle down. And instead of thumbing your way along, you earned it with comb and shears. Yes, I was able to see quite a lot of Europe in such a manner. And I also met very interesting people during this time. I was in Geneva while the League of Nations was still in session. One of my clients was Dr. Shusnick, Chancellor of Austria. He was staying in the Hotel de la Fée. Today, he's a prisoner of the Nazis. Another of my clients there in Geneva was Aga Khan, millionaire Indian potentate. I also cut the hair of the French Foreign Minister, Bastou, who was later assassinated in Marseille while riding in a car with King Alexander of Yugoslavia. I saw Laval in Geneva on several locations, but he didn't trust me with a razor. I believe he did his own shading. A practice which I'll bet he still continues. But when did you come to America, Andre? I came over on the Normandy five years ago. I had a pretty good start in New York. I worked there with some of the best-known hairstylists. Then I was drafted. You know, all these interviews have a way of ending up like that, with somebody getting drafted. Well, thanks a lot, Andre, for telling us of some of your past experiences. Getting away from the mountains in Switzerland, there's a sergeant here in the 102nd who grew up right in the canyon streets of little old New York. He's Tony Carson, who used to play sandlot baseball up there off Washington Avenue in the Bronx. Later, he joined a big league of dance orchestras when he won a place in the rhythm section of Glenn Miller's Moonlight Serenaders. Or maybe you saw him in some of the spots around town a couple of years ago with Alvino Ray's orchestra. And today at Fort Jackson with his big bass fiddle, Tony still likes to join the boys in the barracks for a little session in G.I. Jazz. Hello, New York. Remember us? Fort Jackson in South Carolina. That's right, we're in the Army. Oh, well, it's not too tough. Of course, we can't visit the stage door canteen every night in the week. And we're not patting those pavements at 4 o'clock in the morning. In fact, they slapped a curfew on us down here in Columbia at midnight. Can you beat that? But some of the guys are in their bunks long before. Pretty tired, I guess. In search, they've got a reason to be. You know we're not exactly playing at this game. Say, have you got a few minutes? We'll tell you about it. Fort Jackson is the largest infantry training center in the country. The 77th Division is down here. And the 8th Division and 30th, too. You'd be surprised at the number of us Yanks right here in the heart of the Old South. There's one out there here, the 102nd Cavalry, that's been here almost as long as any other on the post. You folks over in Jersey, of course, know about the 102nd. You may even have some sons or brothers in the regiment. It's a pretty old National Guard outfit founded way back in 1890. But today, it's just another part of a big army. And along with all the guys from around Newark and Bloomfields, Maplewood and Montclair, there are a lot of draftees and volunteers from practically every state in the country. We think they're a pretty representative bunch in Fort Jackson. That's why we want to hear from them now. You guys are, Chief Viewing and Tom Pezer. Harder of the time I reckon the band are already leading on for their own march, the 102nd Cavalry, a march written way back in the days when the 102nd was called The Essex Show. True. True. True. True. True. True. True. True. A roll of drums. You'll hear them on pretty important occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Colonel McGowan, commanding officer of this mechanized cavalry regiment. I'm not appearing on this program to make a talk. The time for talk has passed, and the men of the 102nd Cavalry are interested in action. Already, they are well grounded in the fundamentals of warfare learned during long months of training here in the Carolinas. In the field, under battle conditions, they will be a part of a fast-moving, hard-hitting, self-contained reconnaissance regiment, whose job is to seek out the enemy. The job is to seek out the enemy. First, weapons he uses. Address the pistol properly, hold it in the left hand, and force the grip safety device down and back into the crotch formed between the thumb and forefinger of the right hand. The thumb is carried parallel width or slightly higher than the forefinger. It should never be lower. Close the three lower fingers on the stock firmly, but not tensely. To fire the piece, insert the clip, and with the left hand, draw back to slide. This action automatically cocks the piece. When the slide is released, when the slide is released, the force of the recoil spring moves the slide into its forward position. During this forward motion, the slide picks up the first round from the clip, feeds it into the chamber. The trigger is squeezed, the firing pin is slammed into the primer of the cartridge, and... In such a manner, a man is taught to use a pistol, primarily a weapon of defense. But today, there are many other weapons used by the mechanized cavalry. There is the rifle, the .30 and .50 caliber machine gun. The men of the 102nd must be expert in the handling of all of these, for they must know how to meet any emergency. The light machine gun, which can be carried on the small, fast Phantom, is operated by a crew of two men. The gun is carried in two pieces. The tripod strapped to the side of the car. The gun is self-mounted in a movable cradle. If necessary, it can be fired from the moving vehicle. When the gun is put into action, you dismount the tripod and set it into position. At the same time, the other man is dismounting the piece. When the gun is mounted on the tripod... You clamp it, level it, lay. The fire order is given. Range 700. Direct front. Patrol on road. Commence firing. When the gun jams or fails the fire, pull the bolt to the rear. Release it and attempt to fire. If it still fails the fire, tap the cover to make sure that it is firmly latched. Strip the ammunition belt to the right. Place the left hand on the bolt where the cartridges enter the feedway, at the same time pulling the bolt to the rear and releasing it. If it feeds but fails the fire, change the bolt. If it doesn't feed, raise the cover. Remove the first round from the belt and look or feel for an obstruction in the gun. When this is done, reload, relay, and fire when ready. And so the men of the 102nd learn to operate the light machine gun. Learn what to do in case of trouble. Another weapon used by the mechanized cavalry is the trim and powerful 37-millimeter anti-tank gun. It is towed into the field of battle by a Bantam or scout car. When it is set up for practice, a corporal instructs the squad in every detail of its mechanism. When the gun reaches the firing position, number three man releases the trail lock and with the help of number four pulls open the trail to allow the maximum lateral movement. As the spades at the end of the trail dig into the ground, one and two insert the trail lock pins, keeping the trails in an open position. Number three and number four leave the gun and bring up the ammunition from the towing vehicle. At the same time, number one man releases the traveling lock mechanism. Number two opens the breach of the gun, ready to receive the shell, while number one is clamping on the sight. Target. Target. Immediate front moving from right to left. Immediate front moving from right to left. Enemy light tank. Enemy light tank. Range 500. Range 500. Fire three rounds at my command. Commence fire. Up one, two, three. These are just a few of the many weapons cavalrymen are taught to use. The training of each man must be so thorough that he will understand the operation and care of any weapon he may be called upon to use. Only through such intensive work on the training field will the individual soldier be able to protect himself and aid his regiment in accomplishing its mission on the field of combat. Well, New York, that's a picture of what we're doing here. And believe me, it's tough. Plenty tough. It means scaling a seven-foot wall with a 60-pound pack. It means a day under a hot Carolina sun with one canteen of water. It means the handling of a hundred superhuman jobs that make a man a soldier. But back of all this training, there's an idea in the mind of every one of us. An idea that keeps our heads up and our eyes front. I saw a peaceful valley With a carpet and corn for it more And I heard a voice within me a whisper This is worth fighting for I saw a lonely With a river And flowed by the door And I heard a voice Within me a whisper This is worth fighting for Didn't I A place I'm sure And a million voices Sing to thunder This is worth fighting for Thank you For now Please come here Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Absolutely. You're from Switzerland. Well, I was born there, but I also spent a lot of time traveling through Germany, France, and Italy. Sort of a continental globetrotter, I suppose. No, it wasn't all adventure for me. I was more or less an itinerant hairdresser and barber who couldn't settle down. And instead of thumbing your way along, you sort of earned it with your Coleman shears. Yes, I was able to see quite a lot of Europe in such a manner, and I also met some very interesting people during this time. I was in Geneva while the League of Nations was still in session. One of my clients was Dr. Susnick, Chancellor of Austria. He was staying in the Hotel de la Fé. Today he's a prisoner of the Nazis. Another of my clients there in Geneva was Aga Khan, millionaire Indian potentee. I also cut the hair of the French Foreign Minister, Bartu, who was later assassinated in Marseille, while riding in a car with King Alexander of Yugoslavia. I saw Laval in Geneva on several occasions, but he didn't trust me with the razor. I believe he did his own saving. A practice which I'll bet he still continues. After Geneva, I went to London, where I was demonstrating permanent wave machines for a French firm. Afterwards, I went back to France, to Monte Carlo, where I worked for many members of international high society, and later to Lausanne, where my customers were American debutants and clamor girls. And when did you come to America, Andre? I came over on the Normandy five years ago. I had a pretty good start in New York. I worked there with some of the best-known hairstylists. Then I was drafted. You know, all these interviews have a way of ending up like that. Somebody gets drafted. Well, Andre, thanks a lot for telling us of some of your past experiences. Thank you.
