Tomorrow morning and each weekday morning, join us for 60 full minutes of quiz fun, prizes and surprises here on WNBC, AM and FM in New York. At 10.30, Walter O'Keefe is on hand, inviting you for a game of Double or Nothing. And then at 11 o'clock, stay tuned for the exciting Break the Bank show, where Bud Collier is in charge of the vaults. This is Bill Leonard, and this is Plan for Survival. Transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network, linking virtually every radio station in New York State and operating entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Again, we welcome news commentator James Fleming with the second of a series of four programs dealing with challenging aspects of the civil defense story. Jim, I understand your theme is the continuing threat facing the Western world through Soviet possession. of the atomic bomb. That's right, Bill. These days, with their truce talks and promises of half-peace, are days when we must have praised the world situation with the greatest care. We need to remind ourselves that whatever happens in the Orient doesn't much change the basic world situation. We're in for a long period of danger and tension, a period that demands a real civil defense effort from the people of the United States. President Truman emphasized that fact the other evening. We face a long period of world tension and great international danger. We have a hard task of increasing production and controlling inflation in order to support the strong armed forces we must have for years to come. One of our most difficult tasks, because it is new to our people, is that of organizing civil defense. Because we have been spared the rough schooling which the people of Europe have had, too many Americans are still skeptical and tardy. All these tasks challenge the ability of free people to govern themselves with both reason and resolution. Yes, reason and resolution are good guides for action. I know it's difficult to think of ourselves and our families as living under imminent threat of attack, but we have to face up to it. Take the common sense steps that are necessary. The men who are in possession of all the facts of the world situation have warned us again and again that... The best hope we can have right now, we hope that we are confronted by very serious tension over a considerable period of time. That, I think, is the best we can hope for. That was Secretary of Defense George Marshall speaking early in the year. Before we consider Russia's possession of the A-bomb, let's take a moment to gain some historical perspective. Let's recall that the world situation was precarious enough even before the Soviets exploded their bomb. This is what Winston Churchill said in his speech at MIT in March of 1949. It is certain that Europe would have been communized like Czechoslovakia and London under bombardment some time ago. But for the deterrent of the atomic bomb in the hands of the United States. War is not inevitable. Often something happens to turn or mitigate the course of events. It was just a few months later, on September 23rd, 1949, that our exclusive possession of the deterrent A-bomb ended. This is what we heard on our radios. One hour and seven minutes ago, President Truman announced to the nation and the world, we have evidence that within recent weeks, an atomic explosion occurred in the USSR. Forty minutes ago, the British government issued a similar statement. That was news of stunning impact. There was reaction from many quarters in American life. This is what John Foster Dulles said at the time. The present Russian knowledge is serious. It's dangerous to have atomic weapons in the hands of people who believe, as communists do, that any means are justified to gain their ends. But we must not get panicky. The Russians may now feel that they can blackmail us with threats of using atomic weapons. But we must not give in. It never pays to pay blackmail, least of all to communists. The scientists had been telling us for a long time that we were foolish to think that we'd have exclusive possession of the A-bomb for very long. Said Harold Ury, Well, there never was a satisfactory military defense against the atomic bomb, as many of us of the atomic scientist group have been trying to tell our fellow citizens for these last four years. And another noted scientist contemplated the situation on that day in September 1949. My name is Harrison Brown. I am associated with the Institute for Nuclear Studies at the University of Chicago. It is now clearly evident that another nation, namely Russia, does possess atomic weapons, or at least it possesses the know-how as to how to make atomic weapons. At the same time, we find ourselves without any international cooperation on this level. We find ourselves without any control scheme. Since the Hiroshima explosion, this nation and most other nations of the Western world have made every effort to set up a workable system of international atomic control. But no matter what formula was devised, the Soviet Union at no time would agree to any arrangement that would allow real inspection of her atomic efforts. And such inspection was the first essential. But we tried, and we keep on trying. This nation, from the very beginning of the development of atomic power, has been determined to do everything in its power to proceed toward a truly effective international control of atomic energy. It would be deluding ourselves to get something on paper that was not really effective. That was Secretary of State Acheson in September of 49. And now, midsummer 1951. Let's remind ourselves that there is still no effective international control of the atom, that Russia does indeed have the A-bomb and the wherewithal to deliver it. Civil defense on our part is therefore elemental common sense. The Russians, for their part, are going all out to organize such home front protection. Bill Leonard, you heard what Federal Civil Defense Director Millard Caldwell said the other day. Yes, Jim Fleming. He reported that according to the best facts available, the Soviets have 20 million people in organized civil defense right now and another 20 million people in reserve. We pride ourselves that we outdo all other nations in most fields, but if Caldwell's figures are correct, our potential enemy is outdoing us in this vital civil defense area. Not for long, we trust. And now, Bill, a change of subject. All right, Jim Fleming, I understand you're going to bring us some people who have lived with the atom, so to speak. Yes, these are citizens of the USA and Japan whom I've run into in recent months who in one way or another have, as you say, lived with the atom. We all have to, so let's listen to their reactions. For example, there were those citizens of Nevada who listened in on this explosion and four others last February. You'll see a color picture of one of these blasts in this week's Life magazine. Well, local citizens out in Nevada, like Sheriff Lum Edwards, took the whole thing in stride. Well, I was making my rounds about 545. Got a blinding flash in the eye, and I batted my eyes about like a toad would in a hailstorm. I raised my head and looked up to the west and north, and I see a big white sheet hanging in the sky, so I just surmised then that that must be the atomic bomb. Not quite an atomic bomb, according to the Atomic Energy Commission, but an explosion marking a step forward in our progress with atomic weapons. This cowboy near Las Vegas watched the whole thing down at the corral. We were just feeding the horses a grain that morning, and as the blast went off, the horses all stampeded in the corral. Actually very excited. And they run around in the corral acting more like wild horses. Had one horse there, they just run right up and stuck his head in a water trough. However, he's a horse that likes water, and the thing we couldn't get over is they kept sniffing the air, kept sniffing the air, like they'd smell something unusual. Out in Las Vegas, only recently in Anuitok, our military men and scientists work to maintain America's atomic leadership. Complimenting their efforts on the home front must be a strong and effective civil defense. For the need in these times is to be strong on all fronts. And if you have any doubts about it, listen to these words of the mayor of Hiroshima, Japan. We are the people of Hiroshima who have directly experienced the atom bomb realize that any war in the future will indeed be a very fatal one, and that it will be something even much more serious than the one that we experienced before. And also, I think that the peoples of the world must realize that if a war does happen, then practically every city in the modern world will experience the same thing that Hiroshima did. The title of this program, as you know, is Plan for Survival. Survival of individuals and the nation is dependent on civil defense. And if you're one of those who take refuge in an attitude of hopelessness rather than planning for survival, perhaps you will find these words of these Hiroshima children, educational, youngsters who live near the center of the A-bomb burst. Now, through an interpreter, they tell their stories. This girl's name is Keiko Yamada. She is 13 years old now. She saw a flash, not a flash, but I mean, a black cloud mushrooming up towards the direction of the city. She did not know that it was an atomic bomb at all. She learned it one week later from her teacher. How many years? How many years? 12 years. What's your name? Matsui Kikuko. This is a girl named Kikuko Matsui. She is 12 years old. She will tell her story now. She says that she was so frightened, she ran into her house. And as she ran into the house, the roofs dropped over her and she was buried in the house. She didn't know where she was for a while. When her grandfather and grandmother came out and rescued her. How many years? 13 years. Yes, your name is? Nomura Yoshino. 13 years old. Yoshino-bu Nomura is his name. He is in the third grade. He was in the third grade of grammar school when he met the impact. These children were lucky survivors in Hiroshima. Today, as we learn to live with the atom, our children can be survivors through planning should they ever be subjected to a bomb attack. Our schools are doing their part. Whistling Whenever you hear that, you remember to do certain things. Remember, boys and girls, that you are to get down on your knees, sliding out of the seat to your right. All right, boys and girls, slide out of your seat to the right and down on your knees. Put your head on your right arm, tuck your left arm under your body, and be sure and shut your eyes tightly. That will protect your eyes in case of radiation. Boys and girls, get back up just as nicely as you got down. They're good workers. Yes, we can teach common sense about civil defense in our schools, but even more important in these times is an awareness of the common sense of civil defense among adults. If you haven't been giving much thought to this subject, listen closely now to these words of Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. It isn't merely a question of saving lives, important as that is. It's a question of saving our country. It's all very well to look back to the tradition of the Americans who rally round when the danger is upon us, who grasp the musket and rush out to shoot a redcoat. That won't do for atomic warfare. So the time for civil defense is now. Thank you, James Fleming. This has been the second in a series of four special Plan for Survival broadcasts with radio newsman James Fleming. We invite your comments. Write to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Plan for Survival is brought to you transcribed over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Bill Leonard reminding you to enlist for civil defense in your community now. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company.