I'd make more noise than the gavel. Ladies and gentlemen, is the mic working properly and do you hear me? It's very nice to see you here again for the opening of the new season of the Book and Author Luncheons. And I think you will feel well rewarded in this particular program that we have today, which may turn out to be a circus, all you know. Or for all I know. Let me introduce to you our guests at the speakers table who are not speakers. On the extreme right today is Mr. George Hecht, former president of the American Booksellers Association and manager of the Doubleday Bookshops. Mr. Hecht. Then comes the president of the Viking Press, Mr. Harold Ginsberg, who publishes Jimmy Durante. Then comes Mrs. MacDonald. On her left is chairman of the board of Simon & Schuster, M. Lincoln Schuster, the publisher of Mr. MacDonald. And then if you will skip over to my left, I'd like to introduce to you the editor of the Viking Press, who is Jimmy Durante's special editor, Pascal Kovicci. I don't know why that's funny, Pat. Then comes the president and treasurer of the Oxford University Press, publishers of Miss Carson, Mr. Walk. On his left, the president of Simon & Schuster, Richard L. Simon. And next to him is Eddie Jackson of the famous team of Clayton, John, Silicone. At the extreme left is the vice president and editor-in-chief of the Oxford University Press, Mr. Oman. Now, before we go ahead with our speakers, we'll have the usual drawing for autographed books by the speakers in, as usual, alphabetical order. Mrs. MacDonald, will you make this drawing for us? Thank you, John. John has already stirred them up a bit, but perhaps you should do a little more. The first card drawn will get Rachel Carson's the C around us. Very important that you do this carefully. That is Mrs. E. J. Devlin of Park Avenue, New York. Mrs. Devlin gets Rachel Carson's the C around us. And perhaps here I might tell you, share with you, Alan Green's bright idea for an opening to Mrs. Carson's speech. He said she might well say a sea of faces around us. I need another. Let's see. Miss Amy Valentine gets Gene Fowler's biography of the schnozola. What a lucky girl. And the last one is Godfrey Hammond. I need another. I need another. Let's see. Miss Amy Valentine gets Gene Fowler's biography of the schnozola. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. And the last one is Godfrey Hammond. Mr. Hammond gets James McDonald's My Mission in Israel. He's a lucky guy, too. That's right. In three. In three. In three. In three. In three. In fact, you all three are. And you may claim your books at the speakers table after the day. Thank you. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. What a lucky girl. And the last one is Godfrey Hammond. Mr. Hammond gets James McDonald's My Mission in Israel. He's a lucky guy, too. I agree. In three. In fact, you all three are. hour, and you may claim your books at the speaker's table after the luncheon. When the United States recognized Israel in 1949, President Truman appointed James McDonald our first ambassador to the world's newest state. He could hardly have found a man better equipped for that assignment. For 30 years, Mr. McDonald had been active officially and unofficially with refugees and their problems, and so had come to have a wide acquaintance with Jewish leaders, organizations, and movements, not only in Palestine, but throughout the world. His real concern, however, began in 1933 when he met Hitler and heard Hitler say that the Jews had to be exterminated. He returned to the United States to report that this was the beginning of a war on Christianity, on all religion, indeed on humanity itself. He had been chairman of the Foreign Policy Association for some years, and had accepted an appointment as League of Nations High Commissioner for refugees. In 1946, the President had named him as a member of the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry on Palestine. And so, when he went to represent the United States in Israel, against a background of study and teaching, he had acquired a wide knowledge of international affairs. In Europe, and as he puts it himself, he had acquired a deep sympathy with the tragic plight of refugees, Muslim or Christian Arabs, as well as Jews, and a degree of acquaintance, unnatural, unusual, in a non-Jew, with the history and problems of the Jewish people during the nearly 2,000 years since their dispersion. Mr. McDonald's mission lasted for two and a half years. When he arrived, Tel Aviv was still being bombed by Arab planes, and sniping was continuous. He was there during the tragic assassination of Count Bernadotte, and worked hard to allay the world disapproval of the Israel government that followed, by urging that government to assume a responsible position in regard to the sternists and the eagerness, and by persuading our State Department that it had done so. During those two and a half years, he steadily presented to our government well-balanced advice, as well as factually accurate reports. In his account of his mission, we have his objective but always outspoken appraisal of men and events. His admiration for Dr. Ralph Bunch, for instance. His attacks on Bevan as the chief villain in this setup. His warm appreciation of Israel's leading statesmen, President Hein Weizmann, Prime Minister Ben-Gurion, and Foreign Minister Moshe Sharad. His conclusion is hopeful for Israel and welcome to us. For he believes that Israel's orientation is toward the democratic West, and that its ties with the West will grow stronger and stronger. We can only hope that he is right. And if time proves him so, we can be grateful to him that by his wisdom and patience, he helped to bring happiness and peace out of tragedy and confusion. I introduce to you the author of my mission in Israel, our first ambassador to that struggling, promising land, James MacDonald. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman and friends, it's a pleasure to speak under the auspices of the Booksellers Association and under the auspices of the Herald Tribune. The first of these organizations disproves the theory that booksellers do not sell books. And the second, the Tribune, proves the truth of one of my favorite convictions, that in the intellectual sphere, women are the full 100% equals of the men. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, Jimmy Durante is supposed to be the serious speaker here today. And if he doesn't live up to that prediction, he isn't carrying out his promise. Because he agreed that I was to be allowed to tell two or three stories from my book in order to take off from it the curse of being a serious person. And I'm not going to tell you, the greatest book. The State Department, I understand, had a report made on the book to a staff meeting of the Near East permanent officials. There were two criticisms, I'm told. One, that in the book I am indiscreet and that I disclose data which is still confidential. I don't think it's true. But maybe they meant that I disclose data that is interesting. But the chief criticism appeared to be that I mixed the frivolous with the serious. Well, the publishers tell me that that's not a crime because it makes the book readable. There is one story. If the men were not present, I could tell the story better because it's really meant only for women's ears. And I hope the men will close theirs. Perhaps you will later tell me the answer to it. We had a wonderful roof in Israel. From it we had one of the most magnificent views in all the world. And I was, it was my habit, after our guests were ready to leave or we were ready to have them leave, was to escort them onto the roof and show them a view. This was in the early period. My wife hadn't come yet. Bobby was my hostess. We had to do first appearances at the theater and the opera and the philharmonic. We came to know a lot of the musical and theatrical people. And one of the chief women in that area came and had tea with us. And after tea, I took her onto the roof. It came to be a little dusk. She said to me, Mr. McDonald, don't you get lonesome? And I said, oh no, I don't get lonesome. The charrettes live next door and our friends at the Coens live across the street. And our other friends on the other side. Oh, but she said, that isn't what I mean. And at that moment, Bobby appeared. And she stayed with us until I ushered the lady into her car. And to this day, I don't know what she meant. You? I was telling this story at a book luncheon in Hartford. And afterwards, one of the lady authors came up to me and said, Mr. McDonald, I really could explain it to you, what she meant. But I had to take the train right away. Thanks. Thank you, my sister. Thank you. And thank you. In the first part of my book, my daughter, Bobby, appears frequently. She was my hostess. She also learned Sephardic Hebrew. One night, there was a dinner given for the Sherettes in Ben-Gurion at the home of our counselor. And after the dinner, Ben-Gurion and Sherette got into a vigorous argument on a subject which will surprise some of you. It was, how much Hebrew did Jesus know? Sherette argued that Jesus knew about as much Hebrew as Jimmy here, Bar Mitzvah Hebrew, you know? But Ben-Gurion said, not so. Jesus knew much Hebrew, much more than the ordinary Jewish Orthodox boy, because the language of the people in Jesus' day was not Hebrew. It was Aramaic. Hebrew was the holy language. But Ben-Gurion sought to prove his point in this way. You know, Ben-Gurion is an extraordinary statesman. At the age of 55, he took up the study of Greek in the original. And he now relaxes at night after an 18-hour day, reading Aristotle and Plato in the original Greek. So Ben-Gurion said, if you study the words of Jesus in the Greek text of the New Testament, you will see that the language structure is influenced by Jesus' knowledge of Hebrew. Well, I don't know whether he was right or Sherette was right, but anyhow, the argument had gone on for a long time. Just the same sort of an argument that American politicians take part in after dinner, you know, about Greek and Latin and so on. Anyhow, I thought it was time for me to show off Bobby. So I said, you know, Bobby has been studying Dramatics and Sephardic Hebrew, and wouldn't you like to hear her give the Dramatic Recital of the 137th Psalm? And of course, they being polite men, they said yes. And Bobby stood up and gave the 137th Psalm in Sephardic Hebrew, Dramatic Form, I forget the old Jerusalem. And when she finished, there were tears in the eyes of Ben-Gurion and Sherette, or at least I thought there were. And Sherette said, Bobby, when your first play is on, you send us tickets and we'll come. Same old gag, send us tickets, you know? And then Ben-Gurion, who never wastes his time at the theater on a frivolous matter, said, Bobby, when your first play is on, let us know, and we'll buy tickets and we'll come. And the other night at a dinner where Marion Pelletieri was present, I said, Mr. Mayor, did you ever before hear of a public official offering to buy tickets to anything? He said no. But just to finish that story, the other night, Bobby and I were on the Barry Gray show, 12 to 3, you know, for the insomniacs and the romantic. And as the climax of our act, which lasted about 40 minutes, Bobby gave her dramatic version of 137th song. And believe it or not, tears were the rule in that nightclub. And later on, I have had at least six people tell me that they were driving home that evening, their eyes were filled with tears, they had to slow up their car before they could go on. Well, now, if you can do that in Sephardic Hebrew, what could you do in English? Well, my wife came at Christmas time. Thank God, because if she hadn't, I would have been ruined. Bobby was a perfect host, except she never kept any accounts. She had no sense of money. And the government was not as good as the word which was promised me when the White House was persuaded me to go, that I would have the top salary and adequate expense allowances. In fact, as I explain in my book, my expense allowance for a year would just about have given a traditional Fourth of July party, one. Well, there are lots of other interesting stories in the book. You've got to read it, aren't you? That's my book. He says, that's his book. I told him I'd give him a book on condition that he went with Ruth and me to Israel for next Pesach. So that's an agreement. But the book is not made up wholly of stories. In it, I try to give a picture of the forces and the personalities at play in Israel. I try to explain how it is that the spirit of sacrifice and devotion and sharing makes it possible for Israel to have achieved the miracle in three and a half years of ingathering some 700,000 Jewish refugees into a country of about 650,000 Jews. While we were in Israel, there came back to the small country one of the oldest Jewish communities in the world, the Yemenites from southern Arabia. They had been in southern Arabia for 2,000 to 3,000 years, but had remained good Jews because their lives had centered on the Torah, the first five books of the Old Testament. And there also came back or began to come back the other oldest Jewish community in the world, the community whose ancestors were those who refused to sing their songs by the waters of Babylon nearly 3,000 years ago because they were in a strange and foreign land, and now they're back. It's little Israel and only Israel which holds hope of saving, in addition to the 700,000 already saved, the million or million and a half Jews who may still hope to escape from Eastern Europe and Western Asia and Northern Africa. It is indeed a modern miracle, the fulfillment of a great historic mission. At the moment, the Middle East is in, not turmoil, but seemingly on the verge of it. So this morning, I thought I would dictate three paragraphs for the press. And since it is for the press, and since I must stick more or less to my text, hope you don't mind if I sort of read it, and then I'm through. Israel's moderation and spirit of cooperation with the democratic West stand out more and more sharply against the darkening background of the intransigence and nationalist xenophobia of Egypt, Iran, and Iraq. In Israel, there has been no threat of nationalization of Western-owned oil or other properties. On the contrary, the intricate problems of Israel's block-pounds account in London, the complicated Israel and British financial claims and counterclaims, and the large problems related to the great British-owned Haifa refinery have been settled or are on the way to an agreed settlement through friendly negotiations in London and Tel Aviv. The results have been mutually advantageous to the new state and to the foreign interests in Israel. It is revealing, therefore, to examine some of the reasons for the extraordinary contrast between this attitude of Israel and the uncompromising policies of the three Muslim states. In Israel, as in the neighboring countries, there is a strong spirit of nationalism and a firm determination to defend the national interests, but there the similarity ends. In Israel, there is no xenophobia in general and no hatred of the West in particular. Its populations, made up of the ingathered exiles from many parts of the world, knows the democratic West and is not afraid of Western financial interests. Israelis, unlike the Egyptians, the Iranians, and the Iraqis, do not blame Western imperialism for their economic ills. In Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, the fated ghost of Western colonialism is not paraded in the streets to frighten adult children. A nearly incredible lack of realism and an unwillingness to face facts are the basis of the unreasoning current attacks on British and Western interests in the Middle East. The Egyptian leaders seem really to believe that they can, with their own resources, defend their country against Russian aggression. Recently, when asked how they planned to work this miracle, a high Egyptian official replied, we will make a treaty of amity and commerce with Moscow. With equal disregard of reality, Prime Minister Mossadegh gambles with Iran's national safety by creating a situation which invites Russian intervention. The Iraqis, too, are jeopardizing their country's economic security by maintaining stubbornly their refusal to allow oil through the pipeline to Haifa. These governmental policies are based on fantasies which blind these Muslim peoples to their true interests and enable their demagogues by concentrating their attacks on the foreigners to avoid facing up to their country's grave problems of disease, illiteracy, and poverty. And now, if I were the usual author, I would tell you that if you read my book, you will really understand the problems of the Middle East which are in today's news. Thank you. Thank you. Since I am the usual chairman, I'll tell you to read his book. And find out what's really going on. Our next speaker has become known to most of us only recently, though she published a lovely book in 1941, Under the Sea Wind, and in recent years has had articles in a number of magazines. It was the publication in the New Yorker, however, of a three-part profile of the sea that introduced her to a larger audience. They have followed the book from which the New Yorker articles were taken, The Sea Around Us, and the acclaim poured in. For this is a book about which it seems safe to predict that it will become a classic of the sea. Like all the great natural histories, it has that rare combination of qualities, scientific exactness, and an exciting literary style. It is because of this rare combination that the editor-in-chief of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, that is Miss Carson's professional title, has been engaged by RCA Victor to write the commentary for Toscanini's symphony, the symphony recording of Debussy's La Maire. In working on the sea around us, Miss Carson literally made the sea her laboratory. She took part in an oceanographic expedition in North Atlantic waters. She dove among the Florida coral reefs. Her observation was fresh, her knowledge sound, her imagination lively. The result is a book full of fascinating material, most of it new to those of us who are not marine biologists. How the young earth got its oceans, which make up three quarters of it, as figured out from the testimony of rocks formed two billion years ago. How the first form of life, a strange scorpion-like creature, crept out of the waters onto the land 350 million years ago. How a volcano built a mountain on the floor of the Atlantic, the top of which we now call Bermuda. How the blood that flows in our veins contains salt in the same component parts as the salt in the ocean, a wonderfully suggestive item in the history of our long descent from the sea. These are mere samples from a book that records whatever is humanly interesting and significant about the biggest part of our planet, the vast, complex, and infinitely mysterious sea. We are privileged to have on this program the author of that distinguished book, The Sea Around Us, Rachel Carson. People often seem to be surprised that a woman should have written a book about the sea. This is particularly true, I find, of men. Perhaps they have been accustomed for a long time to thinking about the more exciting fields of science as exclusively masculine domains. In fact, one of my correspondents a few days ago addressed me as dear sir, explaining that although he knew perfectly well that I was a woman, he simply could not bring himself to acknowledge the fact. I seem to have been born with a fascination for the sea. For years before I ever saw it, I thought about it and dreamed about it and wondered what it would be like. I loved Macefield and Swinburne and all the great sea poets. I had my first prolonged contact with the sea at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole. There I never tired of watching the tidal currents racing through the hole, that wonderful place of whirlpools and eddies and swiftly running water. And I loved to watch the waves breaking at Nobska Point after a storm. It was at Woods Hole, too, that I first discovered the rich and exciting literature of the sea. But it is fair to say that my first impressions of the sea were sensory and emotional and that the intellectual response came later. Recently, I have discovered that a great many people feel just as I do about the ocean. In fact, a really overwhelming number of them have written to tell me so. This past summer, I have been traveling along the Atlantic coast, gathering material for a new book, and I have been looking at people as well as at sea animals. I have been very much impressed with what I saw. For everywhere among the crowds, there were people who simply sat or stood and gazed out at sea. Whatever they were consciously thinking, the spell that it cast over them was plainly written on their faces. I have been trying to analyze some of the reasons for that fascination. The sea is a place where one gets a sense of the great antiquity of the earth. It seems to link the dim beginnings of time with the present. The same sort of waves that we watch today must have rolled in from Paleozoic seas. I suppose the surface of the ocean looks about as it did half a billion or a billion years ago when the first primitive forms of life were stirring in it. And even some of the shorelines must look about as they did perhaps more than 300 million years ago when the first animals were coming out on land to take up a strange new life. I was reminded of that last summer when I stood on one very beautiful point on the rocky coast of Maine. We had come down to that point through an evergreen forest that had its own sort of enchantment. All its trees the living and the dead were hung with the silvery gray of mosses and lichens. But it was a foggy day and when we reached the point the mists came between us and the forest and all we could see were those great primeval rocks and the sea. Except for our own presence the sea might almost have been one of the closing periods of the Paleozoic era and some of the animals clinging to the tide pools might have been those first pioneers that came out on land. Now here is the particular magic of the sea for exciting things are happening there today just as they did millions of years ago. Evolution and the adaptation of creatures to new surroundings didn't stop back in prehistoric time they are going on right now and that day only a few weeks ago we could see hundreds of small inconspicuous sea animals that were in the midst of a great experiment the transition from a sea life to a land life. Those animals were small snails known as periwinkles. I'm sure most of you have seen them on rocky coasts many places they are so abundant you can hardly take a step without treading on them. The periwinkles are now in the process of leaving the sea and turning into land animals. They are cutting the ties that bind them to the sea one by one and some have made more progress in this direction than others. Here on our northern Atlantic coast there are three species of periwinkles. One of them is still almost completely marine. It lives down among the rock weeds where it is always wet or at least very damp. It lays its eggs on those weeds and the young hatch out there and develop. Another species called the common periwinkle is intermediate. It comes far up on the shore about as far as the waters of the high tide. It can stand a good deal of exposure to the air but it is still linked with the sea for it sheds its eggs into the water and all the babies pass the first period of their existence swimming about in the waters of the ocean. But the third species is now almost a land animal. It is called the rough periwinkle. You often find it up in crevices in the rocks where it is wet only by the spray of storm waves. It can live without any contact with the sea water for a week or more. And even in its method of reproduction it has cut its ties with the sea for the young develop completely within the body of the mother and they emerge as perfectly formed little snails ready for adult life. And so these three species of periwinkles give us a beautiful demonstration of the pattern of evolution as that pattern has been working out in the sea over the ages. That sort of thing is part of the fascination of the ocean. But most of all I think the sea is a place of mystery. One by one the mysteries of yesterday have been solved. But often the very solution seems to bring with it another and perhaps a deeper mystery. I doubt that the last ultimate mysteries of the sea will ever be resolved. In fact I rather cherish the hope that they will not be. One of the greatest mysteries of the sea at the present time is the nature of the life of those middle regions that are far below the surface but also far above the bottom. We'd always thought of those regions as comparatively barren. They lie down beyond the reach of even the strongest rays of the sun. Where there's no sunlight no plants can live and it seemed reasonable that food would be too scarce to support a very abundant animal population. But now rather recently immense concentrations of some living creatures have been discovered spread like a cloud over much of the deep ocean basins at a depth of a quarter of a mile or more. No one is sure just what they are as yet they have been seen only with the impersonal eye of echo sounding instruments. These instruments as you probably know automatically record the depth of water under a ship as it is moving. They trace the contour of the ocean floor as a continuous line on a strip of paper but they also record any solid objects that lie between the bottom and the surface such as schools of fish. Now hundreds of ships have found this layer of living creatures spread over the deeper parts of all the oceans of the world. It's sometimes been called the phantom bottom of the sea because at first it was mistaken for shoals or sunken islands but now everyone agrees that the layer is composed of living animals. At night in darkness it moves up to the surface of the water but before daybreak it goes down again into deep water where the light cannot follow it. Now there are some small shrimp-like animals that are known to behave this way and also some of the weird fishes of the deep sea come up to the surface at night like those Mr. Heyerdahl described so vividly in Contiki. Scientists have tried to sample this layer with nets but you never can be sure that your nets are catching everything and perhaps the very creatures that are the key to the mystery may be too swift moving to be caught in the nets so as yet the results are not very satisfactory. We used to think of the deep sea as a place of silence. The idea that it could be sound underwater had never entered most people's minds nor had the idea that whales or fish or corpses had voices. This common misconception was corrected during the Second World War for when Navy technicians began to put their hydrophones into the water to listen for submarines they heard a most extraordinary uproar. In fact the tumult of undersea voices was so great that whole fleets of submarines could have passed by undetected. Later of course they learned how to filter out the sound and separate the animal produced sounds from the mechanical ones. Today I thought it might be fun for us to take a trip underwater and listen to some of the sounds of the deep sea. the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution has some remarkable recordings of the sounds made by shrimp and fish and whales. The institution has very kindly loaned me some of those recordings and in a moment we'll listen to them. But first a word about the method. The recordings were made by lowering a hydrophone into the water usually at depths of one to two hundred feet. The sound frequencies are exactly the same as would be heard by the human ear underwater. Most of these recordings were made in the open ocean where the water is two or three miles deep. Sometimes we can tell you the identity of the sound makers and sometimes not. The first recording was made by the vessel Caron near Bermuda. The sound you will hear is made by shrimp. It is sort of a sizzling, crackling, sputtering noise and it is produced by the snapping of the claws of thousands of shrimp. closer viewing antenna, verm Harrison, youtube.3 to twelve nap its하하 depth toוש This next recording was made over water two and a half miles deep, about 30 miles from Bermuda. No animals were seen at the surface at the time, and we do not know what particular kinds of fish or other marine species produced these sounds. You will hear a series of curious moans, groans, and shrieks, which apparently are characteristic sounds of what we once called the silent sea. Thank you. This is a biscuit. This is a missing one. This next recording, in some ways, is the most fascinating of all, and I hope it will carry satisfactorily. It was made by the vessel Atlantis, about 100 miles north of Puerto Rico. This particular sound was heard only where the water was about three miles deep. It is a peculiar cry, followed always by a second finger cry, exactly like it. Now that second sound has been interpreted as an echo of the first, and for that reason, this unknown creature has been given the name Echo Fish. It has been suggested that the fish, whatever it is, may use this echo of its own voice for navigation, or perhaps to locate food in this region of complete darkness.leben The End The last recording brings us the voices of white porpoises, as heard in the lower Saguenay River of Quebec. These recordings were made as part of a study of marine mammals by William Shevel and Barbara Lawrence. These scientists have described the voices of the porpoises as a medley of chirps, mews, and canary-like trilling, with occasional calls like a crowd of children shouting. Sometimes the sounds are reminiscent of calls heard in a tropical jungle. I will let the porpoises now have the last word. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've heard children at so-called play who sounded like that. Mr. McDonald suggests it may be Debussy himself. Thank you. It contains things about Jimmy Durante that will surprise and delight even his old friends and admirers and will win him many new ones. For here is the incredibly full, hard working, often touching, more often amusing life of one of the world's great clowns. from Diamond Tonys on Coney Island where ragtime Jimmy at 17 played the piano through a series of honky tonks where pickpockets hung out where a singing waiter named Eddie Cantor with Jimmy faked request numbers for out of town customers through a series of tough joints in which to take off your hat was to proclaim yourself a sissy we followed Jimmy's early career at the Alamo on 125th Street he met Eddie Jackson later of the famous Clayton Jackson and Durante team he played in Broadway speakeasies where gangsters checked their guns at the door to nightclub audiences representing wealth society, crime and the arts it was into the club Durant that Lou Clayton came late one night for a quiet, consoling drink having just lost $98,000 in a floating crap game and there began an extraordinary business relationship and a devoted friendship the business relationship had for a contract only a photograph of Jimmy inscribed to my dear pal and partner Lou until death do we part the friendship too lasted a lifetime Gene Fowler's story carries Jimmy and his team through the easy money days of the twenties with rich pictures and amusing anecdotes of the Broadway characters of the time and of the world they moved in there's the record too of the lean thirties of Hollywood's misuse of Jimmy's talents and of John Barramore's famous suggestion you should play Hamlet with Jimmy's reply to hell with them small towns I'll take New York there's the fine comeback in 44 there's radio and finally there's Jimmy's newest career in television which his ardent admirers feel has justified that often dubious entertainment Gene Fowler's story all adds up to an affectionate warm hearted sometimes quietly moving picture of a great comic genius and an instinctively kind good man whom ladies and gentlemen we have with us today in person the great schnozola Jimmy Durante thank you ladies and gentlemen booking off the luncheon and ladies and gentlemen that's the way Mr that's the way Mr. McDonald coached me somehow or another I don't think it's right so take no more of your eyes I wish there was a prompter in this little box here believe it or not folks this is the first time in my life that I've ever been on a dais what did I say it wrong you gotta be careful with Miss Carson up here and Mr. McDonald and I'm really not a speaker all I know when I'm invited to any affairs to go to a piano my buddy Eddie Jackson and try to entertain but I want to say I was born on the east side of New York and I'm very honored believe me being up on this dais with the people that's represented up here and it really is a nana where I was born I was born at Catherine and Cherry Street my dad had a barbershop Al Smith at that time was a semblable I used to go over to his home and play on a Sunday afternoon when they'd have a party and it was really a democratic neighborhood and a tough neighborhood one time there I remember the presidential election they found two Republican votes and right away there was an investigation and you know when I was a youngster my nose protruded don't usually use them words but I can talk too you know I was reading I was reading Miss Carson's book while I was here and I got about the three or four pages and I see she has something in here about some of the land animals later returned to the ocean after perhaps 15 million years of land life a number of reptiles entered the sea in mesotic time m-e-s-o-z-o-i-c that should have made me drop and go no further it said here these groats gro- grotesque monsters disappeared millions of years ago but we remember them then I stopped I don't remember a thing you know in my book you're not going to find you're not going to find me in a discussion with anybody about plateau and apricot or something but folks going back to to my early days I had a large nose thank god it's grown since then and when I'd walk down the street a lot of them would make fun of it and turn around and say get the schnazzer on that guy and really I was really ashamed of it go home cry as a kid but later on I made a picture called get rich quick wallenford out at MGM and they advertised me as schnazzola believe me from that picture I'm not exaggerating if I didn't get a thousand to fifteen hundred letters from youngsters saying they were proud of their schnazzolas and that when they walked down the street to tickle the dead of anybody calls them schnazzle and believe me I was really tickled at that you know I wait like Mrs. Van Doren said in the toughest joints I worked down at the island in a joint called Diamond Tony's every waiter in the place had a girl in the street used to come in and Mitchell at that time cleaned up the island and there was all what we would say fairy entertainers at that time there was I didn't know at the time I was seventeen years old and I'd play piano there so not to be taken for one of them that's how I started smoking cigars I used to call them all kinds of names Edna May I used to call them so it was Edna May and Leslie Carter and sing songs like this company in the parlor come on down and I used to play from eight o'clock at night till about five in the morning there was no petrillo around in them days and sometimes the only relief I'd get from there would be the song plug is coming in and plugging their songs there was no radio or nothing and there was no dancing after the entertainer get finished I'd play a little interlude then put on another entertainer but some nights if there was no entertainer came in I'd keep going without a stop but the toughest boss in the world was down there really tough bosses that whole street was lined up that was called oceanic walk down there and it went to the ocean from the bari to the ocean and there was about five or six places there that carried all that kind of entertainment and if I went to the washroom the boss stopped me on the way back he says what are you doing taking advantage anyway we went up through the years and finally I was working at the nightingale when a singing waiter not a singing waiter a waiter at the nightingale asked me to go up to ask me would I open a club doing provision and I said they like you Jimmy would you let's open a club and I said no I'm doing alright but anyway he went and got the club and that was called the club Durant it was Eddie Jackson a fellow named Harry Harris and myself but I didn't want to go in unless they made Eddie a partner I was in partners with Eddie at that time I met Eddie at the Alamo at 125th street he was working with a girl by the name of Dot Taylor and when she left Eddie and I any place I'd work I'd ask for Eddie and Eddie come to work we wasn't partners just friends and when we worked down the night and Gale I asked this fellow I said I'll only go in on one condition that you take Eddie and Harrison as partners so that's the way it was we opened the club Durant and Mr. Van Duren said Clayton come up one night and he brought Harris out and that was the start of Clayton Jackson and Durant that was during the probation days and we used to hide the liquor in the coat room under the floor you know the three years of ruck you can't do anything to me one night I can remember one night especially when the probation agents came up used to tap the walls tap all over the place and finally they went into the coat room and they started stamping the floor I said Eddie let's take a walk and we waited over to Child's until Clayton says everything is okay and we came back but you know then we opened up all the rest of our clubs and we were going along and finally I went into I went into Jumbo for Billy Rose and from there I went to London I played Dublin Island Glasgow Scotland Blackpool Liverpool played two weeks at the and I made a picture there with Richard Thorper but after the picture I gave a party to a lot of newspaper men that's very unusual after the party after you get your publicity well we usually go on our way but this time I gave a party and after the party I took a trip to France and to Italy so we went to France and after Paris I got on a train called the wagon lit train I don't know that's the name of the train but I got on the wagon lit and I picked up an Italian paper and I can't read Italian but looking over it I see Durante Durante Durante in every column so I says well what do you know that party sure paid off so I started I get the scissors out and I cut I must have cut up the whole paper because Durante was in pretty near every column so now I go to the washroom and on the door there's a little plate there it says in large letters Durante so now I'm a little confused so I called the conductor he was speaking but then he couldn't tell me nothing so finally there was an English speaking fellow on the train and I got him on and says what does this mean he says well during the time that the train is at station etc etc it was then that I found out that Durante is an Italian word meaning during well needless to say needless to say I tore it up I tore up all the clippings but folks I think Gene Fowler did a marvelous job I really do I really think he did a great job the other night I'm reading the closing chapter and it was a great piece of writing tears really rolled down my cheek as I read the closing chapter on Clayton and now that I got Janks in here I'd like to wind up by singing a song and having any breakup applause How did you boys get in for the boys looking for a job looking for a job you got a job Good job. All right, come here. You want this one? Who's that? Give me one. That's radio. Is that radio? That's radio? All right, I'll get it. Which is this? Three hands radio. Man, I made a feathery face out of this. This is Jules Bufano, my piano player, and this is Jack Roth, who's been with me for about 30 years, too. Don't take a bow. I'm the only one bowed. The other night, a friend of mine, Voyage. If you need the job, shave it off. Get a bit of schnauzzing on him. Boy, I gotta get rid of him. My job is in jeopardy. Now the other night, a friend of mine gave me the number of a girl he wanted me to know. Now the other night, a friend of mine Gave me the number of a girl he wanted me to know Blind dates are for me, and when she answered the phone I gave her my sweetest hand up Snuggled up close to the phone, I says, Durante speaking How about going out with me tonight? She says, before I go out with you, what do you look like? What a dilemma Should I tell her the truth and be turned down Or should I lie and worry about it later? There was no way out, so instead Say I braced myself and said Say I wouldn't say I was handsome Now I wouldn't say I was cute I'm not very tall, but gosh darn it all It's kind of hard to put it in words Why only the other night I made a blind date the same way over the phone I said, hello, she says hello, come right over When I got there she took one look at my nose and said You sure must have hurried, you forgot to hang up the phone Yes, it's kind of hard to put it in words It's not that I want to be mischievous Believe me, I'm not trying to stall I forgot the words Who am I going to blame it on? The piano? And now, folks, I'm going to play a little number for Eddie Jackson My partner of Clayton, Jackson, and Durant Jimmy, wait a minute Eddie, let me play piano for you, huh? Oh, Jim, can you play the goodest Jose Iterby? I'm even better, can Jose Iterby play this? Or this? Or this? This, this, this, this, this, this, this, this Ah, Jose, make way for Nosey Ah, Kimmy boy, you're sensational But what are we waiting for? Come on, Kimmy, let's go Hey, it's a free singin' Ah, when a real piano player Sits down at them keys Ah, it makes me feel him late When he goes Oh, what a kick Hey, when a real piano player He's gonna take a long way Give me room It makes my voice Like a day When he goes I could've went further If it's made enough notes Well, completely gone I'm beside myself Say, I can understand your bliss Thank you, Jimmy Don't get excited Oh, no Control yourself But I tell me It was never like this Listen to this Yeah You know that he'd chop litter Ah, listen to those comedy songs You know, this is very tiring I play with all my money Here's a dollar, Kimmy boy Don't stop Come on Keep playin' all night Why, it's a thrill Sing it Oh, what a real piano player Sits down at the keys Let's hear it, Jimmy Ah, beautiful, Jimmy I'm trying to say Ah, great just like the book Ah, no, Jimmy Don't go No, Jimmy Not that We're only creepy Stop it, Jimmy Stop it I'm only human Sorry, I show no mercy Ah, beautiful, Jimmy I'll try to even tell me Can you play our regimen Good old Phil Bailey Won't you hold the bill Won't you come home Sing it I'm only holding on I'll try to cut the dollar Honey, I'll take the rent Darling, I know I've done you wrong Ah, and when that old Rainy, honey You drove me out We're nothing but a fine to come Well, I'm looking out The break, darling Ain't it a shame Bill Bailey won't just be dumb Ah, and when that old Rainy, baby Won't you come back to me I'll moan the whole night I'm gonna do that A couple of dollars I'm gonna pay all the rent Honey, I know I've done you Can't Oh That's okay I'm going in business Get out there Get up there Get up there Yeah, yeah, give me all love But I'm afraid, baby Aiming a shame Bill Bailey won't just be dumb Go on to it Oh Go on to it Good job Now Good job A- Give him to it constitution Stop clean controll single Sorry I'm gonna do it You know That point Doesn't Call fresh yoga I've got to Pardon I'm Daddy I I'm사� commits Thank you. I think he's gone, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry. I don't promise you another such book and author luncheon, but they'll be good and of a different size. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.