Queen's College, youngest of New York City's municipal colleges, brings you the fifth in a series of eight broadcasts in celebration of the completion of the first four years of the college and its first commencement to be held June of this year. This morning marks the beginning of the last half of the series, which will be devoted to the general topic of economic prospects in 1941. These four discussion periods are being presented by the Department of Economics of the college. Appropriately enough, Professor William Withers, chairman of the Department of Economics and of the Division of the Social Sciences, will introduce the series. We are very happy to present Professor Withers. The Department of Economics of Queen's College is happy to begin today the second half of the spring radio series. On these four successive Saturday mornings, we shall discuss four topics of immediate and pressing concern to every American man and woman. Jobs, prices, taxes, and the consumer. Today, every American citizen is keenly interested in jobs. This is no new phenomenon, but the defense program is new, and our rearmament efforts require more workers than ever before. Therefore, we open this series today with a discussion of what the defense program will mean in terms of employment. What will happen to unemployment? Have we enough workers to make our planes and guns? What is to follow this boom? Will the crash of 1929 be repeated? This morning's discussion will attempt to answer some of these questions. I am very pleased to present two experts on American employment conditions, Dr. Vera Slokman of Queen's College and Ms. Irma Rittenhouse of the New York State Department of Labor. Dr. Slokman will speak first. We have been struggling for so long with a heavy burden of unemployment and have been so preoccupied with the problems of the unemployed that it is a welcome relief to turn to the prospects of more employment. As the National Defense Program has assumed greater proportions, we have taken it for granted that at last we're going to get relief from some of the problems which have been plaguing us for over ten years. But past experience suggests that we will not have altogether clear sailing in this regard. It would be dangerous to expect that our unemployment problems will quickly and painlessly disappear simply because we're going to have a greater volume of employment. In our last great armament effort of 1914 to 1918, New York State employment increased greatly in the steel, machine tool, and chemical industries. But there were some declines in the clothing industry, in furs, leather, and other consumer goods industries. I wonder, Ms. Rittenhouse, if you would give us some idea if this pattern is likely to be repeated. What are the employment prospects for 1941? For many thousands of American workers, the prospects of employment in 1941 are bright indeed. Even last year, there was an employment pickup of about two million. In January of this year, the total number employed in all industries, not counting farming, was over 36 million, about a million more than in January of our last boom year, 1929. I think we can expect this expansion of employment to continue for some time. In fact, the peak of employment will probably not be reached until 1942. If we keep in mind the disastrous intensity and extent of unemployment during the past decade, it would seem at first thought that this expanding employment to which you refer would simply take up the slack. But what about the question of labor shortages? A number of newspapers have already commented on this possibility and have indicated that there is some cause for anxiety on this score. Do you feel that we are going to be faced with any serious labor shortages? Well, first let's remember that these labor shortages do not mean that there aren't many capable, conscientious workers who still cannot find jobs. This shot in the arm that our country is getting is really very narrowly aimed. Labor shortage means shortage of certain kinds of workers to do special kinds of jobs at a certain time. When the defense program was launched, employers who received the first contracts issued a call for the most highly skilled types of workers. In aviation, machine shops, and shipbuilding, the specifications for the jobs were detailed and rigid. For instance, in the aviation industry, orders for skilled mechanics specify that they must have had four years' experience. Because of the youth of the aviation industry, there just weren't enough skilled aviation mechanics with four years' experience. Then the experience requirement was reduced to one year. The shortage of mechanics, of course, began to diminish. Another kind of shortage we now have may not persist. This is the shortage that arises from a particular method of production. A complicated job, which today is performed by skilled workers, may tomorrow be broken down into a series of simple operations. This means that less skilled labor can be used. So while there may be a shortage of skilled workers so long as production methods are unchanged, when new ways of doing the same job are discovered, the labor supply may be adequate. One other angle on shortages. Defense work is carried on under unusual conditions. Many companies manufacturing according to secret processes have been required by the government to hire only citizens. Other companies are selecting workers on racial or national grounds, even when not required by contract to do so. This creates a problem in a country like ours, where many of our skilled workers are foreign-born or of foreign parentage. Under these conditions, we have, of course, run into shortages of labor of certain kinds to do today's work. The United States Commissioner of Labor Statistics said last fall that there was not a single unemployed lens grinder known to the government, and still more were needed. Even if the personal requirements are relaxed, it is reported in the New York City area that there will probably be a shortage of dye sinkers and setters, ship carpenters, pattern and model makers, aluminum welders, and several other kinds of skilled workers. You may have read that in the manufacture of some very fine metal parts, women embroidery workers were finally resorted to. Their finger dexterity fitted the bill. No regular skilled labor in the trade could be found. Well, it seems to me that if such labor shortages occur, they would have the effect of curtailing the production of certain commodities which are felt to be not directly needed in our defense effort. Because just as it may be necessary to ration strategic materials, and in their use give preference to the needs of the defense industries, in the same way the problem of specialized labor shortages is likely to be solved by shifting this specially needed labor to the defense industries. In other words, the use of priorities in effect is extended to labor. Mechanics needed in the aircraft industry might be drawn off from the refrigerator industry, thereby making it difficult for the latter to maintain production, and some of the less skilled workers here might lose their jobs. This suggests the possibility of increasing unemployment in certain fields at precisely the same time that we expand employment in the defense industries. If I'm not mistaken, total unemployment in England increased during the first seven months of the war. Do you think that we are likely to have the same experience? Yes, Dr. Schlachman, I think that it is likely to happen here. In fact, in 1940, New York paid out more in unemployment benefits than in any other year, despite the fact that the general trend of employment was going up. First of all, as you say, when certain defense manufacturers are given priority as to basic materials like aluminum, the industries which use aluminum for peacetime goods are not going to get their regular supply. This means that their employees will be thrown out of work, at least temporarily. The trades dependent for their prosperity on the housewares industry will also be affected. And, of course, this kind of worker won't necessarily be snapped up by a defense industry. He may not have the proper skill or experience. Then many defense firms are experiencing delays in obtaining materials because of the sudden heavy demand. When this happens, they lay off their workers. This kind of unemployment is already occurring. We can only hope that such sources of trouble can be gradually eliminated. We can expect at least one other type of such unemployment in the future. In New York, the most important industry is the manufacture of apparel. Now, I'm afraid that little can be done to make men buy winter overcoats in June or to make women buy straw hats in October. The highly specialized workers in this vast industry are therefore going to continue to experience seasonal unemployment. This kind of unemployment, and it is very widespread through many industries, we can expect to continue. Incidentally, I read in the New York Times a short while ago of some interesting cases along those lines. In one case, a plant manufacturing a heating device might be obliged under certain rulings of the Priorities Board to shut down, thus throwing some 80 or 90 men out of work. Other cases of a similar nature were cited. It would seem, then, that our provisions for unemployment insurance will be important. In this connection, Ms. Rittenhouse, it would be helpful if you will clarify the point for us. Are the New York State Social Services adequate to meet problems of this kind? Our unemployment insurance law was designed to take care of just these kinds of unemployment. The protection of regularly employed workers from want in times like these is crucial. Since we are now heading into a new situation, it remains to be seen whether our present unemployment benefits are adequate. If prices of food, clothing, and other necessities go up, we may find that the present weekly rates of benefits are too low. If workers thrown out of peacetime occupations have difficulty in finding other jobs, we may find that the 13-week duration of benefits is too short. As for mothers' pensions and old-age assistance, it seems obvious that we cannot expect the defense program to reduce the need for these forms of aid. Then our new prosperity will bring new risks. The number of industrial accidents will increase when the tempo of production is speeded up. Industrial diseases and fatigue will mount if the situation is not carefully controlled. It seems to me to be clear that it is very important to maintain and improve our protective labor legislation at this time. I say this not only from the point of view of the needs of the persons involved. I think that the maintenance of productive efficiency demands it. For instance, we know that productive efficiency declines when workers are obliged to extend their regular working time. On this and on other grounds, the wage-hour law should be treated with respect, and not as a kind of fifth-column threat to the defense program. Furthermore, if we are committed to becoming the arsenal of democracy, as the president said, we must make every effort to preserve those values which are an essential part of the democratic way of life. I would like to return for a moment to this question of labor shortages, which you say may appear. To me, this is a matter of great significance and full of important implications. Considering the fact that we have had a large reserve of unemployed persons for so long, millions for at least a decade, it strikes me that we should not, so early in the defense program, be concerned with labor shortages. One of the really tragic aspects of our experience in the last ten years is the waste of manpower. After years without a job, even a skilled mechanic is likely to grow rusty. In my own office building, there is a 50-year-old general handyman who swabs the floors and runs the relief elevator. He used to belong to one of the most highly skilled occupations, printing. Such workers have grown old in forced idleness. Their skill and work habits have deteriorated. The thousands on public relief rolls received no assistance until they were destitute. That is the law. Destitution does not do much to improve morale. And cash relief does not preserve a man's working skill. No, after ten years of general layoff, we can't expect our labor supply to be completely ready when wanted. This raises for me a question of prime importance. You seem to suggest that if somehow we had provided employment in the past few years, we could have preserved the skills and health and vigor now necessary for our present effort. I can remember very well the disputes that attended the New Deal spending program of a few years ago. It now appears that we are getting a practical demonstration, not only of the necessity of maintaining intact our working efficiency, but also of the fact that large-scale government spending will increase employment. We can see the process at work right now. Surely we could get the same results if we were willing to spend on a comparable scale for such things as houses and schools and hospitals. Yes, production is the key to employment, and employment is the key to a strong democracy. Fortunately, there are already signs of some concern with our post-war employment problem. Unless the whole world is altered, we can expect a crash at the end of the war, when our national economy will be thrown out of balance. Defense production will stop. Those millions of new workers described earlier will be unemployed. And if there is one economic law that we can all agree on, it is that the higher we go, the harder we fall. We can agree on that. As I see it, this involves careful planning now, as a part, if you wish, of the whole defense of democracy. We must not permit again the terrible waste of the 1930s. And it involves also a willingness to devote energy and resources for reconstruction equivalent to the magnitude of the problem presented. And it's going to be a big problem. Of course, we know that we cannot make plans or predictions in the abstract. There are a number of very difficult economic and political problems involved. The nature of the employment and unemployment problems that we will have to face will be influenced by the taxation and price and financial policies that the government adopts. The larger and related aspects of these questions will be discussed by my colleagues in our next three programs. You have just heard a discussion of employment conditions in 1941 by Dr. Vera Schlackman and Miss Irma Rittenhouse. This was the fifth in a series of eight programs making up the spring radio series of Queen's College. Next Saturday, at this same time, Professors Arthur Geyer and Henry Miller speak on prices and business in 1941. This program came to you under the sponsorship of Dr. Paul Clapper, president of Queen's College. It was produced by the Committee on Radio Education, of which Henry Miller is chairman, in cooperation with your municipal station. We draw your attention to two other worthwhile community projects of the college, the Institute series on Wednesday evenings, and the extension courses. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
