We have the cooperation of our own Department of Health of the City of New York in presenting Dr. Alton A. Small, Medical Consultant of the Bureau of Social Hygiene of your New York City Department of Health. Dr. Small's broadcast today is on the important subject of venereal disease in youth. Dr. Small. Good morning. The other day, as I sat at the breakfast table eating and reading the morning papers, I ran across an article which did this medical heart of mine a world of good. The article discussed venereal disease. It pointed out that a cooperative effort on the part of all branches of the Army is being made to acquaint both servicemen and civilians with the perils of promiscuity. The article quoted an Army Colonel as saying that he thought the most important weapon against venereal disease in the Army, as well as in civilian life, is education. I also believe that of all the weapons in the campaign against venereal diseases, probably none is more important than that of education. This education teaches our youth the facts about venereal disease. Your health department is conducting such an educational program. It offers our young people pamphlets, leaflets, and free movies on venereal disease. It also arranges for capable physicians to give informal talks about these diseases to groups of young people. These physicians are only too happy to discuss the venereal disease problems with young folks. All of the educational services of the health department are given free of charge. Desiring these leaflets, pamphlets, movies, or lectures should get in touch with this district health center. You can find the address of your district health center in your telephone book. It is listed under New York City Department of Health. The venereal diseases are truly the enemies of young men and women. The need for proper educational measures is evident when we are confronted with actual case records. The Department of Health records prove that young people are still the main victims of venereal disease and infection. More than half of the infected girls are under 25 years of age. And almost half of the infected men are under 25 years of age. This emphasizes the fact that venereal disease is a real problem of youth. The two most widespread and best known venereal diseases are syphilis and gonorrhea. Syphilis is one of the most prevalent of the common diseases. It is a great health hazard of youth and early adult life of both men and women. Syphilis is caused by a corkscrew shaped germ called the Spirocheta pallidum. It is a disease which, if left untreated, may attack all tissues and organs of the body. It begins with a small sore at the point where the germs entered the body. The germs then spread through the bloodstream of the infected person. Syphilis is almost always contracted by intimate contact with an infected person. It has been known to be transferred from a diseased to a healthy person by some object contaminated by the sick person. However, since the germs of syphilis die quickly outside the human body, accidental infection is extremely rare. Syphilis attacks the body in three stages. And these stages are spread over a period of years. The first stage of syphilis begins with the small sore I mentioned before where the germs entered the body. After a few weeks, with or without treatment, the sore heals. But this does not mean that the infected person is cured. The disappearance of this sore only means that the germs have gone deeper into the body to attack other organs. After the disappearance of the sore, syphilis enters the second stage of infection. This second stage may produce a rash on the skin, sores in the mouth and throat, swollen glands, fever, frequent headache or pain in the bones. In severe cases, blisters may appear on the skin. Even if the infected person does not receive any treatment during this second stage of syphilis, the symptoms will disappear after a time. But the infected person still has syphilis because it has entered the third dangerous stage. This third stage is a quiet or latent stage. And the germs are damaging the heart, blood vessels, brain, liver and other internal organs. Many years may pass and apparently nothing may happen. But at any time, a breakdown of the heart, brain or other important organ may occur. In its late stages, syphilis causes paralysis or insanity. When syphilis is contracted by intimate association with someone who has the disease, it is called acquired syphilis. A more tragic form of syphilis is the kind given to an unborn child by an infected mother. This is called congenital syphilis. Next week, I shall devote my talk to this subject of congenital syphilis. Syphilis can be cured if treatment is started in the early stages by a reliable physician. Let me warn you that no salve or ointment applied to a syphilis sore has any good effect. Only quacks sell or prescribe such salves. Gonorrhea is the other venereal disease which I want to explain briefly. Gonorrhea is caused by a germ called the gonococcus. The disease causes painful infections and inflammation of the delicate tissues of the urinary and genital organs. Gonorrhea is most commonly communicated from infected to healthy persons by intimate contact. Gonorrhea is not treated promptly and adequately, the disease spreads into the internal genital organs. It causes these organs to become seriously inflamed and damaged. The damage often results in permanent sterility of both men and women. If the inflammation reaches the joints, it causes arthritis. As these germs get into the eyes, the infection causes blindness. Both syphilis and gonorrhea are easiest to cure if treatment is started in the early stages. The treatment must be given by a reliable physician or clinic. As I said before, no salve or ointment or internal wash applied to a syphilitic sore or gonorrhea infection has any good effect. And I also repeat, only quacks sell or prescribe such cure. If you suspect you have a venereal disease, go to a reliable physician or to the Department of Health Clinic without delay. Don't gamble with your help. New York City is fortunate in having well-developed facilities for the diagnosis and treatment of venereal disease. All records are kept confidential. We now have drugs which bring both these diseases under control in a short time. Treatment is available to everyone. The outlook for venereal disease treatment and cure has never been brighter than it is today. But let me impress you with a fact that no matter how wonderful the treatment is, unless we find the venereal disease carrier, who is so often ignorant of the infection, and start treating that carrier, all the drugs in the world are of absolutely no use. That is why I say, and I cannot say it too strongly, that education is one of the most powerful weapons we have in the campaign against venereal disease. Your health department has long recognized the worth of this weapon. Health education is the job of practically the entire department. The function of this health education is to bring the available and reliable information to the attention of the community, and more especially, to the attention of young people, in order that they will act upon it. To properly educate the millions living in a city, the size of New York is an enormous task, but it is a task which your health department has always undertaken and never shirked. The overall picture of venereal disease in New York City for 1947 was somewhat brighter than that of the preceding five or six years. This overall picture was drawn from records received by the health department from hospitals, clinics, and private practitioners. This is indeed a heartening picture. It is a good proof of what education and community cooperation can accomplish, but it should not make us rest more easily. If anything, we must work all the harder towards improving the record in 1948. The health department, once again, brings to the attention of the public a slogan, see your doctor, be examined, get a blood test. The war years did much to disrupt our youth, but the war years also did much to prove that communities could work together through their homes, schools, and churches to protect them. The good work done in youth education during the war years by our communities must be continued to help solve today's post-war youth problems. The fight against venereal disease in youth is one of these post-war problems. Your health department needs your aid in its campaign to wipe out this disease. Thank you, Dr. Small. Your city station, WNYC, and the cooperation of your Department of Health has brought you the second in a series of four talks on the subject of venereal disease by Dr. Alton A. Small, medical consultant of the Bureau of Social Hygiene of the New York City Department of Health. Now, for a copy of Dr. Small's talk, write to your city station or to the Department of Health, Bureau of Health Education, 125 Worth Street, New York 13. Next week, at the same time, Dr. Small will talk to you on the subject of venereal disease in pregnancy. These health education programs are a regular feature of the morning schedules of your city station, New York City's own station, WNYC.