Good evening, opera lovers. Your opera program, Velvet and Gold, heard every Tuesday evening at 9 o'clock, brings you rare privileges in the ways of historic recordings of great voices who have sung and presented the works of the great master composers. And from time to time, such as this evening, we have the excellent and privileged opportunity of presenting an outstanding composer who has intrigued the music lovers of New York ever since his Amelia Goes to the Ball was presented at the Metropolitan. The Municipal Broadcasting Station, WNYC, and its management, as well as the City of New York, appreciates the courtesy and consideration of Mr. Giancarlo Minotti in taking time out of his very busy life to come here to your own Municipal Station to greet the opera audience this evening. I can assure you we are most appreciative to have this opportunity to discuss with you personally some of the interesting factors that enter into opera and composition, Mr. Minotti. And now will you, after having heard your musical voice and your compositions, will you say a few words for the radio audience so that they will hear your speaking voice and feel that they have met you personally? Well, thank you, Mr. Cohen. I hope you don't expect me to sing. Because I have always thought that composers have about the worst voices in the world, and I always become very embarrassed when I hear my colleague being interviewed over the radio. Well, I think as far as the composer, you can't expect him to do everything, and as they say, no one thing incorporates everything, and we do know the beautiful music that the composers have assigned to the singing artists, and of course that is the thing that we look for. Every note of the overture, for instance, in the opera of the telephone, is the most scintillating wedding of agreeable, should I say, dissonance and harmony, that seems to indicate that we're about to meet a young lady whose moods would be as tantalizing as the preloaded music. How did you manage to get so much color into an American theme, you might say, Mr. Minotti? Well, you're trying to get some of my secrets. No, no. These are patented secrets. I can't give them away. You mean your genius is a secret. That's very kind of you. No, I don't. That's not even a compliment. It's based on what we've already observed. Opera for centuries, as you know, Mr. Minotti, although you haven't been through the centuries exactly, you're a very handsome young man, has told the public, has held rather the public, public in its thralldom, especially when we find the wedding of music, text, and direction so apt as they most surely are in a story and score like that of the telephone and the medium. What was the source of the stories of librettos to these operas, Mr. Minotti? Well, very curiously, I don't start with the libretto and then put music to it. And somehow the music inspires the libretto and the libretto the music. The idea comes at the same time. Sometimes I really get the idea for a libretto out of one phrase. In the medium, curiously enough, the first thing that came into my mind is the part when Monica impersonates a ghost and calls to her mother. The phrase, Mother, mother, are you there? You do sing. You got me to sing, after all. And the funny part, Monica's right here in the studio. And that actually was the first idea that came into my mind. And out of that, I began evolving some sort of a story. And it's the same thing with Amelia Goes to the Ball. What gave me the idea of that was a dressing table that I saw in Vienna, a very elaborate one. And around that, I began creating a story. That was truly, as I told you before, I took the director of a well-known station here in New York. We were having dinner, and I said, Would you like to go to the opera? He says, Oh, he said, Opera doesn't amuse me in the least. I said, What operas have you seen? He said, I haven't seen any. Then I said, How do you know what an opera does to you if you haven't experienced it? I said, I have two very good seats from the publicity department of the Metropolitan. He says, What operas are on? I'm the most bored tone in the world. I said, Coke Door, and Amelia Goes to the Ball. He says, I never heard of either of them. Well, I don't suppose you did. I said, Let's go. We went down to the Metropolitan that night, and Amelia was on, and you were conducting, I believe. Didn't you conduct? No, no. No? I thought you did. I don't conduct, and I don't sing, and I don't play. I don't know how I got that impression. And, well, from the very moment, the stage where the curtains there folded, and we saw that interesting stage setting of the stage raised above the stage, and then from then on, Amelia's complications and getting to the ball and finally winding up with the chief of police taking her, we thought it was the most delightful evening we'd ever spent in opera hours. That's very nice. That reminds me of the evening I took Talula Banquet to see the medium. She happens to be one of my neighbors, and when I asked her to come to see it, she said, Well, I hate opera, and I know I'm going to hate the medium, but as long as you are one of my neighbors, I guess I have to do it. And I said she was terribly thrilled by it, and she came backstage, and of course she had one of her great scenes behind the stage, and I think she was... I bet she and Miss Powers certainly had what they call an old home week. It was something. It's a good thing that you're not an actress, but just a gentleman, or you could have told Miss Banquet that you hated the theater. Well, I really believe it's... Well, let me see. I have a question here that interests me very much because I'm always fighting this kind of an argument with the converts I'm trying to make to opera, for opera, rather. Do you find any valid reason, or what would you think was the fundamental reason for the smart-alecky assertion that opera is a museum piece? I don't think it's anything of the kind. You prove it by the medium and the telephone. Well, you know, I believe that one of the best definitions of opera was given by Noel Coward. I think it is in his play, Hay Fever. He says that the trouble with opera, it isn't that it isn't what it used to be, but that it is. And there is this attitude, generally, that opera is, well, one kind of theater. It always has to be the same. People don't realize that opera is theater. It must be live theater. And just as the play changes, all the plays change during the passing of centuries, so should opera. Now, people who compose operas today are apt to think that to write an opera, you have to have people with feathers in their head and swords and so on. Now, I think that the only way you can write an opera today is to take into account what the theater has done. You know, if you take somebody, a composer like Puccini, he has used plays that used to be great successes in his own time, and so did Verdi with Victoria Goe and so on. And there are too many people today who try to write operas using very old-fashioned librettos simply because they think that to write an opera, you have to write an opera the way Puccini or Verdi have written, which I think is absolutely wrong. Now, in writing the medium in the telephone, I purposely try to have the action in modern times, and I chose two subjects that certainly I don't think have ever been used before in the operatic history. Certainly, I know that no other phone has ever been used in any opera before. I never saw a telephone adapted to interior decoration as it was in the form of the sofa that the lady uses all the time. That was something. I really was amazed that two youngsters, a young boy and a young girl, could hold a stage all that time with the only, you might say, relief was that telephone ringing, although it was exasperating to the young lover. And, of course, we all know the difficulty he went through that she kept answering the telephone and almost never at all answered him. And how could you... I say this because we're right here and we're Americans. We look at these things every day. They don't seem to impress us. And you come with a... We might say you're a young man who was born in Italy, and you come here and you epitomize the thing much better for us than the thing we're looking at every day. Well, I think telephones are the same all over the world. They are. You get a quick service in other places. As a matter of fact, in Italy it's even worse because you don't even get the operator half of the time. Well, we're all creatures of habit, and I think, in a way, the young man showed that he was a true psychologist when he tried everything else, and then finally went out and called up the lady from the railroad depot. The only thing that made us a little bit sore at her was that even then, at such a test of devotion, all she asked him was, have you missed your train? And he said, not yet. And that led us to hope that you were going to bring them out into a happy solution, and that you did. How did you manage to work that all out? That was a clever way you had of not changing the set to show him at the station phoning. Well, I think that if I should have had a happy ending for the telephone, I think it would have been a bit too sad a story for a comedy. I think the telephone almost becomes a tragedy by the time we get near the end of it. Everybody gets so furious with the girl and so sorry for the poor man that I had to have a happy ending for it. Well, I don't know. I thought the whole idea of sitting there and spoofing as modern a thing as the telephone, and yet really listening to delightful music that was underneath you, you might say, like a cloud holding you up, and you were floating right through the blue and having a grand time, and all the time, what was it, but a girl talking over a telephone. On such slender thematic material, your musical development was really most inspiring. I speak for myself, and I think a great many of the audience find it the same. I'm sure you're the ladies in the audience, will disagree with you. They will disagree that telephone conversation is a very slender thing. For them, it's terribly important. Well, you seem to think so, because when you wrote the music for Lucy to tell her girlfriend about George's quarrying with her and abusing her over the phone, it sounded almost as lovely as Donna Zettier Bellini. The compliment there is lovely, too. Thank you. Yes, it really was lovely. Well, now we'll get off the telephone, because we're doing the same as the lady did. We're staying around the phone, and we're not talking about the medium, and that's so important, because this is really a dramatic treat. From the very minute the curtain goes up, and we look at that very intriguing setting, and all the props and different things on the stage, we're totally at a loss to guests. Now, what can happen here? And it certainly does. How did you first become inspired by the medium as an idea, Mr. Minotti? Well, I think I already told you that. Well, I mean, where was your impression received? I mean, you don't go to seances. I'm trying to find out when you try to read the future. As a matter of fact, I've never been to a seance. I always wanted to go to one, but they're also terribly expensive, and when I wrote the medium, I was very broke, and I never could afford to go to a seance. So I read books about it. Isn't that interesting? And I don't know whether the Society for Psychic Researchers will agree with my treatment of it. Well, they've been debunked on their own basis, but I mean, we're very glad you sent it to music before the whole idea goes out. But the booth there where Toby operates the effects as Baba or Madame Flora calls for them in the seances, we noticed a little... Right away, I was intrigued by that marionette thing above it, and I figured there was going to be a marionette show. Were you interested in marionettes at one time? Well, actually, I think everything I know about the theatre, I learned from a marionette show. When I was a little boy, I had a wonderful marionette show, because I have... Well, we have ten children in the family.
