Have you ever heard that music before? It's produced by three ancient instruments, each having a history that goes back more than 2,000 years. Now listen to this. Have you ever heard that language before? It's the language of a people whose history extends back to the 12th century before Christ. Not many Americans had given much thought to the country behind this language. But suddenly, on June the 25th, 1,950 years after Christ, it came dramatically into the news. Here is your report on Korea. United Nations Radio now presents Report on Korea, an official up-to-the-minute account of what the United Nations is doing about Korea. In 1945, the Allies gave Korea her independence from Japan. But she was divided into two zones of military occupation, by Soviet forces in the north and by United States forces in the south. The dividing line, the 38th parallel. If there is anything that can be agreed upon, it is that the Korean people, some 30 million of them, want unity and independence. This they did not have. So the Korean question was brought to the UN, and the General Assembly decided that all occupation forces are to be withdrawn, and democratic elections are to be held. To see that the General Assembly program is carried out, a commission was sent to Korea. But the commission was unable to get the cooperation of North Korea. So on May 10th, 1948, the commission held elections in South Korea only. Later, the General Assembly decided that democratic elections had been held in South Korea, and a lawful government had been established there. But North and South Korea were still not united. During 1949, and up to the present time, the UN Korean Commission has remained on the job. Perhaps one day, unification may be possible. After all, North and South Korea belong to the same race, speak the same language, cherish the same customs, and have the same fervent love of country. North Korea is mainly industrial. South Korea, mainly agricultural. What one needs, the other has. Koreans hope to be reunited, just as they were before the Japanese occupation. The UN's Korean Commission is there to help them. Against this background of discord in Korea, came the sudden news that North Korea had invaded South Korea. Immediately, the Security Council, as the UN Guardian of Peace, went into action. North Korea was branded an aggressor. A ceasefire was ordered. It was not obeyed. North Korean troops were to return to the 38th parallel, their boundary line. They refused. Drastic measures had to be taken. Less than 48 hours ago, the Security Council was called into session again. Lake Success saw crowds that it had never seen before. People from all parts of the world, of all races, sought entrance to the Security Council chamber. But only 360 seats are available. And more than 3,000 people had to be turned away. Admission tickets were in such demand that at 2.30, half an hour before the Council session began, every seat was filled. Is there any chance of two seats for the Security Council this afternoon? Did you make a reservation, ma'am? No, I'm afraid I didn't. I didn't realize I had to. I'm sorry. Without a reservation, I'm afraid it's quite impossible this afternoon. Oh dear, is there any chance of just one seat? Not for this afternoon. We've turned down something like 3,000 people. Those fortunate enough to have tickets entered the Council chamber and heard the President for this month, Mr. Arne Sundar of Norway, call the 476th meeting of the United Nations Security Council to order. Order. Order. Events have moved swiftly in Korea since our last meeting. What some of us hoped would be a short and decisive police action has turned into a pitched battle of unforeseeable duration. But the Republic of Korea is no longer alone in its fight for liberty and freedom. And the bent and broken line of resistance is slowly stiffening with the stamina and courage of American boys who hardly dreamed 14 days ago that they were to be the first to fight for the ideals and principles of the United Nations. With them in the air and on the sea are the first contingents of British, Australian, New Zealand and Netherlands forces and offers other kinds of assistance are pouring in from member states. This is the United Nations action. The United Nations action to which Mr. Sundar refers reached a high point at the meeting when a joint British-French resolution was introduced. Speaking for the United Kingdom was Sir Gladwin Jebb, who had been closely associated with the UN from its earliest beginnings in San Francisco. Ever since the Security Council adopted its resolution on 27 June, it has been clear, I think, that some further steps would be necessary to coordinate the assistance which it was recommended in that resolution that members of the United Nations should furnish to the Republic of Korea. The mere fact that so much assistance has now been furnished in tangible form by certain nations and that so many other nations have promised to make assistance available makes this all the more necessary. After discussion with many delegations, therefore, the French government and His Majesty's government have circulated the draft resolution which is before you now. Now it was time for the vote. Here was a resolution authorizing a United Nations military command to be set up in Korea under the United States. Here was a resolution whereby the United States would name the commander of all military forces fighting against North Korea on behalf of the United Nations. Here was a resolution authorizing the blue and white UN flag to be flown alongside the flags of the various countries in their discretion. President Arne Sundar calls for the vote. Will those in favour of the resolution please raise the round. Voting in favour are China, Cuba, Ecuador, France, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States. Those against. There are none against. There are none against. Those abstaining. Egypt, India and Yugoslavia are abstaining. The resolution has been adopted by seven votes for, none against, three abstentions. Here was news of the first magnitude. The UN charter speaks of we the peoples. Yes, we the peoples must be informed. In 26 languages to North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and Africa, UN radio went into action. A unified military command in Korea had been authorized by the Security Council. Hardly had the delegates risen from their seats when news began reaching the four corners of the earth. Within minutes of the decision, shortwave radio broadcasts were leaving Lake Success from every available studio. This is the United Nations at Lake Success. The Security Council has just passed a resolution. My friends, I'm Roberto Unanue from Lake Success, New York, in the name of the Latino-American service. These countries are in the United Nations. The only way to the United Nations is the United Nations. This is the United Nations at Lake Success. Meanwhile, offers of assistance to help put down the invasion were pouring into our world headquarters. More than 40 nations, over two-thirds of all the United Nations, were either offering help to the UN in order to repel the invaders, or were lending their support to the Security Council resolution. Many of the leading UN statesmen came to our studio immediately after they'd made their historic decision, and spoke especially for this program. They described the aid their countries were giving to help South Korea repel the invasion by North Korea. They explained why they favored the Security Council resolution for a unified command in Korea, and they gave their position on whether the Korean conflict would remain localized or would spread. High tribute was paid to the United States for assuming major military responsibility in Korea. When Security Council President Arnest Sundar of Norway laid down his gavel and gathered up his papers and briefcase, he walked a few short steps to a UN radio studio where he was asked, what aid is your country giving? Norway is prepared to take such measures as may be found desirable in order to assist the South Korean government. And in this connection we have suggested the possibility that Norwegian tonnage might be offered for transportation purposes. What we have done today is to authorize the United States, the only power at present in a position to render full-scale assistance to the Korean government, to take the military leadership in this campaign. I would like to emphasize that it is an international police action we are calling upon the United States to lead, not a war. It is highly satisfying that the policy of the Security Council so far has had a strong support of the overwhelming majority of the members of the United Nations, and I have no doubt that this report will be continued. Without underestimating the dangers involved in the situation, I have no specific reasons to believe that it will not be possible to keep the conflict within the territory of Korea. To the Chief of the United Kingdom delegation, Sir Gladwin Jebb. Your government, sir, was one of the first to offer assistance, wasn't it? Actually, I believe we were the first to announce our offer of assistance. And indeed, the Prime Minister placed our Far Eastern naval forces at the disposal of the United States within 24 hours of his having read President Truman's historic statement to the House of Commons. I myself was then somewhere over the Atlantic on my way to New York, as I had been ordered to join my post at a few hours' notice. I believe our fellow members of the Commonwealth, Australia, New Zealand and Canada came close to beating us with their own offers. They are useful people in an emergency. The United Kingdom naval force involved consists of one aircraft carrier, three cruisers, seven large destroyers and eight frigates, which is no mean contribution to the collective peace force by the Royal Navy. Sir Gladwin, in your recent speech to the Security Council, you referred to the article of the United Nations Charter under which action had been taken. Would you care to comment further on the point you raised in your speech? Well, as you know, the Charter contains provisions for the establishment of the United Nations Armed Force, which would be available to the Security Council to assist it in enforcing its decisions and in restoring international peace. Unfortunately, owing to Soviet obstruction, these provisions have never been put into effect, and there is still no United Nations Armed Force. The Security Council, great though its influence, is still without teeth. And the result is that when we are confronted with a situation such as that in Korea, it is extremely doubtful whether there is any direct action which the Council itself can take, in the sense that a commander in the field, by mobilizing and disposing his troops, can take direct action to restore peace. But even in these circumstances, the Council is far from powerless, as events have shown. With its tremendous moral authority, it can issue recommendations to members of the United Nations, that is to say, recommendations based on Article 39 of the Charter. And these recommendations may ask members to band together of their own free will to render assistance, both moral, economic and military, to the victim of aggression. If the response to the Council's recommendation is a good one, as in this case it has been, then the result in the long run may be much the same as if the United Nations Armed Force had existed, and the Council will have played a vital role in the restoration of peace. To Mr Keith Shan, Acting Chief of the Australian Delegation of the United Nations, our question, what is your country prepared to give? We've informed the Secretary General that Australia would place at the disposal of the United States, two naval vessels in the Far East. These are the Sloop Shoalhaven and the destroyer Bataan. The latter, a tribal class ship rather larger than the usual destroyer. Then we've been able to tell Mr Lee that the Government has decided to make a further contribution to the United Nations, through General MacArthur, of a squadron of Mustang planes. In addition, my Prime Minister has said that our land forces in Japan, numbering some two or three thousand, would not be withdrawn for the time being as we had intended. We have assumed all along that the commander named by the United States would be General MacArthur, and there is no need, after the experience of the last war, to say what an Australian would feel about this. Mr Shan, do you think the conflict in Korea can be confined to Korea alone? Well, that's a tremendous question. I should think that if the United Nations had not faced up to its responsibilities on this occasion, the eventual chances of a Third World War would have been greatly increased, even if we deluded ourselves with words for the time being. With all the risks involved in the present action, and they need no stressing, we would feel that the taking of this action decreases, rather than increases the chances of a general war. If it's made perfectly clear to an aggressor what the reaction of the rest of the world is likely to be, then he is likely to think very deeply before embarking again on the technique of probing in weak places. And to the Chief of the New Zealand delegation, Sir Carl Berenson. New Zealand is of course giving military assistance. Our intention to do so was announced immediately the occasion arose, the first two soldiers of the New Zealand Navy are already cooperating. My small country has never failed to recognise that there can be no international rights without correlative international duties. And our support of the principles of freedom and justice, and of law and order in international affairs has never been confined to words. Always we have played our full part. And always our sacrifices have been proportionately heavy. What is your reaction, Sir Carl, to the Security Council resolution just passed? I believe the Security Council's resolution to have been necessary and timely. This is the best means presently available to us of giving shape and substance to the organised cooperation in resistance to aggression of 40 members of the United Nations. And it points the way to continued cooperation, if such be necessary and possible in any future case. On the inspiring initiative of the United States, the Security Council in my opinion has comported itself admirably in this most difficult situation. But it was a pure accident, and let everyone remember this, that for a totally extraneous reason, the Soviet representative has not been present in the Security Council. And this incident has already proved, and it is significant, that our system of collective security can be brought into action, provided the Soviet representative is not present to exercise his veto. Mr Gromyko has questioned the legality of the Security Council's resolution. What's your reaction to that statement? My reaction to Mr Gromyko's statement is the same as my reaction to all statements of this character, by Mr Gromyko or any representative of the Soviet group. This is pure propaganda, made without any regard for the truth, and obviously based upon Hitler's policy that the bigger the lie, the better its chance of being believed. One needn't read beyond the first paragraph, in which Mr Gromyko makes the fantastic allegation of a provocative attack by the South Koreans. Mr Gromyko's statement begins with nonsense, it continues with nonsense, and by all sensible and right-thinking people, it will be rejected as nonsense. Do you think, Sir Carl, the conflict in Korea can be confined to that area? I do not know. No one knows outside the Kremlin. But those who cherish human rights and freedom must, if necessary, and God forbid, be prepared to defend them if they are attacked. The road to peace today is the road of courage. Is military aid being given by the Netherlands? We directed that question to the head of the delegation, Mr Daniel van Balusek. The Dutch government has made available a destroyer, which is present in Indonesian waters, and which is, if I'm well informed, already on its way to the Korean area. We have felt that we had to do this, and we know what it means to be attacked and to be occupied by a foreign invader. You know that during the Second World War, we had the same experience that South Korea now undergoes. That has certainly contributed to our decision, apart from the fact that we believe in the principles of the Charter, and that we feel that as a member of the United Nations, we must live up to these principles. Mr. van Balusek, what is your reaction to the resolution which the Security Council recently passed? Well, it seems to me that the resolution that was passed this afternoon is the logical consequence of what was done before. On June 27th, we were asked to give assistance to the Republic of Korea in order to repel the armed attack and restore international peace. This assistance was offered by various nations in various forms, in a sense of reason that we must now organize this assistance for practical purposes. So that the recommendation which has now been made to the members to make their forces available under unified command is only the practical sequence of the decisions that had already been taken. Do you think that the present conflict can be localized or stopped? Well, that is rather a complicated question because as to whether the action can be localized is a matter that does not only depend upon the United Nations, but very much on those who are not siding with the members of the United Nations that have placed themselves behind the resolutions of the Council. It will very much depend upon those forces who are now attacking a country to whose assistance we are now contributing our help, what they will do and whether they will make it possible for the United Nations to localize the conflict. But military forces are not the only kind of aid which the nations are prepared to offer. Would Denmark be prepared to help the United Nations cause for peace in Korea? Mr. Christian Holten Eggert of the Danish delegation answered our question. The Danish government, who is not in a position to render military assistance, has informed the Secretary General of the United Nations that, if so desired, it is able to give assistance in the form of medicinal supplies. My government is ready to provide, at its own expense, a rather large quantity of drugs for active and passive immunization against tetanus, as well as antibiotics, mainly consisting of penicillin, streptomycin and sulfur drugs, liver extract for injections, as well as special insulin. Most of these preparations can be delivered immediately, the rest within a few weeks. Prince Juan of Thailand said that his small country could not give military aid, but was prepared to give aid of quite a different sort. Obviously, military assistance is out of the question, because Thailand herself is in need of military aid. But she has not hesitated in making an offer of immediate assistance in the matter of foodstuff, which in Thailand's case means rice. Thailand, being an agricultural country, will be glad, if required, to assist the Republic of Korea at once in the matter of foodstuff such as rice. Of course, it is well known what aid the United States is giving to repel the invasion by the North Koreans. At this very moment, a special United Nations flag is somewhere over the Pacific Ocean on its way to Korea, a symbol of UN unity on behalf of peace. Ambassador Warren Austin tells you how he came to receive the flag. I was invited up to Secretary General Lee's office, and there he handed me the flag of the United Nations, the identical same flag which has seen battle, and which was carried to Palestine by Count Bernadotte. Afterwards, Ralph Bunch had the flag. After Bernadotte suffered his demise, and Ralph Bunch was appointed as his successor, he took on this same flag. And when he had finished his mission, he brought the flag back and presented it to Trig de Lee. Now, Trig de Lee says, I want you, through the United States, to transmit this flag from me to General MacArthur, in order that he may have this very flag, which is a historic one, during the Korean issue. And when the battle is over and peace has been arrived at, then he will return the flag to the United Nations headquarters, where it will rest, we hope, in peace. Now that a unified military command in Korea has been authorized by the Security Council, UN personnel will leave for the battle area as the need for their services arises. Reporting to Colonel Alfred G. Katzen, Mr. Lee's personal representative in Korea, will be a small staff who will be recruited and trained here at Lake Success as part of the field service activities of the World Organization. In direct charge at headquarters is Kerry Seward. UN Radio spoke with Mr. Seward about his increased operations in Korea. Mr. Seward, I wonder, first of all, if you'd explain just what this United Nations field service is. Yes, our work falls into two parts. The first is supplying the United Nations missions with trained service personnel. That is to say, radio operators, mechanics, guards, motor mechanics. We are trying to train all of these people so as to make them as flexible as possible. In other words, we are giving our mechanics training and typing in shorthand. We are training them in security measures. We are training all of our people in first aid. The second, and the unheralded part of our work, is providing the administrative support to all of the UN missions. This means that we, with the help of our finance people, our purchase people, our transportation people, and whoever else may be concerned, provide them money, arrange to get the people passports, get them inoculated. We get them cars if they need them. We get them radio equipment. We'll set up a whole radio network if necessary, as we have done in two places. We'll get them airplanes, whatever they need to do their job. Now, about how many people have you out in the field and how many are you likely to need in the immediate future? We have, in Korea now, about 25 people. And we expect to send about five more. Uh-huh. Do you have any trouble getting these people? We've had, on the contrary, some difficulty in persuading people here at Lake Success that they weren't needed right now. Uh, the, uh, Secretariat apparently is volunteering to go to Korea almost to a man. And we are taking them only as we need them to perform some specific job in Korea. Will these people report to General MacArthur, or will they report to Mr. Lee's personal representative, Colonel Katzen? They will all report to Mr. Lee's personal representative, Colonel Katzen. This, then, is a report on Korea, a country the United Nations helped to create. Thirty million Koreans seek unity, and they seek peace. But they are not united, and they are fighting. Today, the United Nations is trying to create unity for North and South Korea, and restore peace to all Koreans. The United Nations has to be able to express the peace of our lives in our life. This is the language of Korea. The language that is spoken by both North and South Koreans. And language knows no boundary line. Language knows no 38th parallel. Peace is indivisible. The 1920s You've been listening to Report on Korea, prepared and edited by United Nations Radio in its studios at Lake Success. The program was compiled and directed by Oscar Rose and produced by Gerald Keene of United Nations Radio.