Good afternoon everyone. Each afternoon for the past six days we brought you a special program in connection with National Fire Prevention Week. Today is the final day of National Fire Prevention Week. Nevertheless, let's make every day in the year a day in which we'll do all we can to prevent the ever-lurking enemy fire. During the past week we've alternated the musical portion of this program with the Fire Department Band and Glee Club of the New York Fire Department, Patrick Walsh, Fire Commissioner and Chief of Department. And today we have the pleasure of having both organizations with us again. And later our guest speaker will be Mr. John J. Hogan, Office of Administration. But first now, here is the Fire Department Band conducted by Deputy Chief George F. Bregel playing, drooping the line with the colors and tribute to trombones. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, we'll have more of this stirring music as so admirably played by the New York Fire Department Band. But right now, here is the Fire Department Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Frank A. Durkin, and they sing Great Day for the Irish, Monastery Garden, and Marching Along Together. 한 man, he sang aux disagreantsaran And as we go swinging, every Irish heart is singing, it's a great, great day. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you're having a half a chance. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you've got to get up and dance. It's a winkle, a tigle, a tigle, and making the raptors ring. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you've got to get up and sing. Do-ro-roo, do-roo, do-roo-roo, do-roo-roo-roo. If you're feeling low, you'll soon be feeling high. Oh, it's wonderful Irish music, and it's terrible, flat or sharp. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp. Monday night is Paddy again, Tuesday night is Brad again. Wednesday night is Paddy again, doing the best he can. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, how they love to hear the harp. Every night is Paddy's day, oh, what a busy man. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you're having a half a chance. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you've got to get up and dance. It's a winkle, a tigle, and making the raptors ring. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, you've got to get up and sing. Do-ro-roo, do-roo-roo, do-roo-roo-roo-roo. If you're feeling low, you'll soon be feeling high. Oh, it's wonderful Irish music, and it's never flat or sharp. When Paddy McGinty plays the harp, on St. Patrick's day. Through the misty twilight and coiling, Voices from afar are calling, Calling all the weary, Homeward to their rest. The evening bell is softly feeling, While from out the poisons feeling, On this prayer of mercy, People and so blessed, Every day they play in song. Every day they play in song. Every day they play in song. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. And lay his son. Hope will bring to us his gladness. Faith shall take away all sadness. While the gates of day are closing in the west. The joy will come again with mourning. Shadow, chasm, blood is storming. God is love and gives us holy path of rest. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay his son. Hear me, and lay him. The night says we're out there. acquire a judge. We're bound for nobody knows us Even though we're sure to know we've got a lot of help Nothing to wait for We're ready to step, we're ready to step Where do we go? Where do we go? Where do we care? How to be off, we don't care where Marching along together Sharing every smile and tear Marching along together Whistling till the skies are clear Swinging along the highway Oh, they're all best wide Without a view, without a drum We're here to change the jeeps Rumped in Italy, here we come Where hands beneath these seats Marching along together Life is wonderful side by side Marching along Marching along with a song Rumped in Italy, here we come With a joyful song Side by side Marching along together Sharing every smile and tear Marching along together Whistling till the skies are clear Swinging along the highway Swinging along the highway Over the road that's wide Without a view, without a drum We're here to change the jeeps Rumped in Italy, here we come We're happy, inky-dinks Marching along together Life is wonderful side by side That was the fire department Glee club under the direction Of Mr. Frank A. Durkin And now continuing our Fire Prevention Week program Here is John J. Hogan Office of Administration Who speaks on the subject Of fire prevention A matter of universal interest Mr. Hogan Once more a concerted effort Has been made To impress upon the people Of the city of New York The importance of preventing fires In accordance with the practice Followed in the past A week has been specially designated For that purpose Namely the week of October 7th To 13th Attempts to gain the attention And cooperation of the public In this undertaking Were made through the newspapers And also by addresses Radio talks And various other means The fire menace is universal In one way or another The life and possessions Of every man, woman, and child Are endangered thereby Therefore this movement To eliminate the fire hazard Should receive the hearty support Of the entire population The destruction of property By fire Results in a tremendous waste Of our natural resources As well as the effort Time and materials Required to produce man-made objects Far more important, however Is the loss of human life For it has been estimated That approximately 10,000 persons Were fatally burned in 1944 Of this number 30% were children under 10 years of age As stated above The fire menace is universal The lives and possessions of all Are subject to it This fact would seem to be rather Conclusively proved By the following statistics In the homes of our country Fires occur at the rate of One in every four minutes Throughout the entire year Every day of the year Fire destroys or damages Churches and other Other public edifices Including schools Farm buildings Woodworking plants Food and food products plants And clothing factories In addition There are thousands of fires Every year In structures Housing other occupancies It is evident From the foregoing That every kind of property Is subject to the possibility Of damage or destruction By burning And that regardless Of the type of construction The location Or the kind of occupancy Fire may attack buildings And endanger lives Of all the persons Within their walls In fact As we all know Many substantial structures As well as others Of easily combustible Construction Have served as fire traps For unfortunate men Women and children Who are unable To escape from them Fire The danger that never sleeps Constantly menaces The woman in the home The child in school And the man in his office Or at his machine It may originate In any one of these places Or in a nearby Or distant structure Or even in a remote forest Americans as a class Are noted for their extravagance And their seeming complacence In the matter of fire waste Is a striking example Of their carelessness They are greatly incensed By cases of arson But are not As individuals Seriously concerned Regarding fire hazards They take great pride In the appearance Of their homes But too often overlook The dangerous possibilities Of defective chimneys And flues Possibilities which develop Into actualities In the form of Enormous fire damage They appreciate the comfort And convenience resulting From the use of electricity And electrical appliances Carelessness in handling them Causes enormous losses Each year And it is interesting To note that 37% of the fires That originated From electrical sources Resulted from failure To take suitable precautions When using electric ions Some other kinds Of carelessness That give rise To many serious fires Particularly in the home Are improper storage Of oily rags And other objects And materials That are subject To spontaneous ignition Depositing hot ashes In wooden boxes Barrels And other combustible containers Burning rubbish Using kerosene For starting fires And stoves Cleaning garments With gasoline And other inflammable fluids In rooms where Open flames are present Smoking in bed Allowing stoves And furnaces To become overheated Failing to provide Spark guards For fireplaces And leaving light Inflammable material Near open flames Many fires resulting From these unsafe practices Are attended by Serious personal injuries And fatalities As well as by Property damage We cannot prevent All fires But we can greatly Reduce the number Of them By exercising care Fire prevention week Is a good time To check up On our careless habits And resolve To banish them Permanently We hope that this talk Will stimulate All of our listeners To greater and more Persistent efforts Towards fire prevention Thank you Mr. Hogan We certainly hope it will You have just heard John J. Hogan Office of Administration Speak on the subject Of fire prevention As a matter of Universal interest And now we return you To the fire department Band Under the direction Of honorary deputy chief George F. Briegel Playing McCarthy's march Drum major And cymbal of honor Tonight Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.