We take you now to the American Legion convention in Madison Square Garden. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the voice of New York City again, coming to you from Madison Square Garden, where the American Legion is holding its 34th annual convention. Some 10,000 Legionnaires here are now awaiting the feature event of the day, the address to the convention by the Republican presidential nominee, White D. Eisenhower. Presiding over the convention is the American Legion's National Commander, Donald R. Wilson. The order by Mr. Wilson has just been given in preparation for the visit of General Eisenhower to clear the aisles. This is the third and final event of your city station's broadcast. Here again is the voice of Donald R. Wilson. Will you please clear the center aisles? The order has been given to clear the aisles. And 10,000 men and women here in Madison Square Garden are standing up now to hail the arrival of White D. Eisenhower, Republican presidential nominee. We can hear some old rebel yells in the background from some of our southern members of the American Legion. We can't see Mr. Eisenhower yet. Now we see him. He's coming right up here to the smartly draped and bunting red, white, and blue dais in Madison Square Garden. He's being greeted by the American Legion National Commander, Donald R. Wilson. Let's pick up the applause of the crowd here in Madison Square Garden. And the general has just bowed and given a salute to the convention at large. Our vision of the general is blocked off by legionnaires, newspaper men, photographers, and television men. And now slowly advancing to the speaker's roster. Here's the national commander to introduce the general, Donald R. Wilson. He's patiently waiting until the demonstration in favor of the general subsides just a bit. He moves away again as the crowd increases its intensity in approbation of the arrival here of Dwight D. Eisenhower. Thank you. My fellow legionnaires and ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of delaying unduly the event which is immediately before us and which marks one of the truly epic moments in the history of American Legion National Conventions. I would, however, recall and ask each of you to recall a time and circumstance over which the passing years may have cast something of a haze. It was a time of imminent and explosive peril to our beloved land when the American people stood uncertain and shocked in the wake of formidable disaster. We desperately needed in that time a leader who would rally and assert on the continental battleground of the West the striking power not only of our own nation, but of all those nations arrayed with us. It was the provident will of Almighty God to provide such a leader. And it was the unforgettable experience of many of us in the American Legion to follow his command to victory. In recognition of this heroic service, the American Legion long ago conferred upon him its highest decoration, our distinguished service medal. I now have the supreme privilege, my friends, of presenting to this 34th National Convention of the American Legion a beloved and most distinguished citizen, a member of the James R. Cutler Post No. 39 of the American Legion in Abilene, Kansas, the Republican nominee for the high office of the Presidency of the United States, the Honorable Dwight D. Eisenhower. Thank you. He's been regarded for the general. He's waving both arms, saluting one and all here at the convention. By the way, he's wearing his old Kansas state cap as leader of the Kansas state delegation to the American Legion convention here in Madison Square Garden in New York. Now, Mrs. Eisenhower has come up to the speaker's rostrum to stand behind the general. And you can hear in the background the cry that you heard at the Republican National Convention, three words, we want ice. His Legion cap is off now, waving to the crowd. Give me. Commander Wilson, my fellow veterans, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago this month, I had the I honor. Five years ago I had the high honor of appearing before this convention. Then we were at peace, a peace that we hoped would be permanent. Now again, we have on a distant land Americans and their allies suffering, dying, that we may have the privilege to meet in conventions such as this. Before I go further, may I speak for you and for all Americans with whom I have had the privilege to serve in the uniform of our country, that those men that are disabled and those men who have left widows and orphans shall never be forgotten. That each of us will charge himself that that widow and that orphan shall experience the great heart of America in full measure, and that that disabled man until he is fully restored to health, no matter how long that may be, shall have all of convenience and of comfort and what this country can give him that he could possibly desire. This is the first time before American Legion convention that I have been able to say fellow veterans in its fullest and truest sense. My wardrobe is now entirely civilian. The only item that I lack that veterans are supposed to have is the button that you're supposed to wear in your lapel. Now, I think that was merely an oversight on the part of the Army that I do not have it. I cannot believe that that is an act of economy in official Washington of today. I have also been assured that I may now resume my education. And I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many times that I long for the quiet of a campus, with no greater problem than that of facing a quiz for tomorrow. But my friends assure me that for the next four years, I am going to have no such opportunity. Today, however, I am not addressing you as a political candidate. I am here as another veteran. And I have no intention of imposing upon the great honor you have done me by inviting me here upon your hospitality. In the weeks ahead, I shall speak specifically about the problems of government, which deeply concern all of us. Today, however, it is not my intention. So to do. Seven years ago this very month, I left the Army with no possible thought that I should ever enter politics. But seven years ago today, no one in our whole country would have dreamed that today we would be prey to fear. Who would have thought, as we disbanded that great Army, that great Navy, and that great Air Force, that only seven years later, America would have to be studying and analyzing the world in terms of fear and concern. We are threatened by a great tyranny. A tyranny that is brutal in its primitiveness. It is a tyranny that has brought thousands, millions of people into slave camps and is attempting to make all humankind its chattel. Now let America, saddened by the tragedy of lost opportunity, etch in its memory the role of countries once independent, now suffocating under this Russian fall. Latvia and our million people. Estonia and our million and a quarter. And Lithuania with more than twice that number. Poland and our 25 million. A country that for centuries has been the bulwark against Tartar savagery. East Germany and our more than 17 million. East Austria and our 2 million. Czechoslovakia and our 12 million. A nation that was born in the Czechoslovakian councils in America. Albania under 1,200,000. Bulgarian, Romanian, their 23 million. All these people are blood kin to us. How many people today live in the great fear that never again shall they hear from a mother, a grandfather, a brother, or a cousin? Dare we rest while these millions of our kinsmen remain in slavery? I can almost hear your answer. The American conscience can never know peace until these people are restored again to being masters of their own faith. Not only in Eastern Europe is communist barbarism broken forth beyond its own borders. On its Asiatic periphery, the Kremlin has made captive China and Tibet, Inner Mongolia, Northern Korea, Northern Japan, the northern half of Indochina. It's slaves. It has added 500 million people to its arsenal of manpower. Most of those people in the Far East have been our friends. More than 100 years ago, our clipper ships brought to them the products of the West, and our missionaries penetrated into their interiors, and there became the heralds of a better life. Through a dismal decade of false starts, fractional measures, loud policies and faint deeds, we have lost them. Again I can hear you say, the conscience of America shall never be free until these people have opportunity to choose their own path. The lands and the millions made captive to the Kremlin are harsh evidence that dire peril stalks every free nation today. Tyranny must feed on new conquest, else it withers away. Using force here and propaganda there, its purpose is conquest. At the command of the communist czars in Moscow is the most formidable aggregation of power ever assembled under a single despotic rule. Under it, people are terrorized, beaten, beaten down into a submissive mass to do the tasks the Kremlin gives them. They are building the railroads, hewing the timber, digging the mines, in order that this Kremlin power may become all masterful. They have provided an economy for that country that Russia could not otherwise achieve. Still, the Soviets have not yet attained a position from which they can accomplish the most important of their objectives. This objective is the economic containment and gradual strangulation of America because the communists both fear and respect our productive power. Now, they know that our productive power, our economic strength, is acutely dependent upon vast quantities of critical materials that we import from other sections of the globe. Their method, therefore, is to infiltrate those areas, to seize them, control them, and so deny us those materials that we so badly need in order to sustain our economy and our kind of civilization, in order to keep up the American prosperity. They are, therefore, preparing this whole great mass of people and of materials so that they may surpass our own productive capacity. They are preparing those people psychologically and material for whatever decision the Kremlin makes, even global war, should war appear to them to be profitable. Their efforts behind the Iron Curtain are accompanied by virulent subversion and propaganda inside the free world. Though we say it in shame, as we say it in anger, they have penetrated into many critical spots of our own country, even into our government. here may I pay my tribute to the American Legion for its unending, effective efforts to uproot subversion, communism, from wherever it finds it in our country, and to stay on that job until it is done. And may I... and you have done your work without recklessly injuring the reputations of innocent people. I may I, at this moment, enlist with you for the duration in the great cause you have set yourselves. applause Now, in order to obtain their objective, Stalin has said that there may have to be another international war unless the free nations, including America, become so convinced of the hopelessness of the struggle that they will surrender. Now, does there anyone here think that America ever quits? Does anyone here think that America will ever surrender to that kind of a threat or talk? No! And Stalin knows just that. Therefore, I say, we are in great peril because knowing that, he is proceeding with the mobilization of the world he controls to do anything, anything, that the Kremlin finds necessary in order to subdue us. Now, Moscow is not going to make the mistake that Nazi Germany and the Imperial Japan made. They were supported when they entered the war only by fractional economies. Stalin will never attack until he is certain that there has been gathered under the iron fist of the Kremlin that amount of material, human, organized military strength that he believes will bring ultimate victory. The Nazis and the Japanese had to win instantly or not at all. But he will attack when he thinks he has sufficient portion of the world economy in order to sustain a long and exhaustive struggle. He will never do it before then unless that war comes about by accident of the powder keg variety. All this means that we have some time because they do not feel ready yet to challenge in this final fashion. But it means also that to this threat we must at once find the right answer. fear, so long as menace hangs over our heads, our peril circumstrives our industrial goals. Our agricultural program, our fiscal policy, our very attitudes are colored by this great threat. Now fear is a climate that nourishes bankruptcy and dollars and morals alike. Those afraid seek security and heedless extravagance that breeds waste of subsistence and corruption of men. Now if fear is long endured, it wastes away material resources as well as our lives. In a climate of fear long endured, we can find the death rattle of a nation. We have no time for complacency, but I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, there is also no cause for fear. 155 million united Americans are still the greatest temporal force in the world. We must have a policy that we can understand and support with confidence, and we must not abate our efforts until we have banished from the free world the last probability of communist aggression. The course to peace is the establishment of conditions that will abolish fear and build confidence. There are three areas of immediate demand. First, America must be militarily and productively strong. We must have security forces of mobility, security forces whose destructive and retaliatory power is so great that it causes nightmares in the Kremlin whenever they think of attacking us. We must keep America economically strong. Even our great military effort must not break our great competitive system because in the combination of America's spiritual, economic, and military strength is the cornerstone of a free world. world. We will build that world. We will build that world with all of those who are ready to stand with us, work with us, and support with us the organisms that are necessary to make sure that we cannot be damaged. In every thing that men use and need, we greatly outnumber the communist world. Numerically, the free world is stronger. In the richness of our scientific advancement, we surpass them immeasurably. Moreover, in the greatness of heart and soul, America and the free world cannot be compared to the backward states lying behind the Iron Curtain. They have only one quality, one military strength that we lack. They have unity. Now, ladies and gentlemen, their unity is based upon the force of a police state. We have to match that unity and overmatch it with the certainty that we and the free world are defending common values and in that understanding provide a common front against them. We can never rest and we must so inform all the world, including the Kremlin, that until the enslaved nations of the world have in the fullness of freedom the right to choose their own path, that then and then only can we say that there is a possible way of living peacefully and permanently with communism in the world. We must tell the Kremlin that never shall we desist in our aid to every man and woman of those shackled lands who seeks refuge with us, any man who keeps burning among his own people the flame of freedom or who is dedicated to the liberation of his fellows. These three elements are necessary and immediate, nor may we suffer delay in other crucial areas if we are to achieve prosperity in the free world. The reactionaries of communist materialism, violent antagonisms of any form of religion would return man to a horrible bondage. Against this paganism, we must preach and practice the truly revolutionary values of man's dignity, man's freedom, man's brotherhood under the fatherhood of God. These values have inspired generations and have overcome tyrannies in nature, in society, in individual man himself. All history testifies that these spiritual values are the ultimate source of every right, every privilege, for that matter, every material advantage we enjoy in the modern world. To preach and to practice them so that all the world shall once again find hope in them requires of each of us a genuine effort in his daily life. Each of us must live with his neighbors in a spirit that is fully American. Here are several specific resolves that each of us should make and adhere to scrupulously. First, let us tolerate nobody in our whole society who attempts to weaken and destroy the American constitutional system. Especially let us be watchful for those who by stealth attempt subversion and treasonable betrayal in government. At the same time, let us hew sharply to the fundamental American principle that every man is innocent until he is proved guilty. To do less... To do less is dangerous to our freedom at home and to our world position of leadership. Second, let us once and for all resolve that henceforth we shall be guided in our relations with our fellows by the American creed that all men are created equal and remain equal. All of us who salute the flag, whatever our color or creed or job or place of birth, are Americans entitled to the full right and the full privileges of our citizenship. In a time when America needs all the skills, all the spiritual strength and dedicated services of its 155 million people, discrimination is criminally stupid. Third, third, let us, in every way that each of us can fight the economic inequities that still survive in our great productive system. Despite propaganda that all the social ills have been legislated out of existence, we know that the realities of life are still tough, harsh, disheartening for many Americans. These ills cannot be abolished by the mere passage of a law, but they will disappear in an America whose men and women understand that not one of us, whatever his position, can stand alone and that all of us bound in a spiritual unity are injured by any injury to any of us. Fourth, let us end corruption in public office at every level of government. In world opinion and in world effectiveness, the United States is measured by the moral firmness of its public officials. Any preoccupation with their own profit, with selfish schemes for personal aggrandizement or partisan advantage is undermining America's strength. the fixed of its personal commitment Thank you. Thank you. These resolves require no effort approaching the demands made on you in war. Yet, the reward for America and for the free world will be as great as any victory in battle or in any campaign. The reward for America and for the free world will be as great as possible. One hundred years ago, America was the wonder of humanity and the symbol of man's hopes and goals everywhere. We can make it that again. Can we not, here and now, all of us, resolve that we shall make it that again? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You have just heard a broadcast at the address by Dwight D. Eisenhower through the 34th Annual Convention of the American Legion. Your City Station's convention coverage will continue through the week until the final session here on Thursday. Tomorrow, we invite you to hear three broadcasts of the American Legion Parade up Fifth Avenue. With the chant of, We Want Ike in the background, we remind you now that this has been the third and final public service broadcast today from the 34th Annual Convention of the American Legion here in Madison Square Garden. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.