Every Sunday, for almost ten years at this time, you heard the voice of George Artemis Ward, the stargazer. Each and every Sunday, for 500 times and more, this program was lovingly and carefully devoted to bringing into the hearts of all who listened a little encouragement, a stray drop of happiness, a small morsel of joy. Today, there is no joy on this program. The stargazer who searched the heavens has himself taken his place among the stars. The news announcement of the untimely passing of George Ward was shockingly unreal, cold, almost incomprehensible. So, on this last presentation of the stargazer on WNYC, some of us who were his colleagues and friends, gathered together today to dedicate, with you who knew him through his program, this last edition of the stargazer to the memory of its originator, George Ward. George Ward came to WNYC almost ten years ago. I remember when he first stopped in to see me with the idea for the stargazer. He was enthused and imbued with the idea of joining people together in their common interest of hearing each other's poetic writing. As I look back over the years, I don't believe he was as much enthused over anything else. And that early love for his very own program, the stargazer, continued on through the years. He spent hour after hour reading the thousands of letters you wrote him, and carefully answered each and every one, pecking away at his own typewriter at every spare moment. He liked people and attained a deep personal satisfaction in writing to them. He achieved one of the ambitions of his life when the Stargazer's anthology was published only a few months ago. Through the years, George Ward became associated in the public's mind with many of our outstanding programs. Who can imagine a broadcast of a town hall luncheon club on Tuesdays without the voice of George Ward? How difficult it was to change a Sunday Brooklyn Museum concert assignment, which became necessary when George Ward became studio supervisor only last year. His announcing from sculpture court was the hallmark of the program. He was quiet, steady, always calm in the little unimportant emergencies of program operations. He was dependable, and he was loyal to his friends. The city of New York has suffered an irreparable loss by his passing. And to his wife and daughter, to his family, I can only offer the deep, heartfelt sympathy of his friends and associates at WNYC. To his myriad friends who listened at their loudspeakers, the Stargazer was a rewarding experience. Each and every Sunday, George Ward was a welcome visitor. The memory of those programs is George Ward's ever-living legacy to all of us. The forms of the The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End