It's 1130 on Friday morning and time for our book review digest, specially prepared for the ladies by Mrs. Alice Bellamy of the Brooklyn Public Library. Good to have you back again this week, Mrs. Bellamy. Good morning. We have some more of the same. Remember we talked last week about The Big Sky by A.B. Guthrie Jr.? Yes, that sounded like a very fascinating book, and I'm ashamed to say that I've been so busy since then that I haven't picked it up to read it, but I bet some of our listeners have. Well, I hope so, and I hope they've enjoyed it very much if they have. And as I think we mentioned last week, I saved the second book that I wanted to talk about until this week so that I could devote a little more time to it. It's also by A.B. Guthrie Jr. Where's our journey to this week? Well, we're still going west. He seemed to be quite intrigued with that section, didn't he? Oh, yes. Well, he grew up in Wyoming, and I believe it was Wyoming. No, I'm going to correct myself. Montana. But he knows the west thoroughly and has made an enormous study of the whole period of history about what he writes. And as you said last week, a very faithful study also. Yes. In connection with that, I'm glad you mentioned it because you remember last week I spoke about an article which he'd written. Yes. Oh, I can't remember exactly when it came out, but I think it was a year and a half ago, something like that. It was in the newspaper, and I looked it up in the meantime because I knew that in it he had said some very good things about the writer of historical fiction and whether, at least his idea of whether the writer had the right to take any liberties with the facts. Oh, yes. And so on. What did he say in the article? Well, he said, I had remembered it pretty accurately. He said that as far as he's concerned, he doesn't think that the author should tinker too much with the facts. That, after all, historical fiction should not distort history. It should merely add color to the bare facts. Yes. Not create new characters and personalities that have no relation whatsoever to the times. That's right. And of course, I think that's one reason why he's considered such a fine writer. He does have great respect for the historical facts. Yes. But he said something else in the article that I thought was awfully good because, to me, it's very, very true. And I jotted it down, brought it along. I thought you might like to... Good idea. ...me to tell about it. It seems that some time ago, Guthrie and his son were at Independence Rock in eastern Wyoming one afternoon. And this rock had been a great landmark for the early emigrants to Oregon and to California. There, Guthrie writes, they had stopped to rest and clean up and refresh their draft animals. There, on the granite slopes and levels of the upthrust, they had inscribed their names with chisels and nails and paint, asserting personality, as Bernard Devoto happily said, against the vast impersonality of the desert. Oh, my. I think that's very good. Yes. Well, this is what happened. Oh, Guthrie speaks of many of the old names are still there. And, as he says, calling to mind lost afternoons and long broken camps on the green of the Sweetwater River. Reading them, Mr. Guthrie writes, while the western wind sweeps at you and space flows endlessly all about, you live in that other time if you know about it. That's a very good point. And that's what he brings out. The author goes on to say, a sort of awe and a sort of hunger enter you and you think, America, America, thinking not of flags and martial music and orations, but of dust gray wagon covers and screeching axles and the cries of drivers and the graves along the way. Yes. And it makes me, you know, makes a tingling over you, really, because suddenly it does bring back, if you know about it, as he says, bring back that period of history of which we all should be really particularly proud, I think. Yes. Well, he's very successful at evoking that feeling in his writing, which I think very few writers can do. Well, he does it very successfully through his novels, too. Probably the fact that he grew up there and was really spiritually akin to the territory, so to speak, has made it possible for him to write that well of it, you know. Well, I've no doubt that that has helped. I think he has, he's a very talented writer also, and you combine that with an excellent job of research, which he's done about the historical period. Well, in The Big Sky, he was, he gave us the situation with the very lone and solitary fur trappers. Now, what does he describe in The Way West? Well, The Way West, I think, is the sort of thing that one can identify even more closely with oneself, because in the first place, we know a little bit more about that period. It's about the pioneers who set off in their wagon trains in the spring of the year to make their way through to the promised land of Oregon, Columbia Valley. What period would this be in our history? In the 1840s. In the 40s. That's when the first of the of the great treks took place. And his characters in The Way West are a small band of people, not one of the great trains that pushed through. Thirty men with their wives and families who set out from Missouri in the spring of 1846, and they arrive at their destination in the Columbia Valley in that following autumn. It's in no sense one of these stories of the Oregon Trail that is replete with ambushes and massacres and all that sort of thing. It isn't. It's a it's a it's a lively and very exciting account, but it's not blood and thunder. And you can, or at least I I think, certainly to myself, you can so easily feel how it must have been and and what an excitement it must have been to start off with a small band like that. It was pretty well planned, of course, and it's very interesting the way Guthrie has developed the characters as they push on toward the West. Uh, of course, like any band of thirty people, you get the strong and the weak. Uh, and but he hasn't made it symbolic. He's he's made them very live, flesh and blood characters. Uh, they soon found out, of course, that they had to operate as a democratic unit. They never would push through to the West with all the hazards in the way unless they operated in that way. Uh, they they quickly find that out. They were forced into unanimity. And forced to have it a very democratic operation, too. Yes. Uh huh. When they first start out, the leader of the band is a very politically, very politically ambitious. Uh, that sort of thing, of course, uh, doesn't doesn't make for a very successful westward trek. No. They, they soon found that, uh, such ambitions would have to be left at home. And that each had to do his share and there couldn't be any, uh, man on horseback, so to speak. They all had to put their shoulder to the wheel and push on. Yes. And they hit some pretty rough conditions on the way out, didn't they? Yes. Uh, and of course, uh, it's, it's not a dull story by any means. They have adventures and very plausible ones along the way. But, uh, I wouldn't like to imply that it's a rip snorting western such as we might, uh, have come to believe from some of the, uh, Hollywood products, you know. Grade B. Grade B. Grade B. Uh huh. No, it's, uh, distinctly grade A. Uh huh. And I do think that, uh, again, as, uh, I mentioned last week in talking about the big sky, I think that to read a story like that makes, uh, the countryside, if you are going to see it this year or some other year, uh, even more interesting to know what has gone on before. And how now with our fine ribbons of concrete roads from coast to coast. Yes. Only a matter of, uh, you might say, uh, just almost within the memory of man, you see. Uh, the West was nothing but a, a wilderness. And speaking of that, uh, I'm, I'm really not far wrong on saying within memory of a living man because it was not more than about, um, 12 years ago that I, uh, was very fortunate in knowing a, a very old lady, she was in her nineties then, who had crossed the plains in a covered wagon when she was a seven-year-old child. Wow. And she told about the herds of buffalo that they'd hear running all through the night. It was just like a steady rumble of thunder. Of course, naturally you get all that sort of color in the story, the way West. It's wonderful that, uh, while our cities have really, uh, doubled in size and so many American communities have grown, our country is so darn big that we really still have the opportunity to visit some of the wide open spaces and get the feeling of the old times. Because really some of those places, except for the fact that eventually if you walk long enough, you'll come to a highway, are quite essentially the same, aren't they? Well, yes, I do think that in going through much of the country, sure, you go on a smooth road and so on, but, uh, you still can see great stretches of wilderness. Oh, yes. I meant the terrain itself. Yes. When you think, uh, for instance, of the, oh, the majesty of the mountain ranges as you approach the, uh, Rockies and so on. Yes. They, uh, people who travel about America tell us, uh, those of us who stay in the East, and I'm one of the unfortunates, that we really haven't seen America until we have gotten into the wide open spaces of the West and especially the Northwest too. Have you been up that way, Mrs. Bellamy? Uh, not in the Northwest, no. Uh-huh. I've been, um, across the country, but not, uh, not in the North, in what, um, is considered the Northwest, uh, territory. Yes. Well, has reading Mr. Guthrie's book given you the incentive, shall we say? Oh, I can't wait to get there. Uh-huh. Well, I just hope it's made. I don't know when it'll be, but I do think that it's wonderful, even if you can't see it in person, you can have it brought to you in such a vivid way through books. Yes, yes. I'm very grateful to you for bringing the attention of the book last week and this week, both by A.B. Guthrie, Jr. Last week's, we might just mention, in case people want companion reading, shall we say, uh, was The Big Sky, and this week, of course, we've been talking about The Way West, but they're both equally good. And perhaps, uh, if you wouldn't mind, I would like to mention once again that, uh, both books, I think, uh, would lend themselves to vacation reading very well indeed. Yes, I'm sure they do. What's going on now at the, uh, central building, which you might tell us about before you leave today? Yes, we do have one. Um, as you undoubtedly know, because I think I've mentioned it before, each year we devote, uh, some exhibit space and some time to the different, uh, religious faiths. Yes. Um, Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant, and currently we have a very nice exhibit of Protestant reading, that is, books of particular interest to Protestants, and with that we're also distributing a book list of several titles for both adults and children. Related, uh, related to the exhibit. Related to the exhibit, mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That's a good idea. That's a current, uh, exhibition? That's currently at the central building. Mm-hmm. That's fine. I'm very glad you mentioned that, because while people do go to libraries for books, they also like to look around and see what else there's to be seen. Well, you know, we always say we have plenty going on there. Yes, we do. So just stop in and get acquainted. It's one of the liveliest spots in Brooklyn, as we well know. Thank you very much for talking about The Way West today. It sounds like very good reading. And, of course, we look forward to having you back again next week at the same time. Thank you. We've been talking with Mrs. Alice Bellamy, who has prepared the Book Review Digest for the Brooklyn Public Library.
