I feel naturally very diffident about coming here, so said I was, when I was invited, because it seemed to me that surely I could learn from you, and that very little that I could say would be new to you. But I am here strictly as a parent, which is the only way in which I could presume to come, because I take it that we need each other, the parents group all over the country, and indeed the world, and the professional group. We are very dependent on each other. Perhaps we have been a little too remote in times past. I can say as a parent that most parents are terrified of professional people, and it has taken them some time to learn that the professional is not always right, and the fate of the child is not always exactly as it was prophesied. On the other hand, I must also say that the professional has grown greatly in stature in the 25 years or so in which I have had contact with him or her, and that today the professional is not afraid to say that he may not be right. He is much more scientific than he is much more prepared to cooperate. So I think that parents should lose their terror of the professional, and the professional should again recognize the need of the parent for him, and that we should recognize our common need of each other. I was talking with Mr. Hundeford, he was telling me some interesting things, and in explaining this possible attitude, the old-fashioned attitude of the old-fashioned technical person, professional person, toward the parent, was that we used to think that mental deficiency was 90% inherited. Therefore, if the child was mentally defective, you probably had a very defective parent to deal with, and the less you had to do with him, the better for the sake of the child. Now, of course, we all know better that most of the children who are mentally retarded are due to, their condition is due to a physical cause, probably, or some shock, and it is not a hereditary cause, and therefore, and therefore, parents and professionals can work together much better for the sake of that child. I lived, much of my own experience in my own child was not very useful, I thought, from the point of view of the Americans, I thought, for a long time, because I was living in such a different society, and in a community in China, a Chinese society, where the whole attitude toward the different person was not specialized as it is here. As you very wisely remarked to me, that we tend, perhaps here, to think of people in groups, classified for the purposes of convenience, and indeed, scientific usefulness, and that we therefore tend to pigeonhole people. Therefore, we find children today pigeonholed into various categories, of which the retarded child is one. But the American, the Chinese society, not being at all scientific, and sometimes to its damage, but it was not, did not pigeonhole any creatures in such a way. All children were children. If this one had this, and that one had that, it was merely accepted, and the retarded child was just as much accepted as the normal child. So I did not fully realize, for a good many years, after I returned to this country to live for the first time, and I've only been here 16 years, which may be a long time to some of you, but it's no longer a long time to me, before I realized that people had to cope, in our society, the situations for their children, which the Chinese parent never thought of facing. That is, it's very, very hard to be the parent of a mentally retarded child in our society, because there is literally no protection for him. The parent doesn't know what to do. Most of the schools won't teach the child. All children are teachable, I think, to some extent, provided their mood is first. I'm one of those people who do believe that happiness comes first, and all else follows. Not all else for that particular child, in the sense of a cure, not at all. But that you can't teach anything, unless the child is happy first. And that anything that is to be taught, has to be based upon the premise that the child is happy, contented, and his environment is right. That's sound teaching psychology. That does not mean that we are to be satisfied with merely the child's content, or happiness, and that we are therefore to doom him to a custodial condition, not at all. Happiness is not enough, let's say. Happiness is simply a prerequisite to what must come later. And I think we would all be agreed on that. Mr. Hungerford and I have been discussing it, and I think we do basically agree on that. But the problem was that you didn't even get happiness for this child here, nor for the parents. The community was old-fashioned. The American community is very old-fashioned in its attitude toward people. And they did not accept this child or this family. Unconsciously, though not willingly unkindly, for I think we are really the kindest people in the world when we think about it. But unintentionally, this child was ostracized, and this community was ostracized. These parents were ostracized, and they were bewildered and confused. And they didn't know where to turn for help, and they withdrew and withdrew, which was bad both for child and parent. Now, there's a reason for that. It's not that we're willfully stupid people or that we're behind other people. It simply means that we are in a sort of median position between the old agricultural civilizations of Asia, where the large family system, hundreds of people under one name and living together, though not in the same house. The generations have kept as carefully apart there as they would be here, but they live in connected houses, let's put it. Their beehives don't go up and down as ours do, but spread out over the ground with connecting courtyards. But the child was never a burden there. The retarded child, however difficult, found many people to take care of and to be interested in him. And he was, the burden was shared. Nobody was surprised or blamed him. And he was just taken care of out of the vast family pot as long as he lived and treated remarkably kindly. Because children are valued as children there. But in our society, quite differently, we don't have that old agricultural pioneer family anymore, which has always been, let me say, heartily horrified at the idea of institutionalism, which seems so natural to us. My Chinese and Asian friends coming to see me are frankly repelled by the thought of old people's homes, which they consider sinful to the greatest degree. The idea of putting old parents, old people into a home by themselves is awful, nor can they understand the independence of some old people who prefer not to be with their children. And they think that to put a helpless or handicapped child into an institution is cruel beyond words. So it is, from their point of view. But from our point of view, it is different to some extent. We, having become highly industrialized, and our big families being all gone, except in slight emotional ties, but no more functioning as a vast economic unit, our children, when they are retarded, do become serious burdens upon the parents. One mother, one father, and a father out all day to work, and the mother tired at home all the long day, night two, no one to leave the child with, even paid help not very satisfactory, not knowing just how to deal with this child. So it becomes a burden almost intolerable to bear. And I may say that that is the present condition of the retarded child in our society and his family. They badly need help. The child feels, and those children, retarded children, curiously, their brains often vary backward, but emotionally often very sensitive and feeling, though inarticulate. Feeling themselves a burden, though they don't know how to say it to those about them, and therefore often depressed and depressing, are rebellious and uncontrollable, depending on the temperament. So we have, we are therefore in a transitional period as regards these children. We have to do something about it, not only to salvage the child as far as we can, but to salvage the home and the parents. Now, the first question, of course, that comes to the parent. As soon as the child is born, and I, every week of the world, I receive two and three and four letters from young parents of the same kind, saying, our baby, just born last week or last month, or now two months old, is unmistakably mentally defective. And the doctor tells us that we must put this child away into an institution and just go on living our lives. But where can we find this place? They're so disappointing, these places, when we go to see them. And as one mama wrote in a letter I got yesterday, well, our baby is so sweet, I hate to think of not having her. And yet the doctor says we must put her into an institution now, before we get attached. Well, what about it? I always answer, and I hope I shall never be murdered sometime when I am under ether or something, by saying that the doctors are wrong, in my opinion. I don't believe when putting the babies into institutions. I think it's a very grave psychological damage that's done, not only to the child, but certainly to the parents. Anyone who's been a parent, who's had a child, knows that that's a life process, that's a stream of life going on through you. And when your child is taken away at birth, even if you do it voluntarily, you don't really do it voluntarily, but you're told you must, and you do it, that you cannot forget. It's absurd to say, go on, forget, live your life. You can't forget. Nobody can make you forget. You may wish to forget, but you can't yourself. And deep underneath, there's something cut off, frustrated, and wounded. Even though you know that if the child went home, it would be great sadness to you. It would be less of a sadness than to have not only the burden of knowing that the child is not what you had hoped, but also that there's something in you that is cut off and doesn't flow out. All of you who have had normal children know that flowing out to the child and how your life has flowed through that child on. So it must be with the retarded child too, with the mentally defective child. There is a life to be lived through that child and with that child, and the parent should not be deprived of that opportunity. Now, he will have to be helped. She will have to be helped, because oftentimes the women find it harder than the men, to realize that that is an experience of parenthood and motherhood. Whatever the child is, he's your child, and the parenthood can express itself perhaps even more tenderly and more profoundly than through the normal child. But I believe there is a psychological mistake for doctors to tell parents, put your baby away as fast as you can. I don't think that any doctor or anybody ought to say to a parent, put your child right away into an institution, or even when, even say keep him for five years and do it, or keep him at least ten and do it. You have to do it, if it's to be done at all, and in many cases it need never be done and should never be done if proper help can be given to the parents, at the time when it is right for the child. Now, there do come times when it is right for the child, and when the child has to be thought of first, and that's part of parenthood. But I think that practical reasons, as well as psychological, argue against putting children easily and quickly into institutions from the parent's point of view. It is impossible to furnish enough institutions, even if institutional life was the best for the child, which it not always is. Seldom is, perhaps. An ideal few good places, perhaps, but in many cases, no. But even if it were possible, it's not practical. There are not enough institutions. We have very few good state institutions. We have some excellent ones. But by and large, they're not good enough. We have very few good private institutions. Most of them are far beyond the purse of the average person. Let's say they all are, nearly. Very few. They're fit to put children in, are good enough to put children in at a low cost. So that the average parent is left, with any way, unable to put his child, even to follow the doctor's advice. Nor do I believe that we will ever be able to have enough institutions, and not for a long time to come. I think that the professional people, as a parent, I hope and I believe, and I think this is right, that the professional people should bend themselves and all their energies to finding some way to help the parents keep the children at home. schools must provide for these children. Public schools. If not the same public schools, public schools. Community education should go on to help the community understand this family and accept this child. I believe in the mentally retarded children being kept with other children. I did it with my own, and in my case, I believe it worked well. I believe that one reason people accuse us, the older nations accuse us, of being an immature people is because we shield our children so much. We shield them from death. We shield them from hardship. We shield them from hard work. We shield them from all the things that other children of other nations see and early and learn how to accept so that when they come into their teens and youth, there's no shock to life. I think that normal children in the home should learn that some children are born not like them, and therefore, early, the parents should be helped to help their children to value this little child and to realize that through this child some lessons and something is to be learned. New lessons of love, new lessons of patience, new lessons of hope are to be learned through this little child. And I think it's a good thing to do. I'm not one of those who say, well, I'm afraid my children won't be invited to parties if we have this child at home, or we can't have, the friends won't come in if this child is at home. All right, there'll have to be some deprivations, but that's part of life, too. This child was born into this family, and therefore, she belongs to us. He belongs to us. If other people won't accept this child, well, we'll be deprived of their companionship, but let's find some bigger people than that and make friends with others. Or let's see what we can do to helping other people to see, share in our home life more so they can understand, too, and accept this child. This child is part of the community into which he was born, just as much as he's part of the home into which he was born. Now, the parents aren't going to be able to do that by themselves. It takes a very independent kind of person to work through all that for himself. And most of us can't do it. So that's where, two things, that's where we need the professionals' help. We need psychologists to help us. We need psychiatrists to help us. We need a new understanding on the part of doctors who mustn't just think of this in physical and medical terms. We need help, too, from each other. And that's why I welcome so much the forming of parents' organizations all over this country. So by coming together and sharing each other's lives and children and helping our children to become friends with each other, we provide something. And we enormously help and encourage ourselves. Practically, as I say, it's impossible, I believe, for even if institutionalism was good for these children, we need them in our society. You've often been told that there are many kinds of work that children can perform who grow up but whose minds don't grow up. That's true. But we need their humanizing effect. Before I speak of that, I want to remind you of just one thing, and that is the enormous cost to you as taxpayers and us all of institutionalizing children. I was told just so now that the cost is a thousand dollars a year for every state child. Well, that, in that particular state, and I suppose it doesn't vary much in others. Of course, the most expensive form of institutionalization is our military. Every soldier today costs the taxpayer ten thousand dollars per year. Every soldier. Now, that's one day. If that goes on, that's a crushing and enormous burden. It will successfully preclude much other institutionalization if it goes on. Therefore, we have to devise other ways, practically, for caring for these children and teaching and developing these children as far as they can in the community. I believe it can and should be done through the home. The institutions being the leaders in the community, sending out their social workers and their teachers and their psychologists, making it possible for parents to go to those institutions and saying, teach me how to take care of my child at home. That's just as much the business of the state institution as it is to harbor children under one roof and feed them and teach them there. And that, I believe, is the proper solution in our democratic society. We can't go back to the old agricultural family pattern, but we can move forward into the democratic, industrial, modern civilization pattern, where the cooperation of community and professional and state in combination makes it possible for all children and all people, short of our insanity, and our children are not insane, as we know, unless they become psychotic as other people may. That makes it possible within that democratic pattern to remain as we are, individualism and not moving forward to that, for me at least, dreaded state welfare pattern. Now, I want to say just one or two more things. One is that asserting my faith in the value of these children to family and community. I want to say that by all means, we parents ask of the professional people that you encourage and indeed insist that we continue to hope. I'm a great believer in hope because I believe that any other attitude than hope is mere folly. we must hope that someday these problems will be solved. We must work toward that end. Every parent knows or should know and must learn that he has to maintain two attitudes or two periods, let's say, of hope. Every one of us, when we discover that the child is never to be normal, cannot give up hope for that particular child. We go through a period of almost, what shall I say, insistent, stubborn, rebellious hope. We will not give up hope for this particular child. Something can be found. Something must be found. This cannot happen to us. And then inevitably, from that intensely personal period of hope, we go into despair or we must hope for something else. Now, I hope among the psychologists here and the psychiatrists that you will recognize the value, the curative value of hope in the wounded individual. And this applies particularly to the parent who, of course, the child doesn't know. But as he is compelled to give up hope for his child, as most of us have had to do, because science has not progressed far enough to be very useful to the children now. Children, our hope in our children must be for training and education as far as they can be carried, but probably not for cure. As we give up that individual hope, it is essential for our well-being as individuals as well as for ourselves as parents that we be given some other hope. hope, and that other hope ought merely to be an enlargement of the hope for our own children. We've got to be helped to hope that someday, and that work has to begin now, these things won't be true for other parents, that at least some children can be born normal who today are doomed to be subnormal for physical reasons, pre-natal or post-natal. Now, when you teach a parent to enlarge his hope beyond his own child and to see his child as one in the world, you've done something curative for that parent. Cut that child away, tell the parent to forget, to think about other things, to go into his other occupations, don't use this, you've lost something. The parent has to live through that experience, and he has to be able to translate his hope into larger terms, and that hope is a valuable energy. It must not be stopped off or wasted. The professional group has to have the help of the parent in tackling this problem. Enormous sums are needed for research. Enormous sums are needed for present teachers, training them, and for teaching and training the children that we already have and caring for them. and no parent is satisfied with custodial care or ought not to be. Therefore, you need, those of you who are professional people, the energy of the parent to help you to raise these sums of money, to suggest these lines of action, to stand behind you in all you do. And you mustn't destroy the hope in the parent because then he won't help you. He'll give up. He gives up everything. So hope must be preserved and should be preserved scientifically. It is the only reasonable thing. Or had we given up hope of curing TB one day? Did we today give up hope of curing cancer or any of these terrible things? Where would we be? We must continue the reasonable attitude of hope. And you can bear your own loss better, let me tell you as a parent, if you can keep alive this hope for the larger future. Now, in closing, I want to bring just one point to you. And that is the importance of these children to our civilization. You know, and I want to impress this on every one of you, as it has been deeply impressed on me in my lifetime, the test of every civilization is its treatment of its weak members, of its weakest people. One reason I'm afraid of the doctor when he tells the parent, put the child into an institution and forget, is because that is the first step toward the sort of thing that happened in Nazi Germany. It's not such a far step from putting the child into an institution in forgetting it, to the next step, which is, this is a useless individual and he had better be just put to sleep permanently. There's not a big step there. You tell the parent to forget the child, evade the responsibility, go on living as you were, this child will never be anything but a burden, cast it aside. But we can't, we mustn't, for our own sakes, cast aside our burdens. We must bear them or we'll be the losers. We cannot take the risk, the loss in humanity and humane attitudes and the faith and the belief in mercy that is required to take away these children from life, isolate them, because that isolation is too near death. And if you will remember, in Nazi Germany, it was not the Jews who were put to death first. It was not even the political opponents of Hitler who were put to death first. It was the feeble-minded, it was the insane, it was the old people. I was talking, and that led to the rest of it. That got the people hardened so that they got used to death of getting rid of people that they thought were useless and then their opponents and then people they were jealous of or people they didn't like. The thing just began. We've got to preserve above all else in our civilization those attitudes of the value of human life, even though reason itself tells us that that life is of little use. There are uses to helpless lives beyond anything that science can compute. And that we must keep in our memories constantly, in our subconscious, in our conscious minds. Now, the value then of these children is immense. Those civilizations which exposed their weak in ancient times are born. But those civilizations which through their great family systems in Asia have kept alive. Surely, catastrophe struck the whole family as it's striking India today and thousands and millions die of famine. But they die together. They all are hungry. They share it. But when we isolate one individual and say, you're no good and forget that one, we begin a dangerous duck. And those civilizations which have cared for their weak the best they could are those which have continued to live on century after century, thousands of years after thousands of years. And those who did not do that, who exposed their weak, passed quickly out of history because they started something going that they couldn't stop. Something infinitely dangerous and especially dangerous in this day. that is what I wanted to tell you. If it has any value, it's only been because I've learned it by experience as a parent of a retarded child. No parent wishes his child to be retarded for the lessons that he may learn. But when he has accepted the inevitable, then the next process is to begin to grow through the inevitable. and for that, parents need very much help. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
