Today we have a very unique ceremony in front of City Hall. The Honorable Vincent Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, has just taken his place on the stand. And the huge crowds have already gathered here in City Hall Park, because the Freedom Bell is being received here in City Hall Park today, before it starts on its tour of the cities of the United States. As you know, AFTRS has made the American tour. It will go to Berlin, and at the very edge of the Iron Curtain, it will be placed there in full form for October 24th, the anniversary of the United Nations. And then it will ring out there in Berlin and bring the message of freedom, because the radio, national and international, will carry the field of the Freedom Bell ringing there in Berlin on October 24th. In the meantime, to alert the American population, and to let them know that freedom is everybody's job, and that we must work to maintain the freedoms we have fought so hard to gain, that we must never let them go back one iota, a fraction of an inch even, into the past oblivion of autocracy of any kind. For that reason, this inspiring sight here, the Bell itself, mounted on this truck, which Mr. William J. Bigley and his firm will transfer, or transport all over the United States in the tour which the Bell is making, has done a magnificent job of mounting it here on this truck. The truck is right here now in City Hall Plaza, and we're waiting now for the civilities, the handshaking, and the greetings to conclude. And then William J. Sauter, Deputy Commissioner of Commerce, will act as chairman and introduce the regular order of program. The anthem. Mr. William J. Sauter. We will now have the national anthem. See you soon. You're sorry. Mr. William J. Sauter, Deputy Commissioner of Commerce, who Augustine Phil Sauter? Muslims love calling? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Commissioner Sorter. Commissioner Sorter. We are going to have in our City Hall Plaza here today the dedication, the consecration of the bell which later will hang in Berlin and ring out the notes of freedom to all the world so that all the world will know what America stands for. We are gathered here on the auspices of the Crusade for Freedom of the National Committee for a Free Europe. And it's my distinct honor at this time to present to you Mr. Frederick Osborne, who is the chairman of the New York chapter of the Crusade. My pleasure to present to you General Osborne. Mayor and Pelletieri and friends, you will soon hear the voice of the Freedom Bell. Around the base of this bell are the words that this world under God shall have a new birth of freedom. The bell was cast in England. It will go to every great city in this country on a tour which is commencing at 11 o'clock tonight. It will then be taken by ship to Western Germany where its voice will be heard over the radio, voice of freedom. There it will carry to the enslaved peoples of Central Europe the message that the American people are behind them in their determination that freedom will be maintained and will once again prevail. In order to make clear that determination, there will be started early in October a great campaign in the city of New York and in all the cities and all the country of the United States in which people may enroll by signing the Declaration of Freedom, dedicating themselves anew to freedom under the law and contribute to this bell and to the radio program which it sponsors. That program, that crusade, that campaign will be announced over the radio and in the newspapers and I know that every one of us will want to take part. Before I present to you our principal speaker of the day, I want to introduce to you here in the plaza and also to our audience on the air that distinguished soldier statesman who is the chairman of the crusade committee, General Lucius D. Clay, General Clay. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I learned in four years in Europe that there was needed to supplement the voice of America, the voices of free peoples, back to their own countries which they had been forced to leave because they had been forced to leave. The crusade for freedom. The crusade for freedom has as its program, with the support of the American people, making available to the leaders of the countries behind the satellite countries who have sacrificed all for freedom the opportunity now to carry their voices back to their native lands and to embark the focus on the crusade which will return freedom to those countries and with freedom peace to the world. Thank you very much. Honored guests, we are going to present to you now our fighting mayor making his first appearance as mayor in City Hall Plaza. Soldier, humanitarian, statesman, friend of all of us here in the city, it's a great honor to welcome him for the first time to this platform, this crusade for freedom to this crusade of freedom, the honorable Vincent Impelletari, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Chairman, Reverend Clergy, General Osborne, General Clay, fellow citizens of the City of New York, General Osborne, General Clay, fellow citizens of the City of New York, this bell speaks to the free peoples of the world. It is fitting that its voice first be heard in New York City. Here for over 300 years have come the oppressed and the persecuted of all lands. Here they have founded their great city. Here they have built a new and secure freedom for themselves and their families. Our harbor has come to be a gateway to freedom which extends throughout the United States of America and all of this continent and to the seas beyond. As the freedom bell travels through our country, its voice will help inspire our people to a new determination that freedom will be reborn in unhappy lands where it has died. In six weeks time this bell will be in Western Germany. There its voice will remind the free peoples of Western Europe of the liberty that is our most precious heritage. Their resolve, like ours, will be renewed. From Berlin Radio, Free Europe will bring the voice of the bell to the Soviet satellite countries. Those unhappy people, enslaved by a new and terrible tyranny, will then find a new hope and a new confidence that in God's good time they will throw off their shackles and be free once more. This bell is so great a thing, its voice so powerful, its tone so penetrating, that even the thick walls of the Kremlin will not suffice to keep it from the ears of those sinister and evil conspirators who by cunning, false promises and a threat of force, now rule no small portion of the world and seek to extend their grip to all. In their strange fanaticism, they deny God, they deny moral law, they claim all knowledge and all wisdom. To these evil ones, the bell will tell, the bell will tell, the bell will tell, the bell will tell, the end of slavery, it will tell the end of slavery, it will tell the victory of freedom. The trial by false accusation, the concentration camp, death itself cannot still its voice. The bell tolls. It calls to the deepest and finest instincts in us all. Free men will gird themselves for the struggle. And the voice of this bell will be the voice of victory. I have accepted the New York City chairmanship of the Crusade for Freedom which has created this bell. As your mayor, I urge you to join this movement which will supplement the voice of America in bringing the new views and sentiments of freedom to the oppressed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, truly inspirational for your words. And truly inspirational will be the services, the religious exercises now to follow. It's my honor to present the most reverend William R. Arnold, Catholic military delegate of the Armed Services, former chief of Chaplain of Boston Department of the Constitution, Dr. General Arnold. It is a privilege and a great honor to participate in this significant ceremony and to express some of the thoughts and feelings of many thousands of our citizens as they reverently welcome into our midst this inspiring symbol of human freedom. In a world threatened with false philosophies and tyrannical governments, this bell shall announce a new and lasting Declaration of Independence. With resonant voice, it will spell out in musical terms our firm belief in God as the creator and supreme ruler of the universe and our equally firm belief in the spiritual nature and destiny of man. With the speed and power of light, its spiritual overtones will carry around the world the immortal message that all men are endowed by their creator with unalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Like a voice in a vast wilderness of spiritual evils, it will also remind us that we shall lose all the blessings of truth and justice, peace and happiness unless we, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine providence, mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. May the wisdom and the power, the mercy and the goodness of Almighty God come to our aid in making and keeping this pledge. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, honored guests, it's now my honor to present to you Rabbi Morris Kurtzner, President of the Jewish Chaplains Association of the Armed Forces and the Director of the New York Board of Rabbis, Dr. Kurtzner. This magnificent bell is a dramatic fulfillment, a symbol of a fulfillment of a biblical promise. The people who walk in darkness shall yet see a great light, the light of truth and righteousness, the light of freedom and justice. Friends, what better proof is there of the divine spark in humanity than in this instance when noble impulse moves men who are themselves free to seek freedom for all who dwell in the shackles of bondage. For the voice of liberty is truly the voice of God. We pray with the psalmist that there shall yet come a day when it can be said of all the persecuted and oppressed peoples of the earth that they who sow in tears shall yet reap in joy. Amen. Mr. Mayor, honored guests, I now have the honor of presenting to you Dr. Harold C. DeWitt, pastor of the West Park Presbyterian Church, representing the Protestant Council of the City of New York, Dr. DeWitt. Dr. Harold C. DeWitt. Will you all join with me in a prayer? O God, before whose face the empires rise and pass away, bestow thy blessing, we beseech thee, on this bell, and use it for thy glory. May it toll the death knell of tyranny and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants there are. Let it ring out the old and ring in the new. Ring out the false, ring in the true. Ring out the thousand wars of old, ring in the thousand years of peace. May it waken the slumbering spirit of mankind to the lateness of this hour. May it rouse us from our comfortableness and establish our hearts in this day of spiritual battle. May it strengthen our resolve as we go forth into the crusade for truth, that we fight not in enmity against men, but against the powers of darkness enslaving the souls of men. O God, give us the courage to present the truth that alone can make men free. Lay thy hand upon us now and dedicate us, that we may be thy servants, to set at liberty them that are oppressed. And ere we fall on death, may a loftier race than ere the world hath known arise, with flame of freedom in their souls, and light of knowledge in their eyes. Through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Thus we come to the end of our ceremonies here on the platform. Mayor Impelletary, General Clay, General Osborne, gentlemen, reverend, and we will proceed to the bell, where the mayor will toll the first tone of G, which will ring round the world, the voice of freedom. Now Mayor Impelletary leaves the stand with the distinguished guest, General Clay, General Osborne, and all the others who have come out here today to reassert in this symbol of freedom, the bell of freedom, which is being dedicated here in the most hallowed spot in the world, City Hall Plaza. I say that reverently because the Declaration of Independence was read before the American troops in the revolutionary days in the presence of George Washington, right from this very spot where the bell now reposes. And that Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States is the greatest human document that was ever created. Inspired by God and God's idea of man's inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, that reiteration takes place again in the late, in the liberty and freedom bell, which will make its trip around the United States before it makes its final trip to Berlin to be rung there October the 24th. And now the mayor is right near the bell. In a few minutes, City Hall Plaza will hear the first toll of this great bell, and then on the 24th it will ring nationally and internationally from a radio pickup in Berlin at the very edge of the Iron Curtain in the hope that all our brothers will come together and join one big family. That's what we want, that's what we all hope for. Liberty is more or less an act to go places and do things. Freedom is the opportunity to think and to act and to assert even liberty itself, the freedom to do so. And now the mayor is getting ready, but of course the photographers are having their innings and that's essential because those who are not in City Hall Plaza today will get a glimpse of this magnificent huge bell cast in England, mounted on this truck, which is in the custody of Mr. William J. Bigley and his firm, and it'll tour the various cities of the United States before it makes its ocean journey to Berlin. The truck itself is one of those magnificent trailers, heavy tires, heavy iron construction, the bell itself is beautifully mounted in the cradle that will carry it when it's mounted there in Berlin, and what is more appropriate than that a bell ring out the true peal of freedom? The sight of the village steeple is one of the greatest inspirations to patriotism, and so the bell ringing in the spiritual aspects of our political rights and freedoms, well, it's just, there's the bell. The bell is the bell in City Hall Plaza, this historic spot where so much is great is acknowledged and inspired. Now everybody's having a little chance to ring the bell since Merrim Pelletari inaugurated the first sound of the freedom bell. The radio engineer says the sound of the bell is drowning me out, the announcements, that isn't important. Let's hope it drowns out every threat against freedom and liberty everywhere in the world, and from that inspired spot on the edge of the Iron Curtain there in West Berlin, October the 24th, it will peel forth to all the benighted people of the world and bring that ray of hope, a spiritual touch to the political scene that it has long lacked, and will again reassert as the bells and the steeples of the various churches of the universe that has so indicated that an emergency or a call to prayer existed. And we all pray for the unity of all in each other. It's very important that you may know how to join this crusade for freedom, and I've been asked to read this to you. The crusade committee has been formed throughout the nation with representatives in all regions, states, and cities. The crusade started Labor Day, and the first feature of the crusade was General Eisenhower's radio speech, in which he said all Americans will have the opportunity to sign the Declaration of Freedom scrolls. Now these will be distributed, and they read in part, and here are some of the creeds. I believe in the sacredness and the dignity of the individual. I believe that all men derive the right to freedom equally from God. I pledge to resist aggression and tyranny wherever they may appear on the earth. All of these are freedom scrolls, when signed and completed, will be sent to General Clay here in New York City, and flown to Berlin for the bell dedication ceremonies there on UN Anniversary Day, October the 24th. There they will be enshrined in the foundation of the bell tower, which will house the freedom bell as the permanent testimony of the American people's dedication to the cause of world freedom and peace. At the time of signature, small contributions will be accepted to pay for the freedom bell, and to expend the facilities of Radio Free Europe, which now extend, I should have said. It says expend, but it means extend the facilities of Radio Free Europe. RFE, Radio Free Europe. That's the group that are planning to bring this message of freedom to everyone. It now consists of but one transmitter. It is hoped, however, that five to eight high-powered stations may be constructed through your contributions in order to intensify American efforts to reach the people behind the Iron Curtain. The Crusade for Freedom has been endorsed by the highest American officials. President Truman has made his statement when he says, The Crusade, the nationwide Crusade for Freedom, meets with my heartiest approval. I hope that all Americans will join with you in dedicating themselves to this critical struggle for men's minds. Every outstanding citizen here in New York City has already indicated his interest in and support of the Crusade for Freedom. And now, as we're about to leave you, maybe once again recapture the scene for you, because here on this huge trailer truck, the bell is mounted. The bell from here looks to be about eight feet high. It's a very large bell. It has a diameter of about the same height. It's very heavy bronze, as you would clearly realize from the deep tone that was heard when the Mayor Impeletere sounded that tone here in City Hall Plaza. Mr. William J. Bigley and his crew of men from his firm, who are in the transportation business, they have specially adapted this beautifully and brightly painted truck to carry the bell across these United States for its visit to the principal cities. And then, of course, it comes back for shipment to Berlin. And again, may we say, on October the 24th, the anniversary of United Nations formation, well, that bell will be picked up there in a radio broadcast and will appeal to all the world. Let us hope, since as we said before, the site of the village steeple is the strongest throb to patriotism. In the days before we had such tall buildings, when we came into the little towns, the first thing we saw was the church steeple. And in that case, the bell tolling in that steeple indicated the joy and the sorrow of the community, joyfully for the weddings and feast days and tolling for those who pass on who had made their contribution to life. And it's quite symbolic and proper that a bell should carry this message of freedom around the world. So listen to radio announcements for the program which will emanate from Berlin and no doubt from time to time across the United States, there will be radio pickups of this tour of the freedom bell. Well, that's about all we can give you now. It looks as though the crowd over there by the truck are breaking up. I'm quite far away from the truck. I'm just using my eyes as reporters and telling you what is visible here in City Hall Plaza. I don't imagine anyone will be coming back to the stand for any further discussions. So may we say now that with the pealing of that bell, as it was rung by Mayor Impeletari, we rededicate ourselves spiritually as well as materially, physically and every other way to the cause of freedom. And let us hope. Let freedom ring. That is all from City Hall Plaza. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. We Rat sous les infilen en出ole of the J focus ruins. Let's install a different collection under 50 cent persalt register for 5c EVs. We are at the retaining próprio collos and very good places of white서 on the street Needs to Be steer via better. See if we can do this However, ourению has según the balancingrios and pretty much the one best to display in the spotlight, Но the students especially have to turn up with podcasts. So that even though we unquote, we can store them all to come in for 100 miles off the seats, the teammates opposed to a new intersection. So we get to hear from the excel of members. What we Rach unfolding is, I still do not think about laughs so far back the stops. I am a family visit here, and we have a energyizione to keep the analogy,