New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, by paddle, portage, and sail, on New York, Queen of Commerce. Here flows the river, the great river of the mountains. Here is the river that Henry Hudson left with disappointment when he found that it did not give a water route to the treasures of Asia. But, in another way, this majestic channel led to natural riches far greater than any ever dreamed of before. Others learned to evaluate it. Here at New York was not the mouth of one river, but the mouth of countless rivers, streams, and lakes to be reached by paddle, portage, and sail. And here began the great inland expansion and trade on the rivers of the east. Here was America's first gateway to a fabulous commercial empire. Well, Tom McCullum, you certainly know the way of the river. It flows downward towards us. Sure enough. Oh, well, where are those dreaded harvest barges and sloops? We need apples and honey and more corn and wheat. We're missing trade day by day. Ask those lazy captains. There's more worries me than that, Daniel Honan. And more, too, than your plagued fly market. Well, business is business. There seems no sense to such delay. This is 1695. We have a population of 5,000 to feed now. Well, I'm thinking of Johnny Lamar, Ben Fitkin, Dawkins Leister, and the rest, way up there in the Euron country. Well, aren't they on the governor's errand? Yes. Mike Cullen, too, is a party up in the Mohawk and Seneca country. I'd be with him except for this hole in my leg. Yeah, that's right. Weren't they supposed to get information of the French to the north so as William Pinhorn and Nick Bayard can report to Governor Fletcher? I understand those two are getting very impatient. That will be a hardship on them two stoops. It is making that report. I didn't know there were two routes to be explored. Yeah, they split at Fort Orange. Johnny was heading straight up for Champagne's Lake and Mike was trying it west along the Mohawk. Well, they ought to be along this month. Yeah, Danny. But there's things up there such as you and young Baird and the Pinhorn never even heard of. Danger's not for city dwellers. Ah, poor Ben, Johnny, and Orkin. I don't envy them trudging through the forest. I wonder how they're faring. Look back, Ben. See those men? Can you make them out, Johnny? What are they? Hurons and their landing. They know we're on the portage. How many are there? Two canoes and eight painted devils. Well, we can take care of them. We don't run into another war party. Ben, take Big Joe and Delaware's ahead with the canoes. Everyone tighten up your pack bands and get going. Orky and me will do a little receptioning. Yeah, well, keep our guns straight on them while you move ahead. Come on, men. Let's move. Keep moving, men. Come on, let's go, men. Ah, there's Orky shooting at the bloody Hurons. He'll take care of them. Come on, Johnny, over here. They ain't so anxious now, but better keep going until we get beyond those rocks. Come on, Orky, hurry up. I'll bet those Frenchies were surprised to see us. Be careful with those canoes, and we'll be back in the Hudson in two more days, God willing. Yeah, we'll strike the river just below the falls and the glens. Oh, it's good to be float again. No Hurons here. It doesn't seem possible that just a few years ago the Dutch in Fort Orange never even heard of those large lakes. Well, I'm going back into that country one of these days. There's plenty of new trading to be done. The Frenchies ain't even touched it yet. Well, as long as the Hurons are with the French and the Iroquois are against them, the English in New York aren't going to bother much, and they're not going to bother us either. You suppose Mike Cullen got back safe from the Mohawk? Well, we're late, but he's had some tough going too, I'll wager. Yeah, well, he's lucky and tough. And we'll know soon. Look, the river widens. The Mohawk. See the fort on the hill. And there's the flag with the orange on top. Come on, men. Row for the war. Come on, men. Row. Row, men. Well, it's good to finally be here with you, Mike Cullen. And it's good to see you, Ben, and all of you men. So you saw the Frenchies with the Hurons, eh? Colonel Fletcher will sure be interested in that. How faired you, Mike? Yeah, what of the nations? Well, the Mohawk was easy. We seemed to hold the fortune as we went. We never saw such villages as those of the Iroquois. We saw a dozen of them. They treated us with reserve, but, well, they paid no attention to our Delaware Indians. How far did you get on the Mohawk? Oh, perhaps 80 miles. We had Donita, Mohawk, and Genesee guides. We learned to respect them, too. Did you see art of the south or the Delaware River? No, but on the Overland Trail, we passed into the Ouiga River, according to our guides. Did you find the walled river of the three falls the old Delaware told us about? Yes, the Genesee River. We saw the council houses of the Senecas there, too. Now, what about the Inland Sea? Well, we followed the river, and the Genesees took us to a freshwater lake as big as a small ocean. They told us of others to the east and northwest as bigger, bigger, but I think they were just trying to please us. Then you saw a lake like that. Yes, we even paddled along the shore for a while until we came to a landing. Then our guides took us over a porty trail that followed a gigantic river. We went along it, and the roar of the waters grew louder and louder. Suddenly, there before us was the most awesome sight as ever my eyes will see. The entire river dropped down a huge cliff in a gigantic waterfall. Spray, sparkling with rainbows, rose as high as bird fly. It was a thing of beauty. A terror, too. Evil spirits seemed to follow us from that time on. What do you mean by that? Well, our luck changed. Word came by Runner that the French had heard of us, and along with the Hurons and Wyandlets, they were out looking for us. Yes, Fletcher will be surprised to know how far and strong the French hold all along the north. Did you return the same way? No, we hit for the Cayugas Lake. It was there the old Delaware died, apparently of old age. Oh, but worse. Van Campen took ill. Oh, good man. Well, what happened to him? Yeah, we did all we could for him, but he died in a canoe of a fever before we reached the foot of the lake. Oh, that was a bad loss. He was a good fighter. Yes, we came to need him. What route did you take then? The Cayugas turned back, and then we struck straight south. The country was dry and game scarce, but, well, we finally came again to the Mohawk, and we thought ourselves safe and homeward bound at last. How many of you were left? Only seven and two canoes. On the third morning, we turned in close to shore to avoid a stretch of rough water and ran plumbly into an Indian war party. They showered us with arrows before we even had a chance to fire at them. What Indians were these? I didn't know them. Wolftail said they were Shawnees before he died. We lost another paddler also, and Henry Jenkins was hit, but he wasn't hurt badly. Mike, you're a brave man. We're proud to be your friend. Enough of that. I'm proud to be yours, too. Well, we'd better get some sleep if we're to sail with Captain Paxton on the slope dove, which drops down the river in the morning. Good night, now. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. This is a trim sloop you have here, Captain. Thank you, Mr. Lamar. It's good to have you men aboard. Your packs are light, but never have I seen such black and silver foxes or such mink. Just some souvenirs. We're not traitors. I know. You'll find Masters Bayard and Pinhorn of the governor's staff anxiously awaiting your return. Old Tom McCullum is losing sleep over you. I wish we'd had him with us. And Danny Honan, the market master, is howling for apples and wheat, and so by your leave, we'll make a few stops as we go. I sure hope those river rats come out of Tappan's Cove this time. Look at the guns you men have. What do you mean, Captain? Well, these river thieves and petty pirates are getting real bold. They almost caught us in a calm last trip. Two months ago, they looted and burned the eagle to the water's edge. Nobody has found the crew yet. Well, this dove of yours has horns now. Let them come. Well, Captain, with luck and a good wind, when shall we reach New York? With three nights hence, we have quite a way to go. Oh, it's good to see New York again. Captain, what strange lights are over the city? Faith, I know not. Through the glass, I see flames and illuminations in many places. I hear music. And now, see the people on the strand? We'll close hauler now and come up for a landing. It's the dove. Hello. What goes on there? The king. Tis November 3rd, the king's birthday. Well, I've brought some fine gifts. Fitkin, Leister, and Cullin are here, alive and safe. And they brought knowledge of the French for the governor. And I've other gifts, too. A hold full of Dutch apples and Indian corn for the market merchant, Danny Honan. And a vacuuming hand to all thieving pirates. Oh, yes. God bless, good King William III. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York, Queen of Comers. Today, by Paddle, Portage, and Sale. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alan Feinstein as Ben Fitkin, Bill Myers as Mike Cullen, Jimmy Randolph as John Lamar, and Alfred Israel as Tom McCollum. Music and sound were by Marvin Maskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead, and engineering technician was Mort Costin. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche. Music and sound The next voice you will hear is that of Mr. Percival Robert Moses, president of the Downtown Manhattan Association, now merged with the City Hall Park Association and the Greater New York Civic Center Association, originally founded by Mr. Moses. And now, here is Mr. Moses. When on shipboard in the waters of New York Bay and the Hudson, or arriving by plane from the air above, as the awed visitor views our startling city skyline and her crowded waterfronts, it is difficult for him to visualize that back 250 years ago, the European traders and trappers of those days were creating the beginnings of what is now New York City Queen of Commerce. The story you have just heard is fixed in that period. At that time, no back roads existed in this greater New York area or elsewhere in North America. These beginnings of trade were accomplished by pioneers using canoe and paddle, overland on Indian trails, and by portage between lakes and streams, and by the use of small sailing sloops on the rivers, and coastwise along dense forest-shaded shores. As president of the Downtown Manhattan Association, it gives me much pleasure to appear on this radio program today in the studios of our city station, WNYC and WNYC-FM. This is the third year our association has sponsored a series of historic, educational broadcasts over this station. The program being rebroadcast over the Board of Education Station WNYE-FM into our city's schools. This is the fourth program in the current series, which will continue weekly at the same time over WNYC, every Thursday into May of next year. We hope you'll continue to listen each week and learn of the amazing growth of our great city over the three centuries past to reach the pinnacle place today as the greatest city in the world and queen of commerce. Thank you, Mr. Moses. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York and the New York Journal-American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education Station WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City the New York City and the U.S. MARY Laeminist the U.S. the U.S. the P.J. The End The End