New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, colonial Atlantic trade on New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. It's hard to imagine New York in any other way than that of the leading American port of foreign trade. Yet, with all its natural geographical advantages, New York did not take and hold such leadership until the beginning of the Revolutionary War. During much of the English colonial period, New York ran a poor fourth in the commercial activities of colonial ports. England's closer economic ties were with Boston and Philadelphia. England looked to Virginia for tobacco, to Charleston for rice and indigo, to the West Indies for sugar, molasses and rum. Furthermore, the English navigation and trading laws, taxes and other restrictions leveled against the northern colonies greatly retarded the growth of New York. But there never was a time that the well-being of New Yorkers did not depend upon a busy waterfront. While England fought wars with Spain, Holland and France, New York never ceased trying to battle down the barriers to trade. With evasion, adventure and enterprise, her ships ranged far and wide to establish commerce. England's wars encouraged privateering and even piracy. A flood of Spanish pieces of ape, Flemish ducatoons or Portuguese crusados in the city meant that privateers or even freebooters had landed a profitable cargo. Many a New York merchant suffered financial ruination at the hands of pirates and enemy privateers. During the entire period of British rule, New York was engaged in a freebooting war for the freedom of the seas and the freedom of trade. Stirring and colorful events often took place in that war, just as occurred one bright September day in the year 1705. What's all the shouting about? Is the town afire? Amos Dixon, do you come with news? Peter, it's the French privateer off Sandy Hook. What of it? She's been around for days. Yes, but you know... Didn't Captain Claver, the Dutch privateer, go after her? Word comes that the two ships exchanged shots, but the Dutchman lost all his topsail rigging. He's limping back into the outer bay. And the Frenchie? I don't know. Maybe she's heading for Boston. She was last seen at sea tacking about off Long Island. Well? Well, the lookouts just reported a strange fleet of ten more large ships coming into Sandy Hook Bay. What? Yes, the sheriff and the watchman are rounding up emergency crews to go to sea. In what? The governor has commandeered a ship, a brigantine, and two sloops. Where's Captain Clark in his man-of-war jersey? He's at sea somewhere, as luck would have it. What's that? The governor has ordered out the militia. Where are the ships? There at the old slip. Captain Penistone commands the sloop Hawk. You know, she's the fastest thing in these waters. Well, she's for us. What are we waiting for? Let's go. Come on, we can't lose any time. Come on. Attention, gentlemen. His Excellency the Governor, Lord Cornbury. Gentlemen, I've never seen such audacity. That Frenchman intercepted our ship, destroyed it, and made off with my dispatches from London, all within sight of the harbour, and not a warship of Her Majesty in sight. They tell me after the fight with Claver, the French ship sailed north. Sheriff Wilson, did the post-writer get off to warn Governor Dudley of Boston, according to my instructions? Yes, sir. He was on his way before sunrise yesterday. Good. Well, there's nothing to do but to get ready to fight it out. I want the fort and each battery manned around the clock until further orders. Sheriff, notify all captains of the impressed ships that they will be under the command of the mayor, Colonel Pertree. Yes, sir. I'll do that. Colonel Pertree, while your fleet is small, our best defence will lie in bold action. Your Lordship, I heartily agree. You'll have 350 well-armed men. Carts are carrying powder, shot, and small arms to the old slip this very moment for loading on your ships. I've ordered ten days' food. Most of the men are good seamen. You'll have more good gunners than guns. Do your best. And bring back my dispatches taken by that French privateer. And that French captain's ears, too, if you can. Our packets to the West Indies and the Carolinas haven't been able to move in weeks. Business is at a standstill. All right, men. Go to it. Good luck. Thank you, sir. God and good Queen Anne be with you. Thank you. And Mayor Pertree and his small flotilla set sail two hours before dawn on the next morning. Volunteers Peter Van Dyke and Amos Dixon were at their stations on the sloop Hawk, Peter as master's mate and Amos as gunner. A light wind carried them up into long range of the first of the strange ships anchored across the bay. To everyone's surprise and relief, it was soon ascertained that these ten large ships, heavily laden with wines, olive oil, brandy, dry goods, and other valuable produce, were all prizes of war, captured by the daring captain Dirk Claver, the Dutch privateer, who hadn't had time to report them. Mayor Pertree dispatched a fast longboat back to the city to inform the governor and ordered the ten ships to report to the customs officers in the city. He then gave orders to continue the pursuit of the French privateer. Four days later, after venturing east, then turning north, the swift sailing Hawk was far in the lead of the others. All hands on the trim little sloop suddenly tensed with excitement to the cry of the lookout, Sail, ho! Sure enough, there off the port beam was the sail of a French barquentine and beyond, the rig of a small Spanish ship. The Hawk forged ahead like a bird on the wing and in a matter of hours was running up close to gun range of the French ship. Captain Penniston, we're all cleared for action. All hands are at their post, sir. Thank you, Mr. Van Dyke. The Spanish ship must be a prize. Hmm. Make out 14 or 16 guns on the French ship. Yeah, against our rate. Well, we've got to try to slow her down and take our chances. That Frenchman can sail. I don't think the others can overhaul us in this wind. Who's on the bow gun? No, Amos Dixon. He was once a gunner on the man-of-war of Valiant. Dixon! Aye, sir! Do you think you can fire your gun into the Frenchman's rigging? You give me 300 more yards and I'll guarantee it. Well, Mr. Dixon, I'll bring you up closer. Use the lightest bar shot you have. The Frenchman has dropped his ports. Look at those guns! He probably figures the same as we do. If he can tangle us up aloft, he knows he can outrun us. Well, we'll have to gamble on that new long-time gun of ours and on your friend Dixon. Yeah, we're getting mighty close. He carries double our metal. There he goes! Steady the wheel! Tell Dixon to fire when he's ready. The shot fell short, but not too much. Amos is firing. Amos, you did it! Captain, look at that ship now. Our topsail's gone and our main sheet split from head to foot. Mr. Van Dyke, fire broadside when we come about and we'll let good enough alone. She can't get away from us now if we can keep out of range. Ready? Fire! How are we? Have a boat to the cert above water. A lifeboat's carried away. Any casualties? All safe, sir. Sail ho! Off the starboard quarter! Here come the rest of the boys! Yay! Alleluia! Well, Amos, won't they be sore when they get here? Nothing like enjoying a front seat to a good show. Well, then, we've done a good day's work. Well, it was a lucky and brave victory. The French privateer hauled down her colors when the heavier ships came up, and the Spanish prize was easily caught. When the captive ships were taken into port, there was a great ceremony. Official thanks and rewards were granted to the gallant crews. The French privateer carried 800,000 pieces of aid and other treasure. The Spaniard carried foodstuffs, fine cloth, and more such valuable merchandise. So, New York, in her earlier, lustier days, could resolutely face grave threats one moment, and the next, enjoy the lavish rewards brought about by the courage and enterprise of her citizens. The spirit of her leaders and men has always kept her in the vanguard of progress. No wonder, by her own initiative and energy, New York became the queen of commerce more than 150 years ago, and has remained so ever since. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Today, Colonial Atlantic Trape. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alan Jay as Peter Van Dyke and Sheriff Wilson, Mark Gordon as the governor and the captain, and Alfred Israel as Amos Dixon. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. Engineering technician was Mort Costin. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunchie. The next voice you will hear is that of Mr. John A. Zellers, past president of the New York Board of Trade. Mr. Zellers. In the long history of civilization, the seaport has been the threshold of progress. The rise of the Port of New York to its present position of Queen of Commerce reflects such a heritage, enriched by the role it has played in the development of the nation and of world trade. Inland through our harbor have flowed the goods, the ideas, and the populace from alien worlds since colonial days. Outward ships have sailed to ever-widening horizons, and until following World War I, our city took the lead in foreign trade and tonnage. Compared with the centuries of history back of the growth of other leading ports over the years gone by, New York's rise has been accomplished during a phenomenally short period of approximately 150 years, keeping pace with the growth of our nation. You have just listened to a thrilling historical drama in this New York Queen of Commerce radio series, a story of dangers and trials which beset the seagoing trader here back in the early 1700s. Then our city ranked fourth as an Atlantic coastal port, with Philadelphia, Boston, and Charleston leading in that order. Not until our nation was established in 1789 and New York became its first capital city did this port capture first place in the United States trade, and that was at the turn of the 19th century. But it was not until the Erie Canal was dug and the railroads began to fan out toward the west that our city became firmly established as the top-ranking port of the Western Hemisphere, shortly following the turn of the present 20th century and World War I, the port of New York has passed all other cities throughout the world to become the Queen of Commerce. Thank you, Mr. Zellers. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, free broadcast in the city's classrooms. Be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City Board of Education, The New York City Board of Education, which has been in charge of a city's護 click on, keeping in charge of a city's Påbeck t số energy town, a luxury to zero within the city'sаешь. New York City, the buldling signal of買 jijols and reverse Berlin Qualcomm and reverse Berlin Hola! New York City, the New York City, leaving the last episode of New York City, pleading a dal results in part 3... ... Two states heures of 9 uberpoint of American Press Taycoons, to help us from rock games..." performances of earth will not break over the magnetic field. Make sure these fuse powers all upwards of a troxie play by original sports team to experience stories on the senses owned by their humanity now and the knowledge of the bestс RENDY George across the United Mosher ensures