Queen's College, youngest of New York City's municipal colleges, brings you the seventh in a series of eight broadcasts in celebration of the completion of the first four years of the college and its first commencement to be held June 14th of this year. This morning we present a discussion of taxation in 1941 by two members of the Department of Economics of Queen's College, Professor William Withers and Dr. Walter Laderer. Professor Withers is chairman both of the Department of Economics and the Division of Social Sciences. Among his books is the recently published Financing Economic Security. Dr. Laderer is an expert in business cycle theory and the economics of war. We are happy to present these gentlemen to you and Professor Withers will speak first. In previous programs you have heard about employment and prices in 1941. Today we shall discuss an equally vital topic, taxation in 1941. With increasing costs of national defense, it will probably be necessary to increase taxes substantially during 1941 and 1942. This fact will undoubtedly be unpleasant news to many of us who have recently turned in the federal and state income tax returns. We are fortunate to have with us today in the studio a man who has devoted a great deal of thought to the whole question of war and its effect upon the economic system. He conducts a unique seminar which we inaugurated this spring in the Department of Economics on the economics of war. He will attempt to tell you in a few words what sort of financial problem we are facing as a result of the war. Dr. Laderer, I am sure that we would all like to know how much the war is likely to cost us in taxes during this year and next year. The answer to this question depends to a large extent upon long-range economic policies. First, we may assume that the essential principles of a competitive and privately owned and managed economy are being preserved after the war. Under these conditions, one of the policies would be to secure general stabilization of economic activity at a point where total output is maximized with the prevailing capacities. This policy strives to avoid an inflation and a severe slump in the durable goods industry... ...that they will collapse violently at the end of the war if their demand sharply falls off. Furthermore, you contend that failure of people to devote a part of their current money income to defray the costs of defense during war prosperity tends to cause inflation. Raw materials will be in great demand in the defense industries and unless demand declines for consumers' goods, prices will increase. When raw materials advance in price, prices of all finished goods greatly increase. You believe that severe inflation or a destructive post-war depression might cause the collapse of our type of economic system. That is true. In addition to the money spent by the government for defense purposes, private industry is expanding its productive facilities at the rate of several hundred million dollars per month. Besides the demand for armament goods, we have to expect a considerable increase in the demand for consumers' goods... ...brought about by the higher payrolls and profits in the armament industry. To satisfy both the armament need and the increased consumer demand, large new investments would be necessary. However, if we wish to avoid a sharp decline of business... ...avoid a sharp decline of business... ...avoid a sharp decline of business... ...avoid armament boom... ...wherever possible, planned expansion should be avoided. That would mean that the increasing production of armaments should be achieved through curtailing... ...and if possible, postponing consumers' demand wherever it competes with the defense program. In simple terms, this means that the average family will buy less food, clothing and especially less durable consumers' goods? Perhaps not less food and clothing, but probably less automobiles and refrigerators... ...and that there will be less construction of roads and big apartment houses. How can consumers' demand for these articles be reduced? There are several methods available. The simplest method is to do nothing and let the prices of consumers' goods, mostly durable ones... ...which compete with production of defense articles, either in respect to raw materials or to labor, rise. This would limit purchases to those who can pay the higher prices... ...and would also increase the costs of the defense program. This is the inflationary method and should, in my opinion, be avoided. Another method would be to persuade the public through propaganda... ...to abstain voluntarily from the purchase of such goods... ...and to direct its attention to such goods and services... ...as are not competitive with defense needs, such as expenditures for recreational activities. If persuasion proves to be too weak, the same might be accomplished by force... ...namely to preserve the price level of the critical commodities... ...by restricting their demand through some form of rationing. All these methods would leave the purchasing power to their owners... ...but restrict its use. A fundamentally different approach would be to divert some of the private incomes to the government. This may be done by voluntary actions, namely savings... ...or by force through taxation. Saving and lending the money to the government may be stimulated by higher interest rates. Repayment of these savings should be made gradually after the end of the emergency... ...through borrowing from commercial banks... ...which would stimulate the postponed purchases of durable consumer goods... ...and avoid the slump in those industries. To the extent that savings are not sufficient to cover the deficit... ...taxes will have to be raised. How much could the government obtain from savings? Private savings in 1941... ...with a probable national income of $80 billion... ...may be estimated at $9 or $10 billion. However, it can be expected... ...that only a part of that entire sum... ...will be made available to the government on a voluntary basis. Some of the savings may be required to finance the expansion of the armament and allied industries. In addition to these net savings... ...some funds may be obtained if consumers can be persuaded... ...to postpone the replacement of some of their durable property... ...such as automobiles. How far consumers can be persuaded to do this voluntarily... ...is of course hard to predict. If the entire voluntary loans to the federal government... ...from private sources... ...would reach $6 to $8 billion per year... ...the campaign would prove most successful. This would be the entire sum... ...which the government might then be able to borrow from private sources... ...exclusive of commercial banks... ...on a non-inflationary basis. If defense expenditures reach $18 billion as I estimated before... ...the federal budget would amount to some $24 billion. This is about $5 billion more... ...than Mr. Morgenthau envisaged in the conference... ...with congressional leaders last Thursday. All taxes, including the newly proposed ones... ...are expected to yield about $12 billion. The deficit, therefore, will still be $11 to $12 billion. If $6 to $8 billion can safely be borrowed from non-inflationary sources... ...a further increase of taxes yielding $4 to $5 billion may be necessary. It is necessary to avoid inflationary price rises... ...or widespread restrictions through rationing. All of this assumes that we will have reached, in this year... ...a point where actual scarcity of productive equipment, labor, and raw materials... ...requires additional saving or taxation... ...if prices and incomes are not to rise and cause inflation. It assumes also that an inflation in prices... ...must follow scarcities in capital, labor, and resources. It assumes also that the government cannot step in after this war... ...and prevent the decline in the durable goods industries... ...by a public housing program... ...or some other form of capital goods consumption. I believe that some such compensatory post-war capital goods spending program... ...is now contemplated in Washington. Do you not think that we have learned how to control wartime inflation... ...through price control and rationing? Other countries have had some degree of success in these measures. There can be little doubt that an extensive public works program... ...has to set in when the war boom subsides... ...but it will surely be much smaller than the present... ...and the expected expenditures for defense... ...and will not necessarily utilize the same industries... ...which we would have to expand... ...if we want to produce the armaments and more consumers' goods simultaneously. Rationing is technically quite possible. In the case of certain raw materials and machine tools... ...it is already used... ...and could be extended to consumers' goods... ...but it seldom can be restricted to a few commodities. It necessitates a large apparatus for control... ...and if possible should be used only as a supplementary method. I am further concerned by the tax implications of your position. If we must make a strenuous effort to promote saving... ...the tax system as one of the most effective agencies for this purpose... ...must be used. The most successful anti-spending taxes... ...are those which fall upon the lower incomes... ...incomes... ...in other words, regressive taxes. Increasing regressive taxation... ...will allow the large profits of many businesses... ...which will arise from national defense... ...to escape... ...and the consumption of the lower income groups... ...will be reduced. I would favor less rigorous policies... ...although I agree with you... ...as to the ends which you are seeking. Let us have some inflation... ...because wars prove easier burdens... ...when some inflation occurs. That is why most wars have been attended by inflation. But we must and can restrain it... ...by various types of controls... ...which are now beyond the experimental stage... ...because of their use in Europe. Let us increase taxes for the purpose of minimizing inflation... ...but let us not forget to tax heavily... ...those who profit from national defense. Above all... ...let us not rely solely on the deprivations of the consumer... ...to prevent the post-war collapse... ...of the durable goods industries. We may be able to prevent the collapse... ...or perhaps by less spartan means. You are quite right... ...that the increase of the income tax rates... ...which we have to expect... ...will not yield all the required revenue. However, there is perhaps a possibility... ...of imposing or increasing indirect taxes... ...on certain luxury goods... ...on goods above a certain price range... ...which would not greatly affect the lower income classes. Besides, it seems to me... ...that it is inflation... ...which constitutes a tax... ...mostly upon those groups of the population... ...who can least afford them... ...and furthers the interest of the profit receivers. Well, I still believe... ...that there is an easier road. It may be clear to the listener... ...from what has been said this morning... ...that how and how much we tax... ...for national defense in 1941... ...depends in large measure... ...upon the effects of these taxes... ...upon saving and economic stability. We hope that we have succeeded... ...in stating clearly... ...some of the fundamental issues involved. You have just heard a discussion... ...on the subject taxation in 1941... ...by Professor William Withers... ...and Dr. Walter Ladera of Queens College. Next Saturday at the same time... ...Dr. Persia Campbell... ...and Professor Henry Miller... ...bring you the last program... ...in this current series. Their subject will be... ...The Consumer in 1941. This program came to you... ...under the sponsorship of Dr. Paul Clapper... ...President of Queens College. It was produced by the Committee... ...on Radio Education... ...of which Henry Miller is chairman... ...in cooperation with your municipal station. We draw your attention... ...to the Queens Institute series... ...meeting at 8.15... ...each Wednesday evening at the college... ...and to the unusual opportunities... ...offered by the Queens College... ...extension courses. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. ...
