Right into the anthem. Brought bright and bright stars through the peril of night. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say does black star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? Good afternoon, fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens. United Hospital Week is the occasion in front of City Hall, New York. In the presence of the mayor of the city of New York and distinguished citizens and the committees concerned with United Hospital Week, the program has just started. We now turn you over to the chairman who is speaking at the present time. The most auspicious beginning of United Hospital Week. We are deeply grateful to the police and fire departments for their entire name. Dr. Benneker, our commissioner of hospitals, has been most cooperative. Special thanks also to the Red Cross and to the various Army, Navy, and Coast Guard groups that are represented here today. In addition, we appreciate the efforts of the individual, voluntary, and city hospitals, and of course, of all of you doctors, nurses, nurses' aides, interns, and ambulance drivers, for an inspiring appearance, entirely worthy of the dignity and high purpose of your profession. We go on the air at quarter after one, which is just a few minutes from now. During that time, we will hear the fourth, during this few-minute period, we will hear the 4th J Band play the Heroes of Lausanne. For moment, we have questions for class and socialnostics today. Goodr premium. We are whisking a great forum for you. I'm happy to see each other. I wish to see each other of youateur leaders' members. This was veryRI them- worked in fact probably because freedom of falling operations more than ёus-acier notebooks. Please hear them super-quality fashion, you could turn your hands until the mayor's guests and he wants to land. I want onecond of Attention erreichen for кол aparece, you could see each other campus. How good-oritzerland changes. I an act few in 2011, and16th Kareem State. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Honorable Fiorello H. Lagardia and the distinguished citizens are giving so unselfishly their time and effort in this hospital drive. The various boroughs are represented by the committees attached to the boroughs and a most picturesque parade has preceded the actual ceremonies here at City Hall. The Mounted Police, of course, is always the beginning of the show as it turns into City Hall. We had the Color Guard, the Fort J Band, the familiar old 16th Infantry Band, which is one of the pioneers of radio. A large United Hospital Week's flag was carried by the nurses. And then the hospital nurses, Red Cross Motor Corps, Red Cross Nurses Aids, and Red Cross Canteen Units. The Coast Guard, the Navy, the Army, in fact, all the various facilities of our patriotic cooperations are present here in City Hall Plaza today. If the hospital drive is successful as the turnout here in front of City Hall, we should look for a most interesting consequence in this very essential part of the hospital work of our city. In the due course of the program, you'll hear the speech by the mayor of the City of New York, and in just a moment, the chairman will take up the regular auto program and present the speakers as they are to participate. On this very pleasant day, we bring you this colorful ceremony from City Hall Plaza. The facilities of your municipal broadcasting station are always happy to cooperate with city departments and all civic activities in bringing to you, the people of the City of New York, all the available information when these things occur in one of the most busy cities in the world. United Hospital Week is one of the most essential cooperations of many that the war emergencies have arisen. And now here's the chairman, so we turn it over to the chairman. The next voice is his. ...and citizens of the greatest city in the world. We have just witnessed a parade that portrayed American democracy in action as basically, graphically, and truly, as any similar pageant of any other phase of our national life could have portrayed it. You have seen our voluntary non-profit hospitals in line appealing to a great free citizenry to give them the means to do their full share, as they always have done in a nation's service, especially in wartime. Our hospitals are free institutions, conceived and brought forth by free men, reared by free support, ever serving the people, without any hope of or desire for rewards. I am privileged today to stand here as chairman of the 64th annual United Hospital campaign, which seeks $1,383,729.61, that 76 of these free men's free institutions may continue to serve our nation at full efficiency. I am privileged to bring to you, Mayor LaGuardia, and to the steps of our City Hall, a cross-section of the people of our hospitals, and to present to you three war heroes who have distinguished themselves as medical officers in the armed services. They are Lieutenant Commander Samuel A. Isquith, Medical Officer of the USS Vincennes, Captain Reynolds Hayden, the Medical Officer in Charge of Pearl Harbor during the attack on December 7th, and Captain Norman Jeffries of the American Field Service, who is credited with more active ambulance service than any other man in the service, having appeared on almost all of the fighting fronts. And now, ladies and gentlemen, Mayor LaGuardia. Mr. Taylor, I am very happy to start the United Hospital Drive officially, and to appeal to the people of this city for a generous response. I am highly honored, Captain Hayden, Commander Isquith, Captain Jeffries, to welcome you here in City Hall. We are highly honored to have you partake in these ceremonies. Of course, the medical division of the Army and of the Navy have always been ahead of the medical division of any other Army in the whole world. If we'd only been abreast with aviation, we wouldn't be in such a tough fix as we are now. That's not the story. I wish the people of this city could see this beautiful and colorful pageant. We have here representatives of the hospitals, the voluntary hospitals, various activities in these hospitals, and a most beautiful delegation of prettiest nurses you ever saw, dressed in the nurses' uniform of the various people, from Florence Nightingale up to date. And I'm very serious. Whoever picked this delegation was a good ticker. Now, of course, I need not say that the voluntary hospitals of our city are part of our hospital system. Without them, the city could not get along. All hospitals are facing a crisis at this time. Voluntary hospitals and public hospitals. One is the increased cost of operation, and the other is the shortage of personnel. Doctors, nurses, attendants, and hospital helpers. We are really in the midst of a crisis. I hope that real soon the Manpower Commission will give active and constructive attention to this problem, so as to get a well-balanced allocation of professional personnel in various parts of the country, and in the public, voluntary hospitals, as well as the armed services. The health, of course, of the civilian population is of paramount importance. The purpose of this drive is to collect funds in one drive for the 76 hospitals of our city that have qualified. I know of no better investment than by contributing to this fund. Now, I might say, I think ordinarily I wouldn't say this, but in these times it's quite proper. Contributions are deductible from your income tax points. That's rather helpful in these days. And, Mr. Paley, I want to assure you of the complete cooperation of the city administration and anything that we can do to help. And I have never made a more urgent appeal to the people of this city as I do at this moment to contribute to the United Hospital Fund. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much for your appeal to the people of New York to observe this week as United Hospital Week by rallying to the support of these great voluntary non-profit institutions so vital to the health and welfare of all of us. And now it is my privilege to introduce to you a naval officer who has become a member of our growing list of war heroes. Commander Samuel A. Isquith was medical officer of the American heavy cruiser USS Vincennes, sunk recently in a naval engagement off the Solomon Islands. At great risk to himself, he remained on board the sinking cruiser to treat and save the lives of eight wounded men. I present Commander Samuel A. Isquith. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a guest with the United Hospital Fund of this great metropolis, I wish to tell you that prior to my country's call to active duty, I was associated with both municipal and voluntary hospitals in this city for over 20 years. I am acquainted with what goes on inside the walls of every hospital, whether military or civilian, both in peacetime and wartime. They are the indispensable guardians of every man, woman, and child, 24 hours a day, every day, year in and year out. Having recently returned from the far-flung battle areas of the South Pacific, I can tell you innumerable incidents of what a hospital, whether afloat or ashore, means to our fighting forces. I also know what it means to those of us who have remained at home. Imbued with the confidence and care of available hospital facilities nearby, both the civilian and the fighting men can maintain fully the will to fight and the will to win. Our hospitals have trained the doctors and nurses that serve you and serve the men at the fighting front. They have sent base units directly to the fighting front, and they assure every serviceman that his loved one shall be given the finest medical care, regardless of race, creed, color, or ability to pay. As citizens of our great republic, the support of our hospitals here at home is our patriotic duty. Thank you. Thank you, Commander Samuel Iscliffe. It is now my privilege to introduce Captain Reynolds Hayden, the medical officer in charge of Pearl Harbor during the December 7th attack. For the past 25 years, Captain Hayden has distinguished himself again and again. At Pearl Harbor, his use of sulfonylomide and blood plasma, and his prompt and tireless organization of medical aid saved an almost miraculous number of lives, and won the admiration of the entire medical profession, and also of the fighting forces. I am pleased to present Captain Hayden. Thank you, Mr. Paley and Mayor LaGuardia. I am honored to be here today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring you a brief report on what the medical services were called upon to do at Pearl Harbor on December 7th. Because our hospital was located in the Navy Yard, the jet planes roared over and around us as we were virtually in the bullseye of the target. My staff, of whom I am especially proud, thought first of their patients, care for those we already had, in preparation for those whom we knew would soon be coming. They dashed from their quarters to the hospital through a rain of anti-air shell fragments and stray machine gun bullets. All stations were manned and the hospital ready to receive casualties within ten minutes of the time the first plane went over. As the casualties began to stream in, a building nearby was set afire by a burning Japanese plane that fell alongside of it. These fires were put out by the hospital force. Our first casualty was a man who had been walking along the road beside the hospital with his wife and child. His left arm was torn off by a spalling shell fragment. He died shortly after admission to the hospital. For three hours, beginning about a half hour after the attack began, we received casualties, an average of three a minute. For several days, it was necessary for all hands to work practically 24 hours a day. At night, the only light available in the wards was a dim light from blue flashlights. The experience taught us much. It taught us that no precaution is too unimportant for the eventuality of an air raid. It made us realize the desperate need for medical service caused by fighting of this kind. It taught us the imperative need for blood plasma. Because of our blood bank, we had an unusually low rate of mortality among our seriously burned patients. Finally, it proved once again that the training received by our nurses and doctors here at home and the medical equipment we were able to bring into the fight are superior. And that this superiority is due in no small part to work and training afforded by our hospitals. Thank you. Thank you, Captain Hayden. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we will hear America, sung by Miss Mary Small, accompanied by the Fort J Band. Small. My country, tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I am. My country, tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrims' pride. From every mountainside, let freedom ring. That ends our meeting. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. In this very colorful ceremony in front of City Hall today, in the presence of the Mayor of the City of New York, with Mr. William S. Paley, the distinguished head of the networks, presiding as annual chairman for the United Hospitals Week at this time, and in the presence of the various citizens who will participate in all five boroughs that comprise this wonder city, we've brought you the audible part, we might say, as well as the vocal, Miss Mary Small singing the two anthems. The audible features of the ceremony, and it is regrettable, of course, that radio is limited and cannot bring you the extremely colorful pageant, which the entire situation presented here in the plaza. Various hospital units, all hospitals represented with casualty ambulances, casualty units, nurses, ranging from the time of Florence Nightingale in costume right down to the present day, which in its show shows the great progress it has been made, rather, in the mere matter of attire, and the sanitary attire of nurses. Miss Nightingale appearing with very much more paraphernalia than a modern nurse naturally would be expected to carry, but who did such marvelous work at the period in her life when she opened up the field of nursing to all women and had to stand such frightful criticism as she did by those people who are very often incomprehensible about situations that are so representative of the scene at the time. The United Hospitals Week has received the benediction of the mayor of the city of New York, in which he asked for your full-hearted cooperation with the extremely good tagline that you can deduct whatever you give to the United Hospitals campaign from your income tax returns. And so, with good luck to all the hospitals, one of the greatest activities in a city like New York, we take leave of you from City Hall Plaza. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.