Good morning, homemakers. No doubt you went through that stage in development when you enjoyed reading western stories, and the horse opera kind of movie provided a big thrill. The wild and woolly west is pretty tame and civilized now, but the spring and summer roundups are still a big event each year. Today I'd like to have a roundup of my own, a nutrition roundup. Let's see where we stand in the seasonal supply of food as September begins. It's definitely the month for fresh fruits and vegetables all over the country. Since we've become city folks, we have often missed our nice vegetable garden. This, I'm sure, was largely responsible for the health of the Connor kids during their growing years out in good old Iowa. We had vegetables and fruits aplenty and ate them fresh from the garden. August and September were the months when the garden vegetables were at their best. As I said before, we often miss the garden, but it has been grand to have fresh vegetables and fruits all year round here. We used to wait until August for ripe red tomatoes when we grew our own. Now we eat them at least from May to October. Much the same is true of other fresh foods. Since I mentioned tomatoes, let's round up the vegetables first. Predictions are that snap and lima beans, beets, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, corn, cucumbers, eggplant, peppers, potatoes, squash, and tomatoes will be plentiful in the New York area during September. More exact reports will come to you daily from the Department of Markets broadcasts over this station. I've just listed nearly 15 vegetables. That should certainly offer you variety for your daily meal planning. It does offer variety of food value and flavor. It's the business of our nutrition division to tell you which foods are best for food value. Unfortunately, not all of these are at the top of the nutrition hit parade. We'll remove potatoes from the list because they're an everyday vegetable. During the present period of high prices, use potatoes more often. Serve them two or even three times a day. Use snap or lima beans whenever you can. Both are nutritionally important. Lima beans rate a little higher in food value. I like to serve them to help out in the protein department of a meatless or low meat menu. For example, I served fresh limas for dinner the day we finished up some leftover chicken by eating it in gravy. Cabbage is always a good choice for food value as well as flavor. It is more nourishing, richer in vitamin C, when served raw. However, if your family gets its vitamin C in breakfast fruit or juice, cook the cabbage occasionally. We like creamed cabbage when we have liver. Try it sometimes. Cauliflower is usually a fairly expensive vegetable because of the large amount of waste. It's a very nourishing one, however, so that I recommend it during the short season when it is really a bargain. Cauliflower is a fine vegetable that is easily ruined by overcooking. Cook it quickly until tender but still crisp. Peppers are going to be plentiful this month. Eat and serve them often. Serve green pepper slices alone or with carrot sticks as the simplest salad imaginable. Snip peppers into your fresh vegetable salad. Dice them into sauces for creamed or scalloped vegetables. Peppers are rich in vitamins A and C. Tomatoes should be served as often as possible while they are fresh. While they are cheap, buy a bushel or more for canning to provide vitamin C and pep for winter meals. I have purposely omitted some of the vegetables. These are beets, celery, corn, cucumbers, eggplant, and some are squash. These six are not as nourishing as the others. If you are investing your money for food value first, buy the ones first mentioned. Beans, cabbage, peppers, potatoes, cauliflower, and tomatoes. These others are suitable for extra servings of vegetables. While fruits are so plentiful, don't bother about other desserts. Serve melons of all kinds, but cantaloupe particularly. Pile peaches, apples, plums, and grapes in a bowl for a dessert of mixed fruits. Then everyone may select his favorite at the end of the meal. Add bananas to the bowl if you can find them at a bargain price. If you would like a list of the plentiful foods for September, I'll send one to you. I've mentioned the fresh seasonal ones today, but there are other bargains that will also help you plan nourishing, attractive meals. Have a nice holiday, everyone.