How do you do ladies and gentlemen? We're talking to you from the mayor's reception room at City Hall. Present are representatives of both Taxi Cab and Fleet Owners Associations, as well as representatives of Local 35, the United Construction Workers. Present also are high police officials, the Police Commissioner William O'Brien. The next voice you hear will be that of the mayor of the City of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, Mayor O'Guire. Ladies and gentlemen, the Taxi Cab strike is set for 4.30 a.m. tomorrow morning, April 1st. Local 35, United Construction Workers, affiliated with the United Mine Workers of America, has notified various Taxi Cab owners that it represents a majority of their Taxi Cab drivers and other employees. The Union has requested the employers to meet with it for the purpose of negotiating an agreement to cover wages and working conditions. The Taxi Cab owners have notified the Union and the City that under no conditions will they negotiate with the Union until the Union until the Union has been certified by the State Labor Relations Board as the bargaining agent for the employees. On the other hand, the Union has refused to petition the State Labor Relations Board for a certification that it is the proper bargaining agent for the employees. Under these circumstances, the City is completely without power to order or direct the Taxi Cab owners to sit down across the table and negotiate with the Union, or compel the Union to resort to an election before the State Board. The Union has been with the Union. Many charges and counter charges have been made to the effect that when the strike begins, both sides are going to employ goons and use violence. I want it clearly understood by all the citizens of this city and by the parties to this impending strike that under no circumstances will violence or force be tolerated if used by either side. I am interested in all the citizens of this city and in the protection of their lives and property, as well as the lives and persons of the strikers, the tickets and the taxi cab drivers. Let me make myself clear on this subject. Number one, goons, whether employed by the operators or by the strikers, will not be tolerated for one minute. Number two, every striker, ticket or taxi cab owner will get equal protection against personal injury or damage to his property. Number three, while affording full protection to all, the city will not take sides. In order to make sure that neither the strikers, taxi cab drivers, owners or the citizens of this city will be exposed to danger, I have conferred with the police commissioner with respect to the activities of the police department during the strike. He has assured me that the deployment of the police department during the strike has been worked out in minute detail. There will be adequate police assigned to cope with a strike situation of this character and size. Orders have already been issued by the police commissioner to the entire police force. The force is completely alerted. The orders specifically provide, Quote, Commanding officers will interview fleet operators, owners, and officials of taxi cab concerns, Union leaders, officials and picket captains, And instruct them thoroughly on their rights and limitations. All will be advised that violence, property damage, assault threats, intimidation, or strong-arm tactics will not be tolerated. Members of the force on patrol will be instructed to give special attention to taxi cabs in isolated areas, particularly in the night time, that might be subject to interference or molestation. All members of the force, each in his place, will be held strictly responsible for the fair and equitable enforcement of law and the preservation of order. End of quote. As police commissioner O'Brien has today stated to the newspapers, Quote, The police are impartial in this strike, Cognisant of the rights of all concerned, Labor, the owners of taxis, and the public. I repeat, there will be no rough house and no violence. End of quote. Up to this minute, all efforts of the city to avoid this strike have been of no avail, because of factors beyond its control. However, I want to remind both sides and the public, that I individually, and the city's Division of Labor Relations, are ready to render any possible service to effect the settlement. Thank you ladies and gentlemen, good night. You've just listened to Mayor William O'Dwyer talking direct from City Hall, in the presence of representatives of both taxi cab and fleet owners, as well as representatives of Local 35 of the United Construction Workers. Present also was Police Commissioner William O'Brien and members of the press. We return now to our studios. This year will be hired on December 25, which will help theMm-B., in theES. New liaison is an vertebrals momentos the下一cciones 29 of the restored members of the government. At the Animation of the coalition in the nehmen, the andի.