On Tuesdays we have the cooperation of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York in stressing the importance of your teeth and their very important relation to your good health. Our Good Health speaker today is Dr. Roland E. Morse, President of the First District Dental Society of the State of New York. And he's going to discuss with you teeth and health. Dr. Morse. The nation's greatest aspect is the health of its people. The United States was made to realize this in World War II, when at least one-third of its young people between the ages of 18 and 21 were rejected for active service from their armed forces on account of physical defects. Those who passed their physical tests will well remember the many inoculations they received to make them immune to the deadly diseases which are common in other parts of the world. During the war, the government felt it so important to care for the health of its servicemen that millions of dollars were allotted to repair and restore the teeth of those in service in order to maintain the normal health of its personnel. No price is too high that ensures an aesthetic, healthy mouth. By filling an unsightly cavity, by restoring a missing front tooth or back teeth for that mouth, a dentist can do more to aid good looks than can be done by tons of cosmetics, beautiful dresses, jewelry, or fur coats. Good teeth are of utmost importance in any branch of business if one wants to succeed. Prehistoric men had large jaws, a wide mouth and powerful teeth. In his competition for livelihood, his teeth and jaws were effective instruments of defense. He used them for mechanical utility as well as for mastication. After he learned the use of clubs, rocks, and other devices for competitive purposes, there was less and less demand upon development of his teeth and jaws. A gradual change took place in his physiognomy resulting in weaker teeth, less resistant oral tissues, and smaller jaw bones. Mankind has suffered from toothache and oral diseases for many thousands of years. The only real permanent cure is in regular visits to your dentist. As early as 460 B.C., Hippocapes wrote on diseases of the teeth and their treatment. Those early people devised simple dental instruments, did extractions, and associated diet with disease. It is believed that the Phoenicians were the first to practice the replacement of lost teeth. Deneficits were well known and used for the Romans. Toothpicks of aromatic woods and precious metals were in general use. The Arabians practiced mouth hygiene, where great importance was described to this as a health measure and as a mark of culture. Arabian physicians gave a little attention to the extraction of teeth, and this was relegated to the barbers, who became very proficient in the art. Peter Van Forrest in the 16th century was the first to associate sweets with dental decay. The treatment of children's teeth and their importance was first emphasized by Charles Allen of London in the 19th century. The 18th century saw the beginning of serious study in sanitation, social legislation, contagion, vaccination, and dietary deficiencies, setting the stage for the entry of preventive medicine as we know it today. In 1839, the first college of dentistry was established in the United States. This 19th century produced such famous names as Lister and Pasteur. The anesthetic effect of cocaine was discovered in 1884, and in 1895, Renschen, with his x-rays, revolutionized the practice of dentistry. Oral hygiene was introduced into schools towards the close of the century. Since our present-day period marks the beginning of the rendition of dental services as a public health objective, let's define health and see why teeth are such an important contributor to our own personal health. Health, as defined in the medical dictionary, is, quote, that condition of the body in which all the functions are performed normally, end of quote. In the good old days that some looked to with regret, there was virtually little attention paid to public health, and frequent epidemics devastated whole cities and districts. One baby in three died. Middle age was a toothless age. On the average, life was 20 years shorter than now, and unspeakable filth was tolerated. In cities where so many people live in such a relatively small area, a great deal more must be done to protect the health of the people than in the country where there is plenty of open space, fresh air, and sunshine. The fight against the dirt is constant, for dirt is the great disease breeder. Thanks to the vigilance of our health department, the open garbage pail had disappeared, with the filthy piles of refuse and cesspools that once made many alleys and backyards breeders of disease. Pure food laws are passed to prevent the sale of unfit food. Restaurants and bakeries are inspected periodically to see that the food is prepared in a sanitary manner. Bakeries, cold storage houses, fruit and vegetable markets are watched to see that no spoiled food is sold. Our food comes to us in as nearly perfect condition as possible, so it is up to each one of us to see that we get the full benefit of it. To get the full value out of our food, we must have teeth so arranged that we can masticate the food properly, because without teeth there is no chewing, without chewing there is no nourishment, and without nourishment there is no life. If our teeth are in such a condition that we can only half chew our food, we are getting only half the proper nourishment, and who wants to be only half alive? Every precaution is taken to ensure us against disease, yet today dental decay is universal, and our hospitals are overcrowded. Why? Because we are too careless or too downright lazy to carry out the simple rules of proper hygiene. After eating, there are always particles of food left in and around the teeth. If these remain, our mouth becomes our own individual garbage pail, easily visible to all when we talk or smile. If this debris is not removed, futefaction sets in, bacteria multiply rapidly, and decay is imminent. Freshing the teeth after each meal is most important, as you can understand. Not only because it is a prime requisite of a clean mouth, but because this mechanical removal of the food particles and debris also helps to reduce the number of disease-producing germs known to flourish in unclean mouths. Remember, the important time to brush your teeth is after each meal, not merely a night and morning routine which we hear so much about. Of the many bodily organs which influence good bodily health, teeth are probably among the most important, and dental disease affects a far greater number of people than any other derangement. It has been estimated that there will be 112 million new cavities in the teeth of the people of the United States this year. Untreated or uncontrolled, they are a matter of continuous and serious concern. Infection of the jaws is not a modern disease. Centuries ago, dental abscesses were common. However, the causes then were different than they are today. Instead of decay leading to and infecting the pulp or so-called nerve, the primary cause was abrasion of the tooth surface, that is, wearing away of the crown of the tooth until the pulp became infected. This abnormal wearing away of the teeth was caused by the coarseness of the food, as well as by the grit present in their crude foodstuffs when prepared in stone mortars. The infection which gained entrance in this way, receded through the opening at the apex of the tooth into the surrounding bone, as it does today. There are two types of abscesses associated with the teeth, the acute with its immediate swelling and pain, and the chronic. Often, patients may not realize abscesses exist until x-ray examination reveals them. These abscesses are filled with pus which destroys the surrounding bony structures, and the destructive forces finally burrow a channel through the bone and the soft tissues, coming to a head and discharging into the mouth. There, the pus can infect the surrounding areas, and if swallowed, infect the stomach or intestines. Also, such infection can spread into the nose, maxillary sinus, or outside the face, where it can destroy living tissue to leave an unsightly scar for years to come. Nature makes an attempt at repair, and the acute initial symptoms may disappear. But, unless the cause is removed, it will again cause future trouble. The chronic abscesses may not give immediate trouble, because the lymph nodes, also called glands, take their poison, allowing only a small amount to be absorbed into the system daily. This may cause a condition commonly called that tired lazy feeling. If a gland becomes overloaded, another gland will share the load, and so on, until many glands are systemically involved. Then, you're in serious trouble, and your physician must be called in. He will insist on x-rays of your teeth, and in addition, one or more teeth may have to be sacrificed. If you are in excellent physical health, you may throw off the effects of a chronic abscess for some time, but eventually it catches up with you, and then you're in danger of losing, not only the offending tooth or teeth, but you may also suffer a general breakdown of other parts of the body. It is said there are 261 diseases which show oral manifestations, the most important of which your dentist is trained to recognize. Many of them, if allowed to go untreated, may cause serious bodily illness, and sometimes later, death may result. The war is over, but the pressure under which American dentists have been living for the past six years is not, nor is it likely to be for many years to come. This is no idle prognostication, but rather a mere statement of the obvious. Help yourself and your dentist by brushing your teeth properly after each meal, eating nutritious foods and seeing your dentist at least once every six months, and if you have children, be sure to take them too. Make the most of yourself, for that is all there is to you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Morris. Your Good Health speaker today on the subject of your teeth and their very important good health is Dr. Roland D. Morris, President of the First District Dental Society of the State of New York. Your next Good Health speaker in the Oral Hygiene series on Tuesdays will be Dr. Martin M. Grunberg, and the topic will be artificial substitutes for nursing teeth. The Oral Hygiene Committee discusses your good health with the medium of your good teeth each Tuesday. The committee is cooperating with the municipal health and school authorities in the excellent plan of having every school child visit the dentist every six months in order to demonstrate practically the advantage of prevention over cure. Join us next Tuesday for the next discussion of your teeth and your good health. New York City's own station, WNYC 830 on your dial. My search is very common. I promise you there is a similar câmera for challenging people. Myевorycember flavour is a great Lösung. You are in the terrificいきます. Publicauriouslyś tunnel will mode around at a top course naturally hold down. I ligne BSC government about this expert out. We want to welcome to video events around here. We will see TU Crocodilection- a guide for clinical purposes that is difficult, you can find it just to start following formats. Thank you, Dr. Grand gouvernement. We are giving you a unique pain correction. This network guidanceicer provides a great long-iest statement for инструмент инструмент that you may have such a comprehensive emotional 영arlation in the health department to ensure proper physical PC and our 시청 является socially怎么ural processes.