Your microphones now are in front of City Hall and we're recapturing the very essence of the early days of this idea of leaving New York City for a vacation because it all started in Sherman, Pennsylvania in 1877. The people of Sherman conceived the brilliant idea of inviting youngsters from the City of New York to come into the country and have a little vacation there. And with this splendid idea, we have seen the tremendous activity of vacationing out of town. And now the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York, is escorting Father Knickerbocker. And to add atmosphere, we even have the old police uniforms with the big gray helmets and Father Knickerbocker and the mayor are now advancing toward a reproduction of a Neary Railroad train of that period, which is standing in front of City Hall. And we'll take these youngsters aboard down to the Erie Railroad ferry where they will ride to deposit New York, the nearest station to Sherman, Pennsylvania. And in this way, we'll get some idea of just what happened in those days in the recreation. And now we're going to present the chairman of the occasion for the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. Your chairman. Left New York City in 1877 for the country. It is doubtful whether the mayor of New York was aware of that proceeding. And in fact, probably no one noticed the nine young children accompanied by a young clergyman who started out for Sherman, Pennsylvania, in July 74 years ago, about now. Since that day, there have been hundreds of departures. Some small departures of four or five children. Some of a thousand or more. Some small departures of four or five children. Some small departures of four or five children. The rail stations and the ferry terminals sometimes have been fairly inundated with children. Today, we reenact that first departure. And some of us, the children and many of our distinguished guests, are going up to Sherman, Pennsylvania, to the little church where the Fresh Air Fund was founded. But unlike that day in 1877, the mayor of New York knows about this departure, and since he has been a very good friend of Fresh Air for a long time, we are asking him if he will give us his official send-off. Mayor Impelletieri. Mr. Lewis, Father Knickerbocker, Commissioner Murphy, who stands here to my left, I mean former Commissioner Murphy. Commissioner? Ladies and gentlemen, and particularly today, the boys and girls who are about to leave for Sherman, Pennsylvania. As Mr. Lewis so well has told you about the significance of this program, I as mayor of this great city, take a great deal of pleasure in participating in the Fresh Air Fund of the Herald Tribune. I don't know of any two occasions throughout the entire year that give me more personal pleasure than this departure of the children from our city to the Fresh Air camps, Mr. Lewis. And Mr. Lewis, exactly the same kind of a scene here at City Hall at Christmas time, when the children are brought to City Hall so that they can personally meet with Santa Claus when he flies here from the North Pole and lands his plane right here on the roof of City Hall, then slides down the roof to the great pleasure of all the children who are brought here by the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. As we watch the faces of these children, we can see what significance this type of civic-minded endeavor means to the children of our city. I was told by Mr. Lewis that this should be an exact replica of what this scene would have looked like some 75 years ago. Well, I did my level best. At least I got Father Knickerbocker dressed as he would have looked 175 years ago. I had this gentleman who's an omnigodness cop. He's a retired cop of the New York City Police Department, and he looked like a cop might have looked 75 years ago. As a matter of fact, as I said at the beginning, he looks like our former police commissioner, Commissioner Murphy, except that his mustache is gray. As we see the smiling faces of these children representing a cross-section of all the people that live in our community, we can realize just what this means to the community as a whole, because after all, what's good for the welfare of our children is good for the welfare of the city of New York. So children, I know that you're going to have a wonderful time. You have my good wishes. And on this occasion, I want to personally congratulate the Herald Tribune on behalf of all the people of the city of New York for doing an outstanding job for the children of our city in promoting the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. Now children, when you get up to Sherman, Pennsylvania, and I'm going to send Father Knickerbocker up with you, I'm going to ask him in my behalf and on behalf of the people of the city of New York to deliver this message to the people of Sherman, Pennsylvania. It reads as follows. To the people of Sherman, Pennsylvania, on behalf of the 765,000 children, that's close to a million, from the city of New York who have had a country vacation during the past three quarters of a century because of a seed planted in the hearts of your people, I send this day by special courier the official greetings of our community to yours and my personal thankfulness for the innumerable blessings that have flown from the Fresh Air movement that originated in Sherman. Now in its 75th year, the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund so inconspicuously started in your village church reaches into 13 states and 1,600 friendly town communities every summer sending needy children into restful country homes far from the ceaseless stir of city life. Fresh Air alumni have gone out as ambassadors of goodwill and have assumed the responsibilities of good citizens, both here in New York and throughout the United States. Today we honor the memory of those first citizens of Sherman who opened their homes to the 60 Fresh Air boys and girls in 1877. We pay tribute to the memory of your pastor, the Reverend Willard Parsons, whose vision brought the Fresh Air Fund into being and whose industry and determination sustained its work beyond the turn of the century. May the beacon of hope and light, lighted by your forebears in Sherman, continued to burn brightly, reminding us that we serve best when we are mindful of those who are least. Sincerely yours, Vincent, our impelitary mayor. Have a good time and come back refreshed. Thank you. We'd like to recapture this scene for you here in front of City Hall today. There's an old Erie Railroad turn, a train specially recreated to give us the atmosphere of 1877. And the occasion is epitomizing the activities of the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund, which we told you and which the mayor explained in his letter, has expanded from the little church in Sherman, Pennsylvania, where the idea of taking these youngsters from the city streets has now extended into 13 states and 1,600 communities. We know through the activity of radio and the announcements made over radio what a splendid project the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund is. And Mayor Impellitary was very happy indeed to be down here with the youngsters this morning. Now there's a bunch of little tots here all dressed in the clothes of 1877, standing beside this old large funneled Erie Railroad engine and the old funny-looking car that it's pulling. And it's a tug at the heartstrings to see the old gray helmets of the police department reviving memories for those of us who have been in New York City long enough to go back into the period when this was the fashion. We know that Commissioner Whalen changed the costume of the police department considerably, took those tight-button coats off the policemen and gave them the shawl collars and the opportunity to wear shirts and ties, which considerably aided in the circulation of the blood, we hope, and keeping down blood pressure because it relieved the tightness around the throat. Mr. Edison said years ago if you wore loose clothing all your life, you would add 25 years to your life. And as we look at these costumes, picturesque as they are, and bringing back memories of the early New York City, the gray helmets, and the costumes that the police department wore then, they look like costumes today, they were uniforms then, while we get some idea of what we've progressed from. Yesterday in front of City Hall when the free and accepted Masons reenacted the reading of the Declaration of Independence by George Washington, or rather in the presence of George Washington to the Continental Troops, who up to that point had not known what they fought for, well, that declaration was read in the presence of George Washington right in this very City Hall plaza, and a bronze plaque under the window of the mayor's reception room here on the west end of City Hall designates the spot where that took place. I mention this because yesterday young Mr. Adams, a direct descendant of John Adams, first Vice President of the United States, and Mr. Witherspoon, whose great-great-grandfather, I hope I got enough greats in, who was sixth President of Princeton, well, he appeared to in the costume of the President of Princeton. And with the old City Hall in its magnificent architecture, old in the matter of years, but ever young in its beauty and facade, it lends itself so much to the picturesqueness of these costumed setups through the means of which we recapture the essence of the brilliant and wonderful past in New York City. And this morning, standing here today and looking at those gray helmets of the policemen and the old uniforms, the big leather belts, the big buckles, and the very large shields, well, there's about six of those policemen here this morning in that costume. And as Mayor Impelli-Eteri referred to the officer, the retired officer with the gray mustache when he compared to the recently retired Commissioner Murphy, he's as tall as Commissioner Murphy, we get some idea of the old times and the wonderful old city of New York. We really have a very, very pretty picture here this morning, and it's important. The mind of the child and its imagination and its hunger for the feeding of that imagination is really recreated in their wonderful, smiling little faces and their keenness and their eagerness to absorb every moment of the scene. The hardest thing they do is remain quiet and orderly in the presence of the august guests who were assembled here this morning. But they're doing an excellent job of it, and the mayor now is standing on the platform, having a few words with youngsters that are going into the train and taking their seats. And you'd never expect to see an Erie Railroad train in front of City Hall, would you? Well, everything happens here in City Hall Plaza sooner or later, and the recreation of this fresh air scene of 1877 when Sherman, Pennsylvania inaugurated the idea of inviting youngsters from the hot oppressed city to the country for a breath of fresh air and a little recreation amidst the sylvan atmosphere of nature itself. Well, Sherman is to be congratulated. Thank you.