Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the small investor, his problems and opportunities. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the problems confronting the man of modest income who has money to invest. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our guests today are William D. Davidson, Associate Agency Manager of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States. James G. Fisher, Representative of Halbert, Warren and Chandler of Chicago. Louis H. Whitehead, Vice President of National Securities and Research Corporation of New York. And Robert Lindquist, Vice President of the LaSalle National Bank of Chicago. In order to get our discussion underway, gentlemen, I want you to assume for a moment that I am the average small investor. If I should walk into your office this morning, what could you tell me that would help me solve the problems I face today as a potential investor? How would you answer that, Mr. Whitehead? Mr. Assuming you have insurance on your life as the wage earner of the family and a reserve fund for emergencies, I should recommend that you put the money in a mutual investment fund which invests in the common stocks of well-managed American corporations. What would you tell me, Mr. Davidson? Well, I would ask you some questions regarding your insurance situation, family situation, what your problem is and what standard of living, frankly, you're interested in projecting onto your family in the event something happens to you and also to yourself when you get older. What would you tell me, Mr. Fisher? Well, I would like to discuss with you the opportunities that may exist both from the standpoint of income and possible market appreciation. I would like to know whether you need income more than you do profit or if you can sacrifice some income in order to gain profit depending on your circumstances. All right. Mr. Lindquist, what would you tell the small investor? Well, I wouldn't assume anything, Mr. Small Investor, or ask you any questions because regardless of your age, your family situation, or your income, the basis of your investment program should be a savings account in your bank. Well, I'm afraid you haven't helped me too much, gentlemen. Evidently, we need to know a little bit more about the small investor. Who is he anyway? Who is the small investor? Fisher, whom do you consider the small investor? Well, from an investor's standpoint, everyone is a small investor, but there are potential investors somewhere in the millions. I don't know how many there are, but the small investor is a man who has some money and some income from which he can put aside a certain amount each month. Well, I would say beyond that, Fisher, that small investors in life insurance, we have 83 million policyholders who indirectly are investors in the business and properties of this nation. I think that's important to emphasize that everybody who has any property at all has a stake in the future of the American free enterprise system. As a matter of fact, every bank depositor is in effect a small investor. Now, you gentlemen are talking about these small investors in the country. Do you know how many potential small investors there are? Can you help us there at all, Whitehead? Well, we believe that some 8 to 13 million people have investments in common stocks. Other millions have investments in US savings bonds and other types of securities, but the number of these is small in relation to the 83 million persons who have insurance policies. So we must number them in great many millions. The 90 million bank depositors somewhere is in that range too. Now, you're talking about the persons who have invested, aren't you, in American industry and banks and insurance and so on. How many people have money in shoe boxes and money in other places that they don't invest or they don't spend in some way? Any idea there? Well, perish the thought, but probably other millions. All right. And then, of course, if I may interrupt, there are many millions of people who, in their own businesses in themselves, have an investment. I think we probably disagree a little bit here on the identity of the small investor. We don't have exact figures on his number in potentials, at least. I think we might move on a little bit into some of his specific problems, the specific problems of either the small or the large investor. Why did, how does the present inflation affect the small investor? The persistent decline in the purchasing power of the dollar, of course, has seriously cut the real income of people who own fixed interest bearing obligations, bonds, mortgages, and those who are depending upon the income from annuities. Would you agree with that analysis, Davidson? Well, that is true at the present moment, but you do have fluctuations in the business cycle, of course, that make the situation different. I would like to say this one thing that, for anyone that is investing life insurance or in any other form, that the situation that should be arrived at is a balanced plan, one that is going to have equities, let's say, in times like this, and is going to have an ample amount of life insurance, which will balance itself as you go up and down. Well, the inflation that we have now, or inflation in general, does take its toll of the person with fixed income, either from salaries or wages, and also from fixed income from securities. I have some interesting figures in front of me that I pulled out of the mail the other day that are simple because they relate to what people will understand. They're tied up to the cost of living. Here's a market basket, a typical market basket, which in 1939 to 41 cost $8.85. Now, those, those, that same market basket has increased in cost today to $17.94. Now, the person with fixed income is hurt in that respect. I have a comparison here that shows what dividends on 15 shares of a, of a, of a particular corporation would have done in that same period. The dividends from that 15 shares in 1939 would have been the same as the cost of this market basket. If I may inject one thought in here, I think the, uh, thing that we're thinking of, excuse me, in terms of a small investor, is an investment plan for his lifetime. And, uh, not something for a, a specific period of years. And for his lifetime, we're going to have to try to find balance because, uh, we all, uh, can dig into figures. Uh, I have some, uh, in front of me that show the fluctuation of the purchasing power of the dollar over a period of approximately 37 years. And you had some very substantial ups and downs during that period. And, uh, I can recall because of the, uh, time of entering my business that, uh, 1933, uh, we had, uh, practically nothing, uh, liquid in terms of, uh, uh, source of cash or reserve funds other than people's life insurance. And while it isn't the only thing that people should own, it nevertheless, uh, has its place in the picture, your fixed investment and your other investment to get a balance. In other words, you're saying, gentlemen, that, uh, it depends on the economic situation just, uh, what problems a small investor faces. During times of deflation, he, he faces, uh, different problems than he does during times of inflation. It prompts me to ask this question. How well equipped is this small investor to, uh, uh, determine his course of action? Does he know when we're in inflation and when we're going to be in deflation? How about that, Whitehead? Well, I'm sorry to say that the average person has no concept at all of where we stand in the cycle. Uh, we people in the investment business are only too well aware that the average person has a tendency to do exactly the wrong thing. at, uh, a given time. He's most concerned about inflation when perhaps he might well be, uh, thinking a little bit in terms of the possibility of deflation. Uh, the problem exists and, uh, must be recognized, but it's, uh, not, uh, it's not at all simple. In, uh, and you know, not all the experts agree where we stand at all times in the cycle. Well, I'm sure that's true. Otherwise they might, uh, probably be the millionaires of today. Isn't that right? Very true. Well, we've been talking about inflation for a moment. What about, uh, deflation Lindquist? How does that affect the small investor? Well, that's a rather theoretical question right now in this time of rising prices and, uh, inflationary trends. Of course, on the turn of the cycle, the holder of equities, the holder of common stocks and real estate and so on will suffer. This cycle you've been talking about, does that, uh, does that represent, uh, periods of inflation and periods of deflation? That's right. Uh, can you clarify that a bit in terms of, uh, all the purchasing power of the dollar? Did, did Fisher do that just a little bit ago when he talked about the, the amount of groceries that, uh, certain amount of money would buy? Well, Whitehead there, I see, has a chart which shows the up and down trend in the, uh, value of the dollar. Naturally, uh, we think of the dollar in terms of how much will it buy in the grocery basket or in other needs of life. And that affects the small investor, is that right? That's right. Let's move on to, uh, another problem here. We've been talking about periods of inflation and deflation. I'm prompted to ask this, I think, a more important question. Why are we, uh, concerned about the small investor? Why are we, uh, uh, actually concerned about the way he spends his money? Is it socially important? Is it economically important? Uh, Davidson? Well, I would say it's important both ways because, uh, we have a, a substantial social problem with people who don't have accumulations. And I think, uh, anything that might be done to direct their investment in, uh, the proper channels so that, uh, they are at all times financially secure is one of the things that, uh, is an objective of anyone in any branch of the investment field. Plus the fact that, uh, uh, as that man is making investment, he is making possible, uh, the building of plants and facilities for production of, uh, all the materials that we need for living. In other words, uh, we would have a difficult time expanding our plant facilities to, uh, manufacture armaments today if it weren't for the money being invested by various individuals in, uh, in various places. Is that true? That's right. Uh, well, I find a great many people, uh, worried about, uh, and asking me questions about the imminence of the 1929 collapse. I, uh, really feel that's one of the, uh, strengthening factors here because 1929 collapses, uh, come at times when nobody, uh, expects them. And that's a strengthening factor here that so many people are concerned. And I think that it's going to prevent the excesses which led to the 1929 collapse. In other words, you're an optimist here in our midst, and this way decidedly. Decidedly, and I think that, that people should be encouraged to regard the earning power of American enterprise as the bulwark of all types of property, whether it's insurance or his savings account. Uh, it's the earning power of these great corporations which make all these things safe and secure. Well, uh, regardless of the ups and downs of the cycle, of course, the place of the small investor is very important in our American way of life and our, in our high standard of living. And perhaps we ought to add that, uh, people who own their own homes are investors. They have a stake in, in the future. Not to repeat the same thing, but, uh, uh, the small investor, uh, through life insurance, for example, has provided, uh, billions and billions of funds that are available for the purpose of building a plant and equipment. In other words, if we don't have the small investor, uh, spending his money this way, or investing his money this way, we don't have an economic system that will give us, uh, the necessities of life and possibly provide the, uh, necessities for other nations as well. And replace our properties as they wear out. All right. Contribuous investment is necessary. All right. I think you've indicated the complexity of some of the problems faced by the small investor. For a moment, I think we ought to discuss the opportunities are, that are open to this man with a few dollars to spend. Mr. Lindquist, do you see any possibilities in this area? Well, one thing we should not leave out of our discussion is the investment in a home, which is so important part of many, many of our families. And, uh, it certainly is an investment which we should place our dollars. Well, I think the rapid growth of, uh, investment trusts, mutual investment funds, is the greatest opportunity for the small investor. Uh, there, of course, uh, to me, one of the real opportunities today, and, and has always been in the past, is the, uh, building by an individual of his own business. Uh, he, in every sense of the word, is an investor, not only in, in property and material and the community, but in himself. And, uh, I feel that that has carried this country to, uh, the height that it has come. People having that initiative and drive to do that. Uh, along with that, uh, one of the problems that, uh, we find is always, uh, always facing a person in making an investment, is, uh, what, uh, is the proper disposition of that in the event something happens to him, in terms of his passing out of the picture. And, uh, I think there, your small investor has to consider the, uh, facilities, for example, of your life insurance company, for, uh, creating an estate immediately, and, and the disposition of that estate in terms of income to his family. You've mentioned the ownership of homes and the building of small businesses. I wonder if there are any social implications there. I wonder if, if we can't see, uh, a reflection in, in that type of ownership in, in terms of, uh, uh, say our economy and our social structure. Why, Ed, do you think we have a better country if we have a better, if we have more small business and more ownership of homes? Oh, that's certainly true. And, and why do you, why do you say it's true? What, what, what happens when a man owns his own home? Well, he feels he has a stake in the future. He feels, uh, he has an interest in the stability of, perhaps, the company for which he works, and the community, and, uh, the schools and the churches, everything it, it makes for, uh, uh, conservatism and stability. Very briefly, for anyone who lives in a small community outside of the city, uh, things will come up from time to time that, uh, people have a very definite and, uh, aggressive interest in preventing, uh, what they consider to be, uh, elements, uh, that would not be good for their community. In other words, they, they take much more of an interest than they do if they don't own property. Well, last week, as you know, gentlemen, we invited our radio listeners to send in questions to be directed to you, gentlemen, who are experts in the field of, uh, finance. We're happy to say that as a result of this invitation, we, we received, uh, many questions. Let me ask you as, as many of these questions as time permits. The first question comes from a listener in Massachusetts, and it, uh, it reads this way. Isn't property and real estate the best possible investment during times of inflation? Well, uh, I, I would say yes, uh, Borne, uh, assuming that we make the term property broad enough to include the ownership of common stocks and probably, uh, own them cooperatively through mutual funds. There again, of course, I think you have to consider the, uh, time of, uh, people getting out of those investments. In other words, it's a good thing to own during a period of high, uh, rising prices. But, uh, when, when are you going to get out of it? Uh, when are you going to realize that gain that you've gotten during that period? Isn't a man's home a lifetime investment that you spoke about there a moment ago, uh, Davidson? That's right. Well, I think the, uh, the, uh, being in a liquid position has much in its, uh, in its favor at this particular time. I think that, uh, people who, uh, buy good common stocks, uh, are in a better position, uh, from the standpoint of liquidity than if they were tied up in some fixed form of property. What do you mean by liquid form there, Mr. Diffel? Well, they're easily, the, the good common stocks are easily marketable because we, we maintain markets all over the country for such securities. There's a social problem there. So many people cannot consider home ownership because their businesses are uncertain. They may have to move their place of employment. Uh, and, uh, in that sense of the word, real estate is not so marketable as securities. All right, here's another question I think, uh, that's worth answering here. Uh, should the small investor ever speculate? Mr. Davidson? Well, he can speculate, uh, of course I'm conservative. Uh, I think if he has assured an adequate standard of living for his family, uh, something happens to him and for himself in later years, he is then in a position to, uh, take funds and, and speculate with them. But only after that is done. Well, Dervison, there's risk in everything a man does. If he owns only fixed interest bearing obligations, he's speculating or taking the risk, uh, as to the, the purchasing power risk. Whereas if he owns only, uh, securities which are very volatile in, uh, price, he's taking the risk of market value. There's risk in everything we do. And, uh, go back to what you said earlier in the program. I'm, I agree with you on this idea of balancing these types of risks. In other words, if a man walks across the street, he's, he's taking some risk. Isn't that right? That's right, yeah. And more accidents occur in the home than anywhere else, you know. All right. Uh, let's, uh, answer this question from the listener in Massachusetts. What is the difference between a bond and a stock? Fisher, you should be able to tell us that. Well, a bond is a promise to pay a fixed number of dollars within a specified time with interest at, uh, the going rate at the time. A stock certificate, however, is an evidence of ownership of an interest in a business. All right. Here's another question. We put 1941 dollars into U.S. savings bonds, but we get 1951 dollars at maturity, a loss of 50%. What's the answer, Mr. Lindquist? Well, that's a tough one, although I think the answer, uh, has already been implied in our previous discussion. It has to do with the answer, uh, the asker of this question, undoubtedly, has been influenced by some of the things he's read and heard. It has to do, actually, with the purchase price of the dollar, as the, uh, the use to which that dollar can be put. A dollar invested in these bonds in 1941 will not buy, we've already heard, as much in 51. Actually, where the 50% comes, I don't know what, uh, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, uh, I think the figure would show somewhere, is around 60 cents on the dollar today. Now, the important question, uh, probably more, is what will aren't 61 dollars, now invested in U.S. savings bonds, uh, be worth? And, uh, we have to think of this in terms of, of a bond, not just a government bond, a corporation bond, a municipal bond. Uh, Fisher's answer here, the difference between bonds and stocks. And when you buy a bond, it's gonna be paid off in, uh, so many dollars. And we all know that the savings bonds are gonna be paid. And it's a, uh, there is a difference, uh, of course, because, uh, in our, uh, savings bonds, the, they're issued by the United States government, uh, where they have the power of taxing, of spending, of appropriating, and can operate on a deficit year after year, which, uh, private enterprise or individual services, uh, can do. And therefore, it's incumbent, I would say, upon our office holders, people we elect, and upon ourselves, to see that the dollar and 61 is gonna be substantial in paying off these bonds. Fine. Glad to hear you say that. There are, uh, many people who would disagree with this, but, uh, just agreeing with Mr. Lindquist, uh, uh, I think, uh, there's just a reasonable possibility that the 1951 dollar can be a much cheaper dollar than the 1961 dollar. And the fellow that does put, uh, some of his funds into either government bonds, life insurance, or whatever, uh, can have a, uh, more valuable sum of money at that, uh, at the end of that second ten-year period. Well, I'd like to be able to agree with you, Davidson, but, uh, we're financing on a deficit basis down there in Washington, and these fellows show no tendency to curtail their expenditures. Well, if we do a good job as citizens, uh, we can work toward that end. Wonderful. All right. Let's move to this next question. Are government bonds the only bonds or securities that are tax exempt? Mr. Davidson? Well, as a matter of fact, United States government bonds, with the exception of a few old ones, are the, uh, interest from them is subject to income tax. Uh, your class of tax-exempt bonds is your, uh, class of municipal bonds. All right. Here's another question from a listener here in Illinois. Should the investor in stocks worry about the daily fluctuations of the stock market? Mr. Fisher? Well, if a man is investing in a good corporation, not, uh, he invests not for market appreciation, but he invests for quality in the beginning and income. And if he's, uh, if he's a true investor and is looking for his income and, and, uh, quality of his investment, he needn't worry about the ups and downs, the day-to-day fluctuations. They mean nothing. Mr. Whitehead, would you care to add anything there? I agree with that, uh, that the fluctuations in the price of an investment aren't, uh, any more important to a man who owns them on an investment basis than the fluctuations in the value of your home. You can still live in your home year after year, even though its market value changes. As a matter of fact, and I think I'm stepping out of my bailiwick a little bit, being a life insurance man, it seems to me that the individual who will buy securities and not be concerned about the daily fluctuations is a much better investor. I agree with that. That's right. It prompts me to ask, uh, why do we have these daily fluctuations? Uh, what, what determines them? Mr. Whitehead? Sometimes they're more buyers than sellers, sir. Oh, right. I think that'll probably hold us for the time being. Here's another question. What would you recommend as an investment to a person who has from $30 to $60 a month to spare? I suppose that person would be the small investor. I, uh, yes, I agree with you, Borne. Well, I'm, I'm hardly in favor of a balanced program as Davidson brought out earlier. Uh, man should have, uh, reserves in the bank and he should have adequate insurance. But then assuming that he has insurance and a savings account for emergencies, uh, I surely would recommend that he adopt a continuous investment program in investment trust shares to an extent such that he can be reasonably sure of his ability to continue making his purchases through all phases of the business and business. stock market cycle. In other words, buy them when they're low as well as when they're high. All right. Here's a question from a rather unhappy listener, I think. Uh, it, it reads this way. Is there going to be anything left after the government gets theirs? Mr. Lundqvist? Well, uh, that man must have just finished, uh, working on his income tax return. Actually, of course, with national income of well over $200 billion, and we're talking in terms of $60, $70, $80 billion dollar budgets and, uh, other taxing bodies. Nevertheless, there is something left over, although maybe on March 15th we don't always think so. Here's an interesting question. Why not stop gambling on the stock market exchanges and particularly on the grain and food markets? Oh, we're all heartily opposed to that, I'm sure. Uh, don't speak of it as gambling, it's speculating, sir. Uh, we must not obstruct the operations of free and open markets. The existence of a large body of present and potential buyers and sellers is the greatest assurance of price levels which are fair and just to all. Anyone care to add anything to, uh, Mr. Whitehead's answer there? Just amen. All right. Uh, here's another question. Can the small investor, uh, safely invest at more than two and a half percent interest? Mr. Davidson? Well, he can. Uh, I think we're thinking in terms of safety there. The small investor, when he thinks of safety, is thinking of, uh, getting his money out, uh, uh, at a particular point. Uh, it's a little difficult to get a much greater... Thank you, gentlemen. I'm sorry, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Small Investor, His Problems and Opportunities. Our guests today were William D. Davidson, James G. Fisher, Lewis H. Whitehead, and Robert Lindquist. Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin. One dollar will bring you the reviewing stand for the next four months. Two dollars fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, Northwestern University will hold one of six major academic conferences to be conducted during its centennial year. Science, technology, and world resources will be discussed by prominent authorities. Next Sunday's reviewing stand broadcast is presented in conjunction with this important conference. We will discuss the question, What are the social responsibilities of scientists? Our guests will be Gordon Dean, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. Ovid Eshbach, Dean of the Technological Institute of Northwestern University. Karl Lark Horowitz, Chairman of the Department of Physics at Purdue University. And Suzanne K. Langer, Visiting Professor of Philosophy at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a feature centennial radio discussion of the question, What are the social responsibilities of scientists? Thank you, Mr. Boren. Remember, copies of these broadcasts may be purchased for ten cents in coin. One dollar will bring you the reviewing stand for the next four months, Two dollars fifty cents for an entire year. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast to coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.