Captions by R.S virus This evening, your municipal station presents a Christmas program according to the French folk tradition of medieval times. We have as our guests in the studio the children's chorus of the French Folklore Society under the direction of Louise Arnoux. The group is made up of youngsters from the professional children's school, most of them having had actual experience on the air and on the stage. This afternoon, they have prepared a special Christmas program. Christmas is the most cherished holiday of French people. Christmas is the most cherished holiday of the French people. Of all celebrations, religious or secular, Christmas has always been the most cherished of holidays among French peasants. And it is no wonder. Does it not belong to them particularly? Was not the star above the stable in Bethlehem shining for the poor and the oppressed? And was it not greeted first by the joyful shepherds? Jesus was born to save them, they feel, to give them the promise of a future life in which all social inequalities and injustices would be wiped out. A future life of peace, harmony and happiness. In fact, these inequalities were already forgotten at the time of Christmas. The rich and the aristocrats entering its spirit joined the peasants at church to sing the praise of Jesus. At their chateau in the front of the huge Christmas logs to listen to the beautiful Christmas legends told by the troubadours. And also in the representation of little plays interpolated the songs which they called Jus de la Noël, in which they represented the different episodes of the birth of Jesus. And now I would like to introduce Madame Arnaud, who will tell you about the first number on today's programme. Before we interpret for you one of the troubadour legends and the sequence of these songs from the Jus de la Noël, let us not forget that Christmas always had a special meaning for young peasant girls. It is the time when their lovers come to court to them in the long leisurely evenings. And when their lovers are far away, they think of them more longingly than at any other time of the year. I will sing for you the song of a girl whose heart aches for the absent. Voici la Noël. Voici la Noël. Le temps de veiller. Voici la Noël. Le temps de veiller. Où tous les amants vont à l'assemblée. Le temps de veiller. le temps de veiller. Le temps dans le monde. Le temps des matières. Oh Oh Now the children of the French Folklore Society begin their Christmas cycle with an Annunciation song in which the angel tells the Virgin Mary that she will be the mother of Jesus our Savior. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The children's chorus will sing for you the voyage to Bethlehem. It is a naive description of the arrival of Mary and Joseph when tired and weary they knock in vain at every door and are compelled to lodge in a lonely shabby stable where our Savior is born. The song ends with a joyful and well-known refrain, he is born, the divine child. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist is Lillian Petty. The soloist of Lillian Petty. And he is born, the sister of La Grenadine, San Andreas, it is Ranglious. Or if I had to, for you would've lost quiet Then I would of no adjektivest 저도 output and no difference Oh Frau, here I go Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.