Ladies and gentlemen, it is with a great thrill that I stand here each year and welcome you as we rededicate ourselves to the principles of American life and democracy. To our honored guest, I extend the hand of Scouting Fellowship as we honor George Washington, father of our country, first president. Certainly a true scout in every meaning of the Scout Oath and Law and our slogan to go forward on liberty's team. Here where George Washington first took the oath of President of the United States, we pay tribute to his memory. Now we will receive the invocation from Rabbi Emmanuel Applebaum of the Jewish Settlement House of the East Side. Rabbi Emmanuel Applebaum. Thank you, Mr. D'Alessandro. On this, the birthday of George Washington, first president of our glorious republic, we must pledge ourselves to the preservation and the strengthening of the democratic way of life. We must, of necessity, on such historic occasions, think back into the past. Retrospectively, we search out and then highlight for ourselves and for our neighbors and friends the beneficial, the pragmatic lessons for the future. This we do with a prayer to Almighty God, that he grant us of his guiding wisdom, that he let his light shine upon us as we search out the roads, upon which with dignity, shoulder to shoulder, and hand in hand, all men will walk humbly with God. The 12th Scout Law of the Boy Scouts of America states, A scout is reverent. He is reverent towards God. He is faithful in his religious duties and respects the convictions of others in matters of custom and religion. This is but one indication of the importance and the stress placed upon the religious, moral, and ethical training which the Boy Scout movement imparts to the youth of America. Thousands of men, nay, millions of people, have fought and died to preserve and to strengthen democracy in our generation. We who live dare not let them down, for if we do, and God forbid it, then we shall be a cursed generation. On this, as on other occasions, let us join together in prayer to Almighty God, that he grant us the wisdom and the courage to uphold and strengthen liberty in all its aspects. May he, in his everlasting patience and great mercy, lead us in his paths. May he let his face shine upon us as we call out to him in these troubled times. May we learn to work and dwell together in unity. May there be peace and plenty within and without our gates. And let us say, Amen. Thank you, Rabbi Applebaum. Now we'll have Scout Fred Lopez of Troop 360 Manhattan who will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Scouts, attention. Salute. Say with me the pledge to the flag. Scout salute. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Scout Lopez. It is now with great pleasure that I introduce our guest of honor, a man outstanding in public life. It is with great appreciation of the time he gives that we greet him. He has risen to high government position as a leader of people in this city through the opportunities given in our American way of life. A graduate of New York City's public school system and Columbia University, his career has been mainly a record of service to the people. Starting as law secretary to Judge William Bondi of the United States District Court, he was appointed to the position of assistant United States attorney in 1937. During five years in this office, he prosecuted many fraud cases and in 1942 was appointed assistant counsel to the Senate Truman Committee investigating war frauds. He became chief counsel to this committee in 1944 and at the same time serving as chief counsel to the Senate Committee on oil and fuel shortages. We could use a little fuel over here this morning. We all remember his activities as chief counsel to the Senate Crime Investigating Committee under Chairman Senator Estes Keefova. It is with great pride that I present the president of the City Council of New York, the Honorable Rudolph Halley. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Americans and good friends, we stand here today at the intersection of Broad Street and Wall Street. We stand in the shadows of the buildings that to many people signify America's might. But America's true might is really signified signified and appropriately signified by those who stand around me today. They are the youth of the United States of America. The young men, the young women upon whom our country will stand and I will not even say or fall. Because as I look about me and see these sturdy bodies and clean-cut faces, I know that America's future is clear and bright. Here on this site, George Washington was first inaugurated president of the United States. and we are here to pay tribute to him today. What could be more inspiring than to pay tribute to that greatest American than to do so with the Boy Scouts of America? Scouting symbolizes all of the things that built the Washington character. the faith in the deity, the building of a strong body, the clean mind, the outdoor life. All of these things contributed to bringing forth that American who in the direst times of the United States brought our country through its days of peril and planted the seeds which have sprouted into the mighty oaks all around us. Now it is one thing to pay tribute to a great American, but it is so much more important that we make that tribute mean something by doing those things which would make him proud of us. By being here, we are doing in a way our share. By being on this very spot, we pay homage to him. The very atmosphere around us contributes because as I stepped up to this microphone on this chilly day, our good friend George Washington who stands beside me said that the weather reminded him of Valley Forge. So with all these things to remind us of the contributions of George Washington, let us see what we can do to be worthy of them. Our country is surrounded by enemies within and without. We are ahead of our enemies. We have them, I believe, well under control. But we can control them only by defeating the corruption they represent. The corruption from without, the communist corruption, stems from a corrupt and degenerate world where the liberties of men are no longer respected. These things threaten us and it is our boys who stand here with me today who will protect us from them. But they can only do it if we have that same internal strength that we had in the days of Valley Forge. They can do it by building their own citizenship so that this will not be a country which must ever bow its head in shame. We must never be in a position where we, the citizens of the United States of America, must apologize to those countries to whom we plead democracy by not being able to stand up and say we practice what we preach. We must practice tolerance. We must fight discrimination. We must be fair to all Americans and see to it that their natural born rights as American citizens, the rights which symbolize this very country to all of us are never forgotten. And then we must fight for a clean body politic. The clean minds, the strong bodies of the individuals here can contribute to making this the kind of country we dream about and fought for. we must not have the workers in our war plants sullied either by stories that their monies are taken away from them by racketeers under the guise of bookmaking or policy racketeering. And we must not have those same workers ashamed to face our foreign friends because there is one bathroom for people of one color and another bathroom for people of another. Scouts, those are the things you must fight for. Take part in your civic organization. Be aware of your politics. Be aware of the men who are fighting to make this country good. It matters not which side you are on. Just so long as you fight hard, you fight clean, and you fight for the United States of America. Thank you very much, Mr. Halley. This time, I should like to greet a fellow scouter who is hiding in a corner very unassumingly, Mr. William C. Bates of the Greater New York Council. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you Scout William C. Bates William C. Bates William C. Bates William C. Bates William C. Bates William C. Bates who is going to place the wreath on the statue of George Washington. Scout C. Bates William C. Bates In the name of the Greater New York Council, Boy Scouts of America, and for freedom living, loving people everywhere, I place this wreath by the father of our country on this 220th anniversary of his birth. It is the fitting that at this time we rededicate ourselves to the Scout Oath and Scout's law. Thank you, William. That was very nicely said. And now, as a symbolic climax, Henry W. Dubois in the role of George Washington will offer Washington's prayer for the United States. Mr. Dubois. It is June 8, 1783, a day long to be remembered in the annals of our national life. It now becomes my solemn duty to disband the Continental Army. We now return to the building of that republic for which, under God, we have become responsible. Shall we pray? Almighty God, we make our earnest prayer that thou wilt keep the United States in thy holy protection, that thou wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience to government and entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another and for the citizens of these United States at large, and that thou wilt most graciously be pleased to dispose us all to do justice, to love mercy, and to demean ourselves with that charity, humility, and the pacific temper of mind, which were the characteristics of the divine author of our blessed religion, without in humble imitation of whose example in these things we can never hope to be a happy nation. Grant our supplications, we beseech thee, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.