Friends of the Wisconsin farmland, my inclusion on the program is to provide a sort of atmosphere. Anybody that has heard me before always turns to the one next to him and says, just sit back, Schindler talks for a hundred years. The centennial title, How to Live to Be a Hundred Happily, was, so to speak, thrown into my lap. As a matter of fact, it's been coming down around my head, like the roof falling in. And it worried me. I lost many a night's sleep. So finally I went to a lawyer friend of mine, a very brilliant man. He might have been a Philadelphia lawyer if he'd wanted to. And I put the question up to him. And he studied it for some time, and then he said, Ah, there's a loophole. There's a loophole in this title. You don't have to tell those people how to live to be a hundred years. The title inferres that if, if they live to be a hundred, here's how they can do it happily. And he said, that after all is the important thing, because nobody wants to live to be a hundred unless they're happy. A hundred years is a powerful long time to be unhappy. As a matter of fact, he said, there's no point in wanting to live to be sixty unless you're happy. And that's all he got to tell them. I thought for just one moment, and then I said to him, But I'm just a country doctor. All I see from one year's end to the other are about six thousand sick people, all of them with a bellyache. And they're not happy. Who am I to tell these people how to stay happy? Aristotle wrote a book on it, and he didn't get any place. So, his answer wasn't helpful either. He said, I, he says, I'm just a lawyer. From one year's end to the other, I see people who are in a mess. They're not happy. Even if you change this title to how to live to be a hundred, honestly, I couldn't help you then because none of the people that I see are honest. But he said, Doc, why don't you start out telling those people what it is that makes all your patients unhappy? And maybe in the course of the gab fest, you'll come to some positive point on how to be happy. And so rather than waste my fee, I'm going to start that way. And looking at this thing purely from a physician's point of view, we'll ask the rhetorical question, on your centennial course, toward a hundred, what is most apt to upset your happiness? And the physician's answer, of course, would be, my dear centennial friends, that the thing that would be most apt to take the props out from under your happiness would be a period of long illness. Because it isn't everybody who could write the kind of thing that Robert Louis Stevens wrote in the shape that he was in. And when you think of that, it becomes a little bit frightening because in the textbooks there are a thousand different diseases that this human clay is air-proofing. Looking at that fact from a slightly different angle, there's one consolation, and that is that in my 17 years of practice, as a matter of fact, probably in medical history, there has not been one individual who has had all thousand of the diseases at one time. A possible exception to that, of course, is Job, but our scientific data on him isn't sufficient to make him the one exception. But looking at it from still a different angle, there's another more startling feature, and that is that there is one disease that is as common as the other 999 put together. In other words, if you, on your way to 100, get sick, the chances are 50% right off the bat that it's this one disease that you're going to be sick from. In other words, 50% of all the people that are going to doctors in the United States today are sick with this one disease. And so we'd better know a little about that. Now, that figure isn't an exaggeration. Many men would put the figure higher. As a matter of fact, at the Ochsner Clinic in New Orleans, a couple years ago, they published a paper reviewing 500 consecutive patient admissions to that institution. And of those 500, 386, or 76%, were sick with this one disease. Now, that is terrific. It accepts no one, anybody of any age, can get this disease. Anybody in any walk of life can get this disease. If you put that into money figures, if the Murray-Wagner-Dingle bill or some similar bill were passed, it would cost the country about $4 billion a year in medical expense. $2 billion of that would be expended for the care and diagnosis of this one disease. In fact, probably a little more because this is a terrifically expensive disease to diagnose. And it's a terrifically expensive disease to treat. I hate to give you the name of it because immediately I give you the name, you'll get a lot of misconceptions as to what this thing is. And the first misconception that you will get when I tell you the name is that it's not a real disease. But don't kid yourself. This is a terrifically real thing. The name that it usually goes by, used to go by, is psychoneurosis. The name that it has now is psychosomatic illness. And it is not a disease in which the patient thinks that he is sick. I want to dispel that idea first and foremost very firmly because this is a terrifically real disease. The pain that you get with this disease is just as hard very often as the pain that you get with a gallbladder colic. The suffering that you can endure in this disease is just as great as the suffering that there is with any disease that you want to name. Now this disease isn't produced by a bacterium. It isn't produced by a new growth. It's produced by a certain situation, a certain condition in our lives. Your life, my life, everybody's life. If you wanted to name the feature, the characteristic feature that colored human living more than any other feature, I don't think there'd be any question as to what it would be. I've tried to find one word for it, but it takes three, each one of them meaning about the same thing but different degrees of the same thing. and those three words that characterize the most characteristic thing about human living as we know it are cares, difficulties, and troubles. you take cares, difficulties, and troubles out of most people's lives and there isn't too much left to talk about. You take cares, difficulties, and troubles out of the lives of some people that you and I know and there's nothing left to talk about. Now, the thing that brings on a psychosomatic illness is this layer of CDT that everybody has in their lives. and whenever one has such a thick impenetrable layer of CDT that they can't get up above it into a realm of joy and pleasure occasionally, they get a psychosomatic illness. Now, naturally, conditions vary with individuals. As to the thickness, the impenetrability of this layer of CDT that they live in, they also differ in their ability to bounce up above this layer occasionally. As regards the layer of CDT that people have in their lives, there are three divisions. They're the first division and nobody here tonight belongs in this first division but I'll mention it to you anyway. Those are the people who are habitually crabby. They live in the clouds. They get up in the morning grumpy. They're mean all day. They don't crack a joke. They don't have a smile and they go to bed the same way. I have a friend who illustrates that group. He has a farm, a beautiful farm. And a couple years ago in our country, we had a wonderful crop of oats. I drove past his farm one week early in July and I saw this field of oats and I thought to myself, well, this ought to make Sam happy. Now I'd inquired about from his relatives and friends as to whether they'd ever heard Sam say a happy, pleasant word. None of them ever had excepting his wife who thought that he had the first year they were married but that was so long ago that she wasn't sure. So I drove into Sam's yard and saw Sam and I said, Sam, that's a wonderful field of oats. And Sam came back with this. Yes, but the wind will blow it down before I get it cut. But I watched his field. He got it cut all right. He got it threshed and I know he got a good price for it because year before last. So I saw him and I thought, well, now I've got Sam where he just can't get out of this. So I said, Sam, how did the oats turn out? He says, oh, it was a good crop and I guess the price was all right but you know, a crop of oats like that sure takes a lot out of the soil. And then, a few months later in October, it was a beautiful October on a nice warm afternoon I saw him on the street and I said to Sam, Sam, it's a wonderful day, isn't it? Only I said it more enthusiastically than that to try to make it contagious. But not Sam, he didn't catch. He just said, yes, but when we get it, we'll get it hard. Now, people like Sam invariably get a psychosomatic illness before they get to be 100. Usually, it's in their late 50s, their 60s, or their 70s and when they get it, they get it hard. As a rule, they're invalids for the rest of their lives. They're cares to their families and there's nothing that you can do about it. The second group is the group that most of us belong in. These are the people whose layer of CDT isn't too thick. Financially, they're well enough off. They don't have any domestic troubles. Things are going along well enough, but they make their own CDT. All day long, they manage to be concerned, to be dissatisfied, to be anxious, to be worrying about something. If there's nothing around home or the business, then they begin to worry about Mrs. Smith down the street. Why doesn't she get her daughter in before 11 o'clock at night? Something's going to happen. That's the group that most of us belong in. The third group are those who really have a layer of CDT. Maybe a couple of armies have marched back and forth across their farm. Maybe they've gotten themselves into some kind of a mess. Financial ruin, domestic trouble, everything in the courts. They've really got a mess. Those people are usually easier to treat than those in the second group. And those in the second group are certainly more easy to treat than those in the first group. Now, how does this CDT bring on a disease? In order to understand that, we have to stop just a moment to consider what kind of a thing thinking is and what an emotion is. Thinking, we ordinarily suppose, is something that goes on solely in the brain. But that is quite wrong. Whenever we think, we use our entire bodies in one way or another in a series of correlated nerve impulses that center in the brain. Particularly, is that true when an emotion enters our thinking? And practically, all of our thinking is colored in one way or another by an emotion. And if we understand what an emotion is, we'll understand how thinking does things to our body. The best definition of an emotion comes from our own William James who took the work of the physiologist Lang about 1888 and formed this definition of an emotion and it's still the best that we have. Nobody has improved on this. Occasionally, somebody tries to change it but they don't. William James said that an emotion is a state of mind that manifests itself by a sensible change in the body. Get that. An emotion is a state of mind that manifests itself by a sensible change in the body. And we'll consider in a moment a few emotions and show you how the state of mind produces changes in the body. I want to read you the names of just a few emotions. We have so many emotions that you could write them in a line from here to Chicago and you wouldn't list all of them. Emotions are terrifically numerous things. Things that we're throwing off all the time. And we can divide them roughly into two groups. The pleasant emotions and the unpleasant emotions. Here is a very fractional list of unpleasant emotions. You know them. Anger, dissatisfaction, fear, disgust, disappointment, hatred, sorrow, grief, anxiety, remorse, and disgust. You could add to that ad infinitum. Here are a few of the pleasant emotions that all of us felt. Satisfaction, assurance, hopefulness, approval, love, joy, pleasure, cheerfulness, contentment, humor, and so on. You could add to that. But I want to show you so that you can understand just what an emotion is by giving you some examples. For instance, there is anger. A state of mind presents itself to an individual which results in anger. You can see that. You don't have to be told by somebody else that the man must be angry. He either gets white in the face or he gets red. His eyes get wider, his muscles tighten up so that he trembles. That is the state of mind manifesting itself by a sensible change in the body. Get it? Another emotion that all of you are more or less acquainted with is that which brings about blushing. Now, a person who blushes doesn't have a disease of the skin that makes them blush. In such a person, anything that's embarrassing, sometimes even just slightly embarrassing, produces a dilatation of the blood vessels in the skin of the face that brings on the blush. That is part of the emotion of embarrassment in that person. Others display the emotion of embarrassment in a different way. Another emotion that you're all acquainted with is exhibited by people who can look at a toad or blood and think or vomit. such a person doesn't have the disease of the stomach that makes them vomit or the disease of the heart that makes them faint. In such a person, the sight of blood or a toad is so disgusting, leads to such painfully disagreeable thinking that the stomach does the things that results in vomiting, the heart and the blood vessels leading to the brain do the things that result in fainting. That is the emotion. One other example that all of you have probably experienced and that is during a period of acute mourning some loved member of the family has died, you feel extremely weak. You don't feel like working. You've lost your appetite. That is part of the emotion of grief in which muscles become utterly relaxed. The deeper the grief, the greater the relaxation. That's grief. that's a sensible change in the body manifesting a state of mind. One more example. We had a man carried into the hospital one morning at nine o'clock. He was carried in because he couldn't have stood up. He'd have fallen over. He was faint. His heart was going 180 times a minute. He was vomiting. He couldn't control his bowels. He couldn't control his urine. And he stayed in that state for about three months. Now up until eight o'clock that morning he was a perfectly healthy man. Cheese maker. Strong, able to work every day and never sick. At eight o'clock he walked into his wife's bedroom and found that his wife had committed suicide and killed their only girl. Now he didn't at that moment develop heart disease or a cancer or a birth diagnosis. His thinking became acutely disagreeable. terrific emotional upset which produced the bodily changes that put him in the hospital. Now those are examples of the disagreeable emotions. One thing that every disagreeable emotion does except in grief is produce it produces muscle tightness tension of muscles. The happy emotions on the other side produce a relaxation of muscles to just an optimal degree. Not the relaxation that you get in grief but an optimal relaxation. They're in optimal tone. If you want them to do something they're ready to do it and very quickly. You can feel that. Some afternoon when you take the kids out on a picnic and everything goes along good everybody's behaving and you stop suddenly you ask yourself how do I feel? You feel good. What is it? It's that relaxation that optimal tone that all your muscles have assumed because of the emotion of pleasure. Now many of the happy emotions you can see. If you think of something funny the muscles of your face do a certain thing that you call a smile. If it's a little funnier than that then the muscles of the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles and the muscles of your larynx help do certain things and you laugh. You don't have to say to yourself well this emotion that I'm smiling about is getting to be second degree now I've got a laugh. It does that all by itself because that is the emotion. See? Now how does this business bring about a disease? Very simply. Suppose all day long your thinking is acutely disagreeable. You're tightening up muscles. You take your fist and hold it like this just loosely. it doesn't hurt but you hold it like that for a long time and it begins to hurt. If you squeeze your fist like that it hurts right away but either one produces pain whether you leave it loosely like this or whether you tighten it up. That's pain. One of the first places that you feel that are in the muscles of the back of the neck. And 85% of all the patients that we see complaining of a pain in the back of the neck going down the cords of the neck have this disease. To demonstrate that tightness just sit in an easy chair some night the easiest chair that you have to be sure that it isn't the chair that's doing it and worry hard about something for an hour. And when you get up you'll do this and the muscles of your neck are stiff. that's one of the earliest groups of muscles to show tension. There's also another group that comes into play very soon and those are the muscles of the upper end of the esophagus. When they squeeze down like this it feels like a lump. And 90% of all the people that we see complaining of a lump in here have this disease. Now if they try to swallow while that esophagus is narrowed down there's a moment of hesitation before it opens up and they feel as though they can't swallow. If the muscles in the lower esophagus are the ones that contract then it's a more serious thing. Such a person can't get anything through into their stomach and that spasm will stay tight like that day after day and week after week. Fortunately it doesn't occur nearly as often in the lower end of the esophagus as it does up here. Much more commonly is the stomach involved in this thing. And when the muscles of the stomach begin to squeeze down it feels like a pressure up under here. A disagreeable feeling. And when the muscles squeeze down real hard then it hurts. And it hurts just as bad as any ulcer. In fact 50% of all the people that we see who have a pain exactly like that of an ulcer don't have an ulcer. They've got that kind of a stomach. Now even if the pain in an individual is coming from an ulcer it isn't the ulcer that hurts. It's spasm of the muscle in the stomach adjacent to that ulcer that causes the pain. And when something gets into the stomach the stomach muscles relaxes the pain stops. When the stomach empties the muscle squeezes down again the pain starts. Now whether that spasm of muscle is occurring because of the ulcer there or because there's a nervous system there doesn't make any difference as far as the type of pain is concerned. We had a grocer who had that kind of a pain all the time. He was in competition of course with chain stores which isn't easy and he had a wife I believe if I'd have had his wife I'd have had his pain. If that if that isn't enough CDT for anybody he had a son he was always getting into trouble. Not just a little trouble but a whole lot of trouble. And between the three his business his wife and his son he had this pain here most all the time. And every once in a while somebody would tell him yes you have an ulcer and of course that made it work. But whenever he went someplace where they knew what they were talking about they assured him that you have no ulcer. He finally began to believe himself that he didn't have because every time he went up north fishing which was twice a year all he had to do was to get to Belleville which is 25 miles north of Monroe and his pain stopped. And he didn't come back again until he got to Round Grove Hill where he could see the courthouse tower and right there his pain started. And up at the Rochester at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester there is a doctor who has the same kind of pain very famous doctor if I gave you his name you'd all have heard him. He has the same kind of pain. He says I know that there's nothing there but I can't help it. Here in Rochester I'm driven I've got things to do I've got a hundred things on my mind all the time and that thing keeps hurting. The only way I can get rid of it is to get on the train when the train gets to Winona the pain stops when the train comes back in the station the pain stops. Now the same kind of spasm in muscle can happen in any in the rest of the 28 feet of bowel particularly in the colon. Some wag in Philadelphia said not long ago that the colon is the mirror of the mind and when the mind gets tight the colon gets tight and that's about the way it works. Usually in the same individual it becomes the same muscle that squeezes down. In some individuals it will be the muscles in the back of the neck that squeeze down every time they get anxious every time they get dissatisfied. In others it will be a three inch section of the colon. If it happens to be up in here it looks for all the world like gallbladder disease and it can hurt just as hard as a gallbladder spasm. And 50% of all the people that we see complaining of a pain exactly like gallbladder pain don't have gallbladder pain they've got this disease. If the pain happens to be lower down in the colon it will look just like appendicitis. And then it takes a very smart doctor not to open that abdomen. In other people the pain can occur throughout the entire length of the colon. And believe me they are uncomfortable and their suffering is real. Now we've considered mainly just the muscles of the intestinal tract but it can be the muscles in any part of the body. Particularly the muscles of the blood vessels. They respond very readily to emotional stimuli. I've already mentioned but 80% of the headaches that we see terrific headaches people with headaches severe enough to go to the doctor have a headache because some blood vessel inside or outside of the skull is squeezing down so hard from nervous excitation that it produces the pain. we had for instance a lady who got a terrifically sick headache that put her to bed for two days every time she got ready to go to town because going to town for her meant getting the house ready getting the children ready thinking about what she was going to get in town and hating to meet the people that she was going to meet there she was very shy and the only way she could keep from getting the headache was just not to go to town. other blood vessels come into this thing for instance the blood vessels in the skin and 30% of all the skin diseases that dermatologists see over the country are produced by blood vessels in the skin reacting this way to anxiety worry disgust and so on every time such an individual becomes upset or irritated or pee these particular blood vessels in some section of the skin usually it's on the back of the neck but it can be any place squeeze down and actually squeeze serum out through the wall of the blood vessel into the skin and as that keeps happening the skin becomes the tissue becomes thickened with serum it becomes reddish finally the serum is actually pushed up through the surface of the skin where it becomes scaly crusty and itchish and they have a neurodermatitis muscles anywhere in the body can react and 30% of all the rheumatisms that we see are produced by a muscle group someplace hurting because it's constantly kept tight by nervous tension one very favorite place are the muscles in the left upper part of the thorax never over on the right side people never come in because they've got pain here almost never it's always over here the reason for that is that they watch for it over here most everybody will get a pain on the left side or their right if it's over here sure it doesn't amount to anything if it's over here ah could be heart trouble then they watch for it the next day it comes again well now I must have heart trouble and then when it happens again yes I'm afraid it is heart trouble and then they watch it and all you've got to do to watch all you've got to do to bring on a pain is to watch something if you stop any time of the day and ask yourself where do I hurt where am I uncomfortable right now unless it's a happy moment in a happy moment you won't feel pain but if you're under tension you're going to hurt some place and then if you begin to pay attention to that pretty soon it hurts more often and it hurts harder now muscle tension is just one way in which the symptoms are produced in a psychosomatic illness I've just mentioned the other ways because I only have a hundred minutes to talk here one of the other ways is the effect that the emotion has on the endocrine system I'll just give you two examples of that all of you have driven down a street in an automobile too fast and suddenly somebody has backed out from a side road and you just barely missed them now you had to miss them in order to see what comes next the things that you noticed were these you started to breathe deep your heart started to go like this and you got just a little faint maybe the one next to you fainted you dare since because you're at the wheel the reason those things happen is that the acute fear that's presented to your mind produces these bodily changes an impulse is sent to the adrenal glands the adrenal squeeze adrenaline into the bloodstream which is immediately carried through the body when that adrenaline hits the heart the heart starts to do that when it hits the respiratory center in the brain you start to do that when it hits the blood vessels going to the brain they narrow down and you feel just a little woozy another example of how an emotional upset affects the endocrine system is illustrated by girls going away to college for the first time as freshmen about 30% of them will miss from 3 to 4 months menstrual periods simply because of the strange newness and tenseness of their lives and most of the menstrual irregularities in women are produced by the same mechanism there's one more way that's very important in producing the symptoms of a psychosomatic illness some doctors say that it's the most important I don't think so so I always put it last in my list and that is by hyperventilation by hyperventilation we simply mean over breathing and there are some people who are so continually excited so continually up in the air that they're over breathing all the time all of us over breathe some of the time and the symptoms that are produced are very noticeable the reason that they are produced by over breathing is that as we breathe we breathe out carbon dioxide which comes from the blood and has to be replaced in the blood at the rate that it's removed if we remove it faster by over breathing it goes down in the blood and the blood becomes a little alkaline and when it reaches a certain degree of alkalinity things begin to happen and the first thing usually that happens is the tingling numbness of your hands or feet about the same time you feel a quivering in your abdomen which is due to the muscles of the intestine just going like that about the same time your heart usually starts to beat fast and you get dizzy a kind of a sudden lightheadedness all of that comes very quickly and then if you keep on over breathing you begin to get cramps in the arms and the legs until by persistence you can bring on such a cramp that it'll double you up in what we call tetany we had a man who was having his teeth pulled and every time he had a date with the dentist he became apprehensive about two hours before he had to go and he started to over breathe by the time he got into the dentist's chair he was in tetany and he fell out of the chair and the dentist called up and said come right down and see Mr. So-and-so he's having a fit but he wasn't he was just over breathing and he did that every time he had to go to the dental chair now all of us hyperventilate much of the time a particulate night if you watch anybody asleep as a rule particularly after a hard day they're very restless they move around they assume awkward positions and they breathe funny ever watch them they breathe fast for a while and if at a time like that they wake up they'll often find that they have a cramp in fact the cramp will wake them up because during sleep we're thinking about the same things that we did during the day and if Mr. So-and-so down the street said something nasty to us during the day at night he's shooting at us in our sleep and we react emotionally the same way as though he really were shooting at us and it produces changes in the body just as terrific now that is one of the reasons that restlessness that tenseness that we go through at night that makes us so tired in the morning and in this disease one of the characteristic things is that people get up in the morning more tired than when they went to bed the night before and this is the only disease that does that we used to think that that was the only explanation for the tiredness another explanation of course is that in many of these states there is a measure of grief mixed up in it and that relaxation of muscles is so terrific in grief that it gives you a very tired feeling but more recently in the last few years a professor Selye professor of medicine at Toronto University has given us a new and very startling idea of what this tiredness comes from that these people have tiredness is always a feature of it in fact when they get so tired that they can't walk across the room anymore we call it a nervous breakdown Dr. Selye took some rats and kept them worried just how he did that I won't describe to you but it didn't hurt the rats except that he kept them worried had them look for food had a dog look through a glass into their cage to frighten them and although these rats did not have to move around very much yet they became very tired and when he took the blood from such a tired rat and put it into a normal rat that rat was immediately tired and then when he took the blood from a person who was in a nervous breakdown and put that into a normal rat that rat became tired and then he isolated a substance from the blood of these animals that would produce the tiredness and he followed its action through the body and he knew just what mechanism produces that tiredness now that of course is an organic effect from in a psychosomatic disease and we have other such organic effects for instance if it happens to be the blood vessels on your heart that squeeze down every time you get excited every time you get angry it's a very serious thing you then have a disease called angina pectoris that can put you into the happy hunting ground almost any moment John Hunter one of the greatest physiologists in England had that kind of a heart and he always said the first scoundrel that gets me angry will kill me and that's exactly what happened he got up in a medical meeting one time to refute something that he didn't like and in a fit of anger produced such a contraction of the blood vessels on his heart that he fell dead and there are other organic effects of a psychosomatic illness that I could go into but we can't now that's a psychosomatic illness many of the people that have it are up and around they're walking around many of them are in the hospital thousands of them have been in bed at home for years it can be all degrees of severity and you don't want to get it because when you get it you're unhappy now it's easy to keep from getting it and it's easy to get over it if you've got it it's so easy that it's hard to believe all you have to do not to get a psychosomatic illness is to make use of this key thought say it over and over to yourself I am going to make my attitude and my thinking as cheerful and as pleasant as possible I'm going to make my attitude and my thinking as cheerful and as pleasant as possible now it would be idiotic to stand up here and tell this centennial audience that you can be pleasant and cheerful all the time of course you can but you can be pleasant and cheerful part of the time now it's easy to use this key thought if you learn to do eight things and there ought to be a course in the university called the art of human living that you could learn all eight of them I remember that I learned some of them in Benny Snow's Physics 1A and in Max Otto's Man and Nature and in William Kekoper's Economics 1A but it wasn't integrated I had to go all over the college to get it but here are the eight things the first thing that you want to learn is to quit looking for a knock in your human motor don't be analyzing your feelings all the time looking for trouble that habit will certainly land you in a psychotromatic illness the second thing to learn is learn to like to work in this world to get any place you've got to work there have been a few that have devised some other methods but they lead either to the penitentiary or to a political job but you can learn to like work so much that it becomes as invigorating as dancing and it pays better one of the things that you will escape if you learn to like to work is work tension the tension that many people get under with the idea I've got to get this done I've got to get that done how am I going to do this that's usually because they don't like to work and when you get up in the morning you want to pound on your chest and say come on work where is it then the third thing is learn to have a hobby a hobby is a very important element for getting your mind off of work tension during the day when you're hurrying speeding got things on your mind just relax for thirty seconds by getting your mind off on that thing you're making in the basement or that fishing clip you're going to take next Sunday and then when you get home drop your business go down in the basement and work on that thing or get your fishing tackle out and get ready for Sunday I had an elderly patient who had alienated her friends and her children they didn't want to come to see her they didn't invite her to see them because all she ever talked about was how miserable she was all the pains and feelings she had they didn't want to hear it anymore of course when they alienated her she had that to add to her troubles so I said to her one afternoon why don't you get a hobby and I didn't think she was even listening to me but a week later to my surprise she called up and said well I've got a hobby I said good what is it and she said button collect I thought to myself my goodness button collect but since I've seen her collect buttons I think that someday when I have time I'm going to collect buttons myself because it has done her a tremendous amount of good now instead of spending an afternoon telling her friends how awful she feels she'll go out looking for a button that she's heard about or she'll put them up on a card and then when people come in she'll tell them about these buttons one afternoon for instance she came up to see good old Governor Goodman and she got into his office and she explained to him that she would like a button for her collection off his vest and he laughed and said I'd give you one but I haven't got anything to cut it off with and she took the scissors out of her purse and handed it to him and he cut off three buttons from his vest and one from his coat and she has those up on one card all by itself the fourth thing I guess it's the fourth yes learn to like people you'd be surprised how many individuals there are who hate everybody who carry a dissatisfaction around we had a man who was in the hospital he was that sick and he got there because he had to work in an office with another man whom he didn't like he was the assistant superintendent of a plant that hired 5,000 people he had a good job he didn't want to leave it and he had to be in this office with this one other man he said the first time I saw him I didn't like him I didn't like the way he combed his hair I didn't like the way he whistled through his teeth I didn't like the way he always started a sentence with listening and on questioning him I found that he never liked anybody he didn't like his mother or his father or any of his family his wife always came in with him so I never dared to ask him whether he liked his wife but you have to meet them you've got to be with people all the time so learn the life now the fifth thing is learn to be satisfied I mean that by that of course to be satisfied when the situation is such that you can't easily change it or if you're in a situation in which dissatisfaction isn't going to be of some use for example you all know of the person who will become very distressed because he is violently dissatisfied with the weather obviously you can't change the weather so the best thing to do is to like it or if you can't like it at least don't get violently dissatisfied with it another example is that of the young lady who was sick in a hospital with a psychosomatic illness because she had become violently dissatisfied with her life she'd been educated to be a secretary in a fine school had a wonderful job in Washington when the war came along and that brought army officers through Washington and she married an army captain which was very good until after the war she found herself living in a trailer raising three children and she didn't like to live in a trailer and she didn't like to raise children in a trailer and she wasn't sure anymore that she liked to live with her husband in a trailer and all the time she wanted to be a secretary back in Washington which was obviously impossible I didn't tell her what her trouble was I just advised her to send to the library and get the four Pollyanna books four perfectly silly books and to read them and when she'd read them she volunteered her therapy herself she said I know what you want me to do you want me to like to live in a trailer and I guess I do keeping house in a trailer is easy there's not much to it and when I don't like the view out of the window we can move the trailer and get another view and raising children in a trailer is nice because there's a lot of room outside to run around in and I certainly don't want to be a secretary back in Washington she'd learned her lesson she'd learned to be satisfied and she's been getting along fine and she didn't let her satisfaction stand in the way of moving into a nice home that they just recently built and completed so that's the trick just learn to be satisfied it's just as easy under most conditions to be satisfied as it is to be dissatisfied and it's much more pleasurable and the sixth thing is learn to accept adversity in this life you're going to have some of it you may have a lot you may have a little but don't let it bowl you over I had a man who hadn't worked for a year three months before he got sick his wife died a month later his son was killed and from that moment on he sat around thinking how unfortunate I am why did this have to happen to me why can't my wife be here why did my son have to go and he carried on in that vein until he became very sick and a lot of people start out a psychosomatic illness after an adversity the seventh thing is learn to save a cheerful humorous thing be like George Brady get in the habit of saying the pleasant thing and get out of the habit of saying anything mean never do even if you've got get up in the morning look at your wife or your husband and even if it isn't so say my dear you look good this morning it'll make her feel better and it'll make you feel better and then look out the window and say boy what a beautiful day if it's raining my isn't that good for the soil and get in that heaven and finally the eighth thing is learn to meet your problems with decisions about the worst thing to do is to have a problem and we have many of them every day and then mull it over and over in your mind if you've got a problem decide what you're going to do about it and then quit thinking about it if you've got a problem that you can't solve then tell yourself that's insoluble and then you've got to quit thinking about it like one lady that I knew who had a husband who had been drunk for 25 years that used to bother her she worried about it and then one day she said to herself it doesn't do any good to think about it that's insoluble I'm going to make my life and my children's lives as happy as I can under the circumstances and she quit thinking about her problems to her great advantage those are the eight things that you have to learn and then the key will work easily and the key is again I'm going to keep my attitude and my thinking as pleasant and as cheerful as possible and that's it folks that's it that's happening there isn't any better definition for happiness than the state of being in which your thinking is cheerful and pleasant most of the time if you can think of a better definition I wish you'd like to and so that's it that's the way to be happy while you live to be a hundred thank you you you
