The Northwestern University reviewing stand. What does Alaska mean to us? Alaska is of great strategic importance to the defense of the United States. The development of the territory means an opportunity for capital investment. Alaska means an incorporated territory of the United States, having a very large area and a very small population, which some people think should become the 49th state. Alaska is rich in minerals, fish, furs, timber, and has beautiful scenery. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, the program in its 18th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, what does Alaska mean to us? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the development of Alaska for economic and military purposes in relation to the question of statehood for Alaska. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Carl W. Jackson, investment banker. Malcolm J. Proudfoot, Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. General Leifton Whitney, Executive Director of the Weebold Foundation. And Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now gentlemen, I think that most Americans have a pretty vague, often naive conception of what Alaska is all about. What is it like, Proudfoot? What kind of a territory are we talking about? Well, Alaska is a very large country, a very large area, 586,000 square miles. It lies very much north of us, anywhere from 1,500 to 3,000 miles north and northwest of us here. And this large area is, if you laid it on to the United States, would practically go from one end of it to the other, because you have the Aleutian fringe of islands. It's relatively unpopulated. Actually, there are nearly five square miles for every person up there. And this isn't true, of course, because most of the some 150,000 people that are living in Alaska are concentrated in relatively few places, mainly in cities. How does that 150,000 population compare with other states, the smaller states? I take it the comparison should be with Nevada. Do you know offhand? What is the population of Nevada? I don't know offhand, but this is a relatively small population group, but not so small that it isn't larger than the population in a number of territories which were admitted to statehood. This is not a specialty of mine, however. This... Rowland? I was going to mention regarding that, that the population of Alaska in the 1950 census is something like 128,000. However, all of this is not permanent population, and also we have to account for something like 34,000 natives. So, so far as statehood is concerned, there is the question of how large a territory should be. Under what condition do those natives live up there, Young? Well, we have in general, Dean McBurney, three kinds of natives, the Indians, the Aleuts, and the Eskimos. The Indians live in southeast Alaska, the Aleuts in the Aleutian Islands, and the Pribilofs, and the Eskimos in the north and the northwest. Many of them are adopting modern ideas, modern living conditions, but a few, especially the Eskimos, still retain their tribal traditions. And incidentally, many of the natives are, in essence, wards of the federal government, go to federal schools, which are operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of Interior. I was going to ask you, Proudfoot, about the industries in Alaska. Well, there isn't much in the way of industry. There's a great deal in the way of mining, and of course, there's a substantial amount in the way of fishing and fish canning, the canning of fish products. Also, the timber industry is important. But these are very primary type of industries, and not manufacturing in the sense that we usually think of. Do they do much in agriculture up there? Agriculture is really just on a very limited basis. Well, I was thinking particularly of this Matanuska, how do I pronounce that? Matanuska. Matanuska colony that was developed up there some 20 years ago. I remember they enlisted persons on marginal land in upper Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota, and encouraged them to go up there and settle in this Matanuska Valley. What's happened to that? Well, this Matanuska Valley is one of the few pockets, one of the few spots in Alaska where suitable conditions prevail for agriculture. It's not a big area. It's only the little valley in which this Matanuska Valley colony developed is about 450 square miles. And before the actual Federal Relief Colony was established, there were already about 500 people carrying on some agriculture here. Today, there are about 3,000 people in this Matanuska Valley, and they turn out potatoes and various hardy vegetables, and they go in for dairy cattle to supply milk to Anchorage and various other towns. There's a real need, of course, for various kinds of fresh fruit and fresh vegetables and milk, and that's the sort of thing which this Matanuska colony supplies. However, it was a rather costly proposition, if one may say so. It cost the Federal Government $5,400,000 over a period of about 20 years in this area, and although we have the 3,000 people there, and they have developed the area, one must look at it. There's a fairly expensive proposition. For example, it cost a total of $200 an acre just to clean the trees and brush and rubbish with bulldozers off the land. We've got a lot of good land in this country you can buy for less than $200 an acre, which you don't have to work on. I think we might mention also the general inaccessibility of Alaska, especially until recent years. That is, until recent years, it was accessible primarily by water. Now, of course, you can get there by air, and in 1942, the Alaskan Highway was built. Primarily as a military venture, it is true, but still, it is possible to get to Alaska by overland route. And that has had some effect, surely, upon the development, the relatively slow development. And I think the point is, perhaps, that with the increased transportation facilities, it might be possible to develop Alaska at a much more rapid pace than has happened up to now. Jackson, are there any industries of any size in Alaska now? Yes, there are several very substantial investments there on the part of such companies as Libby McNeil and Libby. Fishing, you know, is the largest industry in the territory. Mining comes second, and such companies as U.S. Melting, Refining and Mining Company have made substantial investments in mining operations near Fairbanks. Other industries, such as communications and transportation, of course, have developed with a growing population. Presently, American Viscos Corporation and Puget Sound Pulp and Timber Company are erecting a pulp mill. What most people don't realize is how very much money citizens of the United States have made on Alaska. It is estimated that the total take out of the area comes pretty close to $3 billion since we got it in 1867, and we paid a little over $7 million for it in those early days. Actually, we got the whole area for about two cents an acre. Of course, some people will say that some of the land is hardly worth two cents an acre, but actually, it has been a very profitable area indeed, but on a large-scale exploitation basis, exploitation of minerals, fish, furs, timber. Well, do we really know how wealthy Alaska is in mineral resources? Well, we have done... Maybe it's worth more than two cents an acre. Well, that's one of the points that I wanted very much to make, McBurney, is that we now have the aeroplane, and with the aeroplane, the exploration of distant, inaccessible areas is much easier than it ever was before. And the time is ripe, it seems to me, for a very thorough exploration of the resources of Alaska, especially the mineral resources. I don't doubt that a good deal of this is being done. All I can say is that in view of the mineral wealth which Alaska has poured out in the past, it seems to me a very good investment to spend more money finding out what we have in Alaska by exploration. The shortest air routes between the great world powers are across the Arctic, and Alaska affords us fine bases in the Arctic. The military air transport service and commercial air services from our west coast to Japan go by way of Alaska for the shortest route. The great circle route by way of Anchorage, the Aleutians, to Tokyo is only 5,688 miles, compared with the central route to Hawaii and Wake Island of 6,772 miles, and the southern route by way of Hawaii, Kwajalein, Guam to Tokyo of 8,083 miles. General, what you say about the excellence of the route to Japan and to the Orient by way of Alaska, the great circle route, is absolutely true. But under the present circumstances, we've got a different alignment. What would you say is the strategic alignment now with regard to Alaska? Surely the situation has changed from World War II. At that time, we were very interested in Alaska in terms of defense against Japan. But the situation today surely isn't similar to that. Alaska has great strategic value to the United States, probably greater defensively than offensively. It is valuable for the detection and possible interception of air attack from eastern Siberia, launched against the United States or Canada. It is valuable in defense against airborne or submarine landings in Alaska or other near Arctic areas. It is valuable as a training base for Arctic warfare, for the Army, Navy, and Air Force. And it is valuable as a base for polar and Arctic weather observation and research. All those things you say are absolutely true, General. One thing I certainly would stress is the training that one gets in terms of fighting in cold climates. One should stress the fact that the climate of Alaska is rather unique. We have a coastal fringe starting in the Panhandle and running all the way along the coast out into the Aleutians, which is relatively mild, rather a good climate. In other words, it's pretty much the same climate that Western Europe has. But behind the mountain ranges and in the interior of Alaska, we have conditions which are very comparable to Siberia, with temperatures down to 75 degrees below and peculiarly, and also like in Siberia, summer temperatures up in the 90s. What is the average temperature there, anyway? Well, the fluctuations are so great that the average temperature doesn't mean anything. It's really the variation between, you've got a range, you see, from 75 below to 90 above. In other words, you've got about 180 degree range from the coldest to the warmest. It's quite something to get used to. It is pretty difficult to describe the climate of a territory as large as Alaska. The climate characteristics in Fairbanks, for instance, are entirely different from those in Juneau. You're suggesting that Fairbanks isn't too bad a place to live, Mr. Jackson? Well, when I was there, it was daylight 24 hours and 90 above. I haven't been there in the winter. And how cold does it get then? I understand it gets down to 60 to 65 below. What kind of a city is Fairbanks, to take that as an example? How primitive are the conditions there? They aren't primitive at all. They have parking meters, modern hotels, air-conditioned restaurants. Do they have much parking in the wintertime up there outdoors? I'm just curious. I doubt it. I haven't been there in the wintertime, but I thought perhaps you might be interested to know that it's really something like a typical western mining town. It reminded me, for instance, of a town like Salida, Colorado. Well, now, we were talking, General Whitney, about the military significance of Alaska. And I understand you to say that it's important primarily for defensive reasons. I think that is true, Dean McBurney. Alaska, offensively, may not have the greatest value in a war with Russia. But in the hands of Russia, it would be a very dangerous thing for us, because it would provide bases for offensive air operation against strategic targets in the United States and Canada. And incidentally, it is only 1,500 miles from Fairbanks to Seattle, 1,375 miles from Anchorage to Vancouver, and 2,900 miles from Fairbanks to Chicago. We must deny the Alaska bases and ports to an enemy. Go ahead, Professor. As far as I'm concerned, you're absolutely right. And I suppose that's part of the reason for wanting to have some local population up there, I suppose, to grow some vegetables for the military establishment. Do they import their food, or do they expect the local farmers to grow it for them, General? The supply of the forces, Army, Navy, and Air Force, is generally from the United States. And the local purchase would supplement the rations, but I doubt if it would be of too great importance. There's been a good deal of talk since the war, General Whitney, upon them about developing Alaska in order to protect it for the United States, increasing the population and so on. Also, that we should give Alaska its statehood, partly for defensive reasons. Do you think there's anything to the argument that we should attempt to develop Alaska in order that we can defend it better? It might be helpful to the military to have some better development in Alaska. But actually, from a defense standpoint, large populations create problems in the defense of any area. And it would seem that if there were large cities, large populations that had to be cared for by the military, it would add to the problem of defending the country. The population of Alaska has increased about 75%, I understand, since 1940. This growth in population has led to such commercial developments as newspapers, radio stations, and so forth. One of the big problems, however, in the territory is housing. And the development of the territory economically, which would provide for such building materials as cement, brick, and so forth, would be very helpful to the territory at this time. Well, now, Young has introduced this question of statehood in relation to the military importance of Alaska. How do you view this Alaskan request for statehood, Young, anyway? Well, Dean McBurney, I can give you a little summary here of what has happened. And I might mention that last month, on the 27th of February, the Senate recommitted to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs a bill to give Alaska statehood. Now, does this recommitment mean that the issue is dead? No, it doesn't mean that. For all time, it surely means it, I think, that it is dead for this present session of the Senate. What was the vote on it, by the way? Well, the vote was, let me see, 45 to 44. And incidentally, you might be interested in looking at the general breakdown of votes on that. We find that, so far as the Senate is concerned, there is a pretty even split between the parties. Twenty-three Democrats and twenty-two Republicans voted to send the bill back to the Committee. Some twenty-four Democrats and twenty Republicans voted against sending it back to Committee. And we can say, in general, that those who voted to send it back are inclined against statehood, and those who voted against sending it back are more or less favorable to statehood. Well, of course, statehood for Alaska is just not something all by itself. I suppose there's a good deal else involved. If you give statehood to Alaska, what else would be involved? I suppose the Hawaiian Islands, et cetera. Well, let me take that point up in one second. But I do think that there is the political situation in Washington which has to be considered also. You have, in part, the balance of power in the Senate. You have the general attitude of the American public towards statehood. And then you have the various indigenous movements in, say, Alaska and Hawaii towards statehood. So far as Washington is concerned, the politicians are quite interested in that, in part there because of the balance of power. Who would get more power? And you would think that, for that reason, the Democrats would be more in favor of bringing Alaska into the Union. And that is, on the whole, true so far as the Northern Democrats are concerned. And so then, in this breakdown of votes, we find that the Democrats were split almost in half between the Northern Democrats and the Southern Democrats. There were only three Southern Democrats, Kefaufer, Holland, and Sparkman, who voted against recommitting the bill. And so far as voting to recommit the bill, all of the Democrats were Southerners except one, Senator Hayden of Arizona. So the Democrats are split on this, partly for the reason that the Southern Democrats do not want to bring in more senators who might vote for civil liberties legislation. Do you have something to say on that, Jackson? I find that there is divided opinion in the territory itself. Those who favor statehood feel that it would give them such advantages as a representation in Congress with a vote. Their delegate now, you know, is merely a representative. He has no vote in Congress. Those who feel that it would be a disadvantage feel that it would impose tax burdens they couldn't bear. Would they get any financial advantages out of being a state? Are there certain federal disbursements which Alaska isn't getting today, which would immediately get, if for roads or things of that character? Well, the answer in general is no. We find that Alaska as a territory is in a very privileged position. It is an incorporated territory and the people who live there have all of the rights of citizens of the United States, including, incidentally, the right to pay a federal income tax. But so far as statehood is concerned, it would mean that Alaska would take over many of the functions, or at least some of the functions, which are now carried on by the Department of Interior. There has been no complete breakdown of the functions which would be given to Alaska, but on the whole it would cost Alaska more to operate as a state than it does to operate as a territory. And the people in Alaska themselves seem to be substantially divided, as you pointed out earlier, so that it doesn't look like, I mean, there's division both on the outside within Congress and within Alaska itself. What are the strong interests that want statehood, Jackson? Do you know, in your visit to Alaska, were you made aware of who it was that really was back of the statehood idea? I don't know of any sponsorship of any particular group. I think it's somewhat a matter of personal opinion and a question as to the economic advantage or disadvantage of statehood. Don't you think it's in part a matter of personal pride? Don't you think there's a considerable group up there that want statehood for the sake of statehood? Might that, might not that be a factor? I suppose that might be a factor. There's no question about our obligation with regard to the people that are in Alaska. They're not distant, they're not really completely disenfranchised. Many of them, by the way, don't they go live in the south a good bit of the time? Is the population really a permanent one in Alaska? Well, the wealth, I'm afraid, isn't quite so great that everyone can go south for the winter. However, the size of the, the size of the territory is one of the factors. How many people are there? And so far as the population is concerned, I should say that Alaska is somewhat over-representative in the House, even though the delegate doesn't get to vote. Alaska has something less than one half the size of an ordinary congressional district. On the other hand, we find that it is a very large area and developing area, and they, they would get more power, surely, in the Senate than any comparable size territory now, now has. So far as the people in Alaska are concerned, there was a turret, there was a referendum held in 1946, which showed that some 9,630 Alaskans favored statehood, not necessarily statehood now, but favored at some time, as opposed to 6,822 who were against statehood. There has. That adds up to about 15,000 people. I mean, that's what, about 40% of those that might have cast a vote on the subject? I mean, the others were indifferent, I suppose. Well, this question of how many people can vote is a difficult one to answer, in part because of the native population. Now, a good many of the native population do vote. There has been an attempt to encourage their voting, to establish polling booths and so on in the, in the native areas, but the actual percentage of natives who vote is, is not known at the present time. So we do, we can't say how many people are eligible to vote, although the population is, of course, increasing slightly. Regardless of statehood, Alaska would have to be defended at any rate, because the citizens of Alaska are American citizens, and we must defend it for its strategic value. Now, that proposes, or offers, a number of difficult logistical problems. Radar is limited because of the mountainous terrain and the atmospheric conditions. The logistical problems, although enormous, are not insurmountable. Communications are difficult because of northern lights and other natural disturbances. The transportation is serious, the railroads are few, the roads are poor, aircraft maintenance is hampered by lack of hangers, which requires outdoor repair during the severe weather. Vehicle maintenance and operation are special problems. But I take it these are difficulties that we have to face and that we need to meet, General, is that correct? These are difficulties which we have to face and which we are attempting to learn how to face them and use them and make the most of the climatic conditions there. In view of the importance of this question, would this not be a time to sponsor a rather complete geological survey of the territory? Well, I don't know how far they've gone with the exploration, but I know that there must be a great deal that remains to be done. And I can think of no better time than just now, and from now on, because we have the airplane. And that means that we can make on the ground exploration in inaccessible areas to which we were absolutely unable to go before. We can land on rivers with small aircraft on small lakes, and in one way or another get into the most inaccessible portions of this huge area known as Alaska, with relative ease, but at a high cost, of course. But I think worth it in view of the mineral resources we've uncovered there in the past. It seemed to me, reading the debates in Congress on the statehood for Alaska, that one of the reasons that the bill was sent back to committee was that the senators didn't feel they knew enough about policy toward Alaska, what they should do toward Alaska, or what Alaska might be like in the future, ten years or twenty years. They didn't have adequate material regarding mineral surveys, population development, and so on. There was a general feeling that Alaska would develop, a feeling of pride in the frontier and so on, but there was no real knowledge even of how much it would cost Alaska to take on the burdens of statehood. So I think that we can say that our policy toward Alaska is unclear at the present time, partly because we are unclear ourselves about what potential resources there are there, and what our policy should be toward Alaska. We operate on a free enterprise basis in this country, I'm glad to say, and as far as I'm concerned, we ought to look upon Alaska as an area which we exploit if it's to our profit to exploit. I mean by that that we should make the most we can out of it, and it looks to me, in view of the disagreeable climate of much of the area, and the almost impossibility of carrying on agriculture, that it ought to be exploited during the better summer months, and fast by airplane and by other means that we have at our command. Well now, Proudfoot, isn't that position a bit crass, as you're suggesting, that we continue to exploit this vast territory economically, and then fly to Miami for a warm winter. Is that about what you're saying? Well, we might have all kinds of gold, Dean McBurney, in our cold attic, but there's no reason why we have to sleep with it. As far as I'm concerned, the resources of Alaska are ours to exploit. It's territory of the United States, and I think we're fools if we don't find out how much we have in that attic. But as to living in it all year round, well, we'd have to do a lot of work to make it comfortable. That's the problem. There is, I think, Proudfoot, a relationship between economic exploitation and political development. The premise is that if you develop an area with a stable community, people who take pride in their country, that they will be willing to invest money there. That on the whole, there is a very close relationship between economic development and political development. It isn't a question of going in and exploiting Africa and not living there, but to exploit it at all, we have to have people who are willing to spend their lives there, winter and summer. Well, I mean, the Homestead Act applies to Alaska. As many people as want to can go up there and get their 640 acres or whatever it is and start farming. But the point is, there's very limited areas that are suitable for farming purposes. It is, however, estimated that about 5 million people could live and subsist on the basis of the agriculture which they could develop in this area. And, of course, that's a very large figure compared to the 150,000 that are up there now. But at a cost, at a high cost. The population will grow, I think, in direct proportion to the investment up there by important corporations based on their own research. The type of investment that creates payrolls and brings people to the territory. And would you suggest the industrial expansion of that sort? Would a more adequate banking facility help at all, Jackson? Banking facilities would help materially. There are good banks in Alaska. The borrowing rate is high. It costs 8% to borrow money. For that reason, many of the leading companies in the Territory Bank in Seattle. Yes, but the point is that banks want to make money. And they want to loan their money on something that they can get a return on. And that certainly wouldn't be agriculture. It seems to me that since we have this military commitment in Alaska, which we must keep up for defensive purposes, and what we need is a large-scale exploratory operation. Cooperation between the Army and the various other branches of the military service, and such an outfit as the geological survey to find out what we have in the way of mineral wealth and value in Alaska, because on the basis of what we've already taken out of the area, it looks like it'll be worth doing it. Well, we seem to be agreed on that one constructive suggestion, certainly, that a substantial survey of this great territory be made, a geological survey, so that we have a better picture of what the potential resources of the area are. And with that picture before us, we'd be in a position to make firmer judgments on some of these other issues that we've had before us. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does Alaska Mean to Us? We want to thank our guests for today, Carl Jackson, Chicago Investment Banker, Malcolm Proudfoot, Professor of European and Political Geography at Northwestern University, Brigadier General Leifton Whitney, United States Air Force Reserve, and Roland Young, Associate Professor of Political Science, Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next twelve weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, Should the government subsidize the arts? Our guests will be Rudolf Gantz, President of the Chicago Musical College, Harold Hayden, Associate Professor of Art at the University of Chicago, Lee Mitchell, Chairman of the Theater Department and Director of the University of Theater and the School of Speech at Northwestern University, and Elceo Vivas, John Evans, Professor of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy at Northwestern University. We hope you will be with us next week when we ask the interesting question, Should the government subsidize the arts? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.