We present the next in the weekly transcribed series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. At this time, Plan for Survival takes you to Ward C-20 at St. Albans Naval Hospital in Long Island, New York, where Captain Arnold J. Lappiner of Brooklyn, Private First Class John U. Traybold of Rochester, Corporal Arthur R. Fisher of Trenton, and Private First Class Robert J. Simpson of St. Albans are discussing the problem of civil defense with William McGrath, Assistant Chief of the Air Warning Service. How can these people be so stupid? Well, you talk about being stupid, and the amazing thing is that it's so easy and so sensible not to be that way. I know just last Wednesday night, no, it was a week ago Wednesday night, and I knew it was, I know it was a Wednesday night because this program, Plan for Survival, is on, and that's the civilian defense program where they give information to the public on civilian defense and its activities and how it works and what the public should do. I had some guests over at my house. These people were very annoyed at the fact that at 11.30 there was nothing else on the radio except this program, Plan for Survival. When they expressed this annoyance to me, well, I flipped my lid. Of course, I had to control myself because these people were my guests and I was the host. But I pretty near forgot that that was the situation. I made sure that the program stayed on. Actually, there's nothing else on the radio, and if you want to have your radio on, that's it, since they have all these stations covered. And I think they should. And I think people should keep their radios on to hear that. At any rate, after it was all over, I sounded off and let them know just what my opinion was as somebody who has recently returned from Korea and had been through the last war as well. What I thought of people, tactfully, of course, they were my guests, what I thought of people who were just annoyed at hearing about these things, at hearing about the necessity for a civilian defense. And you know something, fellas? I think the next day we had civilian defense had three more volunteers. They should have more than three every now and then, too. I think everybody should. Well, actually, these people I consider to be a cross-section or typical Americans, and in sounding off at them, I was really sounding off at all the people in this country who don't seem to want to face what is happening and what can happen. I beg your pardon, fellas. I've been eavesdropping on you. I couldn't help but being interested in your conversation pertaining to civil defense. As it just so happens, I am with the New York State Civil Defense Commission. My name is McGrath, William McGrath. I'm the assistant chief of the Air Raid Warning Service of the state of New York. Captain, you said you wanted to sound off. Well, now is your opportunity to really sound off and tell me as a civilian what is irking you and other men who are in service pertaining to civil defense. Well, actually, you're just the guy we've been waiting for. And I think you can straighten us out. I just hope that you can straighten out the rest of the people as well as I'm sure you'll straighten us out. I think, though, that I'd like to let the boys get a crack at you first, if you don't mind. Not at all. Well, there's one question I'd like to find out. You know, while I'm fighting overseas, like a lot of the other fellas, I'd like to know what's coming off in the home front. I mean, what's being done to safeguard our home? Well, as you know, there is civil defense in the state of New York and in many of the states in the United States. We have constantly tried to interest people not only in saving others, but in saving themselves. If people will learn to save themselves, they in turn will learn to save others. Many programs have been set up, but it takes volunteers. This is still the United States of America, a free country. If we want to keep it that way, people should and must volunteer for civil defense. Well, what do you need most of all? I mean, in volunteers, what types? We need men and women of all types, all ages. Everyone is eligible for civil defense. There are many phases of civil defense. Air raid wardens, observers for observation posts, filters for filter centers, auxiliary police, auxiliary firemen, volunteers for the welfare service, people to be trained in radiological monitoring, and many, many more phases. Throughout the state, places are set up where people can enroll for civil defense. If they have a particular preference, they indicate that preference when volunteering. If not, the civil defense authorities will assign them to a post that they feel the person is best able to handle. Excuse me, Mr. McGrath. Just what is a filter service? That is a filter center. In the state of New York, there are over 600 observation posts. People man these observation posts, and when they spot aircraft, they report it to the filter center. The people in the filter center plot it on a map. They give that plane a track number. After the plane has a track number, the information is phoned to Air Force headquarters. At Air Force headquarters, they determine whether it's enemy or friendly, and then they take the appropriate action, such as notifying the interceptor command of the Air Force, notifying the civilians by sounding the alarm which is passed throughout the state, and notifying the ACAC outfits. This all sounds very well and good, but, and I'm sure it'll work very nicely, but what does John Doe on the fourth floor of a walk-up apartment house or James Doe in his little one-family cottage do when all this efficiency has borne fruit, and we know that the bombers are on the way? It seems to me that if these people haven't been trained, if they don't know what they're supposed to do, they're just going to be running around like a lot of chickens without heads, and eventually, if they don't know what to do, they might be running around like a lot of people without heads. We are constantly endeavoring to get people to volunteer for civil defense. Civil defense is human defense. It is everyone's job. You, the men who went into service, you had a particular job to do. You were trained in advance to do it, and you did it. At the present time, the civil defense organizations throughout the state of New York is trying to educate the people the need for civil defense and the particular job or place that they have in civil defense. The training, what you fellas call in service dry runs, is all important. When the crucial hour comes if it ever does come, then these people will be trained and ready to go into action. What makes me real mad is these people don't volunteer. Can you tell me just what is the matter with them? Why don't they volunteer? in all probability, if they had the experience that you have had, and I know that you've had experience because I see you have the combat infantry badge on you. You have returned from Korea, haven't you? Yes. Yes, I have. I believe you have the Purple Heart too, is that correct? That's right. would you please tell me your name and just where you come from? PFC Robert Simpson from St. Albans, Long Island. That's right here where this hospital is, isn't that a fact? That's right. Your people right here in Queens County, do you know many people that have volunteered for civil defense? I don't happen to know of anybody that I know volunteered. Well, you in turn can start and be a one-man army to educate the people in your neighborhood the need for civil defense, the need based on your experience in Korea. I believe you have a question for me? Well, first I want to say about the volunteers, a lot of people are, you know, let Johnny do it. They're like a lot of jugheads. The trouble is they want to say, well, we're going to be bombed. What can we do? It's too late. I mean, if they had their turn, they couldn't be so stupid. I mean, it's their own fault. They want to, they want to, well, get out of everything. They want to rush. They want to stop. They want to look. They want to listen. All that there. The trouble is they don't want to just take maybe 15 minutes of their time a week and learn something. Corporal, you are a Corian veteran too, aren't you? Yes, I am. And would you please tell me your name and where you come from? Um, Corporal Arthur Fisher. I live in Trenton, New Jersey. Well, if you could stand before the people of Trenton or any other city in the United States, just what would you say to them? Oh, if in Trenton or any other city, I'd tell them, train, train, train. It's the only way to save their own lives. And as many times while I was in Korea, I often wished that all I had to do was to be an air raid warden back home. Uh, I believe, uh, I broke in when you were talking, Captain. What is your name and where do you come from, please? My name is Arnold J. Lapiner and I come from Brooklyn, I've been from Brooklyn, and I'm back in Brooklyn. You've had lots of training during your years that you've lived. Supposing you tell us first what you were trained for before you went and the army. Before I entered service, I was a musician. Uh, of course, you realize that a musician, uh, to be a musician requires a certain amount of skill. And this has only gotten through training or practice, if you prefer to call it that. People won't bring their automobiles to be repaired by an untrained mechanic. They won't have their pipes fixed by untrained plumbers. But when it comes to saving their own lives, and that's just what it amounts to, they seem to be very lethargic about the necessary training. Now, if you won't trust your car to an untrained person, why trust your life to an untrained person? Now, you mentioned something about, uh, let Johnny do it. That's very well, but what do you do when something has to be done and there aren't any Johnnies to do it? The only people who can do these things, who can take part in the civilian defense activity, are the people themselves. The defense is for civilians by civilians. The army won't be around. Uh, it is so apparent to me, in a way, I feel like Cassandra, to see these things that could happen, having seen it in Europe, and yet, talking to people and getting just about no response. Captain, what you have said is well put, and I sincerely hope the people listening take it to heart, because that which you give to them now is lessons that you have learned by experience in combat. I see another veteran over here with the combat infantry badge and the purple heart. Are you a Korean veteran, too? Yes, sir, I am. Would you please tell us your name and where you come from? I am PFC John Newtrabel, and I come from Rochester, New York. Well, when I walked into this little gathering, you were really sounding off. You have been very polite and waited your turn. Now go ahead and sound off at me. Well, it's just that I was just trying to figure out what the people back home here are thinking of. If a bomb should be dropped, an atomic bomb or otherwise, the first thing would be said, oh, God, why does war have to be this bad? Well, war wouldn't be that bad if the people were trained and had the knowledge of what to do, when to do it, and why. As they are, the people are very, as my buddy here said, stupid to the idea. They have no knowledge of what would they do if a bomb was dropped. Where would they go? Who should they help? They have no idea. I believe that if you could all join together, all coming from different parts of the state and the state of New Jersey, you would all say together, join civil defense. Is that correct? Yes, sir. That's right. You've been listening to one in the series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. We invite your comments on this series. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at the same time next week. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is the municipal broadcasting system, WNYC-FM, the high-fidelity voice of New York City.