Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Your city station's microphones are set up in the grand ballroom of the Hotel Henry Hudson, where this afternoon we're bringing you the luncheon of the all-day conference of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith. During the course of the ceremonies this afternoon, a transcription library will be presented to WNYC by B'nai B'rith. Now we take you to the speaker's podium, where Lawrence Perez, the president of the Jackson Heights Lodge, will introduce the president of the Metropolitan Council, Joseph Paradise. Mr. Perez. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I present the president of the Metropolitan Council, Joseph L. Paradise. The Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith, representing 432 men's lodges and women's chapters in the Metropolitan New York area, is convened today in its third annual all-day conference. This morning, our delegates divided into regional groups and met in business session under the leadership of the eight regional vice presidents. After lunch, the various activity chairmen of our council, heading the Anti-Defamation League, Hillel Foundations, B'nai B'rith Youth Organization, Vocational Service, Americanism, Veterans Affairs, and membership and membership retention committees, will hold workshop sessions. The closing session will have as guest speaker, Mr. Mercia Shertock, chairman of the political bureau of the Jewish Agency for Palestine. At this time, we have the very pleasant privilege of honoring one of New York's favorite sons. We have chosen the editor of the Metropolitan Star, the official newspaper of the 42,000 members of B'nai B'rith in this area, to make the appropriate presentation. Mr. Erwill Savilsson, prominent New York newspaper. Mr. Paradise, Rabbi, President Goldman and Commissioner Wallander and friends. The true administration of justice rests largely upon the type of men who enforce the laws of this nation. Mr. Erwill Savilsson, prominent New York, and the former mayor of the United States. It has been the privilege of our city to have a veteran career man for 33 years, both as a policeman and as a commissioner during the last few years. It is my privilege, Mr. Commissioner, in the presence of our national leader, Frank Goldman, and the assembled leaders of B'nai B'rith of Greater New York, to present you with this testimonial of our esteem of your work. I have the honor and deep personal affection, sir, to read this scroll to the finest commissioner of New York's finest, the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith, to the honorable Arthur Wallander, police commissioner of the city of New York, on behalf of the 42,000 members of B'nai B'rith in Greater New York, we honor you as a distinguished and wise leader of men. As police commissioner, you not only have devoted your time and energy to enforcement of our laws, but have displayed a progressive and wholesome recognition of the countless human problems involved in the administration of your great office. Under your guidance, the police athletically has grown into a vital center where youth may be trained in the world of tomorrow, and where youth may be trained to be better citizens tomorrow. You have gained the respect and esteem of your fellow citizens for your support of the coordinating councils, which have contributed immeasurably to better understanding among peoples of all races and creeds. In recognition and appreciation of your achievements as a great public servant, we present this testimonial to you this fifth day of October 1947 at the third annual all-day conference of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Selbson, Chairman Paris, Reverend Kledgy, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen of the B'nai B'rith. I'm delighted to be among you today. I'm particularly happy to receive this fine tribute from you. More particularly so because of the high ideals for which your organization stands, and upon which it is founded. That really counts for something, folks. And on behalf of the officers and men of the police department of the city of New York, I want to most sincerely thank the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith and the Metropolitan Star for their recognition of the manner in which the police department has handled the problems of juvenile delinquency. The splendid work being done by the police department in this field, I say splendid because the palm goes to the men of the department. The mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer. It has been made possible in a large measure by the humane interest and unfailing support of the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer. It is through his efforts in behalf of our way that we have been able to concentrate so heavily on the problems as it exists today and the formative, and the formation of preventive measures against recurrences tomorrow. There are two organizations in the department which are continually working in this fight against juvenile crime problems. They are the Juvenile Aid Bureau and the Police Athletic League. The latter, as you know, is more affectionately known as the PAL, or PAL. The Juvenile Aid Bureau was established in 1930 and is responsible for planning and putting into operation measures for the prevention of delinquency and for helping secure adequate social treatment for delinquents, and wayward minors as well. There are 11 unit officers throughout the city, staffed by both men and women police officers who handle the work in a designated area. This bureau handled 27,067 cases of delinquent and potentially delinquent boys and girls under 21 years of age during 1946. I might tell you there are two folks that, uh, we don't arrest any boys and girls today unless they commit a crime which would be a felony if committed by an adult. We try to invoke other measures that will have to do with prevention in the future, and up to the present time it is working very satisfactorily. The treatment of these cases consists of counseling the parents and the child in less serious cases, while those of a more serious nature are referred to recognized private or public social agencies. One factor which seems to be most frequently responsible for delinquency was the lack of proper supervised play facilities. The formation of the PAL was one solution to this problem. The purpose of the PAL is to instill character and a sense of responsibility in our youth, and bring about friendly relations through association with officers of the law. By that we mean we would much rather have the boys and girls coming to us for assistance and counsel and advice, than running away from us as it was here to form. We want to befriend the boy and girl, and we want to spread that gospel as much as we can. The PAL operates 43 youth centers in the city, and 61 supervised play streets. Besides these play centers, each year, team tournaments are organized according to the state of the state. All day boat rides are held, and groups are taken to big league baseball games. Some children attend the PAL camp in the Adirondacks. I had the pleasure of visiting that camp this past summer, and folks, if you saw those boys up there, enjoying that good mountain air, do your heart good. to do your heart good. These are poor kitties that come from the tenement neighborhoods, and it's quite a thing to see them going into the woods and picking up bullfrogs and snakes and diving into the water for this, that, and the other thing. You ask them to go out and gather up a lot of grasshoppers, and they'll gather up as many as you want in no time. They're just full of vim and vigor, and they just enthuse about the entire camp. Not only is physical fitness stressed by PAL, but the more artistic aspect is also developed. Youngsters who are musically or dramatically inclined are provided with an outlet by means of two-way radio programs every Saturday. PAL activities are conducted by paid and trained recreation directors, with police participating only so far as administration and general supervision are concerned. They are supported by personal and corporate contributions. juvenile delinquency is a community problem, and every element of community life must be used in combating the condition. That means the church, the school, social agencies, and recreational agencies. And the campaign to combat this evil, we have reached out to religious, civic, and social agencies such as your own by the formation of precinct coordinating councils. By the way, we've been very fortunate in that respect, and having a director appointed whom you all know, I'm quite sure, Maurice Rosenfeld, a very fine character, has wholesome thoughts, and will do a great job, I'm sure. These councils, by keeping close contact with the police in their precincts, have made many contributions to the morale and physical welfare of our children. They have cooperated with the police department in carrying out approved programs directed toward the prevention of delinquency and waywardness. It is my sincere hope for the future, that with the added interest that is being shown by such organizations as Benai Breth, we shall be able to expand our facilities to every area in the city, in particular those which are in dire need of such assistance. In conclusion, I again wish to thank you for your kind recognition and this very high honor today that you have extended to me, and to wish to you the best wishes of the new year. Thank you very much. A few short months ago, America lost one of its finest citizens, and Benai Breth, its great leader, when Henry Monsky died. To succeed him, we were fortunate enough to have a vice president, a veteran Ben Breth in service to our order, and one who with a quiet and sincere dedication to serve his people and country, had risen from the ranks to high posts in our national councils. To us who have had the privilege of working with him, has been given the great satisfaction of knowing that we need have no qualms as to the future of the high purposes of Benai Breth. It is good to know that the high quality of leadership for 104 years will continue without diminution. It is a distinct honor to introduce to New York the national president of the Supreme Lodge of Benai Breth, whom we lovingly call the man from Lowell, Mr. Frank Goldman. President Paradise, Commissioner Wallander, Vice President Mack Schneider, Ladies and Gentlemen of Benai Breth. I welcome the occasion to address the Metropolitan Council of Benai Breth in New York City, and to witness the presentation of your citation to Commissioner Wallander, who is honored not only in your city, but in the entire country. I think it fair to say that the entire country applauds the work in which he leads here. The invitation to me to attend this function rather suggested that I speak to you about the history of Benai Breth and the manifold general activities in which it is engaged. There are several reasons why I cannot bring myself to do that today. Quite apart from the fact that it will be impossible in the few minutes which have been allotted to me in this program to unfold even sketchily, a 104-year-old history so replete with genuine accomplishments and with humanitarian activities so broad in their range, the fact remains that I am addressing a group of distinguished men and women who are thoroughly familiar with that history and who are daily engaging in those activities. Your devotion to the ideals and the work of Benai Breth is proven by your presence here today and your ability to resist the lure of the Yankee Stadium and the great American baseball classic. Under normal conditions, this all-day conference of the Benai Breth, Metropolitan Council of New York, would be a day of celebration, a time to bask in the reflected glory of what our order had achieved in the past. But these are not days for celebration, not days for us to rest upon our laurels. These are days which present problems which are both heartbreaking and unsolved. I shall speak of two of them which I know constantly occupy your attention and daily oppress you as they do me, the problem of the displaced persons of Europe and the problem of Palestine. Who are these displaced persons? They are hundreds of thousands of men, women and children of every faith, Catholics, Protestants and Jews, now chiefly lodged in desolate European camps, who were liberated. That is a bitter word for them. Who were liberated more than two years ago. Who were uprooted from their homes and their families for almost a decade. Who suffered all the unspeakable atrocities the Nazi mind devised, except the firing squad, the mass burials and the gas chambers. Like our tribes of old, they are lost in the wilderness. A wilderness of official red tape, of fact finding, of inquiries, of investigations and of reports. When some of them of the Jewish faith seek to enter Palestine, their promised land, it is normal today to read that they are taken on the high seas in violation of international law, to read of the shooting of many of them while seeking to become free men, and of the treatment of others to the club, the rubber truncheon, the hose and tear gas. A nation, a great nation, pledged to re-educate and to denazify the Nazi, began that educational process by furnishing the unregenerate Nazi with this as his first lesson in that process. You know what happened to those poor desolate people who were aboard the Exodus 1947? I appealed to the President of the United States, as did many others, to prevent what later occurred. And it is a matter of great regret that our government did not intervene with the British government in such a way and in such a manner as to ensure the non-occurrence of their subsequent cruel disembarkation in the Germany which holds so many bitter memories for them. You will recall that the last Congress had the Stratton Bill before it. The passage of that bill would have furnished emergency legislation to make available unused quotas to enable the rescue and rehabilitation of some of these victims of war, persecution, and oppression and would have maintained the proud American tradition of providing a haven for the oppressed and a refuge for the homeless and the distressed. It is a matter of great regret that Congress adjourned without passing that bill or any similar legislation. One would have thought that the plight of these displaced persons, which can only be termed a blot on our civilization, would have claimed more humane consideration and a more speedy attention to its solution. We shall continue to call that plight to our government's attention. We shall continue to press for that sort of intervention and insistence which will stop the continuing cruelties of another nation towards those who seek only a home and a life as free men. We shall unremittingly urge the next session of the Congress to pass such emergency legislation as was contained in the Stratton Bill in order to make possible life-saving immigration into the United States. Meanwhile, we have been marshaling our organizational strength and resources to assist those who succeed in entering this country. At the request of and in cooperation with the United Service for New Americans, Benay Brith has undertaken to furnish scholarships at trade schools for refugee students here. And we are perfecting plans for an effective appeal to employers throughout the United States to take on refugee youth as apprentices and train them in employment. Our Hillel Foundations which conduct their activities in 175 colleges and universities are bringing to this country a number of students so that they may complete the education which the war interrupted. Benay Brith is now established in 27 countries of the world in order to extend the influence of our educational activities and to fight anti-Semitism abroad and particularly in Europe. Our executive committee has voted to establish an office in Europe to give direction to those activities. And then there is Palestine. Jewish claims there are not based merely upon humanitarian considerations. I need not repeat to this audience the details of history which give the Jew the right to Palestine nor need I recite here to you the more contemporary legal right to a homeland there based upon the Balfour Declaration the declarations of numerous British statesmen the mandate to Great Britain and the declarations of our own Congress. after several investigations and reports on Palestine and with no solution in sight but only an increasingly deplorable state of affairs there Great Britain finally submitted the matter to the United Nations and that world organization has now before it the unscarp majority recommendations. A week ago today in behalf of of the President Truman I telegraphed President Truman in that telegram I most respectfully appeal to him for an immediate public statement supporting the principles of the unscarp majority recommendations and setting forth practical measures for the relief of the sad plight and unbearable position of the displaced persons. I said in that wire that such a statement would be in line with the forthright and unequivocal expressions by him and by our country spokesman in the United Nations with reference to other important international affairs. I submitted it after so many reports and investigations relating to Palestine that in the unscarp majority recommendations an impartial formula now appears which our country should take the lead in supporting and thus aid in bringing about an end to the present intolerable situation. I pleaded for the President's personal intervention to accomplish immediate large-scale immigration into Palestine to make ships available so that the displaced persons desiring to emigrate to Palestine need not languish in the German camp for another winter and to bring the weight of his great office and of our country to bear upon and lead to not only the favorable consideration of the majority report but also its implementation with the United States assuming its fair share of the responsibility. I finally in that telegram pleaded entreated the President in this eleventh and decisive hour to take those steps which will square with the traditions of our beloved nation as the champion of the oppressed. I made that appeal in behalf of B'nai B'rith the largest Jewish membership organization in America. Other groups have made similar appeals and yet there has been no answer publicly made. very frankly I'm not worried that our country will fail to support those recommendations. What worries and disturbs me and what I know worries and disturbs you is that our President and our great country have not taken the lead in supporting those recommendations both publicly and privately. It is only gauging contemporary affairs correctly when it is said that most of the nations of the world are looking to the United States for leadership in urging the adoption of the majority report. Such leadership would as we strongly feel ensure its adoption. Mr. President, B'nai B'rith again appeals to you for the public statement and for the leadership referred to in my telegram of a week ago. applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause A kind providence has now cast our beloved country into the role of the leading nation of the world. It should not hesitate too long in fulfilling the greater responsibilities which attach to its preeminent position. nothing is gained for the peace of the world by a nebulous attitude on the part of our government. It only lends support to something that I frankly do not believe to be true to the belief sometimes expressed that America may trade off Jewish hope in the interests of American oil barons and Arab feudal lords. Mr. President, we are not unappreciative of the many burdens which rest upon you. At the same time, you must appreciate that the displaced persons and the remnant of the Jewish people overseas have been very, very patient despite their horrible sufferings. They and we look to you, President Truman, for an answer that will liberate them and give them a country in which they may reside and develop as free men to the everlasting glory of And now, it is our great pleasure to honor the first citizen of New York, our beloved mayor, before presenting to him this illuminated scroll, attesting to our esteem, we should like to formally present to him, for his acceptance, the extensive library of musical recordings, which will be used by New York's own station, WNYC, in making the listening hours of fellow citizens more enjoyable. The cost of this gift, Mr. Mayor, has been realized from the donations of all the neighborhood Brith units in our council. And now, Mr. Mayor, as president of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai Brith, I present to you this inscription of our devotion and gratitude to you for your many years of service to our city. The Metropolitan Council of B'nai Brith to the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. In grateful recognition and appreciation of his outstanding contributions to humanitarian causes, and his protection of the civil, social, and religious rights of the people of our great city. Through his unshakable faith in the democratic principles of our country, he rose from humble circumstances to eminence as lawyer, law enforcement officer, jurist, general, and mayor of the world's greatest metropolis, setting a sterling example for the youth of our great country. His conscientious, tireless efforts on behalf of all people, regardless of race, creed, or color, have won him the universal esteem and respect of the American people. We hope that he may be blessed with good help for many years to come, so that he may continue to serve our country and humanity on ever-widening plains. Presented at the third annual all-day conference of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai Brith this fifth day of October 1947, Joseph L. Paradise President, Arthur G. Rosenbluth, Executive Secretary. President Trump, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I accept this scroll which you have presented me with a deep feeling of humility. My personal gratitude is exceeded only by the gratitude I express on behalf of the people of the city of New York. For after all, it is to the people of this great city that this award is justly due. If it were necessary to present proof that your organization is in reality honoring the whole city by this presentation, I should point out to the fact that simultaneously you are presenting a library of music to our municipal broadcasting system. And at the same time, you are honoring our conscientious and efficient commissioner of police, my good friend, Arthur Wallander. For your organization to honor officials and agencies of the city of New York at this time is a matter of deepest significance. In truth, we have here seven and a half million people of diverse races and creeds living together in peace and enjoying the benefits of democracy. Whatever imperfections there are, whatever limitations there may be upon the exercise of the fullest democracy in our city, shortcomings which we seek every day to overcome. No one dare challenge the contribution which New York City has always made to the exercise of the fullest measure of democracy by its people. Your organization has for many years given leadership to hundreds of thousands of Jewish people throughout the country. Many of your lodges have functioned and continue to function here. Uh-huh. Through the years, Binet Brith has played an important part in developing understanding between Jew and non-Jew. against those who would defame our American ideals and the American way of life by defaming our minority groups has left its mark upon the conscience of the American people. Here in New York, there is no room for bigotry or intolerance. The greatest achievement that any mayor of this city can claim credit is that he has fought the practices of bigotry and racial discrimination with all the power at his command. Today, more than ever, New York City is the center of the world. The eyes of all the peoples of Europe and Asia and Africa are focused upon us. The fact that New York City is now the world capital makes it especially important that what we do and say shall reflect the splendid democratic traditions of our city. What we, the citizens of New York City, say and do here reaches every nook and cranny of the world by every means of communication. The representatives of 57 nations have come here to sit in the parliament of the peoples. New York City, say and do here to the world. They observe everything we do. They absorb everything we say. To them, New York City represents the living America. These visitors among us judge our music, our art, our literature, our theaters, by what they see and hear in our city. I am especially proud of the contribution which our municipal radio station, WNYC, has made. It's bringing to the people of the metropolitan area comprising a population of about 16 million people, the best in musical and dramatic programs. It is rendering an outstanding public service and reporting the day-to-day proceedings of the United Nations, as well as many other important problems which are discussed over these facilities. I know that our people are hardworking, but nevertheless, they still have a yearning for the fullest development of a cultural life. Our museums, our libraries, and our other cultural institutions are constantly visited and utilized by our own people, apart from the thousands of visitors from other places who take advantage of our cultural resources. The peaceful character of the relations which exist in this city between the peoples of all religions, Jew and Christian and Mohammedan and all races, should stand as an example and a proof to the representatives of the 57 nations who are now meeting at Flushing Meadows, that it can be done, provided there is present the willingness to work together for the common good. of the people of all religions, the people of all religions, the people of all religions, we are living in trying times. They recall to mind the words of an American in an earlier crisis in our country's history. These are times that try men's souls. Today we must prove that our democracy will work under the most difficult circumstances and conditions, and it will. Today we must prove that our democracy will work under the most difficult circumstances. Mr. Chairman, may I close by again thanking you for this great honor that B'nai B'rith has bestowed on me, and also close with the words of a distinguished American. All right, in your name the name mother ότι he signed as a secretary of passion to honor this already in the summer of03 . All right, I'll pay a lance for the story of art that says I'm told to the entrepreneur of a cast воORD This Alright Times This has been a炙 Aurora, Lord of Eisner who was suggesting Igalith, about a greater and finer America that is to be. If you are young enough in spirit to believe that poverty can be greatly lessened, that the disgrace of involuntary unemployment can be wiped out, that class hatreds can be done away with, that peace at home and peace abroad can be maintained, and that one day a generation may possess this land, blessed beyond anything we now know, blessed with those things, material and spiritual, that make life abundant. If that is the fashion of your dreaming, then I say, hold fast to your dreams. America needs it. That was said by your beloved and departed friend and mine, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. everyone else there that will předst Graphics to share with you that yes! The love of First of theť today, was that women today Karla said something so that that we agreed Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer. And so, ladies and gentlemen, with that address by the mayor of the city of New York, His Honor, William O'Dwyer, we bring to a close this program, which has brought you part of the proceedings of the all-day conference of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'riff from the Hotel Henry Hudson's Grand Ballroom. We return you to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Ladies and gentlemen, the Choral Society of the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'riff. As our first election for you this afternoon, the B'nai B'riff chorus will sing a hymn of praise, America the Beautiful. serving more благ in the 74 of Broke's Moon, and the group of Sea from Hubbell'sNão.com For purple mountains' majesties, the love of fruit hath paid. America, America, God share his grace on thee, and crown thy good with brother one, from sea to shining sea. Oh, beautiful mountains' majesties, the love of fruit hath paid. America, America, God share his grace on thee, and crown thy good with brother one, from sea to shining sea. Thank you. As our second selection, we are going to sing for you a Palestinian song, titled Kadima HaPoel, Forward or Worker. Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Kadima HaPoel Nom, nom, nom, nom, nom, nom, nom, nom. Thank you. La la la la la la, que prima, que prima, se, que prima, se. For our third selection, we're going to call upon one of our members for a solo. He is Mr. Sam Rosenbaum, member of the Brooklyn Lodge, and also president of the Venebrith Chorus. He will be featured in soloist in the well-known spiritual Go Down Moses. To Sam Rosenbaum. To Sam Rosenbaum. To Sam Rosenbaum. And mock於他們的豪竄為戟的月外 Arrow的 allowing原來的極度民如窮缺人 Stephan壇無關風 Never let 58人 riders Come down, Moses, way down in Egypt's land. Teru, Teru, let thy people go. Thus saith the Lord, bold Moses said, Let thy people go. If not, I'll smite your firstborn dead. Let thy people go. If not, we'll be in Egypt's land. Teru, Teru, let thy people go. Thank you. For our final selection, we're going to bring you something which I'm sure you all know, probably one of the most popular things of its kind. It is the famous Ballot for Americans. For the soloist in this selection, I call upon Mr. Al Zimmer. Vocally, I think you will find that he's well qualified, as you'll see in just a few moments. Spiritually, I think he's definitely qualified, having flown over 30 missions in the B-24 Liberator over Europe. I am bringing to you now Mr. Al Zimmer, the neighbor of the course, and the Ballot for Americans. Mr. Zimmer. Thank you. In 76 the sky was red, thunder rumbling overhead. Had Queen George couldn't sleep in his bed, and on that stormy morn, old Uncle Sam was born. Stop, perfect! Old Sam put on a three-corned hat, and in a Richmond church he sat. Patrick Henry told him that, while America drew breath, it was liberty or death. Ah! One can't have a three-corned hat. Ah! Did they all believe in liberty in those days? Nobody who was anybody believed it. Everybody who was anybody, they doubted it. Nobody had faith. Nobody. Nobody but Washington. Tom Kane. Benjamin Franklin. I am Solomon. Christopher Sikes. Lafayette. Nobodies. Nobodies. And a tea party that lost me. Betsy Ross organized a sewing circle. Paul Revere had a horse race. And the little ragged group believed it. And some gentlemen and ladies believed it. And some wise men and some fools, and I believe it too. And you know who I am. Who are you, mister? Yeah, how come all this? Well, I'll take it. You see, it's like this. No, yes and no. The big one. Then the mister Tom Jefferson, the mighty fine man, He rolled it down in the mighty, mighty land. And the rest all sided with the mighty, mighty hand. As they crossed their teeth and died their eyes, A brand new country did arise, on our... And a mighty fine idea. Adopted unanimously in congress July 4th, 1776. We hold those truths to be self-eminent. That all men are created equal, That they are endowed by their Creator With certain illegal rights That among these rights are life Yes, sir. To liberty. That's right. And the pursuit of happiness. The very words. The very words. The world's incarnation is also tough, The people's love is a growing crop, And the world's heart is a growing crop, And the world's heart is a growing crop, So it's starting to expand, Into the Heston land. You either haven't won, You still nobody who was anybody believed it, Everybody who was anybody stayed at home. But Lewson, Clark and the pioneers Driven by hunger, hautted by fears, The Kalanback Miners and the 49ers Some wanted freedom and some wanted riches Some like to love while others dug ditches Crazy idiots And I believe it too And you know who I am No, who are you anyway, mister? Well, you see, it's like this. I started to tell you, I represent the whole of... Why, that's it. That's the idea. All Abe Lincoln was thin and long His heart was high and his faith was strong But he hated oppression, he hated wrong And he went down to his grave To free the slave And his white children ever be free For this black brother is a savor And we, your boy, you know that he did Till no hell died in faith And government of the people By the people By the people And for the people Shivered perish from the earth Abraham Lincoln said that on November 19th, 1863 At Gettysburg, in 1818 And he was right I believe that too Say, we still don't know who you are, mister Well, I started to tell you I... The city came to the great people But you have no good peace and war And a lady of this went round and round The city's reached into the sky And dug down deep into the ground And some got rich and some got too And some got too And some got too And some got too Still nobody who was anybody believed it Everybody who was anybody, they doubted it And they are doubting still And I guess they always will But who cares what they say When I am on my way Stay, will you please tell us who you are? What's your name, buddy? Where are you going? Who are you? Well, I am the everybody who's nobody I am the nobody who's everybody What's your act? What do you do for a living? Well, I'm an engineer Musician Street cleaner Carpenter Teacher Also Officer Yes, ma'am Academy Why, that's right Certainly You said it Uh-huh Absolutely Positively Definitely Minor Teacher Teacher All of them I am the etc And the insuffers That do the work Now hold on here What are you trying to give us? Are you an American? Am I an American? I'm just an Irish, Negro, Jewish, Italian, French and English, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Polish, Scotch, Hungarian, Litbox, Swedish, Finnish, Canadian, Greek and Turk and Czech and double-chick American And that ain't all And that ain't all I was baptized Baptist, Methodist, Congregationist, Lutheranist, atheist, Roman Catholic, author, Jewish, Presbyterian, Seventh-day Adventist, Mormon, Quaker, Christian scientist, and lots more You show us something All countries strong, our countries young But our greatest songs are still unsung From our plains and mountains we have sprung To keep the faith With those who went before We, nobody, who are anybody, believe it We, anybody, who are everybody, have no doubt Out of the cheating Out of the shouting Out of the murders and lynching Out of the windbag The patriotic spouting Out of uncertainty and doubting Out of the cockpit bag And the press between It will come again Our marching song Will come again Simple as a hit tune Deep as a valley High as a mountain Strong as the people who made it For I have always believed it And I believe it now And you know who I am Who are you? America America Among all Angels To those of us in B'nai B'rith, the relationship between the district on the one hand and the Lodge and Chapter on the other is on a father-to-son basis. And when the opportunity is afforded us to introduce to the membership any of the distinguished offices of the district, we do so with the same feeling of pride that an admiring son does in introducing an illustrious and accomplished parent. It is with this feeling of personal pride that I now introduce to you the first vice president of district number one, that efficient, capable, and very able gentleman, Brother Max Schneider. Brother Max Schneider. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to congratulate the Metropolitan Council on this, the most successful of its third symposium held once every year to encourage the membership to continue for the coming year of the work as it is explained to you. I am fully aware that most of you are thoroughly familiar and acquainted with the activities of B'nai B'rith. Most of you attend your Lodge meetings wherein are giving to you the reports of the various chairmen of the various activities that are embraced in our order. And I do not believe that it's necessary for me to go into any discussion with you as to the activities of Hillel, AZA, BBYO, anti-defamation, or any other part or any other branch of our work. You know it. You know it. You know it. You're not really familiar with it. I am very much concerned as I know you are, and I took great heart a few weeks ago when we had the general committee meeting of the first district. And the president of the order, at that particular time as he did today, went into a short dissertation of the activities of our organization but dwelt at greater length upon the issue that in his opinion, yours and mine, is the most paramount one that's affecting the Jews of the entire world as well as it does us. And that is the situation that has confronted our people on the other side. The day after tomorrow we're going to celebrate Simcha Stora. It is extremely important to recognize that this meeting was appropriately held at this particular time. Simcha Stora is the day that we rejoice in the giving of the Torah to our people. The Hebrew interpretation of B'nai B'rith, as you well know, is the sons of the covenant, a covenant entered into between God Almighty and our forefathers as to regard our activities in future generations to come. Our forefathers lived up to that covenant. And it is only important for us to understand that today, two days prior to Simcha Stora, we must again rededicate ourselves to the principles that those people our forefathers held so dear to them. I am not completely disturbed about the condition of Jewish life in America. Thank God we are still living in a country wherein we can rejoice as we please. We can pray as we please. We can gather in assemblages of this kind and speak freely. Even though we recognize that there are certain bigots that are trying to disturb this pleasant relationship and condition, and that is being taken care of. But you and I are much more concerned with what is taking place on the other side with those unfortunate called displaced persons. Displaced persons, what is the interpretation of the meaning of displaced? Put from here to there. And at a certain time you replace yourself from there to here. Unfortunately, you know the situation over there. And to me it is extremely important, of the most vital importance that we throw ourselves completely into this work to use all the influence and the effort within our power to recognize the terrible condition that exists over there. I am not at all interested in belittling the work of any other organization. Any group of Jewish people, irrespective of their personal opinions, if they can render a service to our poor unfortunate brethren on the other side, I welcome their assistance. What I do unhesitating and without any doubt in my mind, recognize the fact that because of our existence for 104 years, during which time we have established ourselves as a worthwhile organization, and no organization can live over that period of time unless it's substantial means and stands for something. The tremendous influence and the tremendous power that we possess. I can tell you unhesitatingly in my discussion with Mayor O'Dwyer and with officials in Washington how completely and thoroughly they understand us, what we stand for, what we mean, what we intend to do. And I know without any shadow of doubt in my mind that the influence that B'nai B'rith is wielding today is making some of the countries who are hesitating with regard to a vote in the United Nations today. It's making them hesitate as to the position that they should take. And I know that you and I are fervently praying and hoping that when the verdict comes, and it must come sometime this coming week, that it will be favorable to our people. And when that is done, and I hope and pray that it will be accomplished in that way, I can feel a certain. And I can assure you, my dear ladies and gentlemen, that you can go home and feel within your hearts and souls by the very fact that you have been members of this splendid organization, that you have indirectly contributed to forming the opinions of the nations and even our own government, which unfortunately is hesitating a little bit at this particular time, in bringing about a decision that will be favorable to our people. And what is this all about? We are just as strong as we are numerically strong. The officials in Washington, as do the officials in the various communities throughout the whole country, recognize the importance of B'nai B'rith. They understand, as we have been telling them, that this is an organization composed and comprised of almost 370,000 men, women, and children. This is not an organization that can be laughed off. This is not an organization that doesn't stand for substantial and concrete effort on behalf of our people. But I unhesitatingly tell you that if we had twice that number, if our voices were loud enough to reach into all the crevices of the earth, we speaking honestly and truthfully for the Jewish people of America, our voice would be heard even louder and more effectively than it is today. And my sole thought in coming before you is to implore and to plead with you if what you have heard today, if what you hear throughout the year at your meetings has impressed you that you have given up all the pleasures of a splendid day like this to come here and listen, if you are imbued with the spirit that B'nai B'rith stands for something, then it isn't for you and I just to sit here and applaud whatever takes place or the individual speaker that speaks to you and impresses you for the moment. It isn't a question of going into one ear and the other and for you yourself to be impressed with it, but it's a question of pay, I'll pay from mouth to mouth that you must become emissaries in this great work. You mustn't be contented with the work that you alone do. There are today in the city of New York hundreds of thousands of Jewish men and women as good as you and I. Fine men and women and I believe in my heart that the only reason they have not enrolled into the ranks of B'nai B'rith to swell our ranks so that we speak with authority is because they have not been apprised of what we stand for and what we do. And therefore it behooves you and me, my dear friends, when we leave this gathering this afternoon and I don't have to ask you whether you've been impressed, I know that you have been. I don't have to ask you whether you know the work of B'nai B'rith, I know you do. But then you must go from door to door, you must knock upon your neighbor's door and entice him to sit down and listen to you while you recite to him the efforts and the workings and the results and the accomplishments of B'nai B'rith. And when that is accomplished, when you have brought into our ranks more and more, then I am quite certain that B'nai B'rith and all its glory will travel from L'Ojoel to L'Ojoel from strength to strength. With your efforts we can do it. Don't be apathetic. You've got the most wonderful merchandise to sell. Sell it to your neighbors. Sell it to everybody that you know. Not only for the benefit of those whose hands are outstretched to us from the other side asking our help, but to perpetuate for ourselves the opportunity and the privilege to live here, you, your children and grandchildren, in the grand style that you and I have been privileged to live. greacial electric bill electric bill Stella electric bill