This is Bill Leonard to introduce the 38th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communications are destroyed. The business of civil defense is a varied one. Important jobs range from those of the wardens and the auxiliary policemen to the firefighters, radiological experts, and the medical workers. Work in the job of planning and training in all branches of civil defense is by no means restricted to any single type of worker. There are businessmen and bankers, housewives and college students all working together in this vital effort. On this week's program, we present another phase of civil defense as seen by Skitch Henderson and Faye Emerson, two very popular and outstanding figures in the entertainment world. This is Skitch Henderson and on behalf of my wife and I, I want to tell you that we are pretty steady listeners to Plan for Survival. My show here in New York precedes and follows this show on Wednesday night, and you hear it probably during the week. We've listened and we learned, but somehow it wasn't until we were asked to appear on Plan for Survival that we felt the full impact of the tremendous responsibility which rests with each of us. And by each of us, Skitch means every single individual within every single community in the country. Some of us, by the nature of our work, are denied the privilege of active participation in the civil defense plan, but this doesn't mean that our responsibility ends there. We've been reading a little booklet entitled You and the Atomic Bomb, and the one thing that impressed us above all others is that despite an efficient civil defense organization, and despite the best that the fire and police departments and the military can do, the survival of any individual and those he holds dear is his own responsibility. In the Holocaust of tomorrow, survival will not be measured in terms of hours and days, but in terms of minutes and seconds, and in those minutes and seconds, the only person who can help you is yourself. You may not believe that. Well, we took a lot of this information with a grain of salt until we began to really study it, and now we realize that as a family, Faye, Scoopaloop, and myself, we should be responsible for our own safety in case of attack. Not only for our own survival, but for the survival of those who may really need the help of the trained civil defense workers. Now, if you need help, you are keeping that help from others. If by a few hours of study, you can make yourself and your family self-sufficient, you may be saving other lives just as surely as if you were on a rescue team yourself. You know, Skitch, one day, remember while we were preparing for this program, we began to talk about civil defense with our gang at the office, the writers and the secretaries and promotion people, and their reactions were very interesting. Everybody agreed on the need for civil defense, but most felt that there was little that they personally could do to help. And two of the people we were talking with, however, felt more strongly. Both of them lived in England before and during the reign of terror of the Luftwaffe, and one of them fought the enemy in a spitfire in the air above London, the other fought on the ground as a fire watcher at 16 years old. They themselves were probably just as complacent in 1938 as we are now, and for them, this was the second time around. That's right, and Fay and I thought perhaps that maybe you at home would like to hear what these two people think of our need for a good, efficient civil defense setup. So, presto, Fay and I invited them to sit in with us here in New York. One of them is Roland Sir William Gillette, who everybody for some reason or other calls Bill. I call him other things because he's a Yankee fan, but Bill has been directing Wonderful Town on television. He is an executive producer for the VO Company, and he was a pilot in the fleet air arm of the Royal Navy at the start of the war. But like all the other flyboys in Britain, when the Battle of Britain got desperate, he went up with every other available airman and aeroplane to defend England against Goering's so-called Great Air Force. Our other guest, the fire watcher, is a girl, Midge Day, or more formally, Mrs. Margaret Day. Midge types scripts and answers mail and works for the writers in our office, and, well, she works just about as hard as anyone I know. No, but she's enrolled in civil defense. I think as we talk to her, you'll find out why. The first contact Midge had with bombing was when she was still a pupil in school in York, England. Midge, what did your schoolchildren do when an air raid came along? Well, generally, if there was time after the siren went, we filed out to the shelter. Usually there wasn't. We had quite a few that came without any warning whatsoever, and at that point we crouched under the desk and waited until the all-clear went. You know, Midge, I've heard mothers complain that they think it's psychologically bad for children to be taught fear. Do you think it's wrong for them to practice taking shelter under desks? What do you think? I think the best way to answer that is to cite a bombing attack in London on Lewisham, as a matter of fact, when the Germans hit at a time when the luncheon period was occurring, and if the children hadn't been trained, there would have been a great many more lives lost than there were, as it was there were too many. Well, of course there were too many. In other words, the training really paid off and lives saved. Midge, it's a little hard to think of you as a fire watcher. I'll have to explain to our listeners, you're just about five feet and a hundred pounds, huh? Well, a little more, I'm afraid, now. But I don't think that size did count or does count. And I think, as a matter of fact, it's an advantage to be small, because one can run when the warning goes. Well, I just think it's an advantage to be small. Really move fast. Mm-hmm. Well, tell us something about your fire watching, will you? Well, generally, it was all volunteer, of course. And we were asked what watches we wanted to take. And usually the older girls, from 16 to 17, took the 12 to midnight shift. And we stood on the roofs of schools and government buildings and hospitals. And any time that there was an attack, or if we thought that there was something going on, like a fire, we sound the alarm. Mm-hmm. Matter of fact, your own house took a hit, didn't it? Yes, it did. It got a direct hit. It looked like a giant hen. It pushed the entire, from the kitchen right through to the living room, almost. It must be a frightening business. Yes, it is. It's a little hard for people over here to understand that. Wasn't your dad also a fire watcher? Yes, he was. He had quite an experience. As a matter of fact, he was blown something like 16 feet and came to with a block of concrete about an inch from his head. Oh, dear me, that is. Yes. Well, that's just some of Midge's experiences. We won't be able to tell you more. She's had kind of an interesting life. 17 and a half, you enlisted in the Royal Navy, didn't you, Midge? Yes, I did. Midge fell in love with a boy in the American Air Force. He flew out over Germany, where his plane was badly shot up, and a combination of wounds and battle fatigue resulted in his death exactly one year after they were married. She came to this country in November 1944. I can testify to the fact that Midge is a successful and busy girl. She's pretty, too. Did I mention she's very pretty? Irish coloring, blue eyes, black hair. She lives in a comfortable apartment house in midtown Manhattan, and yet when the call went out for civil defense workers, she volunteered without a moment's hesitation. Why, Midge? Well, I think you covered that in a little speech at the beginning of the program when you said that we did remember the complacency after Munich. And the year between 1938 and 1939, the people were extremely complacent. No one thought it was going to happen. Everybody was hoping it wasn't going to happen, and therefore sat back and did nothing. I don't want to have that happen again. And I do think that having gone through it, that I will be able to help the people that can't possibly help themselves, like the older people in the apartment, the old ladies and women with children. And I do think that I hope it doesn't have to happen, but I certainly will be there if it does. Let this be a lesson to all of us who think because we're girls we can't do anything. If this time it comes, it'll come quicker and be far worse. That was Faye and Midge Day telling you their story. Now, as I told you, Bill Gillette's story is a little bit different. Bill Gillette I feel that I can speak to because I was a fly boy. I'm going to keep quiet in this instance because he belonged to probably the greatest group, the Royal Navy Air Arms. So I'll just turn the microphone over to Roland Gillette and let him tell you his standpoint from a military man. Bill? Bill Gillette Well, you know, Sketch, the other day when, well, a few months ago when I noticed that the signs for civil defence are being put up in all the elevators and all the buildings, and I watched people look at these signs with a certain amount of indifference because, you know, rather like the man who hears that his neighbour was burgled, laughs at it and says, how funny, that couldn't happen to me. When it does, he's outraged. Bill Gillette When I went back to England in 1939, I felt rather the same way. I saw the signs and I thought, well, this could never happen. When it did happen, I felt very differently. Bill Gillette And at that time you were a member of the military too, so you would be more cognizant of it than a civilian. Bill Gillette Yes. Bill Gillette Yes. You see, if you look in the, I think it's called the Manual of Warfare. Bill Gillette Remember it well. Bill Gillette Yes. And we used to have another horrible thing called naval regulations. Bill Gillette Never understood the sharp end and blunt end of a ship, but still. Aerial bombardment has as its primary objective to destroy the enemy's military establishments and its factories that make the weapons of war. That's the first objective. But also, there is a second and a third. The second is to spread panic, death and destruction amongst the civilians. And the last one, to create disorganization of civilian life so that the war effort can continue. I think it's on the latter two that the civilian defense is definitely essential. Let's examine for a moment the bombing of England by the Luftwaffe. Bill Gillette Well, could we find a specific example that would bring home our story like that? Bill Gillette I think we could. Bill Gillette Let's compare the bombing of London, where they always said that London could take it, whereas some of the other smaller cities couldn't. Bill Gillette All right. Bill Gillette London's a big city like New York, and anyone who's going to live in a big city has got to be a bit tough, because you've got to keep going in a big city to make your way at all. Bill Gillette And the people also in London were always pretty cheerful. They had a spirit, and they picked up the great words of old Mr. Churchill when he said, We shall fight on the beaches, in the fields, and in the streets and cities of our towns. They really got that. There's one very short story I'd like to tell you about a man that I ran into in the Blitz. I got the sort of tail end of the blast of a bomb once and went into the casualty clearing station in a local hospital, which was a pretty terrible sight, because they'd had a red basket on the hospital and there was a bus burning outside. But the characters were all pretty cheery, and suddenly in came an old London taxi driver with a great long dundreer moustache and his cap on top of his head and a scarf wrapped around his face. And I was sort of standing there. I hadn't got much wrong with me, and I was standing there right like a sped. And so the intern said to me, Would you lend a hand and help get the old boy undressed? Which I did, and we found he'd got a great big chunk of bomb stuck rather far into him, and it wasn't very nice, and he was not going to live very long. But the intern went to him and said, You know, you've got to have to give you a little gas to get this out, a little anesthetic. He said, All right. He finally agreed to it. And as he was going out in a wheelchair, he suddenly turned around and he said, You know, Doc, I don't mind having this whiff. He said, But I can't stay all night, you know. I've got me fares to think of. Oh, isn't that wonderful? Which is a pretty fine thought. We don't have much time, Bill. We only have about 30 seconds. Could you just briefly tell about Coventry and the lesson that was learned there? Well, Coventry, yes. The lesson I think that was learned there was this. This is a small city, and they completely flattened the city. And worse than that, they smashed up the water, the light, and the heat. And although they pushed food into the town immediately, nobody could carry on with life because they hadn't got the tools with which to carry on ordinary life. And I think the parallel here is very simple, and that is like the hurricane warning that you get here. I think every civilian should do two things. One, know how to do everything to preserve his life during an attack. And secondly, have himself prepared to carry on after the attack with sterno cook stoves, water in the bathtubs, drinking water and canned food, so that we cannot, the enemy cannot disorganize our civilian life and work. Thank you, Bill, very much. We've heard Mitch Day, Mitch Day, and Roland Gillette, and Faye, I think we'll say goodnight for now. Goodnight. Goodnight. Thank you, Skitch Henderson and Faye Emerson, for being with us this week on Plan for Survival. This is Bill Leonard asking you to be with us next week at the same time and reminding you that civil defense is common sense. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is Bill Leonard, and we'll be right back.