Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, can small business survive? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the problems faced by small business and the means of handling them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Ewing T. Bowles, President of the Investment Bankers Association of America, Peter Bukowski, President of the Cosmopolitan National Bank of Chicago, Harry Guthman, Professor of Finance at Northwestern University, and Fred A. Verkus, Chairman, Conference of American Small Business Organizations. Now let's come directly to our question, Verkus. Can small business survive? What's your answer? Well, if small business can survive, neither can big business, for the simple reason that small and big business are interdependent. Scores of thousands of small distributors are entirely dependent on big producers, and the bigs are dependent on the small outlets for the sale of their products. Small business must survive because nothing can take its place as the very heart of every community. What do you say to our question, Bowles? Certainly I'd say that small business can survive. And in surviving, small business serves America. America is a virile and a growing country. As long as it is virile and growing, small businesses not only will survive, but they will grow and continue to grow. Guthman, do you go along with that point of view? I think the best evidence that small business can survive is the fact that it's actually been... It actually is surviving. It is surviving. In the last half century, the number of business units has actually been growing faster than population. Vykowski, what's your answer? Well, my opinion, small business not only can survive, it must be encouraged to live, to thrive, and to survive. Small business is an important segment or component of the great American middle class, which in turn is the anchor of the American way of life. The Bolshevik Revolution of October 1917 succeeded in Russia because of the absence of a strong middle class in a country of intellectual extremes. I know, I saw it, I was there. Thirty-five years of business experience crystallizes in my mind the conviction that individual freedom is inextricably tied in with freedom of individual business opportunity. That, to me, spells small business from manufacturing to retail distribution. Small business facilitated and encouraged in its existence, in its development and its growth. A successful, thriving, and prosperous small business co-existent with the thriving of big business. Small business is America's insurance for the preservation of our institutions because small business helps to make a strong middle class. Well, if I may be permitted to say so, gentlemen, I think that's an excellent answer to our question. I would like to ask Mr. Berkus, though, what he considers small business to be. In other words, how large can you be and still be small? Well, the classification of the Department of Defense for awarding war contracts is those concerns employing under 500 persons. The Department of Commerce, on the other hand, breaks the classification down by lines of business and the annual sales volume. Now, one definition is the fellow who can't afford to hire a lobbyist in Washington. Would that be your definition? That's, well, my own definition is this. He's the fellow who has his own money invested and operates his own concern. This is the distinction between the owner-operated business and the hired officers of a corporation controlled by hundreds or many thousands of stockholders. Dustin? Actually, the great majority of businesses are very much smaller than this. Some 87% of all business units have three workers or less. I rather like Berkus' definition, however, which ties up owner management as the determinant of whether it's in the small or big classification. Looked at from the eyes of the investment banker, small business certainly would start at a million dollars in capital, and that would make a lot of businesses small businesses. Yes, indeed it would. I think Mr. Berkus' characterization of individually owned constitutes the big broad base from which others can be built up to incorporate Mr. Bold's characterization of invested cap to a million dollars or not. In what fields do these small businesses operate for the most part, Gutman? Primarily in two fields, retail distribution and the service business. Service business would be such a thing as a barber shop or cleaning and pressing establishment. How about manufacturing? Auto mechanics. In manufacturing, it's true we have small manufacturers, but they would be larger in number of employees and the amount of capital than the small business in these two fields which I've mentioned. Are you speaking mostly of service industries now? I said that the most of the small businesses were in these two fields. There are small businesses, of course, in manufacturing as well, but the question is where the numbers were, where the large number could be found. Isn't there a differential there between those who produce capital goods, in other words, those who produce something that is used in the economy or is sold, and those who give purely service? Well, now... Well, a retail merchant sells goods, but he still is very small and still... He doesn't produce the goods he sells. That's true. He doesn't process the goods. Now, as a matter of fact, the four largest retail lines are the graphic cards, printing, lithographing, publishing. Food is next, and its processing and distribution. Clothing is next, and lumber. These are the areas in which small business operates? Yes, very largely. How many small businesses do we have, Verkus? Is that a fair question? That is, what volume of business do they do? Well, I can't answer the volume of business because there are no records on that with the exception of retailing, which I'll give you. There are 4,043,525 concerns of all kinds on December 30, 1952, of which 92% are small, 6% employing 500 to 3,000 are medium, and only 2% are big business. The 92% employ 45% of all the wage and salary workers. No figures are available for the total volume for overall small business, but the Bureau of Census reports retail sales for 1952 totaled $163,900,000,000. We're talking, then, about a pretty good chunk of our economy, aren't we? We're talking about little business being big business, aren't we? When we're talking about these small businesses. Well, how well is small business doing, anyway, gentlemen? Our question, can small business survive, suggests the possibility that they're in trouble. How about that, Verkus? Well, the reports are that there are 1,000 new businesses open every day and about 900 close every day. Most of the closings within the first year, and the principal reasons for failure are, 1, lack of experience and ability, and 2, lack of capital. It's been demonstrated that if a business can survive for three years, its chances are good to continue. Is the incidence of failure larger, I wonder, Gutman, among these smaller operators? Oh, very decidedly. Here's where we find most of the failures. And then, of course, these figures often include voluntary discontinuances. After all, when the mainstay of a business dies, or his health becomes poor, or merely wishes to change his mind about what he'd like to do, it is listed among one of these discontinuances. So the mortality is bound to be high because the life of the business is tied up with the life of the proprietor. I think it should be pointed out that the mortality rate is highest among the businesses that have just been started, and that are less than a year old. And obviously, there's where you would get either in small or large business your biggest number of failures. What's been the effect, Bukowski, of these GI loans designed to help young GIs get into business? My opinion is that the GI business loans were far too few in number to make their aggregate a matter of significance in the field of small business. Would that be your opinion, Gutman? Yes. Through the middle of last year, there had only been some 190,000 GI business loans made. And these loans totaled somewhere in the vicinity of about a half billion, for which the government stood guarantor for about $162 million. So in the total picture, they've been relatively unimportant. Wouldn't a large proportion of that number include loans to professional men such as physicians and surgeons and dentists? Yes, it would include some automobile loans to people who needed to get a car to go around in their business. So they're really not loans that in every case started a business. So there is a statistical distortion. It's interesting to notice also that the failure rate or the number of defaults has been higher in this field than in other fields of government guarantee. Almost 5% of these loans defaulted, whereas in the case of GI loans on houses, the record is much less than a half of 1%. Well, I suspect, gentlemen, the greatest contribution we can make here today in discussing the survival of small business is to deal pretty directly with some of the problems that these small operators face. Vercus, can small business meet the competition of big business? Are these small units sound economically? The fact is that they have met the competition of chain stores in the communities in which they live because it has compelled the merchant to begin with to improve his own establishment, to make it more modern and attractive, and to give the personalized attention to customers, which chains cannot do because the manager and employees of chains are frequently newcomers, if indeed they live there at all. Certainly, I would second that statement. There is no question that small business can, in most lines, meet the competition of big business. The management of small business, if it is good, is a very versatile management. By reason of that, very versatility. And their being on the ground and able to quickly change direction and to change the things that need to be changed, they can meet the processes of big business. The other, I would like to add, is that there is a close coordination frequently between big business and small business, which helps them both to survive. That's right. Yes, I can recall when I was a youngster, there was the question as to whether the big chain stores wouldn't drive the independent retailer out of business. In recent years, there's been an apparently some balance between the share of business taken by the retail grocery chains and the independent, indicating apparently that there is some natural balance between these two types of business. But is our financial structure such that, Bowles, that small business can get venture capital to get started? Don't they confront very real problems there? They do, depending upon the size of the business. But largely, the management of the business itself is a determining factor of whether they can get credit or not. If the management is good, if it is versatile, if it has vision, if it knows its product, if it knows its merchandising, in short, if it knows its business, it frequently can get that capital that is needed, either through the commercial bank, which I'm sure our friend here would like to talk about, but also through the investment banker. I was about to ask you that question. You represent here the Investment Bankers Association of America. Are your people interested in this kind of venture? They're very interested in this kind of venture. Frequently, they have to be somewhat larger than we think of just being very small businesses. They frequently have to have capital in excess of $100,000, or they have to have the kind of a business that would take that kind of capital if we're putting in venture capital. So that we are looking for good management. There is no substitute for good management. If we find good management, a good product, and a fellow who knows what he's doing, then we're very interested in sitting down and talking with him and try to provide both the venture capital, and if he already has capital in the business, even the debt capital for expansion. Now the local banker in the community, like Bukowski here, one of the kingpins in his town probably knows every businessman in it. His character, ability, and his success or failure. The banker's business, as I take it, Mr. Bukowski, is to lend money. And you will do that according to good banking principles, won't you? Absolutely. Are you, do you open these small operators in your bank, Bukowski? I can't, I can't discuss the subject without getting personal about it. But I'm glad to say that the record of our institution is such that it is built upon the successes of small business enterprises whom we have assisted over the years. And the important thing, as has been pointed out by the preceding references made to the operation of small business, inevitably is how good and how competent is the management, not necessarily how aggressive, but rather how industrious, how imaginative. And those factors in combination prompt the banker within the limits of what constitutes sound banking to go all out to help the individual who possesses those characteristics and attributes. Now I'm distinguishing between loans and between venture capital. The bank, of course, cannot make venture capital investments, but it may make loans. Well, venture capital, you mean capital to get started, to get the thing going. That's correct. That's correct. Guzman? Lest Bukowski appear to be immodest, I might say that what he's perfectly familiar with, namely that in the last 15 years the commercial banks have shown a great deal of ingenuity in attempting to devise ways to extend credit more freely to the small business through such devices as loans secured by inventory or receivables or by working working out loans that would run for three to five years intermediate credit loans which they couldn't obtain before. And in general, the business that has less than a half million of capital has to rely pretty heavily upon the owner's investment and what credit it can obtain from either the bank or its trade creditors. And it's not until it gets much rather larger than that it's likely to attract the investment banker which Mr. Bowles represents. Well, we frequently, of course, loan to companies that have capital as little as $100,000 and $200,000. But I'd like to define this venture capital and debt capital. Venture capital in our parlance, of course, or in our language, is common and preferred stock. Debt capital is either loans from a bank or long-term loans as might be shown by notes or by bonds. So the difference between the two is the stock and the bond end or debt and stock. Now, we were talking a little while ago about the effect of these GI loans and apparently it's had no very great effect. Are there any other resources in government to which a small operator can turn to help finance his operations, Bukowski? Well, he can go to the RFC, another instrumentality of government, the Small Defense Plants Administration that interests itself in the welfare of small business and many ramifications of that activity. The RFC undertakes to bring about some contract distribution, help with procurement of materials, and also support applications for financing where funds are not available through normal lending channels. The SDPA sponsors applications before the RFC. The RFC, as you know, has been in business since 1933. That's the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. That's the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. It was my privilege to serve in 1951 as Deputy Administrator there for a six-month period of time. Personally, I regard the lending activity as the RFC as a constructive aid to small business. The RFC has a fine record of accomplishment during the dirty 30s. Its assistance was an economic salvation of many a community. In the reconstruction years preceding 1941, RFC aided our convalescent industrial plant to regain its full working potential. During the 41-45 war years, RFC did a superb job in the manifold war programs assigned to it. In the post-war years, RFC helped to cushion conversion from war to peacetime industrial production. Omitting the war years, RFC's attitude at all other times was largely in aid of or too small business. Big business, especially in the post-war years, did not need the RFC. Banks and insurance companies took good care of them. But the credit needs, especially term loans for small business, was and still is a problem. Too small interest insurance companies, too small interest investment bankers, non-conforming as a commercial bank loan, here was the credit vacuum which the RFC sought to fill. And I think it did a job. The Lustron loan made under pressure in a climate of great housing shortage, and the mink coats eukered out of desperate bowers by influence peddlers, don't change the record of a job well done. I hold firmly to the opinion that it would be smart to retain the RFC. Its services may be needed again. I grant you, Bukowski, that the RFC did a good job during the period of the emergency. But of later years, it has become somewhat of a political grab bag and a gravy train for bureaucrats. It's now competing entirely with private banking to a large extent, and in my opinion, it should be abolished. Do you have an opinion on that, Bowles? Well, I think the RFC itself states that it does not want to make any business loans that can be made elsewhere, or where credit can be obtained elsewhere. But there isn't any question, I think, in anybody's mind, that we want to get lending out of government hands and into private hands. It is subject to the abuses that Mr. Berkus speaks of, and we're all very conscious of the fact that it's subject to those abuses. And certainly in an economy such as ours today, where we have great widespread prosperity, it's pretty hard to find where the RFC really fits into a picture of that character. Admitting that the RFC has done an indispensable job during the Depression and during the war period, an examination of its loan since the end of the war indicates two things. First, that its lending activities have been very, very small, indicating that there doesn't seem to be a large need for this type of agent. And secondly, an examination of the type of loan certainly indicates that many of the loans are being made for types of business that aren't particularly essential to the economy. In other words, it's had to look hard to find even the small number of loans it has made, which would suggest that its discontinuance would hardly be a national calamity at this stage. I think in terms of the RFC as being an emergency agency. And when there is no emergency, of course its service to the economy, in my opinion, falls away. Well, the fire department is an emergency agency, but after the fire has put out, you don't junk or discard your fire equipment. Maybe the parallel doesn't fit exactly. Well, there are many other government agencies into which that can be fitted in, don't you think? I mean, it could take over the work of the RFC on an emergency basis. Well, we've expressed an opinion around the table on the RFC as a source of credit to small operators. Earlier, Verkis, you expressed some concern about the tax structure in relation to these small operators. Yes, I think the present tax structure is confiscatory. It destroys incentive. It makes plowing profits back into business for expansion almost impossible. The remedy to high taxes is a reduction of government expenditures, a large part of which could be accomplished by abolishing all those bureaus, agencies, and corporations which were created to meet emergencies which no longer exist, and sell those government operated corporations which are a direct competition with private business. Well, now that's a point of view, certainly. But does it apply any more to small business than it does to large business? Taxes are distressing probably to all of us. I think that's exactly right. I think it applies equally to the whole economy. I don't think there is any question that small business suffers from taxes. I think what Mr. Verkis has said of reduction of expenditures and reduction of taxes is a necessary thing to our economy. It's also a necessary thing to small business. I would like to point out, however, that taxes are a very special problem for the small business as such. That the large business, if it finds that its capital needs cannot be taken care of by retained earnings because of high corporate taxes, can turn to other channels much more easily. But a small business relies almost entirely for its ownership capital upon retained earnings. And so while it doesn't pay any higher tax rates than the large business, that it does feel the tax burden much more keenly, where it has a problem of expansion. You know, the government has invested $27 billion in such businesses as hydroelectric plants, all the way to roasting green coffee beans and about everything conceivable in between these. If you get these off the taxpayers' necks and release about half a million employees, which private enterprise needs and can easily absorb outside of Washington. That, of course, opens up an entirely brand new subject, Mr. Verkis. I'm ready to subscribe to many of the things that you say. I hold of the theory, for example, after having been in Washington, that you can take a 25% cut straight across the board and operate our government in Washington without reducing its efficiency one whit. And after you accomplish that, you can start refining in each individual operation in each bureau in each department. I think it ought to be said to the everlasting credit of the RAFC that just recently, the head of that, head of the RAFC, Mr. McDonald, has recommended that the synthetic rubber industry be liquidated and sold back to private business. I think that is certainly a step in the right direction in what you're talking about. And the next step is to go on and on from the various other businesses in the government. The TVAs and other power plants. That's correct. Well, now, another facet of this problem in which I know you're interested, Verkis, is the kind of problem presented to the small operator by organized labor. Well, I think the reason why more small businesses quit is that the one thing more than taxes, capital, credit, or competition is the labor union racketeer and their goon squads, which are above the law and absolutely ruthless. It's almost unbelievable that in this country, labor unions can compel businessmen and their employees to join against their will or have their premises and contacts destroyed by stench bombs or beaten up by goons, which is happening practically every day in some part of this country. Well, now, I certainly wouldn't subscribe to the goons and to the stench bombs. On the other hand, you wouldn't want to underwrite small operators that were attempting to exploit their workers, would you? Well, it's pretty hard to think that a small businessman employing from one to a dozen people is exploiting his employees. Certainly, the labor union can do nothing to help them in higher wages or better working conditions or shorter hours, the things that the union is supposed to do. Now, let me say this. I wonder if that's wholly correct. Might it not be that the record of the unions would show that even though not dealing directly with small operators, they have established standards for workers, higher wages, better working conditions, lower hours, and that the small operators ought to pay their share of that. Now, the merchants in any community band together to decide how long they're going to keep their shops open during the day, and what days they're going to close and what hours they're going to close. They make their own rules, and I have yet to find a complaint on the part of any of the employees of retail establishments about working conditions or hours or wages. But I do think there's a special facet of this problem, and I'd like to ask Guthman about it. I can see where the small businessman dealing with big labor might run into some very serious problems indeed. Yes, I'd like to point out that none of us would endorse any program that would permit a business because of its size to exploit labor. But it seems to me that where a union engages in any illegitimate activity, the small business is much more at a disadvantage than the large. When big business faces big labor, it can operate on more nearly a parity. But a small business may actually grow bulk during one of these periods in which it's fighting with a union, which may not be in every case using legal tactics. Well, in the field of competition, of course, and the employment situation we have today, it's pretty hard to believe that labor in these shops would be very greatly exploited because they could go somewhere else and get a better job at shorter hours and higher wages unless they were compensated properly with both hours and wages. Well, now, one way of summing this discussion up, gentlemen, is to ask the question whether or not you'd advise young men and women to try to go into business for themselves. What advice would you offer, Bukowski? Yes, I would. Well, I'm very, very sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Can Small Business Survive? We want to thank our guests for today. Ewing T. Bowles, President of the Investment Bankers Association of America, Peter Bukowski, President of the Cosmopolitan Bank in Chicago, and former manager of the Chicago Loan Agency of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, Harry Guthman, Professor of Finance at Northwestern University, and Fred A. Verkus, Chairman of the Conference of American Small Business Organizations. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask, How can we meet the psychological problems of old age? Our guests will be Richard T. Morris, lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Northwestern University, Dr. Arnold Wagner, Associate in Medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School and physician at the Alonzo Mather Home for Aged Ladies, and Robert I. Watson, Professor of Psychology at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, How can we meet the psychological problems of old age? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jack Fuller, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System.