Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our series on our common maladjustments with a discussion at the lecture and a discussion on the subject of our changing moves. While you are all here, may I call to your attention that we have attempted to give out to all of you a mimeographed notice about a course that we are two courses we are going to give. Perhaps some of you did not receive it, and for the benefit of those people who did not get a sheet, may I just state that we are offering three meetings, beginning Monday, November 20th, on the topic of cancer, cancer as it affects people in New York City, progress in cancer control, and cancer research, a race with time. There will be movies with the first lecture and slides with the second one. In case some of you think this might be a little grim topic for the Division of Social Philosophy to put on, possibly it could be construed as that, but I have found out that it is quite difficult to receive and get information and get appointments for information in various places on, to get information from medical people on this topic. So in case anybody is interested in the topic, why, room 203 on Monday evenings, beginning November 20th. And the other thing I would like to call to your attention is that the East-West Association and the Division of Social Philosophy of the Cooper Union are cooperating in a meeting entitled, The Asians Look at Us. We have been looking at the Asians so much, it seemed to me that we might very well try to find out just about how we, as American public, do stand with some of the Asian people. I thought it might be of some benefit to find that out, at least in our reactions towards them. So Pearl Buck will be here, and Dr. Chang-Wing Sitt from Dartmouth College, Dr. Sufowski-Darr from the United Nations Technical Assistance Committee. And that will be on Wednesday evening, November 29th. Now for those of you who have already had these papers, thank you very much for indulging me and reading that to you again. Now this evening, we are very happy to present a very famous person, Dr. Alexandra Adler, who is the daughter of a very famous person, Dr. Adler, which I am sure most everybody has heard about. And I think, yes, I think I should very definitely have a little recognition. And I have a long list of accomplishments here. Dr. Adler does things and has accomplished things. Dr. Adler is Assistant Clinical Professor of Neurology and Neuropsychiatrist at New York University College of Medicine. He's Assistant Attending Neuropsychiatrist at Bellevue and University Hospitals. He's an Associate Visiting Neuropsychiatrist at the Goldwater Memorial Hospital. Assistant Alienist for the City of New York Department of Correction. He has been associated with some of the best medical departments in, that is, academic medical departments in the United States, in various colleges, one of them Harvard University. I will not go into all of the other things that this very famous lady has done. But it is a great honor and pleasure for us to present to you Dr. Alexandra Adler, speaking on our changing moves. Dr. Adler. Ladies and gentlemen, Tonight, our subject is our changing moods. And so I would like to discuss, at first, changes of moods as they may occur with any of us. Then, later on, I would like to discuss changes as they may occur in borderline cases between the normal and the sick. Cases which may or may not need outside help. And finally, I would like to discuss briefly the extreme changes of mood, such as they may be found in the so-called manic depressive psychosis. Now, I would like to start with the early morning, when it happens in many people, who otherwise may be very well adjusted. And they get up and say, before they had their first cup of coffee, they just do not care whether they live or die. We realize that this expression is slightly exaggerated. But their mood, their depression is correctly expressed. And soon, after they had their first cup of coffee, but probably also if no coffee had been available, they are in good spirits again. Their depression is conquered. And they now go on with their routine. Now, this daily routine may represent another ever-present challenge to our disposition. This routine may be very monotonous, as we all probably know. But normally, we go about those things with a what cannot be cured, must be endured attitude. This is not so with a certain group of people whom you all may have encountered, and who constantly complain of the monotony of their lives. And constantly, they do, and they feel justified to change their occupation, their place of work, and their type of work, constantly and innumerably. And they always cause considerable disturbance to other people. They constantly complain of their work, and they are in a very bad mood about their life. This attitude can be traced back to their childhood. But it by no means is always the same type of child that develops this attitude as if their work should be only enjoyment, only amusement to them, as if the world owed it to them. Some may be the pampered children who grew up with the idea that the whole world revolves around them, and who now expect the same from their work. If it isn't so, and it very usually isn't quite so, they become sullen and revolved. Some may be, however, another type too. Children who have felt slighted, all through their childhood, who may have been neglected, and now are pessimists, and feel that this will be repeated all over again. And, expecting nothing good, they behave this way, ungrateful, sullen. And, they too, quit their work again and again, with the explanation that they just could not stand the shortcomings of their occupation. Now, we have learned a great deal about human emotions from one of the most ubiquitous human emotions, namely love. Neither literature, nor proval life, would be very well thinkable without those emotional storms. Everyone knows those changes. At first, when everything goes according to expectation, the lover sees everything rosy. Every task becomes easy. He's in a very good spirits, and the partner is the most perfect of all human specimens. Those people, at least temporarily, very often become better adjusted, as long as they are in this happy condition. And then, comes disappointment. The well-known disappointments of love. And everything turns grey. Work becomes a burden. Formerly preferred occupations and hobbies, activities, lose all their sense. The partner becomes an object of hate sometimes, and distrust, and profound sadness. Poets sometimes work at their best when in such a condition. But not many other people profit from this condition. So, the German poet, Heine, starts one of his beautiful poems with the words, Out of my greatest sorrows, I formed my little songs. And another poet, Dorothy Parker, has described this condition very beautifully. The poem entitled Landscape. Where she describes a beautiful landscape, colourful, which ought to make everyone happier. And then comes the last verse, But me, I see it flat and grey, and blurred with misery, Because a lad a mile away has little need of me. Now, those emotions are, fortunately, normally self-limited. And after a while, the person recovers. The same is true also in the grief reactions after the death of a loved one. And it is of interest to see that sometimes reactions, depressions, after this appointment in love, last much longer, and provoke much more violent reactions, and even grief reaction after the death of a loved one. We have to realise that disappointments in love represent a mixed emotion. It is not only sadness mixed with it. It is hate, contempt, regret, and a great deal of considerations of whether one could not have done differently, or perhaps still should not do differently. That it is not only sadness can be seen from the fact that such people are able to overcome the death of this loved person. Much easier than their sorrow about disappointment in relation to this person. Here again, this process of healing is beautifully described by the same poet, Dorothy Parker, in a little verse appropriately called Healed, which I may bring to your memory back. Oh, when I flung my heart away, the year was at its fall. I saw my dear the other day beside a flowering wall, and that was all I had to say. I thought that he was tall. Now I would like to illustrate the point that those two divergent emotions, elation and joy on the one hand, and sadness and grief on the other hand, are very closely related. You all know and have seen people who start laughing when they cry, or finally cry after they have been laughing a great deal. This closeness can be seen in all the emotions, in all the strong emotions of life. And it is always said that for instance, love and death, or ideas of love and death are closely related. Such emotions may even go to the extreme, when there are some otherwise quite well-adjusted people who have a compulsion, for instance, to laugh at sad occasions. I know of one quite outstanding scientist who complains that when he is at funerals he has a compulsion to laugh. There is another observation which may be familiar to most of you. We sometimes have dreams which consist of nothing but that we laugh. Or we wake up laughing and feel very good. And on exploration we find that such event occurs when a person is plagued by a very depressing thought. Where he doesn't know any way out for the time being. It evidently is so that while he sleeps and while he dreams he struggles to find a way out of the predicament, out of the sadness. And so, in his dream life, he goes the opposite way. This closeness of the two emotions is also very well expressed in the literature. And I only want to point out perhaps some of the best-known, best-selling shows now, going on Broadway, which you all know perhaps, Mr. Roberts or the Cocktail Party or even South Pacific, where always together with some hilarious comic parts, there is deep tragedy. Now these emotions, which I have described to you now, they are reactions. Reactions to certain events. These are very well understandable, very human, and therefore can be expected in all of us, and are normal reactions. Those depressions are for instance called reactive depressions, because they occur as a reaction to certain events. In some cases, people need some outside help, when they dwell too long in those emotions. But as I have pointed out before, there is a normal recovery process in all those depressive conditions. As you know, conditions where a person is justified to be elated do not need any concern, and do not need any treatment ever. Now I would like to illustrate another category. Briefly. There are many women who briefly, before their menstruation, experience a day or so of a profound depression. And they do so, although they know that the menstruation is approaching. And the fact that they know that this depression will be over in a day or so, does not help much. It only helps them to understand depression in other people. It is however interesting, that if such women happen to be in particularly good spirits at this time, the depression does not develop. Here you see how many facts have to be considered. When we want to understand the causes of severe moods. Here you quite evidently have a mixture of a somatic condition, perhaps endocrine condition, menstruation in women. And to this comes a particular mood of the woman, which has its definite bearing upon the outcome and upon the present mood. It has been often argued that those mood changes in women are cause for not giving women responsible positions. For instance, such as that of a judge. But I would like to stress a point that emotions normally do not interfere with our judgment. We can be expected to work in responsible positions in spite of temporary deep sorrows or depressions, which naturally impinge upon the life of everybody at one time or another. But they are not supposed to interfere with our judgment. And this too was beautifully expressed in one sentence in Shakespeare's A Winter's Tale. When he says, I think affliction may subdue the cheek, but not afflicts a mind. Now I would like to go one step further. And discuss those borderline cases, which show an almost constant over-optimism or over-pessimism. And which are called in the psychiatric literature as the hypomanic, which means the person who is not manic, not really psychotically manic, but below it, hypomanic. And below it, hypo means below. So those cases are over-optimism. We have to, we can see there one very interesting point of difference right away between the normal elation and that in those cases which are constantly over-optimistic. In the normal person, if he is filled with joy and optimism, together with this usually goes a profound relaxation. This is different in the over-optimistic. This is different in the over-optimists. With their condition goes a constant tension. I would like to describe to you briefly those cases and you all may have met such characters. They are those people who feel constantly on the top of the world. They are active all the time. They have constantly social engagements. They sell tickets for all types of enterprises. They write to the congressmen over and over. They write to the newspapers. They represent a considerable strain upon their environment. On the other hand, they usually are able to have many friends and choose their closest environment of people who are much in favor of their over-activity. Quite often, you may find in their family people who are even more extremely affected and belong to the group of the manic depressives, which I am going to describe later. Only rarely do those hypomanics or over-optimists get into difficulty because of their over-activity. The other type is the chronic depressive. The person who is constantly pessimistic is a very sad chapter. They are people who are unable to enjoy anything. They have been described by the late psychiatrist, Meyerson, under the title of suffering from anhedonia. Anhedonia from the Greek word joy. No joy. No joy. Anhedonics or anhedonia. They constantly complain of their work. They don't enjoy social relations. They constantly object to members of the opposite sex and do not find any joy in their relation with them. So I remember one unfortunate man whom I have seen briefly, who grew up in a very discouraging, poor, Irish family. And right from the beginning, when he was 16, 17, was unable to find any appropriate occupation. And so you will see that those poor people constantly find some excuses for their negative attitude. So this boy, at the age of 17, found that he could not possibly even try to find any good occupation, because he suffered occasionally from diarrhoes and was afraid to go and discuss his work with the boss. And later on, he felt he was unable to build up friendships. And again, as a poor excuse for this, he found out when he became a good friend of somebody and he should die, then he certainly would be asked to be a pallbearer. And then he might feel weak, his stomach may kick up, and he could not stand this idea. And this he gave an excuse for not making any friends, of being an isolated individual. His first name was Patrick, and he felt with this Irish name, he could not possibly find any advancement in his work. And so he never even tried, and didn't look around to find encouraging examples. When he met girls, he found that one talked too loud, the other one talked too little. Another one was too aggressive, and that could not possibly bring about a good relationship for possible marriage. Another one had too many family responsibilities. And when he finally went out with some girls, he had the habit of falling asleep. In their company, so much he felt bored with them. All this stemmed from his pessimistic attitude that whatever he did just was not the right thing to do. Those people are very difficult to influence. And among them, you may find several who consider and even plan and commit suicide out of their deep pessimism. Now, I would like to discuss the extreme mood changes. When those two types, the hypomanic on the one side, or the overoptimistic, or the chronic depressive, the pessimists, go far in their emotions, you can imagine that a state develops where they need constant supervision and even have to be hospitalized. And those people belong to the manic depressive. And those people belong to the group of the manic or depressive, or if those conditions alternate, the manic depressive psychosis. The manic, who is constantly active, talks all the time, acts all the time, tears things up, splashes water around, and very often becomes thoroughly unmanageable at home, and very soon has to be hospitalized. Those conditions develop suddenly. And after a while, after some months, practically always stop. And the same is true about the extreme conditions of depression, melancholic conditions, where the person is sorely inhibited, is sad, constantly thinks of suicide, expects the worst to happen. Very often, very often, very often, very often, very often, his ideas of sins, of self-depreciation, says that he is the worst person on earth, that he doesn't deserve to live, that he doesn't even deserve to eat. He has constantly sad ideas. And because of the constant danger of suicide on the one hand, but also because he often stops eating, he has to be hospitalized. So, shock treatment, electric shock treatment, or insulin treatment, has done a lot to shorten those conditions. But, unfortunately, has not been able to prevent a recurrence. Now, whereas, in the first group, the group of people who react to certain events appropriately, either sadly or joyfully, whereas in those, the cause of their change of mood is always easily seen, and they know it, this is the first group of people who react to certain events appropriately. And, as we know it, this is not so in those extreme cases of manic depressive psychosis, and also not in many cases of the slighter mood changes, of the over-optimistic, over-pessimistic. We do not know the cause in many of such cases. There have been many attempts to draw parallels between physical signs and conditions of mood. And those attempts date back to as far as Hippocrates, more than 400 years before the birth of Christ, who already described the stout type and the lean type, and attributed various conditions of physical ailment and of temperament to them. There are many popular notions connected with various types. And here again, you will remember, how well Shakespeare, in Julius Caesar, with his profound knowledge of humanity, has characterized this. you all remember how well Shakespeare in Julius Caesar with his profound knowledge of humanity has characterized this when he let Caesar say in the beginning let me have men about me that are fat sleek headed men and such as sleep on earth yont Cassius has a lean and hungry look he thinks too much such men are dangerous this parallel the popular conception of the type of people we think represents for instance the assassin the murderer the figure usually as a thin man fanatic looking was a way that usually Satan is pictured lean with a hungry look in his eyes we wouldn't very well paint or draw them as a chubby round-faced people and the opposite is true too when we see a person who is round the big stomach we very often expect him to be a gay and jovial fellow one of the later attempts and characterization has been made in this respect by the German psychiatrist Kretschmer who in his book physique and character has statistically shown that very often the so-called picnic who is round chubby big stomach so on is likely to be jovial and have certain changes of temperament where the so-called ethnic is more likely to belong to the so-called schizoid type of temperament whereas the so-called ethnic is more likely to belong to the so-called schizoid type of temperament who is withdrawn cold and more likely to be dangerous we have many confirmations but also we have many exceptions from this rule and the connection between physique constitution on the one hand and mood temperament is still an open question now also as I have described to you those constant changes of mood are normally to be expected in human beings there are a few conditions where over optimism is the most suitable form of reaction and in certain cases perhaps the only form of survival one field where I think over optimism is necessary is that of education I cannot figure out a good educator who doesn't realize that every child unless feeble-minded is a very promising child none of us has now already achieved any ability to predict the future development of a child and if one has an attitude of expecting the best from a child this has a very good effect on the child this is particularly necessary on the side of parents and they completely change their outlook on their attitude if they can be reassured that their child is promising rather than if they continue thinking that their child who now may be a rascal will be a problem all the time and this changed attitude right away shows in a child there are however other conditions where over optimism seems to be the only way of survival one of them I want to point out to you is our knowledge from the horrible experiences people had when they were in concentration camps when you talk with some of the survivors and ask them for instance whether they ever had given up hope they will tell you all that they never did that they always thought and always felt that the day of celebration will come sometime they add that those many people who lost their hope were known to be unable to survive for any length of time in the horrible conditions of the concentration camp unfortunately of course this over optimism did not guarantee any survival but we know that all those who were able to survive had constant hope and that is no magic because only with this constant hope in spite of all the odds that were against you were they able to constantly think out tricks cheat find out how to hide before the guards and constantly were planning how to find a way how to survive at least for the next day this was a necessary requirement in those horrible conditions there are other situations which are so involved that humanity with all its limitations cannot predict the outcome and one of those for instance we all experience now when we hear about the development of the A and H bomb this is a problem that affects the person just as well alone as the whole of humanity and we can be expected to take a tremendous interest in it the reaction of the neurotic of the over anxious person is sometimes surprising so for instance as one patient said was very over anxious hypochondriac when I asked what he felt about the H bomb and he said well they had to publish it exactly the day when I didn't feel good or another person when asked about his reaction another patient says I think that will do me neither good nor bad nor bad or the other extreme may happen too when those people who are over anxious over pessimistic and so much interest in themselves only may say to one surprise well I'm not much interested in it I didn't read about it our normal reaction is in addition to our concern some optimism when we look at the comparatively good record humanity has as to its survival so far in such situations the fable of the two frogs applies which I would like to repeat to those who don't know it two frogs fell into a pot of milk one of them realizing the odds that were against him immediately gave up and drowned himself the other one too realized the precariousness of the situation but he started to kick and kicked and kicked and suddenly in the morning he sat on solid ground he had churned the milk into butter such is our situation quite often when we cannot see what really will happen and we cannot foretell what may happen but humanity tries and tries and tries and tries again in its constant quest for happiness and survivor Thank you very much Dr. Adler we will have our usual question period in just a few minutes I have paper and pencils here or we also have a microphone down here on my left if you would like to answer questions directly to the next question you have a question to the people who answered this do you think anybody works for nothing today? do you think anybody works for nothing today? do you think anybody works for nothing today? do you think anybody works for nothing today? do you think Dr. Adler all right Dr. Adler all right Dr. Adler all right Dr. Adler all right thank you very much thank you very much thank you very much and I have a question and I have a question to the people who answered this all right all right all right Dr. Adler thank you very much for that very nice and very informative talk Dr. Adler thank you very much for that very nice and very informative talk Dr. Adler thank you very much for that very nice and very informative talk Dr. Adler thank you very much Dr. Adler I have a large number of questions here one seems to have been repeated several times and I think you did discuss it but perhaps you could enlarge on this a little bit for us you did mention this already now Dr. Adler what causes the change of moods? now don't go over all of them but just how do you move from one of those a lot of people want to know that I have eight questions here on that I have eight questions here on that if we think of the first group which I described to you namely those who are sad because of a disappointment or elated because something very nice has happened to them I think you don't need any answer this group we call reactive depressions or reactive elations and it is one of the human qualities to answer this way two happenings however if we come to the second group which you probably have on your mind those of the manic depressive psychosis or the related group of those who are constantly overactive or on the other hand constantly underactive I had to tell you that we do not know what causes this attempts were made to parallel this with constitution and attempts were made as I tried to explain to correlate for instance the manic depressive those people are constantly or constantly elated constantly depressed or constantly change between elation and depression to parallel those with a picnic start body build this sometimes is true sometimes not in some of those cases one thinks that certain happenings either said happenings or sometimes even joyful happenings caused the sadness of the pain in the world caused the sudden outbreak of the elation or depression however we have to realize that all through our lives every day something happens that is sad something happens that is joyful and if those events are able to tip the balance for the outbreak of insanity and that's what manic depressive psychosis is that probably everything could do it and we are not quite sure that the cause for the outbreak of the extreme manic depressive conditions is really an outside happening or is only an outside happening it may be it may be something that some physical condition may contribute or something else which we just don't know as yet may suffice to say that the best psychiatrists have not been able to prevent the outbreak of the extreme mood changes of depressive or manic psychosis or disease or manic psychosis in those cases which came about regularly. And there are such cases which have an elated episode or a depressed episode, let's say every other year. This indicates that we really don't know very much about the causes of the extreme cases of manic depressive insanity. Also, of those borderline cases, we are not quite sure whether we always can trace them from their childhood. In many of those cases, you find in their families very definite cases of frank, either manic psychosis or depressive or manic depressive psychosis. And we have to consider those as a milder form. The heredity in the manic depressive insanity is very pronounced. We know statistically that if we have, for instance, one parent that is suffering from a manic depressive insanity in the extreme form, or even sometimes if he is only suffering from a hypomanic condition. If he has, let's say, five children, two or three of them can be expected also to be manic depressive in its extreme form. This again indicates that there is another constitutional angle to it, which we don't quite understand as yet. But mind you, this is quite different from those reactive forms, from those people who react to a definite event with a depression. And this depression, for instance, may last a long time. There are certain cases which, after a disappointment in love or after the death of a loved one, have a depression which may go on for years. And they need treatment, psychiatric treatment, psychotherapy. In those cases, we know that this conflict has caused this reaction. And here, we are always able to trace the development back to their childhood, which makes us understand why they reacted in such an exaggerated, helpless way to the various events. All right, Doctor. Thank you very much. Now, Dr. Adler, there's a young lady here who's very anxious to ask a question, a little bit worried about it. So I have agreed to hold her hand while she asks this question. This is purely for strength-giving purposes. Now, would you give us your name and your question, please, young lady? Ms. Karp. What? Ms. Karp. Ms. Karp. How do you do? No hand-holding. Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. You mentioned that in several cases of severe manic depressions, shock insulin is used. Now, how is that of any help to the person? And also, does the person need an increased diet of sugar to counteract this artificial insulin? Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Did everyone understand the question? Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. The question is, how does shock treatment have an effect on the manic depressive? Dr. Karp. Another additional question is, if the person is treated with insulin, does he need additional sugar? Did I understand, Professor? Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Dr. Karp. Now, here again, I have to stress the fact that the good reaction to shock treatment in the manic depressive conditions is a matter of our experience. We know that it very often helps. If anyone knows exactly how it helps, he will get the Nobel Prize right away. Because we don't know it. The one thing that is common to all those cases that react well to shock treatment is that their state of consciousness is bleached out for a while. They become unconscious. Without unconsciousness, there is no good effect. It might be, if we try to explain the reaction to us in a somewhat coarse way, that they forget their conditions, they forget their morbid ideas, they forget their sadness. They forget their ideas of self-depreciation during this condition of unconsciousness. And might be able to fill it up with something more constructive when regaining consciousness. Something in this field happens. But exactly how it happens, we don't know. Now, in insulin shock treatment, as well as in electric shock treatment, the patient becomes unconscious. And that is expected. And that is expected. And in insulin shock treatment, he becomes unconscious because the sugar is reduced to a great extent. That is desired. And therefore, we don't give the patient sugar unless we want to take him out of this condition. When we want to wake him up again, then we give him sugar. And that is the way the insulin treatment is performed. Thank you very much. Good evening, Charlie. Do you want to hold my hand, too? Doctor, you spoke of the concentration camp, that the people who were over-optimistic had a better survival value. Don't you think that that's all based on faith? In the Bible, it says, faith is a substance of things hopeful, the evidence of things not seen. And then Jesus says, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you can remove mountains. That is what enabled them to survive. It's a certain attitude. Then in the kid's book, a fifth-year read, it says this. Two men look out through the bars. One sees the mud and the other sees the stars. All right, Dr. Adler, what about faith and religion? Well, we all have known through the Bible in particular, but also through many other reports in the literature, how much faith has helped. We have to realize that people who really believe that they are in the hand of the Lord, they will act quite differently than people who believe that nobody helps them. So that is the reaction of the religious people. The reaction of people who put their faith in other instances is different. And there are always various groups of people and various reactions. But the one reaction that is common to all of them, is that they believe that something good will come out for them. Whether this is whether this is the Lord, whether this is blind belief in some faith, whether this is a belief in their own strength, may not make any difference in the actions of the people. the people who believe that they are in the hands of the Lord, Thank you, Doctor. Did I gather that possibly you felt that the idea that we're all in the hands of the Lord was a little over-optimistic? Don't answer that one. All right, young lady, your name and your question, please. I've read an article where a belief in the cycle of moods was discussed, where you can actually chart your moods, the norm can chart their moods under normal conditions, and you can anticipate your moods in advance and that sort of thing. I didn't hold much water in it, and I was wondering if you discuss it briefly. Do you believe in a normal cycle of moods? Is it possible to chart your moods ahead? Could you say start at one point and chart your moods? Is there a regular cycle of moods that we go through, Doctor? The lady says she doesn't think there's much in it, but she'd like to know from an expert. Well, a regular cycle of moods exists only in the insane. There you have a regular cycle. For instance, he may get elated every year or every other year and has to be put in an insane asylum because he's elated without any adequate reason, just because it is a cycle. And the same happens, of course, in the depressive, who is depressed in a cycle. Normally, if anyone of you is elated because of a cycle, he wouldn't be considered normal. Because we all want to know. We all have to have adequate reason for our emotions if we are to act adequately. There are several other questions here in the same line, Doctor. Briefly speaking, wouldn't you think that there will be physical causes or physical ways in which you could establish a cycle of moods? And also one other question on does a diet, does any way to prove a diet has something to do with moods and depressions? Well, there are many things, many instances that contribute to the formation of our mood. It is something that I don't need to tell any audience, not even to a child, that if you are very hungry, you are in a bad mood. And if you have overeaten, you wouldn't like very much to start a fight, but rather want to go to sleep. Now, but that's just as far as it goes. If we are able to satisfy this condition, for instance, when we are hungry, if a person or a whole group is subject to hunger in its extreme for a long period of time, certain mood changes may develop. And it is my private opinion that the idea that the lean one is the one who is dangerous may not be so much a matter of constitution, but may have been caused by groups of hungry people in ancient times who had become dangerous because of their hopeless food situation. We also know that even under regulated conditions, such as, for instance, as it's done now in treatment of hypertension, high blood pressure, on a rice diet, where people are starving, and it is very beneficial to them because the blood pressure decreases if they starve. Those people get very moody and sometimes so angry and develop such a bad spirit that the treatment has to be interrupted. This, again, is a reaction, a reaction to some saddening event. It is sad to be hungry and therefore we develop a bad mood. So this is understandable. This is not so much a physical reaction as it is, again, a reaction to a saddening condition. I hope I made it clear because it's quite a differentiation. It's not a definite substance. It's not a definite substance. But it is a reaction to a certain condition. We do not know any chemical substance that brings about any definite mood condition in the person, except if the person is temporarily intoxicated, such as it is, for instance, if he drinks alcohol, or if he injects certain drugs, or if he takes benzidrine, which you all have heard of. He feels stimulated for a while, as long as he's under the influence of this intoxication. Thank you, Doctor. I'm going to give up eating sun-kissed oranges. I've been eating a lot of them. It won't affect my mood at all if I eat any more of those sun-kissed oranges. Yes. Is psychotherapy effective in most cases of mental depression where shock therapy has not proven permanent? Did you hear that, Doctor? Would you repeat it? Is psychotherapy effective in most cases of mental depression where shock therapy has not proven permanent? Not proven permanent. Not proven permanent. Not proven permanent. Well, as I tried to explain, we actually have no definite ability to prevent the outbreak of another depressive insanity. Shock treatment is able to stop the depression. But it may come again. And such people very often have been adequately treated by psychotherapy after they have recovered and still may develop another depression. Since usually we don't know exactly when a depression will come out. It may come after one year. It may come after 40 years again. It is very difficult to see whether psychotherapy has helped or not. We can tell in those cases where the depression comes again after one year that it has not helped. But if a depression doesn't come for another 30 years and the patient had psychotherapy, it's very difficult to see whether it was psychotherapy or the normal interval. It is sad to say that we cannot definitely say that psychotherapy has helped to prevent a recurrence of a psychosis. It certainly has helped very much to adjust the patient in between better. Because patients with manic or depressive episodes have a difficult time to adjust. And they need help. So far, one certainly can get along with advising therapy after the psychotic condition was broken. All right, doctor. Yes, sir. Patient young man here. Dean, as you have such an attentive audience here, and many of them come from long distances, to the short lectures, why not extend the lecture time to perhaps two hours, maybe even longer? Oh, this gentleman is so eager. He says that so many people come so far, and he's so eager to hear them that he'd like to have us go on for two hours. Thank you, sir. And ladies and gentlemen, we would like to do that, but there are several reasons. One, there's physical limitation on a person speaking long period of time. And it seems rather unfair to make a person either talk or possibly sit for two solid hours. And the other thing, the other thing is that when we go over a certain hour, we run into overtime problems. We run into all kinds of difficulties which we can't take care of. Does that answer your question? All right, sir. All right, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for being such a nice and patient audience. And Dr. Adler. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.