WNBC presents Mr. Walter Hoving, chairman of the Anti-Sales Tax Committee of New York. Mr. Hoving will discuss his committee's attitude on the proposed 1% increase in New York City's sale tax. Mr. Hoving. A great many people have asked me questions which I think this is a good opportunity to answer. One question is, what is the Anti-Sales Tax Committee? Well, the Anti-Sales Tax Committee is a committee formed to fight the increase in the New York City sales tax from 2% to 3%. It is composed of about 130 different civic organizations, labor unions, and consumer organizations from all the five boroughs. The next question they ask me is, what is the difference between a city sales tax and a federal sales tax? Well, the main difference is that a city sales tax tends to build a tariff wall around a certain city like New York, for example. Whereas a federal sales tax, which may have other evils, still it's the same all over the country, and you can't leave one locality and go to another one and save the tax. There is a city sales tax like this one. If you drive out to Westchester or to Nassau County, you don't have to pay the sales tax. Another question is, how long have we had it in New York? We've had it here for 17 years. Why is the New York tax called temporary? Well, temporary is a device which is put on by politicians to make it more palatable to the people. In other words, they pass it each year for another year or for two years, calling it temporary, giving the electorate hope that it's going to be rescinded. But in this case, it hasn't been rescinded. And we've had a temporary tax now for 17 years. Another question is, how many other cities have a 2% tax? Only one. Only Washington, D.C. Has any city a 3% tax? Yes, one city has. Atlantic City. But Atlantic City, obviously, is an entirely different situation than New York. People don't go there to buy things, to replenish their wardrobes and so on. They go there for a pleasure jaunt. So you can hardly compare the two. Another question is, what is the compensating use tax? Well, the compensating use tax is a sister tax to the sales tax. And it says, in effect, if you live in New York and you motor out to White Plains and buy yourself a dress for $30 and you come back with that dress and you don't send a tax return to the city of New York stating that you have bought such a dress and that you owe the city 3% thereon, you are liable to a fine of $1,000 or a year in jail or both. And that's why I call this tax the Iron Curtain Tax because the council and the mayor are putting an Iron Curtain around the city. They say you must buy your merchandise in New York and pay 3% is what they propose. And if you don't, and if you go outside, either to Boston or to Chicago or to White Plains or to Hempstead, you've got to report that if it's over $25. And if you don't report it, you become guilty of a misdemeanor. And that, of course, is going to make a great many women in this city really fugitives from justice. Now, up to now, they haven't enforced this thing very much, only on automobiles. And people who have bought automobiles outside of the city limits have found, when they register them in a city address, that they get a letter from the city tax department stating that they owe 2% thereon. Now I'm told that they're going to enforce this more generally because so many people are threatening to simply drive out to White Plains or to Nassau County and make their purchases in order to save the tax. But that's against the law. And anybody that does it is apt to be fined or even put in prison. What did you mean when you said at the council hearing last Friday that the city personnel policy was 50 years behind times? Well, I meant this. Government personnel policy, particularly as practiced in the city of New York, is what business practiced, oh, 50 years ago. And the idea was, have as many people on your payroll and pay them small salaries. Now, business has grown prosperous and America has grown prosperous on a new theory, which is, have as few people on your payroll, pay them as much as possible by doing more work per person. In other words, by production per person being enhanced, being augmented. But from the city's standpoint, they still are on this old-fashioned sort of Chinese feudal system idea, have as many person on the payroll as possible, and pay them as little as possible. Now, this is unfair, manifestly, to the better employees who really are, have the ability to do a job that is a valuable job because they do not get paid what they might be paid if we had some of the deadwood removed from the city's payroll. Here's another question. Why is it so hard for government to lower its payroll? Well, if a private business has to lower its payroll because business is bad, they have to do the disagreeable thing of laying people off. Now, nobody likes to lay people off, even in private business. That's a difficult thing to do. It's a cruel thing to do. But in a payroll like the city payroll, if you do that, you immediately get calls from the councilmen or politicians, friends of the individual, and they say, look, Joe is a good constituent of mine. You shouldn't lay him off. See if you can't find him another job. So in the government business, you're apt to find that people stay on the payroll, and they try to find other work for them to do. And even if they haven't got other work, they make places for them. Consequently, a government payroll keeps right on growing and growing and getting larger and larger. Here's another question. Do private employers take as much pride in the number of employees as government does? No, I would say that I have never heard private employers brag about the number of employees they have. But very often you hear government people do that. They say, well, I have 4,000 employees, or I have 15,000 employees, or I have 900 employees, as if that were a mark of prestige. In other words, they feel that the number of employees indicates how important the job is and how important the work that they do is. Here's another question. What answer did you get from the mayor on the 1,676 private limousines? Well, I made the charge that there were too many private limousines with private chauffeurs, driving city officials, and a good part of the time driving those officials on proper work, but also part of the time driving them back and forth to their homes and driving them on other than city business. Now, 2,000 chauffeurs, they call them enginemen here, although a great many firemen and a great many policemen are also included among those chauffeurs is probably more than the total number of private chauffeurs that all private families have in the city nowadays. Now, I don't see why some of those city officials, particularly the minor officials, can't use the subway, just like private business does. I know a great many bankers or store heads or heads of big businesses who go to work in the subway, and if they don't use the subway, they use taxi cabs. There are very few people who drive back and forth in their own limousines nowadays, and I know very few businesses who supply any limousines even to the presidents of companies. But the city has 1,676 limousines that are used to take city executives around on official business, and as I said, sometimes not on official business. Another question here is what is meant by enabling legislation? Enabling legislation is legislation that is done at Albany permitting the city to do certain things. For example, the city could not raise the sales tax from 2 to 3 percent without getting enabling legislation from Albany to do so. That's what the Constitution of the state of New York says. And that's a very wise thing because lots of times local political machines have gotten a hold of municipalities and they've raised taxes entirely out of proportion. And by making them first go to the state and asking for enabling legislation, a certain amount of restraint is placed on that sort of thing. The next question is why haven't people gotten after city councilmen on economy before? Well, I think they have. But I think that the Kefover investigation awoke people to many things that they hadn't thought about before. I think they felt that they should take more interest in municipal affairs. They saw so much graft, so much gambling, so much evil doing paraded before them at the Kefover investigation that they began to really become interested. And I think that's a fine thing. And I think in the future there's going to be more pressure on city councilmen and on city officials for economy because the people are now aroused and interested. The next question is what is the best way to affect economy in New York City? Well, politicians being what they are and not being minded in the direction of cutting costs, the best way to affect economy is just simply not to give them the money. In other words, if they didn't get this hike in the sales tax, they would just have to economize. They would just have to cut down on various things and make savings in all the ways that they could possibly make them. And that's the only way, generally speaking, to make politicians economize, to put the pressure on by not giving the money. Is the sentiment against the sales tax very strong is another question. Yes, it is very strong. Phone calls and letters running into the thousands and thousands have come in to councilmen and into the mayor's office. The next question is why didn't the council permit television of the tax hearing? Well, my personal opinion is that they didn't because they did not want to stir up the people any more than they could possibly help. They wanted the people to just let this thing sort of ease by and not get all excited about it. I'm sure if it had been on television, the people would have really made so much noise that the council could not possibly have passed it. Do you think New York business will suffer materially if the sales tax goes to 3%? Yes, I definitely do. I have estimated that New York City will lose at least $400 million of business. And if it does, that means that a great many people are going to lose their jobs. And that, I think, would be a great tragedy for New York. And I think that the city would find, that is, the city administration would find, that they would also get less tax return, both from the sales tax as well as from other things. The next question is, don't you think it's dangerous for members of the council to disregard the wishes of the people in this matter? I certainly think it is. And I think they're going to hear if they pass this tax from the people the next time they run for office. The next question is, why did the mayor pick this particular time to try to raise the sales tax? Well, that's very simple. He doesn't come up for re-election for several years. The council members don't come up for re-election. The assemblymen and the senators up in Albany don't come up for re-election for two or three years. Nobody comes up for re-election except the president of the city council. That's an ideal time to raise a tax. What can we do to help defeat this tax? Many people ask me that. The main thing to do now is to get, sit right down now and write, telephone or wire, the mayor of New York. Just write to Mayor Impeletary, City Hall, New York, and tell them how you feel about this thing. Only if they hear from voters how they feel, is it going to be possible to defeat this thing. So I urge you to sit right down and write to Mayor Impeletary. How much will this tax increase the cost of the average family? Well, my estimate is that it will increase the cost between $18 to $25 per family. That is the 1%. I think that's a lot of money. Mayor Impeletary said that it would cost from $6 to $8 for a family making $3,000 a year, but my figures indicate that it will go from $18 to $25 per family, depending upon the allowances you make for all sorts of things. Thank you, Mr. Hoving. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to Mr. Walter Hoving, who is chairman of the Anti-Sales Tax Committee of New York. He has been discussing his committee's attitude on the proposed 1% increase in New York City's present 2% sales tax. Mr. Hoving spoke to you tonight from WNBC Studios in Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. Thank you.
