This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. Trigva Lee, Secretary General of the United Nations, said on March 21st of this year, like its great predecessors in the Western world, Magna Carta, the Declaration of Independence, and the Declaration of the Rights of Man, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is not itself a law. Like them, however, it is a source of law. It raises a standard by which all men everywhere can make appeal and by which they can measure the conduct of their government. And that is what we want to talk about. Once again, the National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, is bringing you transcribed Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations, in another thought-provoking discussion of vital issues confronting the UN. Mr. Eichelberger. I have just quoted a paragraph from the great speech which Mr. Lee delivered at the triennial convention of the B'nai B'rith. In this speech, he asked for a 20-year program of peace to end the Cold War. Well, I am fortunate to have as my guest, Mr. Frank Goldman of Lowell, Massachusetts, just re-elected President of B'nai B'rith, who introduced Mr. Lee on that memorable occasion. Mr. Goldman and I will discuss the question of human rights and the United Nations. Now, in order to get the proper setting for this discussion, let us remember that the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, of which Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt is chairman, is to produce two documents. The first, called the Declaration, already adopted by the General Assembly, contains high moral principles to which all of us aspire. The second, a treaty to be ratified by the various governments and called the Covenant, is now being completed. Mr. Goldman, in addition to heading the largest Jewish service organization in our country, you are a member of the Bar. All of us who listen to you are not lawyers. Could you make clear to us exactly what Mr. Lee meant when he said, that although the Declaration was not in itself a law, it was a source of law? Mr. Eichelberger, I believe that what Mr. Lee meant, is that the Declaration of Human Rights may not be a legally binding statute, as for example an act of Congress, but that it does influence the enactment of such things as constitutions, legislation, and the decisions of courts. I should like to go even a little further than Mr. Lee. There is a body of competent experts which claims, that the Human Rights Declaration not only creates a profound moral obligation, but that it also imposes legal obligations on the member states of the United Nations. That is very interesting, Mr. Goldman. Would you cite your authority? Well, the Charter of the United Nations speaks of promoting observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. However, it does not define them. The Declaration, on the other hand, clearly spells out those rights and freedoms. Since there is no question that the Charter is a binding document, the Declaration of Human Rights, adopted without a dissenting vote, should be accorded authority as the instrument which interprets the Charter. I agree with you fully, Mr. Goldman. The Declaration of Human Rights spells out the binding obligations of the Charter. Now it would help us if you could give us some practical examples of where the Declaration has already influenced the legal and moral protection of human rights. The Declaration has already influenced the draft Constitution of Israel, which reflects in detail many of the provisions of the Declaration, and the statute of the Netherlands-Indonesian Union. And in our great neighbor to the north, Canada, a bill has been introduced into Parliament to amend the Constitution, called the British North America Act, so as to include a Bill of Rights modeled after the Declaration. I can cite, too, the influence of the Declaration upon arrangements being made by the UN, for the governing of dependent countries, as in the case of the draft Somaliland trusteeship agreement. The Declaration has also been the basis of a number of decisions taken by the General Assembly. It was invoked in the case involving Russia's refusal to permit the Russian wives of foreigners to leave the country to join their husbands, in the case of alleged discrimination against persons of Indian origin in the Union of South Africa, and in the resolution concerning discriminatory practices against immigrant laborers in certain countries. The Declaration was the basis of the human rights paragraph and the resolution adopted by the last General Assembly on the essentials of peace. I certainly hope that such examples will be greatly multiplied in the years to come. What we are all endeavoring, Mr. Eichelberger, those of us who place such high hopes in the United Nations, is to get these principles of human dignity into the everyday thinking of the peoples of the world. The Declaration, after all, represents man's concerted attempt to crystallize the highest aspirations of mankind into a new Magna Carta that will be effective for all peoples. That is a very effective answer. Now, possibly our audience would like to have us digress long enough for me to ask you to tell us a bit about B'nai B'rith, and why it is so very much interested in human rights. Our United Nations work is one facet of a program of service and communal activity, which B'nai B'rith has been carrying on for over 106 years. We are the largest Jewish membership organization in the world, in excess of 350,000, working for the communal good through educational, cultural, and social progress, through philanthropy and welfare, and through activities which promote intergroup understanding, stress the meaning of democracy, and emphasize intelligent personal participation by all citizens in the life of the community. I am sure some of our B'nai B'rith departments are familiar to you, such as our Anti-Defamation League, our Hillel Foundations, our Youth Organizations, our Vocational Service Bureau. We are today the American Constituent of the Coordinating Board of Jewish Organizations, a consultant to the United Nations Economic and Social Council. My predecessor, whom you knew, was a consultant to the United Nations delegation to the San Francisco Conference at which the United Nations was born. We are continuously working for the United Nations, which we feel, and I am sure you will agree with me, Mr. Eichelberger, is the greatest international instrument so far devised to achieve understanding among men. Yes, of course, Mr. Goldman. I remember those sessions in San Francisco very well, and the splendid leadership given by B'nai B'rith. You know, I believe that the framers of the Charter built better than we realized at that time. One of the illustrations of this was the provision for a commission on human rights. Without that commission, we would not be talking on this subject today. In a recent letter to Mr. Lee, you suggested certain action to be taken to carry out the spirit of the Declaration. Why do you deem such action necessary in view of the fact that a covenant on human rights is being drafted? Well, I have great faith in what the covenant will ultimately achieve. However, even assuming its adoption by the next General Assembly, its ratification may take years. Meanwhile, man's fundamental freedoms are being violated in many corners of the world. The problem of protecting human dignity in the world is a pressing one. For this reason, B'nai B'rith recommended a two-point program in its letter to Mr. Lee. We urge first that national commissions on human rights be set up by the nations of the world, similar to the one established here in 1947 by President Truman, to study and report continuously on the status of human rights, their observance, but more particularly their denial or violation. I'm particularly interested in that suggestion, Mr. Goldman. Indeed, our association some time ago recommended national commissions on human rights, somewhat after the ones you have just suggested. Now let me ask, would the General Assembly or the Human Rights Commission recommend that each country establish such commissions? Would they report to the United Nations directly or through their own governments? How would it work? The Human Rights Commission would ask the Economic and Social Council to request the General Assembly to adopt a resolution urging each country to establish these watchdog commissions. Each of these commissions, in turn, would have the job of gathering all information on the observance and protection of human rights within its state and report its findings to its government, together with whatever recommendations it deems necessary. Each government, we suggest, would send a report to the Secretary General of the United Nations. He would examine this report and would give it to the Human Rights Commission, which, after proper study, would take appropriate steps. All right. That's what member states can do. Now what can the United States, United Nations itself, do directly? We believe, and that is our second point, that the same thing can be done by the United Nations on the international level, as is done on the national level. That is, the United Nations consent commissions and committees to determine violations of human rights in flagrant situations that have been called to its attention. This could be done through the Human Rights Commission, the Secretariat of the United Nations, or by ad hoc committees of experts. A special committee of this kind was recently appointed to investigate the practice of slavery. At its very first session, this committee decided to circulate a questionnaire among the members of the UN, regarding the extent of slavery and slave trade within their territories. It also requested information from non-governmental organizations, and is itself making an independent study. I believe that a fact-finding committee in the entire field of human rights could profitably make similar investigations, and could also look into complaints now being received by the United Nations, alleging violations of human rights. On the basis of such surveys and investigations, the United Nations could recommend to various countries ways and means to improve observance of human rights within their borders. I believe that the United Nations would be performing a great service to humanity if it exposed infringements of personal liberty and human dignity. Public opinion, after all, is a powerful instrument in helping safeguard the rights and freedoms of the individual. Right. But a question I think a good many people would ask is this. Countries in which human rights are being violated aren't likely to establish their own committees, or to entertain UN committees of investigation. How do you propose to meet this? I can understand that question, Mr. Eichelberger, but whether or not a nation cooperates, and even if it refuses to admit the fact-finders to its soil, there are ways to obtain reliable information. A striking example is the well-documented evidence recently presented to the United Nations by the American Federation of Labor dealing with forced labor. Furthermore, the intransigence of a few nations cannot be permitted to limit this tremendously important program to protect human dignity everywhere. Regardless of the efforts of some governments to seal off their citizens from the rest of the world, information about such a program will inevitably permeate national borders and will inspire those who yearn for human rights. Well, how does this program fit with American foreign policy? It ties in with what I believe is the fundamental objective of American foreign policy, the establishment throughout the world of a system where freedom can endure. And I want to take this occasion to say that I am greatly heartened by the measures that President Truman and Secretary of State Acheson are taking to help create a world where human rights are protected. The objective of American foreign policy and of United Nations policy in the field of human rights is to achieve willing allegiance of all humanity to the standard of conduct established by the Charter of the United Nations and interpreted, as I have said, by the Declaration of Human Rights. We can help achieve this end through education, and every educational device and technique must be utilized simultaneously. We've developed, Mr. Goldman, on this program, people who are anxious to know at all times what they can do to help achieve the objectives of the United Nations. How can they promote an observance of human rights? Of course, the entire human rights program is a long-range one. But there is much that everyone can do. I believe it is the duty of organizations such as yours, Mr. Eichelberger, the American Association for the United Nations, and B'nai B'rith, too, organizations which speak far into hundreds of thousands of men and women to promote all programs for the advancement of human rights. I believe that their membership should consider it their duty to inform themselves of what is being done in this tremendous field of human endeavor, to demonstrate to the persecuted, wherever they may be, that their plight is not forgotten, and that men of goodwill are laboring in their behalf. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger and Mr. Frank Goldman. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, has brought you another transcribed broadcast in its series, The UN is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations. Join us again next week, for The UN is My Beat. The UN is My Beat. This is the UN is My Beat. Good morning. And welcome to another Sunday Morning Serenade, featuring as soloists Edward Davies Baritone and Louis Muir. The UN is My Beat. Good morning, and welcome to another Sunday morning serenade, featuring as soloists Edward Davies Baritone and Louis Webb Organist. Today, we'll hear Balfe's overture to the Bohemian girl, Song of the Open Road by Malotte, Strauss's In Silent Forest, and finally, Deep River. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.