Radio's microphones are now in City Hall, and the occasion is the reception to the officers and cadets of the Cruz de la Argentina. It has arrived in our great harbor here, one of the greatest harbors in the world, and the officers and the crew are now being received by the Mayor of the City of New York. The General Groveray Whelan has just conducted his guests into the Board of Estimate room here in City Hall, and we're just awaiting now the entrance of Mayor Impeletere before the full reception will be in order. In the meantime, the Department of Sanitation band is entertaining the guests here in City Hall. You're welcome to the Supreme Court Essapera who宣 знаешь guns and security eher on the air convocation . I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. The End The End The End The End The End The End The Honorable Grover Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee. Mr. Whelan. Admiral, Hamadan, Mayors of the Cadets of the Argentine, it's a great source of regret on the part of Acting Mayor of Vincent Impeletare that he is not here personally to greet you. Unfortunately, the time that was available to make these engagements for this reception was so short that it was conflicted with the number of appointments which the acting mayor had. He met, however, the officers of the Argentine military attaché at Washington and the commandant of your ship. It's a great pleasure for me, however, to welcome you here and tell you that New York City is very happy to know that you are visiting our great metropolis and we hope that our hospitality will be such that you will go home feeling that New York has really been your home during the period of your stay here. I'm going to ask the Argentine councilors and I'm going to ask the Argentine councilors and I'm going to ask the Argentine council general if he won't say a word at this time for the, particularly for the radio audience and introduce the members of the officers and tell of the visit of the cruiser to New York. Mr. Grover Huaylan, Admiral Merlo Flores, Captain Chamorro. Mr. Grover Huaylan, I would like to introduce you to the officials here present today. On your right is Admiral Luis Merlo Flores, the Argentine naval attaché in Washington. And on your left is Captain Ignacio Chamorro, who is the commanding officer of the cruiser Argentina. Yes. Yes. In front of you, as you see, there is a group of cadets. On the extreme right is Capitán de Corbetta Angelini. On the extreme left, Tinezo de Navillo, Javier Oluf. As far as the trip of the Argentina is concerned, I think it would be nice to ask Captain Chamorro to say a few words about that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Honorable Grover Huaylan. Admiral Merlo Flores. I should like... Pardon, viola de castellano. Este... Tengo que agradecer profundamente al señor este alcalde de Nueva York, que es el honor de Grover Huaylan, que está a mi izquierda, por la gentil atención que ha tenido con nosotros al invitarnos a esta recepción tan brillante por la música que han tocado y por las personas que nos han recibido. Además, tendría que agradecerle muchísimas cosas, entre otras, activa intervención en la elaboración del programa y en el desarrollo del programa que se nos ha preparado para la estadía nuestra en el puerto de Nueva York. Este agradecimiento que tiene un significado aún mayor, teniendo en cuenta que esta ciudad es la ciudad más grande del mundo, tanto en el orden industrial como en el orden científico y en el orden del conocimiento público a través de todo el mundo. De Nueva York, muchísimas gracias. ¿Se quiere traducirlo, este, Macri? ¿Se quiere traducirlo? Okay. ¿Se quiere ir a go to third? Sí. Master, Macri. Mr. Grover Huaylan, I would like to translate briefly the words pronounced by Captain Chamorro. He would first of all like to express his deep appreciation of the courtesies extended by the Mayor Impeliteri and yourself, Mr. Grover Huaylan. Captain Chamorro, Captain Chamorro, said that really the New York City has gone to town from here. And he's very happy to be here in New York, which is the largest and most important city in the world. And he thanks you very, very much for all you are doing for the cruiser and the crew. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Council General. Thank you, Captain. The plans which have been made for your visit here are rather comprehensive. as far as sightseeing is concerned. And I'm sure that after you gentlemen are finished viewing New York from buses and from skyscrapers, you will have some idea of what this city is. For the brief period of your stay, it will be considerable for you to absorb everything. However, I'm sure that you will get the tempo and the feeling of the people of hospitality and friendliness to your great country. And we offer you our hand of friendship and hope that you will come soon again. It's a great pleasure for me to have been able to serve in this capacity and representing his honor, Mayor Impelle Terry, and to tell you that we hope, as I said a moment ago, that you will come again. Thank you all. Thank you. The mayor's reception committee, under the chairmanship of the Hon. Grover A. Whelan, tendered the courtesies to the officers and crew of the Cruiser La Argentina here in the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall today. And you heard the reply to Mr. Whelan's greeting by Captain Ignacio Chamora of the Cruiser La Argentina. Might we add that a very interesting broadcast tomorrow at 11 o'clock will be the opening of that Skyway promenade on Furman Street there in Brooklyn, which runs practically from Montague Street to Middaw Street. That promenade has been completed by the Park Department. And at 11 o'clock tomorrow morning, the mayor of the city of New York will dedicate that promenade, taking in as it does the magnificent view of New York Harbor and placing it in service to the people of the city of New York and particularly the citizens of Brooklyn Heights. And that is all now from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.