Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, What is the role of public relations? Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion will center around the ways and means of developing understanding between institutions and the publics they serve. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Milton Fairman, Director of Public Relations of the Borden Company in New York, and past President of the Public Relations Society of America. Ed Lipscomb, Director of Public Relations of the National Cotton Council of America, and President of the Public Relations Society of America. Mr. Conger Reynolds, Director of Public Relations of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana, and Reynolds Seitz, Director of the Chicago Division of the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern University. Now, Reynolds, to begin with, discussing as we are the role of public relations, tell us what you mean by public relations. What relations are encompassed? With what publics are you concerned? Well, I think the meaning is defined by the words themselves. We mean the relations of any organization or institution or even a person with some larger segment of society which we designate as a public. We public relations people like to speak in the plural when we're talking about public. We like to talk about publics. We like to think of various specific publics or segments of society. In corporate business, for instance, a business organization likes to divide the public up into such segments as employees, stockholders, suppliers, dealers, then getting to broader publics, their customers, or maybe they think of some specialized publics such as thought leaders, people who are especially interested in public affairs, or perhaps a farm group, those we call specialized publics. Now, what are your purposes and objectives in public relations? What are you trying to accomplish with these publics that Reynolds just described, Fairman? Well, we're trying, I think, in a democratic society to get an understanding of each of the institutions so that it fits into the overall scheme and it's accepted by the people on the basis of understanding and what it does for the common good. Sainz? I'd like to say here that if we go back to our original definition of a democracy as a system in which people retain their right to make ultimate and free choices, then we must come to the inevitable conclusion that people can't make proper choices unless they have the facts. And it seems to me that it's the responsibility of the public relations profession to give the facts to the people, to the publics. And in attempting to do that job, I assume, Lipscomb, you resort to all methods and all available media. Well, all available media. I wouldn't say all methods. We definitely... That's a nice limitation. Yes, sir. We definitely want to employ any medium through which it's possible to transmit information and knowledge to whatever public may be involved. And, of course, the big mass media are most familiar to us, newspapers, radio, motion pictures, but we also find very important some media that normally are not thought of as ones that we use, the man-to-man, face-to-face contact, the man on the platform, even such programs as this one we own today. What is the origin of this whole notion of public relations that we're talking about here, Reynolds? Is it essentially, I assume it is, a development of mass production? Well, yes, I think that people have always had public relations problems, but in the simpler society, the cobbler, for instance, knew all his customers, he knew all his employees, and he could deal with them face-to-face. But in our complicated modern society, our organizations and units of all kinds have grown so large that it's quite impossible for there to be the same direct personal relationships. We have tended to specialize in many ways, and so we're building up a specialty in arranging relations or in dealing with relations between the institution and people. I think along this same line, we might point out that one of the real tragedies of the time is that our age has brought men closer in time and space, but the complexities of modern society brought about, as Reynolds just said, by the development of mass production, the Industrial Revolution, have really built barriers between men's minds, which brings me back to what I said just a little while ago, that the really fundamental responsibility of the public relations profession is to give people the facts and break down the barriers which separate man from man. And of course, there's more than a growth in barriers, too. There's the competition for interest because within the last 25 years, we've seen the complete history, say, of radio, of television, of the picture magazine, of the big mass circulation media. And we have this constant competition of ideas, all of them trying to crowd in and find a place in one mind. And that has created, I think, some of the confusion in the democracy and the confusion that it's our job to try to clear up. Well, now, you say that there is this competition among ideas and for people's minds. Do you regard public relations as essentially a propaganda approach? No, I don't think of it as a propaganda approach because propaganda, which is a European term, and incidentally can be straight communication in Europe. In this country, it has a connotation. It's an evil one, and it indicates that the information is false and the information is probably biased. In public relations, you don't attempt to do that. You attempt to present the facts, present and prevent the facts with clarity so that you will get the understanding, which I go back to the understanding that's essential in the democratic society, of all the factors and how they fit into that group. Well, now, is this a process of achieving understanding between, let's say, corporations and the publics in which they're primarily interested, a one-way street or a two-way street, let's go on? Well, it's a two-way... It'd have to be a two-way street. It has to be a two-way street. It is even more than that, is that in creating understanding, the very logical, the outgrowth of that, is to try to create conditions which, when understood, will result in favorable attitudes toward the organization or the company with which you may be working. So that not only do you want to know what the public is thinking of you, you want them to know the truth about you, and you want that truth to be such that when known, it is in your favor. Going back to this matter of propaganda, I think we ought to point out that public relations needs to promote economic education, needs to inform people about our system of society, which, incidentally, has provided the greatest standard of living known so far in the world. Too many people, unfortunately, accept the benefits of this society without being conscious of the way the society functions. And I think in the past, unfortunately, business has too often talked about production figures instead of explaining to the people what made production possible. Well, I'd like to say that I believe that business is very conscious of that responsibility and is today looking upon economic education as one of its first public relations responsibilities. I'd like to point out further that Mr. Seitz will have no difficulty in obtaining the full cooperation of public relations people in that objective, in that selfishly, they realize that the practice of public relations as it exists in this country today is impossible, except in the sort of an economy we have, that as regimentation increases, that there is less opportunity for this sort of thing, and that when dictatorship takes hold, public relations is no longer possible, and in its place you have propaganda from a central source that is set toward the objective of maintaining the dictatorship. Now, of course, one of the big problems we have is whether or not the public really wants to understand economic education. We don't know how deep an interest there is, and that is one of the great dangers this country has, that the people being unable to understand what keeps the country a-going concern are not going to listen in on facts. I'm not sure how much interest there is. It seems to me that our responsibility there is to present the facts in such an interesting way, in such a simple way, that the public will be interested. As we all know that we have to appeal to a mass mind by using all that we know about psychology, all that we know about journalism from the standpoint of simplicity of approach, and I think that's the answer to what you say there, Mr. Fairman. Now, in one context, sites here suggested, and I think you concurred, Fairman, that a primary responsibility of public relations is to provide information, to provide facts. Lipston, in another contest, used these words, that we ought to try to create conditions. Well, now, do you limit yourself, Fairman, to facts and information, or do you try to create conditions favorable to these publics with whom you deal? Well, I think... There's a distinction there, isn't there? There is a definite distinction. Of course, the first step is that every institution to survive in a democratic society, and I keep getting back to that society, has to prove that it not only serves its own purpose, but it has to meet the ends of society also. Now, you take a corporation, which is set up primarily to make a profit. People put their money together, pool it, get a corporation going, and in earning their profit, they give consumers goods. They provide, in our case, for instance, markets for farmers. They give jobs to people. They pay dividends to stockholders, and these days, they pay a considerable amount of tax to the government. Well, now, are you concerned about creating conditions, to use that phrase again, favorable to one of your public, the farmers? That's correct. Now, for instance, this gets back to the philosophy of why you are doing things. We deal with about 60,000 farmers all over the United States. We serve as their market. We know that unless those farmers can make a good living out of farming, there is going to be dissatisfaction. So, as the basis of our farm program, we try to do two things. First of all, we try to demonstrate to show farmers what is the most efficient way of carrying on daring so that the farmer will make a better net profit. Then, secondly, we try to explain, and this goes back to Seitz's point, we try to explain the economics that are involved in production, and supply, and demand, and price, so that the farmer can understand this very complicated system of milk economics. may I reduce it to a very simple formula, an A plus B formula. In order to achieve good public relations, we think that we have to, A, live right, that is, show a due concern for the public interest, and, B, we have to communicate, and I mean communicate in two ways. We have to know what the public expects to us in order to get us accepted, and we have to communicate facts so as to achieve understanding. May I take another shot at a simple formula by saying that public relations normally is thought of as setting your light on a hill rather than under a bushel, and that in addition, however, to setting it on the hill, we have to light the light, and that that is what we mean when we say create the conditions that will make us accepted when the public does know the fact. Well, now, when you men as public relations officers set the light on the hill, and light the light, do your companies pay any attention to that light when they work out their policies? Well, wait a minute. I don't think that we men who are public relations men have this whole job of lighting the light. That's something that has to be done by everybody in the organization. Everybody has to have some public relations sense in order to get that light properly lit. I just want to make that one point. And who pays any attention to it after it is lit? I think any smart operator of any institution pays attention to it as a matter of survival if nothing else. If he doesn't pay attention to it, why he doesn't hold his customers, he doesn't keep his students in the case of a university, he has to, as a matter of sound operating procedure, pay attention. Incidentally, you referred to the university in this discussion of public relations. public relations, and I think it might be proper to observe here, see if I'm right, that public relations, as we discuss it, is by no means confined to business and industry. Is that correct? Oh, not at all confined to business and industry. Would the government, for example, be... Government has a public relations problem, all kinds of service institutions, such as hospitals and universities, educational institutions of all kinds, have such a problem? The government's public relations problem might be indicated by the recent statement of a congressman that they had some 23,000 people who were now employed in this type of activity in one form or another. Also, certainly, farmers on the other side of Fairman's Company, we have our public relations problems, too, and even churches. And particularly in our area, they've been having some big ones lately. Well, now, speak more specifically, Lipscomb, if you would, to this question I had before the group a minute ago. To what extent does public relations enter into policy determination? Well, perhaps the best way of getting at that one is to illustrate what happens in my own case as the public relations officer for my organization, I am required. Now, your organization, again? The National Cotton Council operating across the 18 southern states. And I am required to sit in the meetings of its board of directors to keep a public relations eye on any action, any adoption of resolutions, to make sure that in the consideration of those things, that the directors themselves do not become, for one moment, forgetful of some implication in the public relations field that I might catch and might otherwise get by. Also, I think that same thing is generally true in the area of advertising. The public relations man sits in on the advertising council for any particular company, especially as regards institutional advertising. The reason, therefore, of course, as Mr. Lipscomb said, is rather self-evident why he should do so. Are you concerned as well with personnel and employee relations? Well, in our case, I think that wouldn't be as true as with a corporation, that maybe Famine or Reynolds should answer that. What will stick up? Well, in a large corporation, of course, we specialize a great deal. And in my organization, we have an entirely separate employee relations department. But we have the closest cooperation with that department. It's obvious that any kind of human relation, in all kinds of human relations, there must be close liaison. And we have that, of course, with the personnel and employee relations people. Now, it's perfectly obvious from what you may have been saying that this whole job that needs to be done is premised on the assumption that you know what these publics think or that you can find out what these publics think, what their attitudes are. How do you go about that, Sikes? Well, the best way of going about it, the most scientific way of going about it, of course, is to use the poll or a public opinion survey, which today is a pretty scientific thing, a pretty accurate thing. You really have confidence in those polls. To a large extent, at least to the extent where you have a high percentage built up. And if the poll has been accurate, I stress that, that it must be a valid sampling and it must follow the techniques that have been worked out by the researchers. If the poll is valid and accurate, then I feel that if the percentage builds up, you're pretty sure that you have an indication which points toward the correct answer. It's better, then, than wetting your finger and holding it up in the air and seeing which way the wind's blowing. Far better, and it's also better from the standpoint of convincing the non-believers, those who doubt the public relations profession. If you can show them the survey, the poll, you will convince them much more readily than simply pretending to draw upon your own experience. What if you get a good stiff letter from one of your farmers, Mr. Fairman? Do you pay any attention to that? Well, I think that every institution today reads its mail pretty carefully, Dean. And sometimes the mail covers situations that merely have to be explained. In other cases, it can cover a situation that has to be remedied. And I think the letter to a president of a corporation today gets pretty prompt attention. Now, you can't always change a situation because of one letter, but you can bring it up again for consideration and take action if it's possible and necessary. Do you think the attitudes of your employees and the plant community in which you live, Reynolds, are a pretty good index of public attitudes generally? Well, yes, of course. Good public relations begins at home. It begins with employees. That's been long the feeling of public relations people. And we wouldn't hope to get good public relations results unless we could convince our own employees that our policies and practices are acceptable. Can you serve all these masters at once? You talk about these different publics, your employees, your buyers, the people from whom you buy. You talk about the public comprised of a group of education leaders. Aren't their interests often diverse and competitive? Dean, that's one of the worst problems I think that any institution has. In our case, we have a perfect example where the company stands as a sort of a juggler who has to toss in the air and keep in the air a number of balls representing various interests at once. Farmers, obviously, always want to have more money for milk. Consumers always want to pay less money for milk. That's precisely my point. Always want to earn more money, which is quite natural. And your stockholders want to get more money. And the stockholder wants to get more money. So that you have, in the case of a corporation, you have the corporation there as a balancing agent trying to satisfy the needs of all these groups. And obviously, you can't serve all of them perfectly. But what you can do and what we try to do is you can explain to the consumer what the farmer wants and why and what the employee wants and why. And you can try to explain to the employee what the consumer wants and why. That's just the point, I think. The matter of explanation, as we've said many times here this afternoon, the matter of explanation is the important thing. If the people grasp your point then you've gone a long way. Well, we've gone quite a long way. I think the war brought people to an understanding of economic facts that they never had before because the front pages of the daily newspapers talked of supply and demand and shortages and economic factors involved. For instance, it's pretty hard for us to explain to people why milk prices should be higher to encourage farmers to produce milk because if the farmer is going to produce cotton for a friend Lipscomb here at a better price than he produces milk, he's going to produce cotton and not milk. That's an example of economic facts that are necessary for an understanding of this. That is certainly true and the rapid development of the dairy industry down the south may be the best proof you could possibly have. Are you concerned about that? Not at all. No, sir. We are convinced that exactly what famine has said is right, that the farmer is going to respond automatically to those situations and production which yield the best overall welfare for the industry and that he has been doing. Well, now, you men have been presenting here today what seems to me to be a competent, at times almost idealistic approach to this whole field. Do you have any professional standards in public relations? How do you control this matter of ethics and morality in a field where I would suspect you might get a lot of misinformation? Well, if I might speak for the Public Relations Society, which is the national organization of the top public relations men, we control it pretty effectively in several ways. First of all, we control it by whom we admit to membership. That's the number one. Secondly, we have a code of ethics. And thirdly, at our convention in Chicago last fall, we adopted enforcement machinery for a code of ethics. And if someone doesn't live up to the code and is tried and is found guilty of unethical conduct, he is outside the pale of the society. Let me say just one more thing on a little different aspect of ethics. This is just my own opinion. I don't know what the other men at the table think about this. But I think the public relations man has a responsibility to accept some fundamental ethics on which he builds. In other words, in this country, I think our country was founded on the basis of Christian ethics. I think we've got to accept those common basic principles. If we don't, as a matter of fact, as far as I'm concerned, there's no reason why we should say that democracy is any better than any other form of government because democracy is supported upon Christian principles. And I really believe that the public relations profession should build on some basic truths. Now, unfortunately, and I say that this is true in some universities, some people preach today that there is no such thing as basic truth. I don't think that that's true. I think there are some basic truths and the public relations profession has to expound them. Well, I'll go along with sites on that. And the only reason for the code is that as anything develops in complexity, and I think you'll agree to this, special situations come up which require clarification. You get into these border areas, and the more complicated the situation is, the more border areas you have. And that's when you need to code. I think any man of good sense and good conscience knows what's right and wrong generally. At the risk of a commercial for the society, I might point out that the recognition of this problem that Sykes has pointed out is exactly what has led to the whole procedure of the past several years through which the top men in the public relations field have sought to organize themselves so solidly to adopt such standards that any man practicing public relations who was not identified with that group would be called on to prove that he was actually a top-ranking public relations man. Well, is there anything more in your thesis sites, though, than a pious preachment? Is there anything in the democratic system that makes truth prevail? As a matter of fact, to suggest an answer to my own question, I think there is, very much so. I think where you are selling ideas, goods, and services in a free society where one man can say one thing and another man can correct you, you have a very natural preventative, a very natural corrective employ. Just as in economics, we have competition in presenting information, and it's that very freedom of competition in presenting information that assures in a democracy that the people are going to get the truth. If one man doesn't give it to him, somebody else is bound to do it. Let's go into that from a little bit different angle, that the thing that is going to determine which way this country goes in its whole economic development, its political development, is going to be the power of public opinion, as long as our elections are free and as long as we have a democracy. That certainly there is no group in this country more responsible for that particular thing than public relations people who make their living professionally through using tools intended to affect public opinion. Well, I think that Lipscomb has done a fine job of defining a situation here. I was going to get back to Seitz's point on the ethics involved in this. A basic in every professional relationship is confidence. And the man who loses confidence by his conduct is out of any profession. Whether he's a physician or a lawyer, he loses his clients. And the same happens in the public relations business. If your conduct isn't ethical, confidence is broken down, and you can't do a job for anyone. Now, I can think of no better way of summarizing this discussion and to ask you men the question, what does society gain by good public relations? Well, I think it gains, first of all, understanding. And if there's any way we're going to bring people together and have a better world, it is through understanding of each other. Now, that's exactly the main aim of public relations, looking at it in a broad way. It's bringing people closer together in understanding. And in that way, I think it performs a great service. How would you answer that question? I would answer it just like Reynolds did with perhaps the addition of this, that in further than understanding, it engenders cooperation. And if you want to put it in the negative way, it means the development of increased absence of friction between groups through understanding. I would say amen to both of them. Sites, how would you answer that question? Well, I'd get down to the specifics a little more. And I'd say that if the public relations man can make people understand the tremendous significance of the right to vote, the right to free speech, the right to religion, the right to own property, those things are so fundamental that he will indeed be going a long way to preserving our American form of life. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. What is the role of public relations? We want to thank our guests, Ed Lipscomb, President of the Public Relations Society of America, Milton Fairman, Director of Public Relations for the Borden Company, New York, Conja Reynolds, Director of Public Relations for the Standard Oil Company of Indiana, and Reynolds Sites, Director of the Chicago Division of the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the cleft palate problem, a crippling condition affecting 5,200 newborn babies each year. Our guests will be Dr. Frederick Merrifield, Professor of Plastic Surgery, Northwestern University Dental School, Dr. John R. Thompson, Chairman of the Department of Orthodontia, Northwestern University Dental School, Harold Westlake, Professor of Speech Correction and Director of the Speech and Hearing Clinic, School of Speech, Northwestern, and Jaden Azair Macomb, Public Relations Counselor for Inland Steel Company. Be sure to join us next week for a discussion of the cleft palate problem. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. The movie stars are moving to the Mutual broadcasting system.