Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, can we prevent alcoholism? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the causes and effects of alcoholism and approaches to its prevention. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Anthony Jake Harlson, Professor Emeritus of Physiology at the University of Chicago. Dr. Jules Masserman, Professor of Nervous and Mental Diseases at the Northwestern University Medical School. And Jeffrey Maix, Director of the Ivanhoe Sanitarium. Now tell us, Dr. Carlson, what do you mean by alcoholism? How do you distinguish the social drinker, the alcoholic, and the dipsomaniac? Well, the social drinker is the individual who can take a small amount of liquor throughout their life without having to take enough to become drunk and injured. The alcoholic, on the other hand, and the dipsomaniac are people who, when they start drinking, chronically or periodically, take it to excess to the injury of the individual, to the injury of their social responsibility, and so forth and so on. You accept that analysis, Masserman? Yes, but we must recognize that these are social and cultural definitions with various degrees of bias. The alcoholic himself almost never considers himself chronic, least of all, as he considers himself a dipsomaniac. Incidentally, the technical term dipsomaniac refers to a chap who, once he starts taking a drink, cannot stop, must continue to complete intoxication. How do you classify alcoholics in the Ivanhoe sanitarium, Mates? Well, usually we don't have to classify them once they get there. Whether they recognize it or not, they usually are alcoholics. But we don't try to tell them that they are. We try to give them the facts of alcoholism and let them decide for themselves whether they are. But do you find different types of cases that you'd care to mention? Yes, we do find different types. We find, I don't suppose Dr. Carlson would agree with this, but we find what we have almost classified as a constitutional type of alcoholic who has, since he was a young boy or a very young man, and has, upon any intake of alcohol, exhibited all of these abnormal symptoms that some people in later years exhibit after many years of heavy drinking and stress and so forth. And then we occasionally get the person who is a psychotic primarily and an alcoholic secondarily. And I would like to say in connection with what Dr. Masterman said, that usually when they're on the road to recovery or after the light has dawned, they do call themselves alcoholics and they do consider themselves alcoholics. But until that time arrives, they usually deny that. Do you recognize these constitutional alcoholic so-called? Well, they are not established scientifically as yet. The story of the individual or the guesses of your colleagues up in the sanitarium, 15, 20, 30 years have to be started. That is in science, brother. I might say that this constitutionality applies to many other behavior difficulties. For instance, a neurotic would like to think of himself as born that way. A criminal would like to excuse himself on a question of constitutionality. And there's this sort of retrospective falsification that the individual uses to justify his own conduct. And as a matter of fact, may report his early experiences and his early intake of alcohol quite inaccurately. Well, do you regard this alcohol addiction we're talking about as a sickness, Dr. Carlson? Well, when the ones are addicts or dipsomaniacs, they certainly are sick. Now, what started it, we don't know. But when they are in this state, they need the best of attention, analysis and care, or the best we know in medicine, including all the other services necessary to reestablish the individual in his social sphere. A good many people seem to regard it as a sin. That's the old view, traditional view. It hasn't gotten us anywhere. And that involves, of course, the definition of the term sin. Of course, the problem does have its moral implications, I take it. Yes, maybe. But, uh, my point is that we don't know the causes or the particular defects in the individual that leads to it. Well, a sin generally is defined as some contravention of religious precepts. A Muslim, for instance, would never take a drink. That's directly forbidden in his religion. There are many religions that actually not only permit, but sometimes encourage alcoholism as part of the ritual. So that when one talks about the term sin, one must have a kind of comparative standpoint. Nibs? I would like to point out this, that if it serves no other purpose, the conception of it as an illness does help a great deal to relieve the minds of patients who have been considering themselves moral backsliders all the way along, and they suddenly discover that they have a disorder and that they aren't actually moral backsliders. It seems to raise a weight from their shoulders and from their family's shoulders and gives them something to get their teeth into. I agree with you, Mr. Mapes, that this should not be considered on moral grounds alone. But I'm a little troubled about the term sickness or illness with regard to alcoholism from the psychological standpoint, for the same reason that I was a little troubled about the term constitutionality. These individuals, if they're permitted to think of themselves as subject to some kind of illness in the sense of an infection or an injury imposed upon them, contrary to their own desires, develop a kind of alibi and a kind of passivity about it, which is not good for their psychological orientations and not good for their therapy. I don't think it's a good idea to call this a sickness in the usual sense any more than it's a good idea to call it a sin. Do you think this problem is a serious one, Dr. Mastman? What is the incidence of alcoholism? By that I mean addiction. Again, that depends on how you define it. I think I would agree with Dr. Carlson's definitions. In those terms, there are about 40 million users of alcohol who occasionally use it to access in this country alone. These are the social drinkers? These are the social drinkers who occasionally indulge to access. About five years ago, it was estimated that about 13 million of these were women. These are insurance statistics. Now, there are evidences that about 4% of all time lost from work is due to alcoholic intake. The FBI thinks that about 2% of all arrests, that is, arrests per population, are due to alcoholism. Benet thinks that alcohol is involved in crime in more than a quarter of all instances of criminal behavior. Generally, it's considered there are about 2 million intemperate drinkers in this country, and a sixth to a third of them are publicly known as, uh, are women. I was just going to ask Dr. Carlson who these addicts are. You said 2 million are seriously intemperate and constitute a very real problem. Who are these people, anyway? Well, they are men and women. More men than women, although the women percentage are increasing. But they represent all, uh, phases of society. The ignorant, the poor, uh, the men with inferior, men and women with inferior brain, men and women in wealth, in, uh, important positions and responsibility, superior education and brain. They represent the cross-section of society, at least in the United States. In other words, alcoholism is not very careful in selecting its, uh, its victims. Not on the basis of what we know now. Is that your experience up there in Milwaukee, Mavis? Oh, absolutely. We've had, at one time, a terrific cross-section. We've had, for instance, a common laborer, a theologian, and a lawyer and a doctor in our sanitarium at one time for treatment. And one female at that same time who was a professor in one of the better known schools in the country. I think that's an important, uh, statement. Because if one visits state institutions or county hospitals and so on, one may come to the false conclusion that only the economically deprived, or mainly the economically deprived, take the alcohol. Now, unfortunately, worry and stress and, uh, depression and discontent is not limited just to the economically deprived. It affects all classes. And a member of any social stratum can take the alcoholism escape. It is a universal problem. I, uh, I agree with you 100%. One can see that particularly in the large group now called Alcoholics Anonymous. They are not, after they are over the, uh, this, uh, unfortunate addiction or whatever you call it. They are not this ordinary Skid Row people. Now, this Alcoholics Anonymous is a society for the health of, uh, addicts, right? That's correct. Everyone has been addicts. Now, you say this, uh, phenomenon is, is universal. Do you meet it in, in other countries? Is the incidence as high, let's say, in the, well, in Sweden? The incidence, uh, is as high, uh, apparently in the Scandinavian countries and in other northern European countries as compared to other countries, say, on the, along the Mediterranean. There is some difference depending on culture, possibly depending on, on, uh, strain. I mean, uh, the, uh, social, uh, stresses. Stresses and strains. We don't know exactly. But certainly in northern Europe, as in, uh, United States, uh, the incidence is high. But, Carlson, do you believe it might be correlated to this cultural fact that in the southern European countries, wine drinking is taken as a matter of course, so that a person can have a moderate amount of alcohol? In many of the European countries, especially in northern parts of Europe, and in Scandinavia, wine drinking is not very common. So that when alcoholism does occur, hard liquor is consumed, and then there's prohibition against it, much legal restriction, and then more daring and more intake, so that alcoholism actually mounts in those countries. Well, I wish I knew the answer, Dr. Massiman. Uh, there was once a superstition here in the United States that every, uh, Native American Indian, every one, if he had access to alcoholic drinks, would become a drunkard. And there's nothing to that, you think? I don't think so. At least I haven't gotten all the data on the Navajo Indians in our army, in our armed forces in, in, uh, World War II. But so far as my information goes, the incidence of alcoholism among those Indians were no greater than among the rest of the population. I'm inclined to agree with some of the authorities who have observed that the incidence of alcoholism is low among those peoples who take it as part of their diet, as part of their everyday life. And it's high among those who use it only for social purpose or for celebrating, which I think you'll find in the northern European countries, uh, they don't drink it along with their meals. It isn't, uh, a ritual every day, three times a day, and they don't become accustomed to it. But when they're celebrating an occasion or, uh, any emotional stress, they do use alcohol then. And that has been observed by several authorities, and our findings in the sanitarium sort of bear that out. Well, now, uh, Dr. Massman, what are the, the, uh, effects of alcohol? Alcohol burned in a test tube will produce about, uh, six calories per gram or about 200 calories per ounce. It can be burned in part in the body in a sense of saving food energy from other really nutritious foods like carbohydrates and proteins. However, it must be emphasized that alcohol is not a food in the usual sense. It is least of all a brain food. It cannot be utilized by the brain at all. A starving individual who takes a drink gets no brain energy whatsoever. With regard to its medicinal values, I think Dr. Carlson can comment best. Well, uh, alcohol, of course, is primary action on the nervous system as a depressant. For some of the people who take it in excess don't act very depressed. Well, uh, they act like lunatics. Uh, the, the nervous system may be impressed and yet you may have a stupid dream. You see, it's a matter of relativity how, how you depress. The primary effect is, is depressive though. On the nervous system. Now, in, as part of that depression, if you take alcohol, a very small amount, there is a relaxation, neuromuscular relaxation of the body, and that would be of some value medicinally. Yes, but that's a small amount. In addition, there is, uh, a slight relaxation of the blood vessels, which might be of some value, uh, in the case of high blood pressure. That's all I would say. That doesn't sound like a very good case for it, uh, Dr. Masserman. Well, I think we might amplify what Dr. Carlson said. Alcohol definitely poisons some of the vital enzymes necessary for brain function. Also, it poisons those that have to do especially with the higher mental functions, those requiring judgment and memory and distinction and, uh, finesse of control and so on. Later on, as it poisons the brain, it gets down to the really vital centers, and so a seriously intoxicated person is in danger of his life. With regard to the dilatation of the vessels or the increased flow of gastric juice or whatnot, such things can be produced by any irritant or any intoxicant. With regard to the relaxation, you can get that much relaxation from ether in small doses. Any sedative or anesthetic administered has a similar action in the early stages to alcohol. Eventually, however, the alcoholic intoxication gets high enough in the brain, even if it drops down in the body tissues, eliminate from the body, it stays in the brain and can produce definitely poisonous effects. Now, I'd be inclined to sum up what you doctors have said, uh, this way, that there's really no point in excusing alcoholism on the grounds of medication. Is that a fair summary? We, it serves no very useful purpose as medication. In very moderate amounts, there might be some indications for it in a few instances. as Dr. Carlson said, we wouldn't eliminate it. I would add this to it, namely, that in small amounts, like a glass of wine once a day or once every other, in small amounts, no more than that, there is no evidence of injury, shortening of life or injury to either the brain or liver. Now, what causes this problem of addiction, Dr. Carlson? These serious cases that take alcohol in excess. Well, there are many answers, but no clear evidence. Many think it's a deficiency in some of the glands of internal secretion, a deficiency in the diet. Some are requiring more of some kind of vitamins than others. Some think it's a psychological deficiency to start with. My main point is that we don't know all the factors sufficiently to establish a different prevention technique. I wonder to what extent... Medically or socially or legally. I was wondering to what extent it's caused by social and cultural factors, Nasserman. Well, Dr. Carlson speaks like a professor emeritus. He's very conservative and very exact, and I think his statement is true. We don't know all the causes of alcoholism. We don't know all the causes of anything, for that matter, considered comprehensively. But we do know this from personal experience and introspection. You know that when you're more tense and troubled and depressed and seek some sort of an escape, once you've gotten into the habit or have had the experience that alcohol will dull your anxieties or remove your inhibitions temporarily, you're more inclined to take a drink than not. We do know this, that in times of economic stress or social stress, during war, especially in the readjustment periods after war, alcoholic incidents does rise. We can show in a laboratory, for instance, that alcohol does disorganize complex behavior. And if part of that complex behavior has been shown in our own laboratories, consists of the imposition of fears and anxieties and conflicts and doubts in any animal, and you give that animal alcohol and temporarily it dissolves the fears and inhibitions, that animal may become an alcohol addict in the sense that it will prefer alcohol having learned that it abolishes or diminishes its tension and anxiety. So we do know this as part of the factors, that internal conflict, apprehension, anxiety, may lead to a need for alcohol ingestion as a way out. Yes, I agree with you, but only in some rats and in some people. Not all of them. You agree to that? Exactly. It has to be a question of personal experience and personal proclivities, yes. May I go back for a moment to something you said, Dr. Carlson? Would you not say it's true that once a man discovers he's an alcohol addict and is on his way to recovery, that that no longer applies that a small glass of wine might be of medicinal value to him or a small glass of whiskey or a glass of beer, must he not abstain completely once he finds he is a problem drinker or an alcoholic? If he desires recovery, he must abstain completely. He can't take any, even small quantities. Is that right? That's absolutely correct. And we don't know the answer for that either. Was that true 10 or 15 years ago when he started alcoholism? Or is it a consequence of alcoholism? But when the wounds are alcoholics, they virtually have to completely abstain from alcoholic drinks. Do you think that this social drinking to which you refer, I think you said there were some 40 million social drinkers, do you think that social drinking leads to addiction? In those individuals that have a personal proclivity, that is a psychologic need for this kind of escape. Now some of the cultural and racial factors, for instance, were mentioned before. It was mentioned that, for instance, Jews never seem to become chronic alcohol addicts to nearly the extent as other racial groups. That doesn't mean that they're personally very different. They were brought up in a tradition that excludes alcoholism as one form of escape. Now they may develop neuroses more than any other group. There are some other cultural groups that take to alcoholism because it's encouraged in their particular environment. Which simply means that, in terms of their own experience, they have developed certain tendencies in behavior so that once they're exposed to social drinking, they take that particular form of a way out of their difficulties and then utilize it and abuse it to the extent of chronic alcohol. Well, now does this work like drugs such as cocaine? Is it habit-forming? Do you establish a sort of a physiologic craving or need for it? Well, it's not habit-forming in the strict biological sense that morphine and heroin and cocaine and so forth. It's because of it was. The percentage of alcoholics in society saying that we have in America 50 million people who take it every week or every day without becoming addicts. You see the difference? And we cannot say that it either the taste or the effect except to the extent that, as Mazerman has shown, it depresses the nervous system and temporarily render you unconscious of the troubles that face you. And some of them get pleasure out of a moderate state of inebriation. I should say, on the basis of personal experience, I have had alcoholic drinks for 60 years and I once had them medically because of an accident, injury, I had to have morphine. Never have I gotten the kind of illusions out of alcohol that I got out of morphine. I think what Dr. Carlson refers to quite accurately is the fact that there is no evidence for a real tissue craving for alcohol. A morphine addict deprived of his drug will show all sorts of physiologic disturbances like pallor and sweating, gastrointestinal disturbances, and many other serious effects from the deprivation. There is no evidence whatsoever that an alcoholic deprived of his alcohol is physiologically disturbed. It may be emotionally and psychologically very much in need of the drug, but physiologically his body does not crave it. Well, now, quite properly, I think we spent considerable time here analyzing this problem. You can't talk about prevention until you know a little something about the causes. But our question, after all, is can we prevent alcoholism? Can we? Not as yet. We can reduce... We know not now. We could reduce its incident, I think. And we can do something with the individual alcoholic in the way of cure. Why don't we just prohibit it by law? Can't be done, brother. We have tried it. What do you think about that, Mr. Martin? All law can do is prevent its public sale, not its private. But it certainly, as Dr. Carlson pointed out, cannot prevent anybody making the stuff as long as there are the ingredients around to make it, and they're common enough. All a law can do is put people in jail, and that doesn't cure them, although sometimes a period of incarceration and rest and nursing care, not punishment, is necessary. So I don't see how a law can do anything either about the causes or the effects of alcohol. Well, apart from a prohibition law with which this country has experimented, I don't think you can dismiss punitive measures in this situation because a lot of these people do get into trouble. There are hazards on public highways, and sick or not sick, we have to be protected from them, don't we? Yes, they have to be incarcerated at times for their own protection. Acute alcoholism... Not only for their own protection, but for the protection of the rest of us. Yes, of course. But please note that rarely are they punished for the alcoholism. They're punished for having gotten into an automobile accident or done some violent deed or neglected something. But they're not published for the alcoholism. I'd like to point out that very little, if any, differentiation is made in the public mind between alcoholism and drunkenness. There are many traffic accidents that are caused by drunkenness, by people who have been to a meeting or a class reunion or something who in no sense could be considered alcoholics. They have merely taken too much alcohol. They're not addicts. They're not addicts, but they get into automobile accidents, they get arrested, they get into fights, they get into trouble. And our experience in the sanitarium has been that very few of our actual alcoholics get into that kind of trouble and get into accidents. That it's more the occasional drunk or just the drunk and not the alcoholic who has the personality disturbances and so forth. So there should be some differentiation made there between drunkenness and alcoholism. What kind of therapy do you recommend for these addicts, Dr. Carlson? Well, if the addicts really want to get over their addiction, almost any kind of therapy, aversion therapy, religious and social aid like the Alcoholic Anonymous, succeeds with a high percentage of the patients. But this is very clear. Many of them have consequences, injurious to their health, consequences of alcoholism requiring medical attention, psychological, internal medicine, and all of them require some social service guidance, et cetera, et cetera. That question, how to prevent alcoholism, is like asking how do you prevent poverty or crime or war. It touches on vast social, economic, and even political issues as well as ethical ones and cannot be answered by three men sitting around a table. It's really a sweeping worldwide social problem. Gentlemen, I'm sorry, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Can We Prevent Alcoholism? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the Reviewing Stand costs just $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Anton J. Carlson, Jeffrey Mapes, and Dr. Jules Masserman. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss the question, Can we stop the traffic in narcotics? Our guests will be Lieutenant Joseph Healy, Chief of the Narcotics Division of the Chicago Police Department, Dr. Edward Kelleher, Director of the Psychiatric Institute of the Municipal Court of Chicago, and Howard D. Shaw, Director of the Ida B. Wells Housing Project in Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Can we stop the traffic in narcotics? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jerry Copper. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. We are speaking now to the Belgian Ambassador to the United States, Baron Silvercruz, who I understand is just about to leave for Europe. Is that right, sir? Yes, Mr. Benton, that's right. And what is the purpose of your trip? Well, I have, I'm going aboard for a consultation with my government and also possibly for a short leave of absence and at the end of which I return to the United States. I see, sir. Well, just a few hours ago it was announced in Korea that the full-dress cease-fire conference will officially get underway next Tuesday. The preliminary meeting was held yesterday, as you know, and they agreed on Tuesday as the first meeting for this official high-level cease-fire negotiation conference. I was wondering, sir, what your reaction to that meeting is. Well, I'm very happy to hear that within a day or two the hope will brighten a bit more on this Korean thing that we have been confronted with for a long time now. I'm sure that the people of Belgium join with the people of the United States in a hope that satisfactory adjustment will be found and that honorable conditions will be devised for the restoration of peace and order in the area. In other words, sir, you are optimistic about the situation? Let me put it this way, Mr. Benton. if it is an optimist to have hope in your heart and to be of good cheer at all times. Definitely an optimist. There have been an optimist and I hope that there will always be one. Well, thank you very much, sir. And before we leave you, I'd like to say that I understand that at the end of this month, Belgium is celebrating its Independence Day and we certainly wish you all the best of luck on that very important celebration. Thank you. On the 4th of July, the heart, the heart of my compatriots were with you all in this country and it was a great pleasure for me to celebrate the 4th of July with you all in Washington and I'm sure that in some way on the 21st of July your thoughts will be with us in Belgium too. Thank you, Baron Silvercruz, the Belgian Ambassador to the United States. We are speaking now to the Belgian Ambassador to the United States, Baron Silvercruz, who I understand is just about to leave for Europe. Is that right, sir? Yes, Mr. Benton, that's right. And what is the purpose of your trip? Well, I have, I'm going abroad for a consultation with my government and also possibly for a short leave of absence and at the end of it I'll return to the United States. I see, sir. Well, just a few hours ago it was announced in Korea that the full-dress ceasefire conference will officially get underway next Tuesday. The preliminary meeting was held yesterday, as you know, and they agreed on Tuesday as the first meeting for this official high-level ceasefire negotiation conference. and I was wondering, I was wondering, sir, what your reaction to that meeting is. Well, I'm very happy to hear that within a day or two the hope will brighten a bit more on this Korean thing that we have been confronted with for a long time and now. I'm sure that the people of Dillram will join with the people of the United States in the hope that satisfactory adjustment will be found and that honorable conditions will be devised for the restoration of peace and order in the area. In other words, sir, you are optimistic about the situation? Let me put it this way, Mr. Benton. If it is an optimist to have hope in your heart and to be of good cheer at all times, I am definitely an optimist. I have been an optimist and I hope that there will always be one. This is Monroe Benton recording from Hamilton, New York. The first signs of what in baseball terminology would be called a rhubarb have developed here at the third annual foreign policy conference at Colgate University between the British and Iranian delegates. As might be expected, the subject is the dispute over the nationalization of the Iranian oil industry. Listeners to WNYC during yesterday afternoon's broadcast of the luncheon session heard a statement by Mohsen Sadi Esfandary, the second secretary of the Iranian consulate general. He contended that a great many articles published lately in the American press concerning Iranian oil have misrepresented the Iranian case. He declared that political interference of the European countries in Iran has always been a source of great disturbance. In particular, he charged that the ex-Anglo-Iranian oil company, to use his words, has treated the Iranian government and her people very poorly and that the company has always interfered with the internal politics of Iran and that the British stock owners of the company are only influenced by the expansion of the dividends and wealth of the company. Mr. Esfandary went on to charge that a great danger in Iran is the poverty and starvation of the people, which is a direct result of the British exploitation, to use his words once again. Then he added, it is wrong to believe that the Iranian government is refusing to accept the large royalties of the Anglo-Iranian oil company and therefore the Iranian government is further impoverishing the nation. Mr. Esfandary concluded, it remains for the powers involved to help make stability and order take the place of insecurity and disturbance by abandoning their past policies of exploitation and instead pay some concern to the interest and welfare of the small nations. About an hour after the Iranian delegate spoke, the director of this Colgate foreign policy conference, Dr. Charles R. Wilson, announced that the British delegate had requested time to reply to the Iranian statement. At this moment, it is understood that the British representative, Chaim Raphael, will make his statement at this afternoon's luncheon session, which will be broadcast by your city station at 2 p.m. Incidentally, Mr. Raphael is substituting here at Colgate for John Boyd, first secretary of the British embassy in Washington, and Mr. Raphael is considered an expert on oil matters. Conference director Wilton commented that while it is not the purpose of the conference to provoke controversy, Dr. Wilton said it's his belief that since the conference is concerned primarily with foreign policy matters, such outstanding questions as the Iranian-British oil dispute should be brought out into the open by both sides. And so, we await the British reply during our broadcast at 2 o'clock this afternoon. Until then, from Hamilton, New York, we return you to our studios in New York City. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.