Mr. Chairman, I am grateful to this committee for giving me this opportunity of clarifying before it the views of the Government of Israel on the questions which have been here under discussion. I have followed the deliberations of this committee with close attention and kept my Government informed of the problems here arising. I am in a position to make a comprehensive statement on all the questions mentioned in the preamble to the resolution inviting our presence here. It is my understanding that these questions are discussed in this committee not with the aim of formulating their solution but in the context of the principle of compliance with the General Assembly's resolution of November the 29th and of December 11th and in connection with the effect of those problems on the application of Article 4 of the Charter. It is then against this background that I shall clarify the Government of Israel's attitude to the specific problems referred to in this resolution. Mr. Chairman, it was on the 29th of November 1948 that Israel's application for membership in the United Nations was submitted to the Security Council in accordance with Article 4, Paragraph 2 of the Charter. This was the anniversary of the General Assembly's original resolution which had called upon the inhabitants of Palestine to take such steps as may be necessary on their part to put this plan of partition into effect. On the 14th of May 1948, just one year ago yesterday according to the Hebrew calendar, the State of Israel proclaimed its independence, responding both to its own rights of self-determination as a distinctive political and cultural unit and to the explicit instructions of the General Assembly itself. The resolution of November the 29th contained a recommendation that when either state envisaged by that resolution had made its independence effective, sympathetic consideration should be given to its application of the membership in the United Nations in accordance with Article 4 of the Charter. A year later the State of Israel had successfully withstood a violent and aggressive onslaught organized and launched against it by seven states including six members of the United Nations, in an effort to overthrow the General Assembly's resolution by force. Israel had established the foundations of its government. It had secured recognition by 19 states by 19 states, in accordance with Article 4 of the Charter. A year later the State of Israel had successfully withstood a violent and aggressive onslaught organized and launched against it by seven states including six members of the United Nations in an effort to overthrow the General Assembly's resolution by force. Israel had established the foundations of its government. It had secured recognition by 19 states, it had persistently made efforts directly and through the agencies of the United Nations to negotiate with neighboring Arab states for an end of the war and the establishment of peace. Alone amongst the states involved in that war, Israel had undertaken to comply with the Security Council's resolution of November the 16th, 1948, calling upon the governments concerned to negotiate an armistice as a transition to last and the peace. Israel was already a vibrant reality. Israel was already a vibrant reality. Rarely in history had a people so small in all the attributes of physical power surmounted so many ordeals and adversities on its path to independence. It had emerged out of mortal danger into the clear prospect of survival. Israel was already a people. Having reached this degree of stability both in its domestic institutions and its international position, Israel came forward to seek the shelter of the Charter and to assume its obligations. This application has thus been on the agenda of the United Nations for five months. When it was first discussed in mid-December, there was already a considerable body of opinion in the Security Council, represented by the United States, the Soviet Union, Argentina, Colombia and Ukraine, ready to favor an immediate recommendation. Others, however, counseled a brief delay. They pointed out that no beginning had yet been made in the process of negotiation, called for by the Security Council on November the 16th and by the General Assembly on December the 11th. Indeed, no formal Arab-Jewish contact had then been established anywhere at that time. Others again invoked the provisional character of Israel's governmental institutions and the somewhat restricted basis of its international recognition at that time. We found it difficult to admit that any reading of Article 4 of the Charter made those considerations strictly relevant. Many states had been admitted to membership before the establishment of elected governments. And if the conciliation effort had not begun by last December, this was no fault of Israel, which was the first to propose direct armistice and peace talks in a formal communication to Arab states through the mediator as far back as the 1st of August 1948. Nevertheless, it must be realized that the Security Council is the body which has been entrusted by members of the United Nations with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Its decisions or hesitations must carry great weight in a matter so closely bound up with the issues of international peace. Accordingly, my government took sympathetic note of the Council's hesitations and waited until the early days of March before asking for renewed consideration of that application. Meanwhile, the imagination and sentiment of the world had been profoundly impressed by the spectacle of Israel's swift consolidation. Israel had now secured recognition by an overwhelming majority of other states in all the five continents, in the old world and the new. It had conducted the only democratic elections with full popular participation, which this part of the Near East had seen for several years. It had established a legislature based on popular suffrage. It had formed a government dedicated to the principles of parliamentary democracy and social reform. It had elected as the head of the state its most respected and venerated citizen. To symbolize both Israel's concern for international prestige and its vision of scientific humanism. It had successfully concluded its first experience in the most crucial task of all. For on February the 24th, after direct and intricate negotiations, under the skillful direction of the acting mediator, the government of Israel had concluded an agreement of armistice with the leading power in the Arab world. In an official statement, the government of Israel declared that it wished to regard this most notable agreement as the prelude to peace between Israel and Egypt. Such were the circumstances in which the Security Council met on March 3rd and March 4th at its 413th and 414th meetings. By nine votes to one with one abstention, it adopted the following resolution. The Security Council, having received and considered the application of Israel for membership in the United Nations, decides that in its judgment Israel is a peace-loving state and is able and willing to carry out the obligations contained in the Charter and accordingly recommends to the General Assembly that it admit Israel to membership in the United Nations. In every other case of admission, such a resolution of the Security Council has had a decisive effect when Assembly confirmation has been sought. But this particular resolution of the Security Council has a special authority deriving from circumstances which did not attend the Council's judgment on any other application. for Israel's claim to admission was hotly contested within the Council itself by one of the states which had felt themselves entitled to make war, violent and brutal war, for the extermination of Israel and the overthrow of the General Assembly's resolution by force. The majority in the Security Council was thus not achieved by any cursory or perfunctory review. A suggestion that the residual problems of the war, especially those of the status of the city of Jerusalem and Arab refugees, should be clarified before this admission was recommended, was put forward with great force and clarity by the United Kingdom. The Security Council implicitly rejected this suggestion by its vote. Remaining with austere fidelity within the terms of Article 4 of the Charter and in full consciousness of Israel's position on both of these questions, it sent its impressive verdict to this session of the General Assembly. Yet the most striking and vivid circumstance, lending weight to the Security Council's resolution, is the long record of the Council's discussions on the Palestine question. At its own very table, the Security Council has had an unrivaled opportunity of observing the rise of Israel to independence, its successful struggle against overwhelming invasion, its persistent appeals for methods of Pacific settlement, its constant recourse to the basic principles of the Charter, which by forbidding the use of force in international relations, should have prevented that violent obstruction of the partition decision, which is the source of all subsequent troubles and of all outstanding problems. From the early weeks of the war in May and June, when the Arab states officially and boastfully refused to comply with five cease-fire resolutions of the Security Council, all accepted by Israel, to the happy climax when the armistice resolution of the Security Council began to bear fruit, the Security Council had kept events in and around Israel under constant and vigilant examination. No less than 89 meetings, 89 meetings of the Security Council have been devoted to the Palestine question. And at the end of this unprecedentedly minute investigation, the Security Council decided that in its judgment, Israel is a peace-loving state, able and willing to fulfill its obligations under the Charter. This verdict of the august body charged with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security now comes before this committee against a unique background of experience and scrutiny. Mr. Chairman, what has happened since the Security Council gave to Israel's application such impressive and emphatic support? The significant developments since that time may be briefly summarized. On March the 23rd, Israel concluded an armistice agreement with Lebanon by a unilateral withdrawal of its own forces and the establishment of defensive zones. On April the 3rd, an armistice agreement was concluded between Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Transjordan through processes of reciprocal concession, whereby any serious threat of renewed hostilities was removed from the greater part of the area which had formed the Palestinian battlefield. Under the terms of this agreement, lasting and durable peace has been assured to the city of Jerusalem and its inhabitants. At this moment, armistice negotiations between Israel and Syria, which were delayed by recent upheavals in Damascus, are approaching what we hope will be their successful consummation. On the 26th of April, the government of Israel dispatched a delegation to Lausanne where the Conciliation Commission has invited the parties to meet for a preliminary exchange of views. Mr. Chairman, eight months have elapsed since my government formally requested the Arab states to meet with it for a settlement by negotiations of all outstanding military and political questions. Nearly six months have gone by since the distinguished representative of Canada in the Security Council proposed and secured the adoption of the momentous resolution calling for an armistice, a resolution supported by my government and opposed by the Arab states. Hundreds of thousands of people in Israel and in neighboring areas are denied the prospect of security and welfare so long as the conclusion of formal peace is delayed. The government of Israel has accordingly informed the Conciliation Commission that it wishes to regard the Lausanne meetings not as a mere preliminary exchange of views but as an earnest attempt by both parties to achieve a final and effective peace settlement. On the 30th of April, my colleague, Dr. Eitan, on assuming his responsibilities as head of the Israeli delegation at Lausanne, publicly declared, we come to Lausanne determined to do all possible towards the attainment of an honorable and lasting peace under the general auspices of the Conciliation Commission and by direct contact with the delegations of the Arab states which in recent months have signed armistice agreements with Israel. We shall make every effort to settle outstanding questions by peaceful discussion. The government of Israel sincerely hopes that the conference will lead to the complete stabilization of relations between Israel and the neighboring Arab states, including an undertaking to respect common boundaries and to the permanent settlement and rehabilitation of all those who have left their homes in the course of the war against Israel. At its first meeting with the Conciliation Commission, the Israeli delegation inquired whether Arab delegations are similarly prepared to institute discussions of peace in compliance with the General Assembly's resolution of December the 11th, which calls upon the governments and authorities concerned to seek agreement by negotiation conducted either with the Conciliation Commission or directly with a view to the final settlement of all questions outstanding between them. We are awaiting the Arab reply. The whole issue of peace and stability in the Near East hangs upon that reply. It is clear, Mr. Chairman, that the progress towards peace between Israel and its neighbors has maintained and indeed increased its momentum since the Security Council recorded its decision on the 4th of March, 1949. Everything, everything that has happened since the 4th of March fortifies and confirms the judgment which the Security Council then made. Mr. Chairman, a state seeking membership in the United Nations may be properly expected to study the jurisprudence of the United Nations relating to the admission of new members. It is our understanding that nothing but the provisions of Article 4 are relevant in the consideration of an application for membership. We base this conviction on the spirit and language of the Charter itself and of that Article 4 which opens the door of this organization wide to any state fulfilling its provisions. Moreover, this is the first application for membership to come before the General Assembly since the resolution adopted on December the 8th identifying the General Assembly itself with an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. The General Assembly is committed by that resolution to the view expressed in the following paragraph adopted on December the 8th. And I quote, a member of the United Nations which is called upon in virtue of Article 4 of the Charter to pronounce itself by vote either in the Security Council or in the General Assembly on the admission of a state to membership in the United Nations is not juridically entitled to make its consent to the admission dependent on conditions not expressly provided by paragraph 1 of the said article. While attaching full weight to the legal considerations involved I should like to place special emphasis on the political and moral implications of that resolution. In this very committee about a few months ago a preponderance of opinion was revealed in favor of the principle of universality. This view was concisely expressed by the representative of the Netherlands who said and I quote all those countries which like the Netherlands attached great importance to the universality of the United Nations should constantly consider whether their objections to the admission of a new state are really cogent. On that occasion the representative of the Union of South Africa said all states which could show adequate proof of their independence and their peaceful character should be admitted as soon as possible. The representative of Burma advocated the admission of all countries who were candidates for membership adding we want to have everyone as a member of this organization. In addition to the principle of universality we have no doubt that the General Assembly must wish to uphold the principles of free discussion and argument. The General Assembly is a free tribunal rejecting the principles of totalitarian conformity. A member state and therefore a candidate for membership is entitled to hold any views which its conscience and interests dictate on the solution of international problems. Member states are under no obligation to agree with each other and I doubt whether any member of the United Nations could properly withhold its consent to Israel's membership on the sole grounds that Israel does not share its particular views on any of the problems now at issue. Mr. Chairman in response to the request of this committee and at the instance of the distinguished representative of El Salvador I propose first of all to make a formal and authoritative statement of my government's views on the problems of Jerusalem and Arab refugees. In doing so I am obliged to reserve Israel's opinion with regard to the relevance of extraneous issues to the question of admission to membership. I am aware that the procedure followed by this committee today establishes a new precedent. The distinguished representative of Pakistan in pleading to the General Assembly for what he called a normal procedure successfully prevailed upon the plenary to require committee consideration of this item. Yet the adherence of normal procedures cannot point to any other occasion on which a candidate for membership has been called upon to express his views on international problems in the context of a discussion on admission to membership. The distinguished representative of Pakistan referred in vivid terms to his own harrowing ordeals in guiding his country's application through the intricate routines of the General Assembly. Yet on that occasion when he eventually reached the stage of committee discussion the Pakistan representative was not interrogated on his intentions with regard to Kashmir. He was not called upon to explain his country's intentions with regard to the 11 million refugees who were rendered homeless through the establishment of his state. on the same occasion when the application of Yemen for membership in the United Nations was considered by the first committee there was no discussion as to whether an officially sponsored policy of organized slavery conformed with the Charter's requirements on fundamental human rights. It may be assumed that the General Assembly took the liberal and logical view that international problems such as these are better solved within the framework of the United Nations than outside it. It is precisely because states have problems of an international character that they need an international organization within which such problems may be examined and solved. accordingly I should like to clarify my delegation's views on the purposes and objectives of our discussion this morning. We are not here I understand to find solutions to the problems of Jerusalem or the Arab refugees. That task has been allocated to the Conciliation Commission with which my government is in the closest and most formal contact at this moment. One question and one question alone is relevant is Israel eligible for membership within the meaning of Article 4 of the Charter? Are its policies on Jerusalem or on Arab refugees or on any other problem consistent with the free exercise of judgment and conscience by an aspiring member of this organization coming forward to accept the obligations of the Charter? I shall submit that Israel holds no views and pursues no policies on any question which are inconsistent with the Charter or with the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council. General Assembly of the General Assembly of the United Nations in the City of Jerusalem originated in the General Assembly's resolution of the 29th of November 1947. That resolution envisaged the establishment of a special regime designed primarily to protect and preserve the unique spiritual and religious interests located in the city. In establishing that regime the United Nations pledged itself to undertake the most solemn and critical responsibility for the welfare and development nay for the very lives of tens of thousands of people. The United Nations pledged itself in the words of that resolution to ensure that peace and order reign in Jerusalem. It undertook to promote the security the well-being and any constructive measures of development for the residents. According to the terms of the resolution the exercise of these heavy responsibilities required the establishment of a special police force of adequate strength the members of which shall be recruited outside of Palestine. The United Nations undertook to appoint a governor at the head of a large military and administrative staff charged with the duty of preserving the holy places and religious buildings and of maintaining free access to the holy places and religious buildings or sites. The trusteeship council was instructed to elaborate and approve a detailed statute of the city. The Jewish and Arab populations of Palestine were called upon to take all necessary steps to put this plan into effect. Looking back at this resolution with the retrospective wisdom of experience we cannot fail to be impressed by the magnitude and gravity of the responsibilities which the General Assembly then undertook. I need not delay the committee long with an enumeration of the events which frustrated those high purposes. The major cause, indeed the sole cause, is the one which lies at the root of all the complex problems which come now under the heading of the Palestine question. One single factor alone is responsible for the slaughter and destruction, for the anguish and bereavement, for the squandering of life and treasure, for the disturbance of international relations, for the desecration of holy places, for the panic of flight and the misery of exile, and all the other tragic consequences of this futile and unnecessary conflict. The cause is set out by a commission of the United Nations in a report to the General Assembly at this period last year. And I quote, powerful Arab interests both inside and outside Palestine are defying the resolution of the General Assembly by force and are engaged in a deliberate attempt to alter by force the settlement envisaged therein. Armed Arab forces from neighboring states together with local Arab forces are defeating the purposes of the resolution by acts of violence. The Jews, on the other hand, are determined to ensure the establishment of the Jewish state as envisaged by the Assembly's resolution. Mr. Chairman, these grave words, unprecedented in the international literature of our time, were conveyed by the United Nations Palestine Commission to the General Assembly in April 1948. 1868. A few weeks later, this monstrous aggression took official form when the Secretary General of the Arab League, acting on behalf of seven states, six of them members of the United Nations, informed the Security Council that those governments had undertaken what he called military intervention. Unless we can keep in our minds a clear vision of initial responsibility for this war, no single aspect of the Near Eastern situation can be evaluated in its true perspective. Around your table sit the representatives of six states who have the blood of martyred thousands on their hands and the misery and exile of tens of thousands upon their consciences. I shall have occasion in the course of my remarks to comment upon the fantastic paradox whereby the only states which have ever taken up arms to overthrow an assembly resolution by force, solemnly sit in this committee to accuse their intended victim of a lack of concern for assembly resolutions. If any state's eligibility for membership should be under question, it should be the eligibility of those who consciously selected war as a method of contesting the authority of international judgment. government. The Lebanese representative informed us this morning that an attitude of compliance with General Assembly resolutions should be a condition of membership in the United Nations. But, Mr. Chairman, if that were so, he would not be here at all. I shall circulate the statements of the Lebanese Prime Minister urging that the General Assembly's resolution of November the 29th, 1947, should be drowned in blood. For the moment, however, it is sufficient to recall to this committee that the Arab states took up arms not only against the establishment of Israel, but also with equal fervor and with greater success against the establishment of an international regime in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. The opposition of the Arabs took the form both of parliamentary boycott and of military violence. In the Trusteeship Council, the representative of Iraq said, it is my duty to show that the plan for the city of Jerusalem is illegal. The people of Jerusalem who are not sacred should not incur political punishment because their city is. Neither the Iraqi government nor other Arab states are prepared to enter into the details or to participate in the discussion of the plan. In the meantime, the Trusteeship Council proceeded to elaborate a statute with the full cooperation of Jewish representatives, many of whose suggestions were embodied in the draft statute. The Jewish religion was the only religious denomination whose representatives came forward to cooperate in the formulation of that plan. It is significant that the Arab violence directed against the General Assembly's resolution began in the city of Jerusalem itself, with the establishment of armed gangs in the old city and the organization of an iron ring around Jerusalem's communications with the coast. Within a few weeks of the adoption of the Assembly's resolution, at a time when the mandatory regime was still operating, the city became a scene of anarchy and violence. With the coastal route firmly in Arab hands and the water supply at the mercy of Arab forces, there began a slow and dreadful process of strangulation. On the commencement of the official Arab invasion on the 15th of May, the armed forces of Transjordan, Iraq, and Egypt joined together in a concerted attempt to throttle the lungs and arteries of the holy city, to rain down devastation upon its ancient shrines and modern habitations, and to wrest it from the international community for immediate incorporation without any reserve in an Arab Muslim regime. There were many weeks when the issue hung in the balance. Bombardment, starvation, pestilence, and thirst stared the Jewish inhabitants of the city in the face. By the month of June, the population was living on a handful of barley and beans. The average diet was brought down to 800 calories a day. Many months before the expectation of the first rain, water was being doled out from carts in measure barely sufficient to sustain human life. death. In this situation of thirst and malnutrition, the utmost technical resourcefulness was necessary in order to save the city from dire epidemic. Added to all these terrors was the carnage of war itself, which took on unendurable proportions in the latter weeks of May. Mr. Chairman, the people of Jerusalem to this very day look back with a sense of deliverance and escape to the horrors which faced them in those unforgettable weeks. As the bombardment of the new and old cities took a heavy toll of life, the holy places themselves came under converging fire. In the old city of Jerusalem, in the Jewish quarter, corpses lay piled up, unburied, since there was no access to the Jewish cemetery on the Mount of Olives or indeed to any part of the city outside the walls. Arab forces from Transjordan immediately on the termination of the mandate crossed into Palestine and laid waste to the Jewish villages in the Kfar Etzion group with the death of most of their inhabitants and the capture of the rest. The Security Council in constant session was bombarded by clamorous appeals for the rescue of the city on whose behalf the United Nations had accepted the most solemn obligations. Nothing availed. The Trusteeship Council plotted a leisurely course against fierce Arab opposition in elaborating the statute envisaged by the Assembly's resolution. At the height of Jerusalem's distress, the General Assembly convened in special session during April and May 1948. Thus, all the principal organs of the United Nations were constantly at work at this very climax of the city's agony. Nothing in history is more incongruous than the pitiful contrast between this torment of the Holy City and the determined resolve of the international community at that time to take no steps whatever for its relief. The debates in the Trusteeship Council had patently revealed that in face of Arab boycott and resistance, nothing but a considerable military force would avail to secure the implementation of the Assembly's statute. Week after week with a regularity that must have grown monotonous to distinguished representatives themselves, Jewish spokesmen appeared in the various organs of the United Nations, imploring them, imploring them to assume the responsibilities to which they were pledged, responsibilities which were and are inseparable from any rights to exercise authority or jurisdiction in any village, town or country in the world. For those who aspire to rule must be prepared to govern. You cannot have a fiction of sovereignty. It is not only a question of integrity, it is a question of life. But nothing happened. The majority of the Trusteeship Council swiftly reached the conclusion that the statute was no longer realistic in the existing condition of the United Nations and in the context of Arab-Jewish war. On the 21st of April, the Trusteeship Council passed a resolution referring the future of the statute to the General Assembly for such further instructions as it might see fit to give. The General Assembly saw fit to give no further instructions. Early in May, a municipal commissioner was appointed to assume on behalf of the United Nations such functions and prerogatives as he could secure. The commissioner was appointed, arrived in Jerusalem at the height of the siege and warfare and turned away. On June the 16th, 1948, the Trusteeship Council opened its third session with a provisional agenda, which prudently avoided all mention of the Statute of Jerusalem. On July the 28th, 1948, the representative of the Soviet Union, urging constant fidelity to the November resolution, again sought action by the Trusteeship Council on the Jerusalem statute. A Belgian proposal for postponement synedie was adopted by eight votes to one with three abstentions. Nothing has been heard of the statute ever since. The Jewish population of Jerusalem submerged in death and famine, fighting against odds for sheer survival itself, probably had little time to reflect on the attitude of those who, but a few months previously, had undertaken responsibility for their security and well-being and constructive measures of development. The right to destroy and besiege Jerusalem was officially claimed by Arab representatives as a legitimate action of war. The idea that even a truce would involve the lifting of this brutal siege evoked the solemn indignation of Arab representatives. The 313th meeting of the Security Council, Jamal Bey Hosseini of the Arab Higher Committee, supported by the distinguished representative of Syria, upheld the divine right of starvation. He said, and I quote, the Zionist spokesman yesterday assumed that the truce terms adopted by the Security Council should cover freedom of access to Jerusalem, together with transportation of goods for civilian needs of the 100,000 besieged Jews. We assume the contrary. The abandonment of the state of siege is obviously a net gain for one party and a loss for the other. The assumption of the Zionist spokesman should be corrected. Security Council was naturally unwilling to preside over the complete destruction of Jerusalem by famine during a truce, and it therefore undertook to supply the Jews of Jerusalem with quantities of food in such measure as would ensure that at the end of the truce period, Jerusalem's food supply would be exactly equivalent to what it was at the beginning of the truce. By dismal paradox, the first active intervention of the United Nations in the administration of Jerusalem was to ensure that the population should not have too much to eat. While these terrible processes were going on, it is not surprising if the Jews of Jerusalem deduced the harsh lesson that they could expect no salvation, except from one quarter alone, from their brethren in the state of Israel, who, while grappling desperately for their own very survival, bethought themselves of their kith and kin in Jerusalem. The state of Israel girded all its strength to throw a lifeline to the beleaguered city. The Jewish quarters of the old city surrendered amidst the destruction of its holy places on May the 28th. All but five of its ancient synagogues were destroyed, and those that remained have since been laid waste by the Arab occupation forces. The historic wailing wall, the most hallowed sanctuary to adherents of the Jewish faith, was barred from access by worshippers and remains so to this very day. If the new city were not similarly to succumb, its supply routes had to be opened. Within the very gun range of besieging Arab forces, the Jews built a detour on the coastal road. This narrow strip, carved through the steep inclines of the hill country, began to relieve the stringency of the food situation. Yet, for the most part, it was necessary to run a gauntlet of shellfire and ambush in a desperate attempt to bring convoys to the starving city. The people of Jerusalem carry inscribed in their hearts the memory of the occasions when such convoys passed through the perils and hazards of the road to deliver their cargo at a point when the very extremities of endurance had been reached. Upon the tracks of the first large convoy to reach Jerusalem at the peak of its danger was inscribed a message from the people of Israel to the Jews of Jerusalem. If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, may my right hand forget its cunning. The Jews of Jerusalem were not forgotten or alone. Mr. Chairman, when we speak, as I shall, of the profound and organic attachment between the Jews of Jerusalem and the Jews of Israel, the committee should think not merely of those links of language, religion, culture, and other forms of natural allegiance, but also of that link forged by a fight for survival in those desperate days. The battle of Jerusalem was won in a victory snatched from the very imminence of defeat, but it was not a victory lightly or cheaply achieved. As you travel from the coastal plain to Jerusalem through the Burble Word, you can see to this day the overturned hulks of trucks, lorries, and cars ambushed and set on fire. The ashes which litter the roadside are not those of lorries alone. The youth of Israel fell in their hundreds to save Jerusalem from the disaster and reproach of famine and surrender. Cannot be seriously doubted that in saving Jerusalem from capture by the combined Arab forces, the Jews of that city and of Israel not only preserved Jewish rights in the very cradle of the Jewish tradition, they also kept Christian interests alive. For it is beyond all question that had the assault upon the city succeeded, it would have become incorporated immediately and irrevocably in an Arab state which explicitly and devouredly asserted its own undisputed right to wield complete sovereignty over the whole city, including its holy places. If today it is still possible to make plans for giving statutory expression to the international interest, as it is, that possibility derives solely from the success of this Jewish resistance at that time. The Arab position on internationalization was clear, both in theory and in practice, and Dr. Malik was expressing the deep stirrings of his soul by sharing in a warlike coalition, raining down shells, unholy shells, and bullets, unsacred bullets, upon both parts of the city of Jerusalem. I will not harry the feelings of this committee any further by descriptions of the ordeals and perils out of which Jerusalem has now emerged. Nothing is more splendid or impressive in the whole record of Israel's achievement than the swift rehabilitation of the city and its return to normal and dignified life. A year ago there was anarchy. Today there is effective administration, both in the Jewish and Arab parts of the city. A year ago there was bloodshed. Today there is peace. A year ago there was famine. Today there is relative plenty. A year ago there was devastation. Today there are all the symptoms of recovery. A year ago the holy places were imperiled by the clash of arms. Today they are at peace. And all the facilities of access and worship to all the holy places except the Jewish holy places are being gradually restored. This restoration of peace and normality to Jerusalem is by far the most significant factor to be borne in mind in any consideration of the question and future of the holy places. Unless there is peace in Jerusalem between Arabs and Jews, no juridical status can assure the protection of the city or the immunity of its sacred shrines. If there is peace in Jerusalem between Arabs and Jews, then the assurance of safeguards for the holy places becomes a task easily responsive to the processes of bilateral and international agreement. In the ill-fated history of the November statute, it should be carefully borne in mind that there was the most absolute Jewish compliance and cooperation and the fiercest Arab resistance carried to the point of violent attack. There is nothing inconsistent, Mr. Chairman, between our solitary readiness, our almost solitary readiness to uphold the Jerusalem statute last year and our most profound conviction this year that the application of the international principle to Jerusalem requires the formulation of new proposals, the institution of new thinking, and if necessary, the acceptance of a new approach. The past actions and omissions which I have briefly described cannot be swept lightheartedly away. In November 1947, we regarded the Jerusalem statute as the most effective and practical way of expressing the international interest in Jerusalem in the conditions then prevailing. If we wish to apply the international principle in Jerusalem today, as we do, we cannot fail to take account of the changes that have occurred since then. These changes arise from the refusal of the United Nations to ratify or apply the statutes worked out by the trusteeship council, the armed resistance of the Arab states against the November resolution, and particularly against the internationalization of Jerusalem, the terrible privations and sufferings endured by the Jews of Jerusalem, reminiscent of the days of siege in the life of the prophet Jeremiah, the successful defense of Jerusalem by Jewish forces against its imminent annexation to an Arab state, the restoration of peace, order, and dignified life in Jerusalem, the accompanying integration of the life of the city into the life of the states to which its people are bound by every tie of natural allegiance, and the obvious patent and evident unwillingness of the United Nations to undertake a heavy military, administrative, or financial commitment in the city, a commitment which would in any case be unnecessary now that a pattern of order and security exists. It is important to emphasize that nobody can simultaneously applaud the restoration of peace to Jerusalem and deplore the integration of the life of the city into the life of the neighboring states which are now exercising the functions of administration. For it was precisely this process of integration into the authority of effective and competent governments which accompanied and indeed made possible the pacification of Jerusalem. This process of integration took place, I must emphasize, not in any desire to create new political or juridical facts, but as an essential condition for the restoration of the city's life. If the city was not to fall, it was necessary for Jewish forces to defend it. If the city was not to starve and perish from thirst, it was necessary for the Jews of Israel to revive its supply lines. If the city was not to become a center for all the rebellious and dissident elements in the country, as it was on that dark and terrible day of September the 17th, 1948, it was necessary to introduce administrative and legislative controls. If the city was to emerge from the arbitrary authorities of military government to the enjoyment of free civic life, it was necessary to replace the military governorships by civilian administrations. If the city, sustained not by industry but by educational and governmental institutions, was not to become impoverished and depressed, it was necessary to establish institutions of health and learning and at least a proportion of the official business which had once been its main support. This and nothing else, this and this alone, was the motive for transferring to Jerusalem the personnel of non-political departments whose presence might stem the flight from Jerusalem and preserve for the city its traditional primacy in the religious, educational, and medical life of the country. No juridical facts whatever are created by such steps which are dictated by nothing but a reverent desire to heal Jerusalem's wounds and to add economic recovery to the other aspects of its splendid recuperation. Mr. Chairman, the statement in the Lebanese draft resolution to the effect that the Jewish part of Jerusalem has been proclaimed as a part of the state of Israel is a false statement. It is extraordinary that the representative of a member state should find it possible to introduce a falsehood into the preamble of a draft resolution. For the most salient feature in the Israeli attitude to the Jerusalem problem today is my government's earnest and ardent desire to see the juridical status of the city satisfactorily determined by international consent. In his meeting with the Conciliation Commission on April the 7th, 1949, the Prime Minister of Israel said, we shall attempt to convince the United Nations of the justice of our proposals. We shall bring our views to the Assembly of the United Nations. The matter will come to the Assembly and the decision will be made there. The second progress report of the Conciliation Commission in an effort at brevity does not accurately reflect the Prime Minister's attitude as revealed by the verbal record. My government would have preferred to continue its discussions with the Conciliation Commission until such time as the fourth regular session was prepared to consider substantive proposals on the future status of Jerusalem. Yet the expression of international society anxiety and in particular the alarmist misrepresentation of certain events compel us to state the main principles of our approach at this time. we believe that the international principle must be maintained but that in the existing circumstances it should be expressed more realistically and practically than was envisaged in the ambitious proposals worked out by the General Assembly last November. We must seek to apply the international principle with some regard to the conditions existing in April 1949. and not in accordance with the conditions which our predecessors might have reasonably envisaged in November 1947. The peace secured in Jerusalem by the cooperative action of the governments of Israel and Transjordan is too precious an asset to be disrupted by reversing the cloak of history even if this could be done. I noticed that in the recent papalical encyclical the principle is laid down that the status of Jerusalem must be one which in the present circumstances not in the circumstances of November 1947 but one which in the present circumstances will ensure the safety and protection of the holy places. The fact of Jerusalem's integration into the neighboring states and the necessity and possibility to take a more practical view of the United Nations administrative task must be taken into account. One possible way of solving the problem is by limiting the international regime in area so that it applies not to the entire city but only to that part of it which contains the greatest concentration of religious and historic shrines. this was a proposal put forward by my government in Paris in the earlier part of the current session. On the other hand it is possible to go further and to envisage an international regime which applies to the whole city of Jerusalem but which is restricted functionally so as to be concerned only with the protection and control of holy places and not with any purely secular or political aspects of life and government. This is the kind of approach which we favor at our present stage in the consideration of this problem. To this end the government of Israel made a statement on the 23rd of April through the president of the state expressing its policy in the following words which I quote the government and people of Israel are conscious of the international interest in the safety of the holy places and the right of free access to them. We pledge ourselves to ensure full security for religious institutions in the exercise of their functions to grant the supervision of the holy places by those who hold them sacred and to encourage and accept the fullest international safeguards and controls for their immunity and protection. Just as we are resolved to give complete and practical expression to the universal interest arising from the holy places so we expect that the international community will understand the direct and inescapable responsibility which Israel bears and exercises in the daily life and administration of Jewish Jerusalem. I am satisfied, President Weizmann continued, that no real incompatibility exists between the interests and concerns of Christianity to which His Holiness the Pope has recently given eloquent expression and the aspirations of the people of Jerusalem to assure their government and security in conformity with their national allegiance. the right of control and jurisdiction over holy places in Israeli territory. It deserves the closest examination by all parties concerned. it is important to draw attention to the fact that no similar pledge has been made by the Arab government which controls the majority of the holy places in Jerusalem. If a commitment similar to ours were elicited from Transjordan, it cannot be doubted that the problem of the holy places would be on the way to solution. Provided only that the United Nations were to assume even this more modest responsibility in an active and responsible spirit. The sad history of the Jerusalem statute should have taught us that it is of little value to cede responsibilities to the international community if the United Nations shows no tendency to take them up. The position as we understand it is that if the United Nations could secure from the Arab government concerned a commitment similar to that made by Israel and were then to establish an international regime in Jerusalem which would confine its jurisdiction and authority to the holy places, the Jerusalem problem could be successfully solved. The Conciliation Commission's sanguine belief shared by the representative of Lebanon this morning that some Arab states have modified their hostility to international control carries us no further at all since it does not commit the only government which here matters, the only Arab government in control of any part of Jerusalem or the holy places. Lebanese acceptance at this stage is tactically clever but ineffective. the fact is that the Arab government controlling the majority of the holy places in Jerusalem has not given any undertaking comparable to ours accepting international control of any areas or any functions. The effective Arab attitude to the surrender of jurisdiction over holy places thus remains effectively negative. we remain just as far in advance of the effective Arab position as we were last year. I should like to add, Mr. Chairman, that the Foreign Minister of Israel in a statement to the press last week while discussing the possibility both of an international regime for the old city and an international regime for the entire Jerusalem but as we find in its functions to the control of holy places added, there may be alternative solutions to the problem of Jerusalem which we would be prepared to consider. We are still, therefore, in an intermediate stage of discussion. We seek the reconciliation of two interests for each of which we have a deep and abiding concern. there is the universal interest arising out of the holy places, an interest quite understandably seeking juridical expression and there is the necessity, the necessity of providing the people of Jerusalem with an administration that conforms with their welfare, their interest and their national sentiment and allegiance. These two interests are to be reconciled. We do not and should not seek the complete subordination of one to the other. Any proposal which genuinely harmonizes the two will have our sympathetic attention. The representative of Israel has delivered approximately something over one third of his speech. If we would like to hear him and the whole speech we would have to sit here about just about three o'clock in the afternoon. Therefore the chair would be if the representative agree would suggest the adjournment of the meeting. As you know from the journal the secretariat has scheduled a meeting of this committee for this evening but some objections have been raised on the part of the delegates so the chair would propose that this evening tonight's meeting would be cancelled but if the committee agrees we shall hold another meeting tomorrow in addition to two scheduled meetings in the morning and in the afternoon at 8.30pm tomorrow. I would like to hear the opinions of the delegate if they would agree with the opinion of the chair. Point of order the district of Lebanon. In fairness to the representative of Israel I think you said he has finished a third of his speech I think he has finished a little more than half of it if I'm not mistaken. I believe we can still before we go to lunch hear the remainder I'm prepared to I think I'm prepared to hear it to the end if you especially if you are going to adjourn until tomorrow. I think he's finished a little more than half as a matter of fact probably 60%. We are on the 20th page of the speech and we have 26 26 to go so it's about almost a half the district representative of Poland. Mr. Chairman I doubt very much if we could go on and for the 26 remaining pages nevertheless I don't know really what is the serious objection against having the meeting which was scheduled for tonight. I rather would be of the opinion to defer the balance of the speech of the Honorable Representative of Israel for tonight and possibly we could have some questions to put to him and then tomorrow at the time you would schedule then we could continue with the discussion on the proposals already submitted here. I think we would be more in a position then to proceed and I think it is also better to have us scheduled two meetings today than have three meetings tomorrow. you would imagine what's going to happen at 8.30 in the first place no one is going to come at 8.30 they're going to come at 9 o'clock and then you know everybody that's going to be transformed in a sleeping car in a Pullman car this thing here. Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. Well the objections have been raised on the United States United States I think it's quite important for us to carry on if we can and I therefore oppose the idea of adjournment accepting upon condition that we adjourn after lunch. I think it's a reasonable transaction of our business to take a short recess for lunch and return and finish this statement. More than that it seems to me that it is the fair thing to do. The representative of Argentina. I support the proposal of the distinguished delegate of the United States as long as we do not have a meeting of the fifth committee today either in the afternoon or in the evening. Guatemala. Guatemala. Representative of Guatemala. Seor. Mr. Chairman, I think to the representative of Israel to hear today the whole of his speech. Now, we have a sort of gentleman's agreement not to have together meetings of the ad hoc committee and of the fifth committee. If there are not insurmountable obstacles on the part of the secretariat, I am wondering if we could not have together this afternoon meetings of the ad hoc committee and of the fifth committee. as there is only a speech already written, perhaps it would not be so important if some of the delegates could not assist to the ad hoc committee. Representative of the other questions. I am sure Mr. Eben can finish his speech by two o'clock. And if we sit down now until two, no difficulty will arise. Because if you look over the remaining pages, some of them are half pages and some are smaller and all that, so that he can really finish. And while he is at it, I think it is really a pity to interrupt him. It's not fair. I don't feel it's fair. And furthermore, Mr. Chairman, this is already out in printed form and the press have it as though it is delivered. Therefore, he should continue delivering it now. But if you want to recess now and come back afterwards, I have no objection to that at all. But I think all of us can stand another three quarters of an hour's sitting. I'm sure of that. The form right now and let the representative of Israel continue his speech, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, we have a formal motion of the representative of Lebanon to carry on the speech of the representative of Israel. I think the views are very different on it and I have to put it to the vote whether we are to carry this meeting or scheduled tonight as originally suggested by the secretariat. I understand the meeting in the afternoon is not possible because the services of the secretariat are not available. Guatemala, representative of Guatemala. seat together. Regarding The President of the Secretary, Dr. Kerner. Mr. Chairman, may I answer the difficulties about this committee and the fifth committee? There are difficulties for delegations and there are difficulties chiefly for interpretation. Not the difficulties of the Secretariat here, but chiefly we don't have enough interpreters. Now, I don't know whether it is possible now to make delegates in the fifth committee agree that they should not have a meeting and have a night meeting because there I don't know what the conveniences of delegates in the fifth committee are. Well, first of all, I have to put to the vote whether we are going to carry this meeting as suggested by the Representative of Lebanon. Who are in the favor of this motion, please raise their hands. At least. Abstentioned? Is that accepted? Accepted. Yes. The result of the voting is 19 in favour, 18 against, 9 abstentions. So we are going to carry on and we are going to listen to the continuation of the speech of Representative of Israel. Mr Chairman. Mr Chairman. And please make you voi, for a moment. Yvonne King. She's the only president. Or Me stacks on the floor. Sean Hallativas. Okay, thank you very much. Yes. Thank you very much. Who wants to meet tonight? The representative of the government of Israel will please proceed. Mr. Chairman, this particular statement was not written with a hungry audience in mind, and I hope that the committee will bear with me. I have outlined, sir, the views of the government of Israel on the settlement of Jerusalem's future status. It is, I think, not for this committee to decide whether it endorses those particular views or not. It is for this committee to decide in the context of its present discussion whether these views are compatible with the earnest thought and devout conscience of a responsible government holding a trust reposed in its hands by civilization and a simultaneous concern sharpened by recent tragedy for the lives, the well-being, and the national sentiment of tens of thousands of people in the city. There is nothing unusual or eccentric in the views which I have outlined here. Many governments and representatives of the United Nations, and even the General Assembly itself, have perceived the necessity in recent months of revising the conceptions of international control envisaged in the original November resolution. Thus, in an address to the House of Commons on April the 14th, Mr. Christopher Mayhew, Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the United Kingdom, made the following four points which illustrate the general trend of revision. I shall quote the main four paragraphs of this statement with accompanying comment. He said it is satisfactory to note that the situation has been quiet in Jerusalem for some months. It is going to be a sad Eastertide in the city, but at least in sharp contrast against the guerrilla warfare which went on for many months after the end of the mandate, things are quiet and have been quiet there for many months now. The city is divided by a military demarcation line between Israeli and Transjordan forces, which forms part of the demarcation line agreed in the general armistice signed by Israel and Transjordan. Israelis hold all the new city, while Transjordan controls the old city, where the principal holy places are situated. With reference to that statement, Mr. Chairman, my government agrees with this estimate of the significant changes which have occurred in Jerusalem within the past year involving an impressive transition from war to peace. This statement went on, regarding the possibilities of internationalization of Jerusalem, I am sure that the United Nations expressed the will of the entire civilized world in insisting that the holy places be protected and free access be assured for them, for all religious as well as for all inhabitants of Palestine. Our view is that whatever solution comes, internationalization or not, or part internationalization, we feel that there must be free access to the holy places for all religions. With respect to that part of the statement, my government warmly upholds the view that whatever solution comes, there must be free access to the holy places of all religions, including the Jewish religion. The statement goes on in its third paragraph to say, the United Nations proposed that we should secure this by setting up an international regime, and that, of course, is what several members asked for today. But in talking about internationalization, it is necessary to consider carefully just what this involves. Here we are up against the same problem as the United Nations were up against when they laid down the partition plan of 1947. The main difficulty is implementation. The plain fact remains that to impose an international regime in a considerable area foreseen by the United Nations would be a very formidable task. It would require a very large police force and administration. With reference to that estimate, Mr. Chairman, there can be no doubt at all of the validity of the view that to impose an international regime in a considerable area would require a very large police force and administration. Our contacts with leading members of the United Nations convince us that no such military or administrative commitment is feasible, nor is it any longer necessary in view of the fact that peace now prevails in the city under its existing administration and its services are assured. Fourthly, the statement went on in conclusion, we must therefore have some doubts as though His Majesty's government in the United Kingdom were amongst the first to suggest that this was the ideal solution as to how far the scheme of full internationalization can in fact be worked. It is, of course, possible to imagine variants of such a scheme that might be more practicable, such as the increase of autonomy of local municipalities to a point where an international governor becomes the titular head concerned almost entirely with the protection of the holy places. I do not think, concluded Mr. Mayhew on behalf of the United Kingdom government, that it would be useful at present to consider all the possible variants of this theme as there are many of them. Mr. Chairman, we share these doubts as to how far a scheme of what is called full internationalization can in fact be worked, although we still uphold an international regime for the holy places. Mr. Mayhew's view that the international regime, however established, should be concerned entirely with the protection of the holy places is in general accord with the statement made by President Weitzman on the 23rd of April. The sources which I have quoted are not alone in feeling the necessity for formulating new and more realistic proposals for expressing the international interest in Jerusalem. On June the 27th, 1948, the late mediator, Count Bernadotte, became so skeptical of the practicability of an international regime that he advocated the complete abandonment of the international principle. Count Bernadotte wrote to all the governments concerned that to attempt to isolate this area politically and otherwise from surrounding territory presents enormous difficulties. In a conversation which I was privileged to have with Count Bernadotte and Dr. Bunch on the 16th of July, they argued with fervor, conviction, and success in an effort to persuade my government that the original conception of an internationalized Jerusalem would have to be, if not abandoned, as suggested in those proposals, at least modified. During the sessions of the General Assembly in Paris last winter, the important principle that Jerusalem must be more fully integrated into the life of the neighboring state or states was presented by the delegation of the United States, whose representative, Dr. Jessup, said, the United States delegation believes that the Jerusalem area should be integrated insofar as was consistent with its special international character with the remainder of Palestine. In fact, he went on to say it would only be at the fourth session of the General Assembly that lasting decisions could be made with regard to an international regime for Jerusalem as a result of the proposals which the Conciliation Commission would present. This last sentence by Dr. Jessup accords fully with Mr. Ben-Gurion's statement to the Conciliation Commission, looking to the forthcoming session of the General Assembly as the occasion for coming to lasting decisions with respect to an international regime for Jerusalem. In recent weeks and especially during and since the sessions of the General Assembly in Paris, my delegation has heard from several governments including one of the leading members of the United Nations interesting proposals and principles for a solution of the Jerusalem problem. All these proposals indicate a desire to embark upon new thinking in the light of changing circumstances. All of them are based upon the principle of restricting the exercise of international authority as far as possible to the actual protection and control of the holy places themselves. And when the General Assembly instructed its commission on December the 11th, 1948 to prepare a new proposal for expressing the international principle, it clearly implies that the old proposal is no longer effective. I should add that the General Assembly on the 11th of December recommended not an international regime but what is called effective United Nations control. Any use of the word internationalization is inaccurate as a reflection of the views of the General Assembly as expressed in its resolution on December the 11th. In concluding and summarizing my observations on the Jerusalem problem, I find it necessary once again to emphasize that we uphold the necessity to which attention was drawn in the Pope's recent encyclical to ensure free access to the holy places, the security of Catholic and other Christian institutions, and to accept and encourage full international control for the protection and immunity of the holy places. everything in the policy which I have outlined on behalf of the government of Israel conforms with the objectives contained in that important papal pronouncement. I therefore summarize my government's attitude on the Jerusalem problem as follows. One, the government of Israel cooperated to the fullest extent with the statute drawn up in November 1947. it bears no responsibility for the failure of that project, a failure which arose through the deliberate armed resistance of the Arab states and the refusal of organs of the United Nations to ratify or assume the obligations necessary for the fulfillment of the statute. Second, the government of Israel advocates and supports the establishment by the United Nations of an international regime for Jerusalem concerned exclusively with the control and protection of holy places and sites. If such a regime for the holy places is established, my government will cooperate with it. Third, the government of Israel will also agree to place under international control holy places in other parts of its territory outside Jerusalem. we support the suggestion that guarantees should be given for what the representative of Argentina calls the protection of the sacred places in Palestine and free access thereto. Fourth, the government of Israel is prepared to offer the fullest safeguards and guarantees for the security of religious institutions in the exercise of their functions. The government of Israel is prepared to negotiate immediately with all religious authorities concerned with this end in view. I should add in parenthesis that a beginning of such negotiations has already been made through my government's contacts with Monsignor Vergani, the papal envoy in the state of Israel. Sometimes the safeguarding of religious institutions is a matter in the charge of governments and not of the Vatican itself. In some such instances, negotiations for the safeguarding of their immunity have already begun. In particular, there has been successful negotiation between the government of Israel and the government of France, which has been the leader in many of the religious and cultural movements symbolized by great institutions in all parts of the country. Fifth, the government of Israel will persevere in its efforts to repair the damage inflicted on religious buildings and sites in the course of the war launched by Arab states. Sixth, the government of Israel regards with pride and satisfaction its part in the restoration of peace and order, which are the essential requisites of any reverent care for the holy places and sites. Seventh, the integration of the Jewish part of Jerusalem into the life of the state of Israel has taken place as a natural historical process arising from the conditions of war, from the vacuum of authority created by the termination of the mandate and from the refusal of the United Nations to assume any direct administrative responsibilities on the scene. This integration, which is paralleled by a similar process in the Arab area, is not incompatible with the establishment of an international regime charged with full juridical status for the effective protection of the holy places, no matter where situated. A proposal or alternative proposals for reconciling these interests will be submitted by Israel to the forthcoming session of the General Assembly. One such proposal has already been presented to the Conciliation Commission by the Prime Minister of Israel. And that is reported in the concluding passage of the Second Progress Report of the Conciliation Commission. Eight, the government of Israel will continue to seek agreements with the Arab interests concerned for the maintenance and preservation of peace and the reopening of blocked access into and within the city of Jerusalem. Such negotiations now proceeding, however, do not affect the juridical status of Jerusalem which we shall seek to define by international consent. Nine, the government of Israel notes a disposition on the part of the Conciliation Commission and individual member states to formulate new proposals for the effective and practical satisfaction of international interests in Jerusalem. The government of Israel will give its most earnest study and attention to all such proposals. And the firm belief that the United Nations should only assume responsibilities which it is willing and able to exercise and which do not go beyond the limits required for the genuine fulfillment of universal religious interests. Tenth, the government of Israel notes the resolution of the General Assembly of December the 11th, providing for the discussion of a lasting solution of the Jerusalem problem at the fourth regular session. The government of Israel believes that the General Assembly should on that occasion discuss the final juridical status of Jerusalem. The government of Israel hopes to contribute to that discussion either by commenting on proposals put forward or by submitting proposals of its own for the approval of the General Assembly. Eleventh, the government of Israel draws attention to the existence of profound Jewish religious interests which give Jerusalem a central and abiding place in Jewish spiritual life. All the sacred associations of Jerusalem derive ultimately from its Jewish origins. The preservation of synagogues, the right of access to the Wailing Wall and of residence within the wall city require international guarantees and implementation. Twelfth, these views of the government of Israel on the future of Jerusalem are fully in accord with the principles of the Charter, with the General Assembly resolution of December the 11th, and with the views of many members of the United Nations whose eligibility to retain their membership has never been questioned. The conscientious and honest regard which the government of Israel has shown and will continue to show, both for international interests and for the welfare of the population, entitles it to present its record on Jerusalem as its highest point of credit. in coming to discuss the question of Arab refugees, may I repeat, Mr. Chairman, what I have said to the effect that all these outstanding political problems only exist as a direct consequence of the fact that a war was initiated and launched for the purpose of overthrowing the Assembly's resolution by force? Of no problem is this more true than the refugee question on which I have been asked to clarify my government's view. None of these great movements of population would have occurred if the Arab world had joined with us in an attempt to give peaceful implementation to the General Assembly's resolution on partition. These great and tragic movements of population are a familiar circumstance of any war, especially of wars affecting countries of mixed populations which become involved in agonizing conflicts of allegiance. Dr. Malik informed us correctly this morning that it was not the intention of the General Assembly for Israel to become free of its Arab inhabitants. But surely, Mr. Chairman, it was not the intention of the General Assembly that Lebanon and six other states should make war against the General Assembly's resolution. Every disturbance and every modification of the November the 29th plan is a plain result of the fact that a war was launched. The exodus of the Arab population began in the early days of that war, during the tenure of the mandatory regime, and had already become an irrepressible tendency by the time the government of Israel assumed its responsibilities. Efforts made by Israel to stem the flood did not avail against the panic of war. A vivid eyewitnessed account was published in the London Economist in April as follows. During the subsequent days, the Jewish authorities urged all Arabs to remain in Haifa and guaranteed their protection and security. Various factors influenced their decision to seek safety in flight. by far the most potent of these factors was the announcement made over the air by the Arab Higher Committee urging all Arabs in Haifa to quit. The reason given was that upon the final withdrawal of the British, the combined armies of the Arab states would invade Palestine and drive the Jews into the sea. It was clearly intimated that those Arabs who remained in Haifa and accepted Jewish protection would be regarded as renegades. At a meeting of the Conciliation Commission with the Israeli government on April the 7th, the representative of France on that commission, who had undertaken a detailed interrogation of Arab refugees, stated that it would be wrong even according to the accounts of the refugees themselves to describe them as having been deliberately driven out and correct to describe them as having fled in the atmosphere of fear, insecurity, and danger inseparable from war. Mr. Chairman, so many passions have been aroused by this grave humanitarian issue that we feel compelled to return again and again to the question of initial responsibility. This episode is nothing but a direct consequence of the war proclaimed and launched by Arab states. Through the action of irregular forces on the 1st of December 1947 and the invasion of Palestine by regular armies on the 15th of May 1948. Thus, quite apart from their own ties of kinship with the refugee population, and we know how ties of kinship with the refugee population should stimulate a government to action on their behalf, quite apart from this, the Arab governments are morally obliged by the circumstances of their own unqualified and unreserved guilt to take a full share in a solution of this problem. In the preamble to his draft resolution, the representative of Lebanon describes the Israeli attitude in terms just as misleading as those in which he chooses to portray our record on Jerusalem and the holy places. It is not true, Mr. Chairman, that the outcome of the Conciliation Commission's conversation with the Prime Minister of Israel on April 7th was to elicit from the government of Israel a negative attitude on the entire principle of repatriation. A glance at the second progress report of the Conciliation Commission, which is fuller on this point and therefore more accurate than in its summary of the Jerusalem discussion, is sufficient to prove the falsity of the Lebanese allegation. The chief points stressed by the Prime Minister of Israel on that occasion were, first, that the refugee question should be examined and solved during the general negotiations for the establishment of peace in Palestine. I doubt, Mr. Chairman, whether this proposition can be seriously questioned in any quarter at all. The rehabilitation of dispossessed peoples cannot take place when the countries of the Near East are divided by armistice lines, when no process of peaceful contact exists, when considerations of military security must still be paramount, when all movements of people, whether refugees or not, are subjected to the restrictive requirements of war, and when the economic and social effort required from all governments for such rehabilitation is paralyzed by mobilization and a war economy. Indeed, one of the conditions which lend greatest urgency to the institution of peace negotiations is the fact that only such negotiations can open the way to the satisfactory solution of this grave humanitarian problem. Moreover, the restrictive conditions laid down by the General Assembly itself have an almost overriding and absolute effect, so long as conditions of peace do not exist. For example, the General Assembly laid down the condition that those refugees should return who wish to live in peace with their neighbors. This condition clearly presupposes a situation of peace in the Middle East, a situation in which the renewal of hostilities cannot be envisaged. It is obvious that just as one war has led to the panic stricken flight of these people, so the renewal of hostilities would have a similar effect. The Assembly's reference to the earliest practicable moment is also a definite acknowledgement that the restoration of normal conditions is an essential prelude to any fruitful discussion on the proportion of those refugees willing and able to return as against those eligible for resettlement and compensation. In asserting the necessity of a peace settlement as a condition for solving this problem, the government of Israel is concerned not to postpone a solution of the refugee problem, but to accelerate the question of peace. Secondly, while emphasizing the view supported by many observers that resettlement in other countries must be the main principle for a solution, Mr. Ben-Gurion specifically stated that he did not exclude the possibility of a measure of repatriation. Third, the Conciliation Commission in its report testifies to my government's recognition of the humanitarian aspect of the problem and of the opportunity which would be available to the government of Israel, and I quote, to take part in the efforts necessary for its solution in a spirit of sincere cooperation. reconciliation. I quote from the Conciliation Commission's second progress report. The position is that any Arab refugee to be rehabilitated either in Israel or in an Arab country would be undergoing an intricate process of resettlement. resettlement. It is therefore legitimate and indeed necessary to weigh up the relative virtues of resettlement in the different countries of the Near East, to weigh that up in the light of long-term Arab Jewish relations, in the light of economic possibilities in the countries concerned, and in the light of the genuine interest and welfare of the refugees themselves. My government, therefore, does not close any door. It is reluctant to commit itself either for or against any particular formula for a solution, and it regards this question as the main one which should form the subject of early negotiations under the auspices of the Conciliation Commission in an effort to secure general agreement and an adequate measure of international assistance. Yet the clear prospect of embarking on a genuine peacemaking effort, including a delimitation of frontiers, is such a fundamental requisite of any serious discussion, that my government found it difficult until that prospect matured, even to enunciate its principles in more specific manner. This committee will realize, I hope, that we are about to embark at Lausanne upon a process of negotiation, accompanied by much hard bargaining, during which the Arab states may attempt to evade their share of responsibility and place the full pressure and burden, as the Lebanese representative this morning proposed, upon the shoulders of Israel alone. We nevertheless hope and are encouraged to believe, in the light of the successful armistice negotiations, that agreement can eventually be reached. However, in the interests of these forthcoming negotiations, it would be unfair to expect of me what is not demanded of the Arab side, namely a full and detailed statement on the exact extent of my government's possible contribution. Nevertheless, Israel has taken note of the deep and anxious concern of the international community to see at least an expression of attitude encouraging a a tangible hope of successful compromise. Statements in the press and in committees of the United Nations have portrayed the attitude of the government of Israel in an unjustifiably negative light. In calling attention to the advantages to be gained by the Middle East from a regional problem of resettlement, we may have given the inadvertent impression that the government of Israel will decline to make any contribution of its own to a solution. The anxiety, lest a wrong impression of our attitude may affect the peace conferences at Lausanne, has been expressed by the Conciliation Commission. Therefore, in order to clear away all misunderstandings and to place on record a statement of the principles which determine Israel's approach, the government of Israel has authorized me to make the following statement in this committee. First, the problem of the Arab refugees is a direct consequence of the war launched by the Arab states, which are therefore entirely responsible for this, as well as for other forms of suffering inflicted by that war. Second, however, the ensuing problem has raised a deep humanitarian issue and also has serious implications for the future peace, development, and welfare of the Middle East. The government of Israel believes that a solution of this problem is inseparably linked with a solution of the outstanding issues between it and the Arab states, and that no satisfactory solution is possible except by the restoration of peace in the Middle East. The solution can only be found within a final settlement, creating conditions of cooperation between Israel and its neighbors. Third, the government of Israel is earnestly anxious to contribute to the solution of this problem, even though it is not of its making. This anxiety proceeds from moral considerations and from Israel's vital interest in stable conditions throughout the Near East. Any rehabilitation of Arab refugees in any part of the Middle East, whether in Israel or in the neighboring countries, involves intricate tasks of resettlement. The two principles most widely advocated are, first, resettlement of the refugees in the places from which they fled, thus creating a large minority problem and a possible menace to international peace and stability, also placing masses of Arabs under the rule of a government which, while committed to an enlightened minority policy, is not akin to those Arabs in language, culture, religion, or social and economic institutions. Second principle which has been advocated, resettlement of the refugees in areas where they will live under a government akin to them in spirit and tradition, and in which their smooth integration will be immediately possible with no resultant political friction. Moreover, a study of the economic irrigation and other potentialities of the underpopulated and underdeveloped areas of the Arab states reveals greater possibilities for a stable solution by this method than by resettlement in Israel. It is for these reasons that the government of Israel contends that resettlement in neighboring areas be considered as the main principle of solution. However, Israel will be ready to make its own contribution to a solution of this problem. It is not yet ascertainable either how many wish to return under conditions that may be prescribed by the Assembly or how many Israel can receive in the light of existing political and economic considerations. Our first objective at Lausanne will be to reach an agreement by direct negotiation on the contribution to be made by each government towards the settlement of this grave problem. The extent of the government of Israel's own contribution will depend entirely on the formal establishment of peace and relations of good neighborliness between Israel and the Arab states. Fourth, the government of Israel has already announced its acceptance of obligations to make compensation for lands abandoned. The sentence ends there, for lands abandoned. The entire question of compensation may well be settled by negotiations at Lausanne, as well as the general question of reparations and war damage. Five, the government of Israel reaffirms its obligation to protect the persons and property of all communities living within its borders. It will discountenance any discrimination or interference with the rights and liberties of individuals or groups forming such minorities. The government of Israel looks forward to the restoration of peaceful conditions which might enable relaxation of any restrictions on the liberty of persons or property. It would be reasonable to expect the Arab governments, now that an armistice prevails and peace talks have begun, to contribute to an improvement in atmosphere by a similar declaration of willingness to discontinue measures instituted against Jewish citizens in their countries and to restore their full freedom and equality of status. The committee, Mr. Chairman, may not be a aware that the economic and social council, is so perturbed by this situation of Jews in Arab countries that it has formally submitted an item to the Security Council in document S stroke 1291. Sixthly, deeply conscious of the humanitarian problems involved, the government of Israel observes with sympathy the efforts of international, governmental, governmental, and non-governmental agencies to alleviate the immediate plight of these refugees suffering hardships as a result of the war. The government of Israel is prepared to lend its assistance to these efforts. Seventhly, the government of Israel feels deeply that the prolongation of this distress without alleviation and final settlement undermines the stability of the Middle East, the maintenance of which is its most vital interest. The statement concludes, while thus indicating its readiness to do all possible to contribute to a solution, and while welcoming United Nations initiative in that regard, the government of Israel hopes that those states which caused this problem by their action in proclaiming war last year will face up squarely to their responsibilities and to the undeniable opportunities available to them for settling the problem in a manner beneficial to their own economic needs and those of development in the vast underpopulated areas of the Arab states. An immediate declaration by all the governments concerned of their desire for an early peace settlement would create a favorable atmosphere for the discussion of this problem. Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, no other statement of view can be accurately taken as an authoritative expression of my government's attitude on this question. Our hope is that with the clear prospect of a settlement on a clean slate, taking the near eastern countries as they are, and examining all schemes of refugee settlement on their merits, the governments concerned will enter into peace negotiations, from which will emerge an agreed formula on the exact contribution to be made by each government concerned, and the amount of assistance required from the international community. This line of approach is fully in accord with the views of those in closest contact with this problem. Thus, the Conciliation Commission itself has declared in page three of its second progress report that the Commissioners of the opinion that the refugee problem cannot be permanently solved, unless other political questions, notably the question of boundaries, are also solved. At this point, Mr. Chairman, I wish to digress for a moment to state our views on the boundary question, which has been raised this morning, and which does not seem to us to constitute a major obstacle on the road to a settlement. The fact that an Arab state did not arise in the part of Palestine envisaged by the November 29th resolution, as well as the circumstances of war and military occupation, render essential a process of peaceful adjustment of the territorial provisions laid down under the resolution of November 29th, 1947. The General Assembly itself has twice endorsed the need of such peaceful adjustment. And its representatives have even from time to time made proposals for effecting changes in the territorial dispositions of the November 29th resolution. The view which my government expounded at the Paris session was that this adjustment should be made not by arbitrary changes imposed from outside, but through agreements freely arrived at amongst the governments concerned. This principle commended itself to the overwhelming majority of the General Assembly, which declined to endorse any specific territorial changes, and dealt with this question in paragraph 5 of the resolution as follows. The General Assembly calls upon the governments and authorities concerned to extend the scope of the negotiations provided for in the Security Council resolution of the 16th of November 1948, and to seek agreement by negotiations conducted either with the Conciliation Commission or directly with a view to a final settlement of all questions outstanding between them. Israel interprets this resolution as a directive to the governments concerned to settle their territorial differences and claims, as well as other differences and claims, by a process of negotiation. I understand that the Conciliation Commission shares this interpretation, and has indicated its willingness to commence boundary discussions at an early stage of the meetings at Lausanne. In this connection, we draw great encouragement from the success of the armistice negotiations, which have led to the establishment of agreed demarcation lines between the military forces of the governments concerned. These agreements were reached by a process of free discussion and reciprocal concession. In some instances, it was necessary for Israeli forces to withdraw in favor of Arab forces. In other cases, Arab forces withdrew to make way for the forces of Israel. In other cases still, the principle of reciprocity was adopted, whereby one of the parties gave up territory in one sector and gained territory in another. The mediating agencies of the United Nations themselves attempted to lay down no-fix principles, but to leave the parties to a process of unfettered negotiations, having in mind the general interest of peace and stability, rather than the absolute assertion of unilateral claims. I presume that the same process of thought and discussion will be followed by the parties in the boundary discussions shortly to take place. I presume further that the General Assembly will rejoice in any territorial dispositions which rest upon the agreement and consent of the parties concerned. Membership in the United Nations and the consequent protection of the Charter would enable the government of Israel to see its prospects of territorial security in a more hopeful light, and would thus contribute to the rapid conclusion of agreements. The Commission's view that a settlement of the question of boundaries is essential for a permanent solution of the refugee question reinforces the need for the urgent institution of peace discussions. Mr. Chairman, just as the views of my government on the question of holy places in Jerusalem, whether any member agrees with them in detail or not, must be regarded as a legitimate opinion shared by many thoughtful students of this problem. So the idea that the resettlement of Arab refugees should be envisaged against the entire Near Eastern background is commending itself increasingly to international opinion. I draw attention to paragraph 13 of the Second Progress Report of the Conciliation Commission, which reads as follows, neither repatriation to Israel nor resettlement in Arab countries can be carried out in satisfactory conditions without a considerable amount of preparatory work of a technical nature. The paragraph goes on to discuss the technical preparations involved and advocates the setting up of a technical commission to make a specialized study of this problem. In paragraph 14 of that report, the Conciliation Commission fully accepts the principle that the refugees will be distributed amongst various countries of the Near East. The Commission goes on to say a very significant thing. In the long run, the final solution of the problem will be found within the framework of the economic and social rehabilitation of all the countries in the Near East. This committee will, I hope, not fail to observe that the principles which I have enunciated formally here on behalf of my government do not differ fundamentally from the line of thought pursued in that sentence by the Conciliation Commission, even though there is still a difference of emphasis which might be adjudicated at the conferences in Lausanne. We envisage the economic and social development of all the countries of the Near East as a process which should be pursued as far as possible within the framework of the United Nations. Israel's duty and willingness to contribute to such programs therefore reinforce the urgency of favorable assembly action onto the Security Council recommendation in favor of Israel's admission to membership. Amongst other recent statements in this same direction, my government has noted a declaration made by Lord Henderson in the House of Lords, again on behalf of the United Kingdom government. The statement says, until there is a peace settlement between the Jews and the Arabs, it will not be known what proportion of the Arab refugees can be repatriated. But of greater effect will be a program of long-term constructive plans by which absorption and resettlement on a large scale can be carried out from those who cannot return to their homes. The sort of schemes I have in mind, he went on, are a project for increased cultivation in the rain-fed Jazeera area of northeastern Syria, the irrigation of the Jordan Valley, and the irrigation of about 2 million acres in the Euphrates Valley in Iraq. It is only by such projects that this urgent problem of the Palestinian refugees can be tackled with any success. Mr. Chairman, in quoting such statements in favour of resettlement, I must again emphasise my government's readiness to make its own contribution in the context of a peace settlement. I now come, sir, to the third and last specific question raised in the preamble to the resolution, inviting me to this table. The measures taken following the assassination in Jerusalem of Count Volk Bernadotte and Colonel Andr Serrault. A report on this matter has been submitted to the Security Council and has also been conveyed by an envoy of my government to the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Stockholm. Detailed discussions are still proceeding there. Nevertheless, I am impelled by the resolution of the Ad Hoc Committee to enter the discussion at this time. The report of the police investigation and the court proceedings is contained in our communication to the Security Council. I will not deny that it is a source of deep distress and acute mortification to the government of Israel and to the people of Israel, that the record of the first year of their existence as an independent nation should have been marred by a despicable political assassination, and that its victim should have been a distinguished son of the Swedish people representing the United Nations itself. I must report with the utmost regret that despite all efforts to discover and bring to justice the perpetrators of the crime, as well as those responsible for instigation, the results have thus far been disappointingly negative. There has been a failure. There is no use denying it. There has been an attempt and a failure. In appraising this deplorable situation, the following considerations cannot be overlooked. First, for several years prior to the establishment of the State of Israel, Palestine was afflicted by political terrorism, which developed as a pernicious form of reaction of the Jewish population to the former regime. Once that disease had taken root, it proved extremely difficult to eradicate, although it has been eradicated. Second, at the time of the assassination, the organisation of internal security in the State of Israel was still in its initial stages. The police force had not yet achieved the necessary degree of internal stability and efficiency that would have enabled it to cope swiftly and effectively with this revolting crime. Political assassinations have occurred in many countries of well-established authority, as the representative of Egypt, who was so critical of us yesterday, should be the first to confirm. Israel was faced with this emergency when its security forces, civil and military, were only a few months old and were engulfed in chaos and war. Third, a situation of particular complexity existed in Jerusalem at the time of the murder. Despite a supposed state of truth, hostilities were continuous. The military forces of my government were absorbed day and night without interruption in watchfulness in forward positions. The city had in fact not yet ceased to be a battlefront. Fourth, another aggravating feature of the situation, which had a direct and fateful bearing on the crime, was the existence within Jewish Jerusalem itself of armed units of dissident military organizations operating in wanton and open defiance of the authority of the government of Israel. The struggle against these intractable groups carried on in the midst of the war against Israel's external enemies was of necessity prolonged and difficult. The Al-Talena incident in which regular troops of the Israeli army opened fire and inflicted fatal casualties on the dissidents put an end to the open existence of such groups throughout Israel, with the exception of the Jerusalem area. In that city, owing to a variety of circumstances outside the control of the provisional government of Israel, and in particular to the existence of a juridical vacuum, the liquidation of the dissident military organizations proved more difficult. Fifthly, actually during the very week in which the assassination occurred, the government of Israel had resolved upon an ultimatum, calling upon the dissident groups in Jerusalem to disband, an ultimatum backed by a threat to use military force in case of refusal. The gravity of the situation which would have arisen had that ultimatum been defied is patent. The army of Israel would have had to fight a civil war inside the city, whilst at the same time being engaged in repelling unceasing attacks on the perimeter. For this reason, a renewed attempt was made during that week to explore the possibility of the voluntary disillusion of the dissident groups without resort to threats. The period of grace was to have expired on Sunday, the 19th of September, 1948, on which date, failing their agreement to disband, the dissidents were to have been served with the ultimatum. In fact, the ultimatum was served immediately after the assassination, with the result that the dissident military units in Jerusalem were completely disbanded. Sixth, the interval of 24 hours which elapsed between the assassination and the rounding up of the dissident strongholds was due to the need to bring in additional troops to undertake this operation, for the purpose of which the forces engaged on active defense duties, could not be possibly spared. Seventh, the inability of the authorities to track down those responsible for the assassination has been due in the last analysis to a combination of two circumstances, the high degree of conspiracy prevailing in the apparently small group which planned and executed the crime, and the absence of any exact information which would have led to the identification of the culprits. The latter circumstance was largely due to the fact that the murder was perpetrated in an isolated spot and that no precise description of the assailants was available. Nevertheless, the government of Israel by no means regards the assassination as a closed chapter and it will continue to make all possible efforts to discover and punish the assassins. The government and people of Israel are deeply grieved that Sweden, to whom the Jewish people is so much indebted both for its noble help to the victims of Nazi persecution during the World War and for its contribution to the establishment of the State of Israel, should have lost so illustrious a representative as the late Count Bernadotte as the result of a wanton assassination perpetrated in a Jewish-controlled area. I will not conceal from this committee, Mr. Chairman, that the government of Israel regards this event with a deep sense of failure. The exercise by the government of Israel of its military and civil authority is not taken as a whole either a slow or an uncreditable performance. In the early stages of that process, when its authority was being undermined by rebellion within, by aggression on its borders and by the non-recognition and misrepresentation of powerful interests throughout the world, the government of Israel had to struggle very hard to make its authority effective. In the course of time, all these difficulties were overcome and in the circumstances obtaining in Jerusalem today, it is difficult to imagine either an assassination of this sort or if through an act of isolated madness it occurred, to imagine so conspicuous a failure in tracking the perpetrators down. It is deeply tragic that Count Bernadotte fell a victim to the very conditions of disorder and anarchy which he was striving so conscientiously to remove. But this failure cannot be ascribed to any lack of will to succeed. For weeks and end, it was the major tasks of hundreds of men, both in the police and the military services, to devote themselves unremittingly to a search for the assassins. In the proceedings that eventually took place in court, it would obviously have been wrong for conscientious judges to have relied on anything but the most cogent evidence in a capital charge. The suspicions of the government of Israel in this matter do not carry it far so long as legal proof is lacking. Mr. Chairman, while admitting that a failure has here been recorded in the functioning of its security system several months ago, my government cannot admit that any conclusions can be drawn from this event with respect to its capacity now to fulfill its international obligations at this time. The government of Israel did not apply for membership in the United Nations until it was satisfied that it had overcome all the natural sources of internal weakness and dissidence which might hamper a government in the exercise of its international obligations. No one who looks at the administrative situation in Israel today can have any real doubt as to the effectiveness and integrity of its democratic regime. For this reason, while submitting this report in all candor and frankness, my government does not admit that it should be allowed to have bearing on the Security Council's recommendation for Israel's admission, a recommendation made in full knowledge of all the evidence which I have here outlined. Mr. Chairman, in my final remarks, I must say that I could have wished that this clarification of our views might have proceeded to the end without the introduction of any polemical note. Yet I should be giving the Committee a false impression of public sentiment in Israel if I did not express the indignation aroused by the extraordinary spectacle of Israel's application for membership in the United Nations being challenged by the Arab states. I profoundly envy the easy assurance whereby these distinguished representatives come forward as the advocates of compliance with General Assembly resolutions. For in the earliest and most tender years of its existence, this United Nations was assaulted at the very foundations of its authority by the first and happily the only attempt of member states to overthrow a General Assembly resolution by force. It is not long since these very rooms echoed with dire threats from Arab representatives of their intention to offer armed resistance to the Assembly's policy for the establishment of a Jewish state. Any line drawn by the United Nations declared an Arab representative shall be nothing but a line of fire and blood. These threats which were destined to be translated into destruction and slaughter rested upon the doctrine of the optional character of Assembly resolutions. On the 24th of February the representative of Syria declared in the first place the recommendations of the General Assembly are not imperative on those to whom they are addressed. We have numerous precedents during the short past life of the General Assembly. The Indo-South African dispute, the Balkan situation, the interim commission, the Korean question, the admission of new members. He went on to say the General Assembly only gives advice. The parties to whom the advice is addressed accept it when it does not impair their fundamental rights. Again on the 19th of March he declared not every state which does not apply, obey or execute these recommendations would be breaking its pledges to the charter. The representative of Egypt made this theory his own that meeting after meeting of the Security Council he consoled his audience for the repudiation of the Palestine resolution by the happy thought that other resolutions of the General Assembly had not been complied with. No one, he said, could say that compliance is imperative or that the countries which did not comply are acting against the charter or undermining the structure of the United Nations. we do not choose to comply with the General Assembly's resolution on Palestine he said. This is our privilege under the charter. Mr. Chairman even if the exercise of this privilege had been confined to this contribution to international jurisprudence the Arab states would still have been disqualified to lecture to others on the binding force of Assembly resolutions. But as is well known their defiance went further. They took up arms they crossed their frontiers they launched a war for the purpose of overthrowing that resolution by force. The next step was persistently to exercise a privilege not to stop fighting when ordered by the Security Council. International morality and law in our generation recognize those who initiate those who choose war as solely responsible for the entire sequence of bloodshed and suffering which ensues from that choice. Here sit representatives of the only states which have deliberately used force against an Assembly resolution. The only states which have ever been determined by the Security Council to have caused a threat to the peace under Chapter 7 of the Charter posing as the disinterested judges of their own intended victim in his efforts to secure a modest equality in the family of nations. Mr. Chairman, it is a cynical maneuver. It cannot be allowed to succeed without bequeathing a mood of disillusion to all equitable men. In the name of those who have been killed, maimed, blinded, exiled, or bereaved by the exercise of that cynicism, we must express our most passionate resentment at this gross Arab insincerity. I do not wish to enter a discussion of the exact degree of legal compulsion inherent in a General Assembly resolution, but certain it is that the right of a state to appeal against a resolution or to seek its revision must fall short, very far short, of armed violence. My government in the course of its future international career will never be found amongst those who by emptying Assembly resolutions of all compelling moral force would sacrifice the restraints of international law upon the altar of undiluted sovereignty. A resolution can be revised, yes, but by argument and renewed examination. A recommendation can be modified, yes, but by agreement. A United Nations policy may perhaps conceivably be opposed, but certainly not by the use of force against it. It was a signal victory for the United Nations when the first forcible attempt to sabotage a solution desired by the General Assembly failed in its objective. Thus, in assuring its own establishment and survival, Israel vindicated the supreme international authority. We are as one who, having been attacked in a dark street by seven men with heavy bludgeons, finds himself dragged into court only to see his assailant sitting on the bench with an air of solemn virtue, delivering homilies on the duties of a peaceful citizen. It is most urgent and essential for the dignity and prestige of international institutions that such a device should not succeed. In conclusion, I should like to make a comment on the general effect of the questions which I have discussed on the business now before the committee. The state, which is now celebrating its first anniversary under the benevolent applause of its friends throughout the world, is bound to the United Nations and its charter by many links of peculiar intimacy and strength. Israel is new in the art of practical statecraft. We shall be fortunate if our contribution to the solution of international problems can go much beyond the limited size and resources of our state. Yet Israel is at once the ancestor and the heir of a great universal tradition. The high doctrines of the charter founded on the hopes of international brotherhood were bequeathed to modern civilization by Israel's prophetic writings which express the longing of mankind for an era when nation shall not lift up the sword against nation nor shall they know war anymore. A single continuous line of thought and aspiration unites San Francisco to Sinai. In the minds of many contemporary historians, Israel represents the modernist element in Near Eastern life, striving for progress by the results of modern technology and science. But no less potent an influence in the life of the new republic is its sense of continuous association with the traditions of Israel's past. It is no accident that the coins and the stamps of the state revive memories of those early periods of Israel's independence which have left so profound an impression on the course of human civilization. It is no accident either that our national Hebrew language evokes the memories and associations of the golden period of Israel's literary achievement. But quite apart from a deep historic affinity between Israel's ideals and the basic concepts of the Charter, we can point to a more recent experience of common interest and endeavor. this is the only state in the world which sprang into existence at the summons and behest of the international community. The General Assembly is now called upon by the Security Council to acknowledge a state to whose establishment it gave the sanction and incentive of its own prior approval. The episodes of Israel's life have a way of entering into historical records. The story of this brave and unequal struggle for independence of a people which lost six million of its sons in the cause of the victorious United Nations against Nazi despotism is enshrined in the very documents and archives of this organization. Israel's battle for sheer survival has gone hand in hand with the most successful effort of the United Nations to solve an international conflict by judgment mediation and conciliation. It would be an extraordinary paradox not understood by the peoples of the world if the United Nations were to close its doors upon a state which it helped to quicken into active and vigorous life. the question whether the United Nations now confirms or defers this application is not a matter of procedure. It is a grave issue of substance. It affects the prospects of peace. It affects the future authority of the United Nations in the solution of outstanding problems. It affects the question whether the Arab world will receive from this committee the implicit counsel to regard Israel as a permanent international fact with which it has to make peace on the basis of the charter or whether by hesitating now the Assembly will confirm the Arab peoples in their hesitations about Israel's existence and Israel's rights. peace The General Assembly could do nothing more calculated to persuade the Arab states not to break off the juridical strife by the conclusion of peace than if it were to rise amidst an atmosphere of doubt as to Israel's international status. The General Assembly could do nothing more prejudicial to the prospects of conciliation than to insist on one party going there with an inferior status and prestige to that enjoyed so lavishly by the other party. The time has surely come Mr. Chairman for the United Nations if it wishes Israel to bear the heavy burdens of charter obligations to confer upon Israel the protection and status of the charter as well. Israel and the Arab states have sent delegations to Lausanne in what Israel regards as an endeavor to conclude final peace. One party is represented by six members of this organization who will strive their utmost to make their views prevail with the United Nations Commission and will then come back into the Assembly with a powerful capacity to influence its decisions by speech vote and regional influence. The other party has no standing in the organization which is responsible for the conciliation effort and no voice except on limited sufferance in the Assembly itself. This position is repugnant to any sense of equity. It is out of balance and out of gear. That is no way for the United Nations to confront the Arab world with Israel. At every stage of Israel's checkered relations with the Arab world which are now opening out happily into brighter fields we have felt equality of status to be the essential condition of partnership. Until the scars of conflict are healed and Israel becomes integrated with its immediate world the United Nations may be the only forum in which Israel sits as a colleague and partner of its neighboring states in the transaction of international business and in the paths of social and economic cooperation. This committee should not debar us from that precious meeting place which is also the only framework within which Israel's foreign policy can congenially express itself. We cannot logically expect the Arabs to recognize Israel if the United Nations hesitates to recognize Israel. Mr. Chairman members of the committee you have it in your hands therefore to expedite or to delay the decisive moment when the Arab world will find itself exhorted by the world community to recognize Israel as a partner in its destiny and in the progress of Asia. The committee should not delay that moment. The responsibility is too grave. The foundations of peace improvised as they have been by skillful mediation are not so strong that they can easily withstand another unnecessary period of juridical uncertainty and strife. The problems of Jerusalem and of Arab refugees can only be solved within the United Nations and this requires the presence in your midst of those who must contribute to their solution. Does anybody imagine that either problem can find an easier solution if the organic links between Israel and the United Nations are not speedily and formally closed? The bare provisions of Article 4 of the Charter are thus reinforced in this case by unique considerations of history and sentiment, of practical statesmanship, of equity, and of deep concern for an immediate prospect of stability, which if surrendered might not easily recur. I have tried without obscuring honest difficulties and differences to reassure the committee on the basic issue of Israel's good will. We cannot now do more. The banner of Israel is inscribed with the struggle and achievement of the youngest nation on earth. Its progress has been followed with signs of ardent sympathy amongst the peoples of the world. Whatever intellectual or spiritual forces Israel evokes anywhere in the world are at the service of the United Nations as a potential reinforcement of its activity and prestige. You will certainly lose nothing and you perhaps may gain some modest asset if you join this banner to your honoured company. Whatever happens, we shall cherish this banner above everything else. We shall dedicate it to the ideals of peace and national independence, peace and social progress, peace and democracy and of cultural dynamism. A great wheel of history comes full circle today as Israel renewed and established offers itself with its many imperfections but perhaps with a few virtues to your common defence of the human spirit against the perils of international conflict and despair. I wish to thank the members of the committee for their patience, the speaker for his endurance, the interpreters for their industry and fortitude. We adjourn to meet tomorrow morning, afternoon and evening and now the committee will apply for admission into the restaurant. The meeting is adjourned. Very good. You want to give me that? Yes, of course.