We're following our schedule. We have the appropriate speaker at the appropriate time and the appropriate place. Today, we're very happy to have with us the man who, in the opinion of most informed observers, is the leading research exponent in the field of public opinion and political behavior in the country. I privately think in the world, but I'll let that pass. And Professor Paul F. Lazarsfeld, who is at the moment chairman of the Department of Sociology at Columbia, founder and ex-director of the Bureau of Applied Social Research at Columbia University, will tell us something today of some of his research work in the general field of politics, political behavior, and voting behavior. We'll follow the same practice that we pursued last week in view of the fact that this is being recorded, and I will ask you to raise whatever questions you have in the form of writing during the last 10 or 15 minutes of the session. Professor Lazarsfeld. I'm sure you were all quite fascinated last week when we listened to Mr. Moscow and what he told us about voting tradition of different nationality and religious groups. In this city. I, in addition to being fascinated, was rather desperate, because he told exactly those things which I had hoped I would tell today. So, between the two meetings, I had to work on a new speech. It so happens that on every single point which Mr. Moscow made, I would have agreed with him. When he mentioned, for instance, that Catholics have a tendency to vote more democratic than Protestant, when he mentioned that poor people vote more democratic. All those things I knew from rather laborious studies, and I was dismayed that Mr. Moscow didn't only know it, but revealed the secret a week ahead. So, I decided finally that I would take all that for granted, what he told you. We know it now all. And I will concentrate on two points. First, I thought it would interest you to listen for a moment. How do you do studies in this field? For instance, if someone were to say he didn't believe Mr. Moscow, none of you raised this question. But where did he know it from? If there were controversy, what would you do to prove his point? So, giving you a little bit of a feeling of how evidence is collected on such statements, I thought might interest you. And then I want to turn to a second point. There is a certain danger that we think of those things a little bit like laws of nature, which are so obvious that we don't raise questions anymore why it is so. Well, all leaves are green. Has anyone ever wondered why the leaves are green? Well, I don't know, but it ought to be very interesting to study it. Why aren't they red? Why do we take it for granted that our leaves are green? The same way, why do people vote by nationality groups, by social groups? So, I would later on like then to make some of those things which are so obvious a little bit more questionable and tell you a few words about the kind of explanations we try to give for those things after we start to wonder about them. Now, talking first about the research side. Catholics, to give that as a first example, vote more democratic. Well, is it true? For instance, here in... With a capital C or a small party? Well, democratic party. I don't know which one is capitalist, small. Well, they vote more for the democratic than for the private party. Now, that can be contested. For instance, people, Protestants vote more republican. But you look at Scandinavians, they are all Protestants, and they do indeed vote republican. But, now, why do Protestants, Scandinavians in the Middle East vote republican? And is it because they are Protestants? Is it because they are Scandinavians? Is it because they are farmers in the Middle West? So, usually, being a Catholic is related to a lot of other characteristics. And how do you separate them? Now, we have made quite a number of inquiries of this kind. Here in New York, you cannot really separate Catholics from Italians or Poles, because here in New York, the tie-up between nationality and religion is so close. But you can, for instance, go to the Middle West, and there you have Germans or people from German descent, of German descent. And the Germans, as you know, live in a country where Catholics and Protestants are mixed. So, in Ohio, for instance, you find people from Catholic German descent and Protestant German descent. And if you study just the Germans alone, then you again find that the Germans of Catholic descent vote much more the Democratic Party than the Germans of Protestant descent, even in the same county in Ohio. So, there seems to be something which is in the tradition of Catholic citizen, which gets you more interested into the Catholic Party. And in the second part of my discussion, I will try to explain that a little bit. But then, the stories which Mr. Moscow told us are still a little bit unfinished in one respect. He told us that poor people vote more for the Democratic Party, and Catholics vote more for the Democratic Party. What does then a rich Catholic do, according to Mr. Moscow? Because he's rich, he should vote Republican, and because he's Catholic, he should vote Democratic. So, what does he do? He can't split himself. He can't easily become a repeat voter. That isn't done anymore as easily as 50 years ago. So, he has somehow to make up his mind. And out of Mr. Moscow's story comes the problem, what do people do who are under cross-pressure, who have characteristics of such combination, that one characteristic gets them into the one direction, and another characteristic gets them into another direction. Now, that might seem to you an academic question, but I will tell you one research episode, which will show you how important this question is. In 1945, a terrible earthquake happened in our world, which remained completely unnoticed, and you will immediately see how it will remind you of another earthquake, which was very noticed later on. In 1945, Mr. O'Dwyer was candidate for mayor. You know that he had also been a candidate in 1941, and there he lost the election. In 1945, he won the election, and he kept it ever since. And in 1945, when polls were still very reputable, a lot of predictions were made. So Daily News made an elaborate poll and published it. And my own office made a poll and didn't publish it, but it happened that my office, my office figures, and the Daily News figures were completely alike. Those predictions, which were made at the time of O'Dwyer, were catastrophically wrong. The university prediction as well as the newspaper prediction. But no one paid the slightest attention to the utter disaster of the polls in 1945. What happened was this. At the time, Mr. O'Dwyer was a Democratic candidate, and he finally got 57% of the vote. Mr. Goldstein, the Republican official candidate, that got 22% of the vote, and Mr. Morris, who also will be used to that by now, got 20% of the vote. So it was 57, 22, and 21. That added up to 100% of those three votes. The Daily News predicted that O'Dwyer would get 71% of the vote. The Daily News predicted 71%, and O'Dwyer got 57%, a 14% mistake. Much worse than any mistake was made in the famous prediction disaster of 1948. On Mr. Morris, the prediction was that he would get 13%, but he got 21%, more than 50%, more than he was predicted. Now, first, as an aside, why did no one start at the cry then that the polls were all wrong, as they were? Well, the explanation is very simple. It so happened that Mr. O'Dwyer was predicted to win, and did win. No one paid any attention. But suppose, for instance, Mr. O'Dwyer would have been near at the borderline, for instance, he might have won with 52%, and the polls would have been 14% wrong, you see? They would have mispredicted it, his victory, and then everyone would have hollered about it. But so, no one paid any attention, and still, it is, of course, very strange that 14% more were predicted for him, 14% point of the total vote, than he actually got. So we went after the matter and tried to find out why was Mr. O'Dwyer so completely overpredicted in the election, and the first thing they found, that the Daily News only reported to people who had an opinion. Let's see, the Daily News did not report how many people in the polls had said they didn't know who would win, how they would vote. Now, fortunately, we had the figures from our own poll, and we knew how many people had said in the polls that they didn't know for whom to vote. Now, the figures were quite spectacular. We made three polls in August, September, and October. In August, 50% said they didn't know for whom to vote. In September, 50% said they didn't know for whom to vote, and even in October, about two, three weeks before the actual election, 30% hadn't made up their mind. So, obviously, what had happened is that those 30% don't know did something unexpected. The Daily News, by eliminating the don't knows, assumed, in fact, that the don't knows would vote about like the rest of the population, which had already made up its mind. But we then wondered whether the difference between prediction and actual outcome wasn't due to the fact that those don't knows were quite different people. and so we took the don't knows in our own poll. We knew who the don't knows were. October don't knows those 30% and tried to analyze that. And so, what I'm doing now, I'm telling you similar stories like Mr. Moscow, but I am talking now about people who just prior to the election don't yet know for whom to vote. And it turns out that in this one election, they were rather different. For instance, among the Jews, there were 38% who didn't know for whom to vote. And among the non-Jews, there were only 25% who didn't know for whom to vote. But you see, among the Jewish citizens, there were a much greater amount of don't knows. Now, if you remember the election situation, here was, on wire, a Catholic, Goldstein, a Jew, and Morris, a Protestant. And obviously, the ticket was quite balanced by nationality. And no doubt, the Republican Party put up Mr. Goldstein to attract the Jewish vote, which is very important. Nevertheless, the Jewish voter in New York just didn't know for whom to vote. Now, there is one other thing you have to remember. In the 45 election, quite different from 41, what might be called the Roosevelt tradition, Roosevelt was dead at the time, but just a few months, and his spirit was still very much alive, but Mrs. Roosevelt, the whole New Deal group in Washington, everyone came out for O'Dwyer. So, you could think, we will see that the Jewish citizen was under real cost pressure. Here, the Republicans put up the Jewish candidate, but the blessing of the, so to say, the liberal totem animals, the liberal angels, were on O'Dwyer's side. Now, we know from other studies that the Jewish vote in New York has a tendency to always go to the candidate who has the endorsement of the liberal leaders of the kind of Mrs. Roosevelt. Therefore, here was a situation where the Jewish citizen was under cost pressure. He had sympathy for the Jew among the Republicans but he was attracted to the man who had the most official liberal blessing and as a result, the Jewish voter couldn't make up his mind. They don't know they're Jews. What did the Jewish voter do in that? Now, this is also quite interesting. We don't have figures in our poll on what people did finally. We had, we didn't make a post election vote, but we have an interesting check. Mr. Morris, as I told you, was very under predicted. They, he had a 13% prediction, but got 21% of the vote. So, after the election, we could look where was Mr. Morris especially under predicted. But the thing we classified, those are now not poll data, but actual election returns. We classified the election areas of New York according to whether Morris got much more than predicted or about what was predicted, and then you can have all sort of classifications here. And it turned out that the biggest game of Mr. Morris between predicted vote and actual vote was in the Jewish district, that to say, in the district where there were many potential Jewish voters. That is to say, we know now two things. A, that the Jewish voter was under cost pressure and under cost pressure couldn't make up his mind, and then from this other evidence, from the post-elect, from the actual election data, he voted not preponderantly for Morris, but considerably more for Morris, than was predicted before. That is to say, the Jews who couldn't make up their minds between Goldstein, the Jew, and Odwire, the official liberal, made the decision to vote for Niza, but turned to Morris, who was, so to say, a way out of the dilemma. My guess is that there wasn't anything especially attractive about Morris to them, but rather it was an acceptable solution out of not being able to make up their mind between Goldstein and Odwire. And this, I hope, will be an example for you how complicated things are if you don't look at people dressed separately as Italians or poor Catholics but try to look at them as people who have a variety of characteristics and therefore, according to Mr. Moskow and myself, have to feel a little bit like do it and us between two stacks of hay and not knowing to which to turn. Incidentally, we have talked so much last time and today always about religious and racial groups. It is very important for you to realize that economic characteristics are about as important as the other two. You can also be quite sure that by and large poor people vote democratic and rich people vote Republican all over the country. It is more difficult to say that for farmers, farmers have changed their voting habits during the last five, six years, it seems. But as to economic status since the First World War, this also is very clearly group voting as far as the two major parties go. Let me tell you a little bit more about this 45 and wire election because here again something rather interesting happened. Usually the poor people are also the uneducated people. They are not so interested in politics. They are usually the one who provide most of the don't knows. They tell you on every poll question much more don't, give you much more don't knows. There's hardly anything you ask, a cross-section of the population, what you intend to vote for, what you think about the Marshall Plan, where the poor and uneducated strata don't say more, don't know. But in this 45 election, it was tremendously the other way around. That is to say, when you took the upper strata, I won't discuss now how you find them out, but it isn't too difficult, you found that about 40% didn't know for whom to vote, while in the lower strata, only about 25% didn't know for whom to vote. That is to say, the uncertainty for whom to vote was much greater in the upper strata than in the lower strata, which is, again, quite unusual, irregular. And here again, you don't need to worry a great deal. It is well known that in the city of New York, the Jewish population is in the average better off, and this hesitancy amongst the upper strata of the water, of making up their mind, is very closely related to the Jewish vote. That is to say, especially among the Jews, the rich people were much more hesitant than the poor people. Now, how do you explain that, that even among the Jews, the rich people were more hesitant? Well, because for them, the dilemma was still worse. You see, a poor Jew who couldn't make up his mind between the liberal and the Jew, could easily turn to Morris, because Morris was also a liberal, and the poor man is more likely to vote for a liberal. But for the rich Jew, it was still worse, because not only did he have the dilemma between the protective image of Roosevelt blessing the wire, and the Jew as a Republican, he couldn't even easily turn to Morris, because Morris was a revolutionary, so to say, among the Republicans, he had an additional hesitancy to trust Morris, so the don't-knows among the rich Jews were even much more frequent than the don't-knows among the poor Jews. Well, I hope that this example shows you that while Mr. Moscow and I can tell you interesting stories as long as we are the first speaker. When we are the second speaker, and everyone knows already our simple secrets, we have then to tell that things are really much more complicated and that all those characteristics overcross, and that they can contradict each other, that if people are under contradictory conditions, then it's difficult for us to predict how they will vote, it's even difficult for them to make up their mind, and the more complicated the picture of an electoral situation is, in regard to social characteristics which matter in a situation, the more difficult is the situation for the voter as well as the political scientists. Now I will be very glad later on to give you more examples of such studies if you want to question me about it, brought a few with me, but I do want now to turn to the second topic I announced, and to a topic where unfortunately I know much less, and where my contribution today can only be to tell you a little bit about the kind of problems we are worrying, I will not be able to give you very many answers. But forgetting now this whole question of cost pressures and contradictory social characteristics, and returning to the simple fact that polls always vote democratic and Scandinavian always vote republican, and reminding you that Maine and South Carolina have always had remarkable difference in political opinion, Maine usually going 75%, 80% republican, and South Carolina going usually 90% to 95% democratic, what accounts for the fact that people who have similar social characteristics are likely to vote like, and which are the social characteristics which are most likely to make for such similarity. and let me impress upon you again that the fact that we are used to something isn't yet enough to be satisfied with the fact, you still have to worry why are things so. Children are quite bright, children usually ask why are the leaves green, adults usually are stupid and don't ask such questions anymore, and it is quite an intellectual discipline to come back and say that the children's question, what does the wind do when he doesn't blow, is a very good question to ask, and let's worry about that a little bit. Now, there's first an answer which isn't too difficult to give, but which doesn't get very far. Vote in America is very much hereditary. About 70% of the people vote like their father's and grandfather's vote, it varies in different parts of the country, but 70%, 75% of all vote is completely hereditary between father and children. Between husband and wife, I don't know the right word, that wouldn't be hereditary, but let's say contagious, it is still more remarkable, about 85%, up to 90%, of all married couples vote alike. The number of husbands and wives who vote differently is practically non-existent. So one answer could be, well, you vote the way like. find that not only do people live in an homogeneous political environment, but the more intensely they are in contact with other people, the more strongly do they express the prevailing political climate of their class. And it is this kind of thinking which finally ends up in ideas like these, that especially minorities like Catholics, like Italians, like Jews, are likely to live in great contact with other minorities of the same kind. We do know from many studies that Italians mostly meet Italians in their daily life, the Jews mostly meet Jews, the Catholics are much more likely to have Catholics as friends as others. So all those minorities are really only terms for types of people who are especially likely to live with their own kind. in addition we know that those minorities like Jews and Italians are under a certain isolation, they are different from others, they experience certain discrimination, it is almost as if being a Jew means belonging to a club with or without your will and being an Italian means belonging to a club with or without your will that is belonging to this minority makes not only for continuous contact but rather but even of rather strong contact and therefore brings out the joint characteristic, the joint attitude much stronger and one of those is then the political conviction of this group the vote and it is therefore out of the general characteristics of groups of people who live closely together who through their common characteristics are rather aware of belonging together that one of the expressions of this group characteristics of the lives of minorities is then the joint vote and the more discriminated a group is by the environment the more will you find that indeed they are inclined to vote to vote the same way some psychologists have coined a term for all that which I like very much it is the term reference group that is to say all of us have put it this way a certain gallery for which we play for which we live we we feel that the opinion of certain groups is very important to us that that our standing in certain groups is very important and we orient ourselves toward our acceptance in those reference groups and now if for some historical reason a reference group which is important for me has a political tinge for instance votes predominantly democratic then I will vote democratic not because I believe in the democratic platform but in the democratic party but because I want to belong closer to my reference group and in the last analysis I think it is safe to say that a large part of the American people and probably all the people don't really vote for parties they vote for their neighbor Mr. Smith and it so happens that coming closer to your neighborhood group or more generally to your reference group is also accomplished by voting and that in very very many cases of course it would be silly to give figures here the political vote is not really an expression of opinion on the national and political issues which are debated but is an expression of the reference group to which you belong and voting therefore is much more a psychological and social experience than a political one now I am aware that that doesn't settle the problem it still raises the question but why is the reference group so that it has a certain tradition but that is all I will be able to do today to give you a feeling how interesting it is to do empirical studies on the kind of stories Mr. Moscow told us and secondly how the figures which Mr. Moscow gathers lead into very general psychological and social problems which go far beyond the mere political feet I have one or two questions I'd like to raise if I may while the group decides what questions it has in mind the first would run something like this if as it turns out most husbands and wives vote the same way then it might appear that universal suffrage when it was finally enacted didn't materially change the political picture just so to say increase the number of votes but the fact that women now had the vote doesn't really change the political picture because they and their spouses vote the same way that's and the second part of that is this do you have any evidence which shows that when husbands and wives originally belonged to different parties and change so if they now vote the same party is it a case of the husband following the wife's plan or the wife following the husband's plan just be curious about both of those questions well I can answer the first there are lots of data exactly on the point that women's vote has increased the vote and not changed at all the complexion of the vote there are a few very important exceptions but which are only important psychologically and not numerically the one is wherever there is the slightest implication of and that's less important now than about 10 years that two candidates differ on prohibition then the women would always vote more for the prohibition candidate very markedly and as especially in the 19 between 1920 and 1930 the republicans were always on the prohibition side there was a slight tendency of women to vote more republican there are also other reasons but numeric in the large picture it makes no difference the question of is do republicans marry democrats or do they make them republicans is not easily answered in most cases you know a very important factor which we haven't mentioned yet is that young people in this country care very little for politics that is to say usually at the time we know that voting and interest in voting and reading on voting increases greatly with age so at the time of marriage of the average marriage you may assume that the average girl is not likely to have a political opinion anyhow you see and then will accept the husband one of my belonged stories is a study where we asked 400 couples men and wives separately did you talk with your husband about politics yesterday the other question was did you talk with your wife about politics yesterday and you would assume that that would have to be exactly the same figure however ten times as many women than men reported having talked politics in the same couple and it then turned out that what the woman considered discussing politics with your husband reported having told her about politics and therefore he didn't he said no he hadn't discussed it he had informed so out of all those factors you can very nicely piece together some answer to you I have a question here that you may not want to answer because it would get you into a long digression but I'll state it while I wait for other questions from the floor and this asks what went wrong with the literary digest poll of ancient and blessed memory and the Gallup poll in the more recent past well you want to have to look at that I'm quite willing to answer well since it's a very general question not bearing on a particular major content of this course I'd like to postpone that if I may this question reads as follows are not the New York Irish Catholics politically a homogeneous group voting as instructed by their leaders and do you have any information on that well I have some questions let's see what which we have so little time which one it's a question to the second and then finally there's a question why should Jews and Catholics in New York City behave as minorities with respect to their political behavior and that comes fairly close to the question which occurred to me as you were talking namely do you have any information on this central point if not why not is it true that the more intensively a person feels himself a member of a minority group the more intensely he considers himself a Jew a Swede a Catholic so on that the more likely he will vote the way the majority of the members in that group vote would you spell that out which is really another statement of the one I read why do Jews and Catholics in New York City behave as political minorities when it so happens that it's a good thing to start with the last question because it clears the other two up quite clearly you can show something very nicely you can in one study for instance we ask people which group in this community is most important for you your religious group your nationality group the social clubs you belong to and so are and you can then take the Catholics and divide them into those who say that their religious group is most important for them and the Catholics who don't say that who give another answer and it turns out that the Catholics who say that their religious affiliation is the most important for them vote considerably more democratic than those who don't mention it so and that can then be generalized that would also be true for caste character and so on that indeed it's exactly as you say the more intensely you feel about belonging to a group the more likely are you to follow its traditional political vote even if vote doesn't make the slightest difference to you it is so important to realize that vote becomes so much more an expression of group belonging rather than of opinions on the tariff you accept the opinion on the tariff which brings you closer to your group you see and it is not true that you originally form your opinion on the tariff now how that comes about specifically is a very complex question now for instance just to say that Irish Catholics do what Catholic hierarchy tells them is in my opinion a gross overstatement of the fact it is much more that first a large number of priests will very carefully refrain from any political expression but then you will find that a person who really feels strongly will run around and try to nose out what would the priest really feel about politics let's see it is very often so that the member of a group tries to dope out what the leaders of the group want him to do or his things want him to do even if they don't express it there is of course also straight what you might call direction that would be true in unions that would be true in the hierarchy and so on but the direction wouldn't be followed if you didn't have this you see the same Irish Catholic who votes Catholic because he thinks his priest wants him to vote would be horrified if you told him that his vote is ordered you see he doesn't experience it as someone tells him how to vote he experiences it that it is his task as Catholic to find out what would be good for his group and one of his sources of knowledge is what we need to think but he in no way experiences it as an order but as a signal of what the right integration into his group is and the question why Jews and Catholics should feel as a minority in a city where as we heard last time there is nothing else but Jews and Catholics is of course very simple that such feelings in our age are not determined by local condition even in such a big locality but by the whole national picture and tradition and of course a Jew doesn't feel himself as a New York Jew but as a Jew with a two thousand years history in history as usual we have three times as many questions as you could possibly answer and I've just been told that some members of the group are getting frightfully hungry so I must regretfully call this meeting to a close and remind the members of the group that a revised statement of these talks will probably be made available for publication in due course I haven't yet