Here is Dr. Marcus D. Cogel, Commissioner of Hospitals. On every ward and in every service, at every hour of the day and night, some patient in our hospitals is receiving blood or one of its derivatives. You can help by making your donation. All the blood you donate will be deposited for the blood bank of the Department of Hospitals. Here is Dr. Marcus D. Cogel, Commissioner of Hospitals. On every ward and in every service, at every hour of the day and night, some patient in our hospitals is receiving blood or one of its fractions. You can help by making your donation. All the blood you donate will be deposited for the blood bank of the Department of Hospitals. Here is Dr. Marcus D. Cogel, Commissioner of Hospitals. Blood is the life-saving fluid that makes possible many of the miracles that occur daily in our hospitals. You can help by making your blood donation now. Go to room 330 to make your contribution. Here is Commissioner Mulrane of the Department of Sanitation. I should like to remind you that life-saving blood is needed. You can help save a life, perhaps your life, by donating blood to the blood bank. You'll hardly know you're giving it. You won't miss it. Register as a blood banker now in room 330 on the third floor. Here is Commissioner Mo Rain of the Department of Sanitation. Sanitation employees' public service takes many forms. Their contribution to the blood bank is an aid to still another weighty project. Blood saves lives. It is urgently needed in our hospitals. A ready supply is required for civilian defense preparation. Servicemen fighting in Korea need blood plasma. You can help by giving your blood here. Register as a blood donor with your group leader. Please do it now. Here is Commissioner Mahoney of the Department of Health. Blood, which saves lives, is needed now. More will be needed in the future. It is needed now in our hospitals. It is also needed in preparation for civilian defense. Soon we expect calls for blood from our armed forces fighting in Korea. Give. Give to save lives. Register as a blood donor with your group leader. Register now. Register now. Here is Commissioner Mahoney of the Department of Health. Folks working in this building are giving blood to save lives. to save lives. Go to room 330, third floor, and see the blood bank in operation. Go and give blood to save lives. The blood you give today will help save a life tomorrow, perhaps your own. Here is Commissioner Zermelan of the Department of Public Works. Accidents, illness, disaster, epidemics all take a tremendous toll of life. Help save lives by enrolling as a blood donor. Your contribution may save the life of a co-worker, a member of your family, even your own. Giving blood is painless. It takes less than an hour. It cannot be manufactured. It is yours to give. Do not delay. Volunteer with your group leader now. The gift of blood is a gift of life. Do your share. Now here is Commissioner Zermelan of the Department of Public Works. My pride in the generous response of the employees of the Department of Public Works in donating blood, prompts this special appeal to those Department workers at 125 Worth Street to go all out in this humanitarian endeavor. Give this priceless gift and save lives.