The End It's a Negro! Age Incorporated This is the fourth in a series of programs dedicated to America's newest fight for freedom. The fight against the elements of Hate Incorporated. The twisting, lying professional peddlers of intolerance who work to destroy the basic principles upon which our American democracy is founded. This series is presented in cooperation with the Philadelphia Fellowship Commission. Tonight we bring you another phase of the un-American activities of Hate Incorporated. The racket that debases motherhood in setting it up as a front for bigoted and undemocratic activities. We've chosen just one of these groups for our story. A story based on actual facts. All names, places, and organizations are strictly fictitious. The End Hey, turn that radio down a little for Pete's sake. A guy can't hear himself think around here. Brother, you couldn't hear yourself think in a vacuum. Ah, quit rising the guy, Danny. He's just sweating out his discharge. Him and me both. Oh, brother, can the army make you wait when it wants to? Oh, now, things aren't too bad. In just a couple of days now, we should be free, young, and civilian. Civilian. Boy, does that word have a beautiful sound. Excuse me while I dream. If you're going to do your dreaming quietly, maybe I can get back to reading my newspaper. Hey, I see the White Cross Mothers are at it again. Hmm? Hmm? Uh, did you say something? Yeah. What is it now, blonde or brunette? It's what blonde or brunette? That dream you're all wrapped up in. Huh, neither, Billy boy. It's Blue Surge. Oh, but to get back to what you were saying, who's at it again? Oh, oh, that. I meant the White Cross Mothers. And who, my friend, are they? Some group's supposed to be made up of veterans' and soldiers' mothers. They wax hysterical every Thursday night. No, that's no way to talk about somebody's mother. Oh, no, no, wait a minute. I'm not being disrespectful, Danny. I'm all for the mothers getting together. And I'd be the first to admit that they can do a lot of good. But this group, eh, it smells. What do you mean? I don't know. All I can tell is what I read in the newspapers. But that's enough to make me slightly sick. You know, all through the war, they screamed that we were fighting for Britain and Russia. That it was a Jewish war with the rest of us in it just to pull out the hot chestnuts. Kind of makes us guys look like fools, doesn't it? According to them, every guy who fought is a sucker of the first water, all right. Yeah, but now they have a new tune, I see. Seems that now they're agitating to have us scrap our army and navy since the war's over. Oh, that's all right for me. I've had enough of army life. Yeah, well, I'm not going to get into any long argument with you about peacetime military preparedness. Because I'm not so sure what's right myself. And what are you kicking about? Ah, it's just the way these people are going about it, always picking on minorities. Well, it's no skin off of my back what they do. I have nothing to do with them. Yeah, yeah, I guess you're right. It's no affair of ours. Well, I'll be seeing you. Hey, where are you going? Over to the service club. I've got a date with Alice, remember? Oh, brother, you're around sergeants all day. Why go out with one at night? Ha, ha, ha, this sergeant's different, Danny. This one I can... Hi, Jim. Have you seen Alice? I was supposed to meet her here. I think I saw her come in a few minutes ago. Try the fork. Okay, thanks. Hi, gorgeous. What's up? Communing with nature or something? Oh, hello, Bill. Oh, I didn't expect such an enthusiastic welcome. Is anything the matter, honey? No, no. Oh, Bill, why don't they leave us alone? Here, here, now, take it easy. Have you got a handkerchief? Mine's all wet. Ah, sure, sure. Now, wipe your eyes and tell me what's the matter. Hi. All right. Come over to the light. I want you to read this letter, Bill. Sure. My mother got this in the mail last week. She sent it right off to me. Listen, I'll read it. Christian mothers, is this the price you are paying for Jewish revenge? Did you ever notice the number of young Jews in business and how few in uniform? Read over the casualty list and see how many Jewish names you find there. Jews seem to keep out of the casualty list. That's enough. I don't have to hear any more to get the idea. Who sent it? It came from the White Cross Mothers. You see, since our name is Morris, they didn't know we were Jewish. The White Cross Mothers. Yes. What's the matter? You look surprised. No. No, it's nothing. It's just that Danny and I were talking about that organization just five minutes ago and we decided that it was none of our business. Now I know better of all the rotten tricks to pull. Oh, Bill, it isn't fair. Yeah, I know that, honey. And if I were your mother, I'd write them a nice little letter and explain that she not only is Jewish, but that she has a daughter in the wax and a son who was a lieutenant in the Air Force. She can say more than that. What do you mean? The White Cross Mothers mail these pamphlets out to the next of kin on casualty lists, Bill. My mother got this letter just three days after she learned that my brother, Ted, had been killed in action. That's why it hurts so much. I'm so glad I've had a chance to meet you at last, Bill. I'm glad too, Mrs. Morris. It's reassuring. Reassuring? Yeah, that's right. You know, they always say that if you want to know what your girl will look like after 20 years of married life, look at her mother. You know, after seeing you, Mrs. Morris, all I can say is that if Alice ever gets to be half as pretty as you, I'll be an awful lucky guy. I think you have very good taste, Alice. I told you, Mother. Seriously, though, now that I am part of the family, we'll be soon anyway, I wonder if I could ask you something. Why, of course, Bill. What did you want to know? Well, Alice told me about that letter the White Cross Mothers sent you. I wondered if you'd done anything about it. Oh. Well, I hope I haven't upset you by mentioning it. Oh, that's quite all right, Bill. I've never stopped being upset about it. No, I haven't done anything. What could I do that would really help in any way? Well, I've been thinking about that. Now, as you say, there's so little you could do to counteract any organization like that one, but I was wondering... What, Bill? Have you thought of something? Yeah, well, it seemed to me that maybe your mother could do something, Alice, but it wouldn't be very pleasant for her. So maybe we'd better just forget it. Oh, no, no. If there's anything that I could do to fight those people, well, I don't care how unpleasant it is, I'd be more than willing to take it on. Yes, at least tell us about it. Well, I figure there must be a way to put a stop to that group. It's just that we don't know how. And, Alice, your mother is in a good position to find out. But how? It wouldn't be easy, Mrs. Morris. But what would be more natural than for you to go down with the letter they sent you and ask to become a member? A member? Are you crazy, Bill? No, no. Now, look, Mrs. Morris, they don't know you're Jewish. They certainly wouldn't have sent you that letter if they had. If you went down there and said your son had been killed in action and that you had read their pamphlets and wanted to join, why, they'd welcome you with open arms. You're the kind of person they want. Someone with a figurative and emotional axe to grind. Don't you see? Oh, but what good would that do? Suppose I did become a member, then what? Well, then maybe you could find out something about the White Cross Mothers that would break their organization up once and for all. Maybe you have a good idea at that, Bill. After all, there must have been hundreds of other mothers who were hurt by the White Cross Mothers. And if Mom could do something to break their racket, maybe hundreds more could be spared the pain she went through. Sure, sure, that's the idea. What about it, Mrs. Morris? I know it won't be fun, but... Well, if there's a chance that it'll save another woman from what I went through, I'll do it. Ah, good. Now look. Now here's what you do. And I want to leave with you this final thought. It's up to you, the mothers of America, to see that this country is kept free of foreign entanglements, free of unchristian influences, and free of all foreigners. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We've got to do something about conditions. I've certainly had my eyes open since I joined the White Cross. Just wait till I tell my son about this. My dear Mrs. Parkwright, that was a wonderful speech. Thank you. I hope I made my point clear. The organization has begun to slow down since the war ended. Which reminds me, I think it would be a good idea for you and I to get Mrs. Strong and hold a committee meeting. As you said, things have certainly been slowing up lately. We'll have to make some new plans. All right. Get Mrs. Strong. I'll meet you in the office. I'll have a few things to attend to. We can get down to business. What are we going to discuss? New plans, Mrs. Strong. Now that the war is over, we won't have any more casualty lists to use to get names for mailing purposes. That's true. It's a shame the war's ended. Those casualty lists gave us a good feel for our propaganda. Yes, we did stir up a lot of bad feeling that way. But we'd better look around for something new, quick. I'd suggest an entirely new theme. We've done enough with the Jews. It's old stuff by now. Old, but still good. Oh, we won't ignore the theme completely, but I think we should have something new. Uh, say, how about the foreigners? Some Italian people have been trying to move into my neighborhood lately. They're getting too uppity, those people. It's about time we put them in their place. And the Negroes, too. No, that isn't the idea. We need a cause. Something as big as the war. And speaking of war, why not labor? Labor? How do you mean that? Just what I said. Labor. The union. Things are emotionally upset already along that line. Strikes and everything. If we can get strong enough pressure behind our campaigning, we'd have something really big. A crusade that would disrupt the country and destroy the present administration. You've got it, Mrs. Langway. You've got it. Why, I can just see how it'll work. Undercover. Of our anti-labor activities, we can strike at all the filthy foreigners and Negroes and Jews. And what's more, it won't even be obvious. Yes, of course. That's the idea. We'll start things rolling at the next meeting. And personally, I'm in the mood for some action. A demonstration. With every woman in the club out there on the street showing how she feels. You know, something to make people sit up and take notice. Suppose that leads to violence. Well, that's all right, too. Women can fight as well as men. We're no manby-pambies. Panby's! How are things going, Mrs. Morris? All right, I guess, Bill. I've been a member of the White Cross Mothers for five weeks now, and no one seems to suspect me. Have you been able to learn anything, Mother? Who's afraid? They've stopped sending letters like the one I received, but only because there are no more casualty lists to go by. They've also been getting a few new members, but one of the women was telling me the things were very slow. They are reconverting from war to peace. As far as I can tell, they're getting ready for some new crusade. And frankly, I'm worried. Worried? Why? What are you afraid of? These women, Bill, these White Cross Mothers, they're, oh, they're hysterical. I don't understand it, but they're filled with some kind of hatred. They're all, or mostly all, women from nice homes, comfortably off. When they get together at the club, they change. They become coarse, vicious rabble-rousers. Yes, hate's always bound to cheapen people, Mrs. Morris. I know. And it seems as though they're getting ready now for violence of some sort. Actual physical violence. Well, I'm not surprised. It's the next natural step for them. When will you know what they plan to do? I'll know tonight. The executive committee will tell us at the meeting. Bill and I will wait up for you, Mother. You can tell us everything when you get home. Order, please! Order! Order! Order! Order! We have many plans to make tonight. And I know you are all anxious to hear what the future theme of this organization will be. I'll tell you about it now. The war is over! Yes, the European and Pacific war. But right here in this country, a new war has begun. Vicious, rotten elements, communistic and foreign, are trying to destroy and the war and the war are trying to destroy America's system of industry and government so that they can set up a dictatorship of their own. You know what these elements are. I mean labor! labor unions are striking all over the country, crying greedily, crying greedily for exorbitant salaries, holding America back from prosperity with their work stoppages. And they say it's because of wages. But we, we know differently. Labor is really out to overthrow our government, to set up a communistic dictatorship. That's what! You mothers, you mothers, are you going to let them get away with it? Then let's do something about it! Let's stop these foreign unions in their tracks! Let's flood this city with anti-union literature! Let's talk against them! Let's break every picket line we see! And, and let's demonstrate! With violence it need be! Yes, with violence! Let's get rid of the rock here! We'll show them that women can fight! I'll behind you! Please! Please! I want to say something! Quiet! Quiet! Quiet! Sister Morris has something to say. Hey, girl! Let's hear your ideas! I'm afraid you may not like my ideas. Well, maybe you'd better explain yourself. I have always felt that it was a woman's place to protect what is best in her family, her city, and her country. I have always felt it was our place to teach our children the right things and to encourage those things in our husbands. That's what we're here to do, Sister Morris. Not by preaching violence, you don't. You've said enough, sister! Maybe you'd better sit down. I don't intend to sit down until I've said all I have to say. You are right when you say that America is having labor troubles. It is. But the violent, vicious attitude you teach here won't solve anything. The way to solve the trouble is to sit down and talk it over without any name-calling or unjust suspicion. We've got to look at the trouble calmly and discuss it like friends would over a table together. And if we try to know each other and understand each other, we can reach a compromise that will satisfy all of us. That's the American way of doing it. Peacefully and with goodwill. That's very strange talk for a White Cross mother, Mrs. Morris. She's just a rotten spy, that's what. We don't want any spies around here. Oh, let me out for all six or seven to find out in the game. Bill, I'm beginning to worry. Mother should have been home long before this. Well, maybe she got tied up with some of the women, Alice. You women always forget the time when you're talking. Really, Bill, I'm serious. She should have been home almost two hours ago. Yeah. Yeah, I know, honey, I know. Now, look, if she doesn't come home soon, we'll drive over to the club and see if we can find her. I wish we hadn't involved mother in all this. Ever since I've been out of the wax, I haven't been able to relax. I've been so worried about mother. This is no job for her. Yeah, I've been having some misgivings myself. Now, look, when she comes home tonight, we'll tell her to call the whole thing off, okay? Yes. There, now, maybe that's your mother now. Yes. That's right, I'm Alice Morris. Oh, no. Is she? I'll be right down. Yes. Yes, thank you. What's the matter, Alice? It was the hospital. They found mother walking the streets dazed. Oh, Bill, she's badly beaten. How badly was she hurt? They aren't sure yet. She may have a fractured skull. Oh, Bill, I've got to get down to see her right away. How is she, darling? She's sleeping now. But, Bill, she looks so pitiful. I knew we should never have let her get involved with those women. They did it. And who are they, miss? Oh. Oh, Alice, this is police officer Warren. He was sent here to find out what happened to your mother. That's right, miss. I haven't been able to talk to your mother yet. The doctors wouldn't let me see her. But maybe you could tell me what happened. I can tell you some of it. Mother told me that during the meeting, the meeting tonight. What meeting? The White Cross Mother's officer. Do you mean to say that your mother belongs to an organization like that? Oh, pardon me. It's just that I didn't think you looked the type. We aren't the type. Mother just joined to find out what she could about them. She hated them. Oh, well, then go on with what happened at the meeting. Well, Mrs. Cartwright, that's one of the heads of the organization. The Black Brownells is here. Uh, where are we going, Warren? Up to the Anderson building, Riley. What for? It's trash day. A very clarifying answer, pal. But why are we interested in trash day? I've been paying a janitor there to collect trash for me. Or rather, I've been paying him to collect the contents of the waste paper baskets from the White Cross Mother's office. Oh, now I get it. But what in particular are you looking for? Something that would link the organization up with its backing. The group must have a backing. It spends too much money to be purely altruistic. Well, why don't you just charge the whole bunch of them for riding an assault and battery in the Morris case? Now, what good would that do? It'd all be out in bail in five minutes. Besides, I can't hold all of them on that charge. Oh, I guess you're right. Have you any idea who was putting up the dough on this deal? No, except, well, it must be someone with an axe to grind. Somebody who figures to gain political or financial power stirring up racial and religious intolerance. That seems to be the point of the club. Well, here we are. Now, come on down this way. The janitor's always out back. But can you trust this janitor? Maybe he's getting money from the White Cross mothers, too. Not a chance. The janitor is Bill Brannigan's father. He's safe, all right. Great guns, Juan. Do we have to wait through all this trash? What's the idea? There may be something in it that will help. Here's a letter from the Christian Mobilizer. The usual stuff. And here's a bill from the printer. Want that? Yeah, you'd better put it aside. Oh, by the way, how long have you been doing this? Collecting waste paper, I mean. A couple of weeks now. Find anything yet? No. Well, then how long are you going to keep this up? Until I do find something. Now, keep on looking. Go through every piece of paper. Nothing much left. There's nothing in this pile. We're stuck for another week. Oh, brother. What's up? Will you guess who's given the White Cross mothers the glad hand? Who? Here's a letter from Layden himself. The committee man? The one who's running for mayor? That's right. And he's got a big enough machine behind him to make his election pretty sure. Well, what does he have to say for himself? Listen, I'll read it. My dear Mrs. Cartwright, your information was very happily received, and I'm pleased to report that the group of 100 will be on hand at the proper time. That's all. Idiot, that's all. That's it, you mean? I don't get it. What's the point? Is the guy offering her money or something? What's the 100? Ah, don't bother me. Now, if we only knew where... Riley, have you come across the names of any places? Buildings or plants or something like that? Well, there was some doodling around here. Wait till I find it. Oh, yeah, here it is. Somebody's doodled something that looks like, uh, Brandt Mills. That's it. That's the whole thing. And tonight's the night, I'm sure. Come on, Riley, we've got business elsewhere. Okay, okay. Now, now, how about some explanations? Where are we going and why the riot squad? We're going to the Brandt Mills. The workers out there are on strike, and according to the newspapers, they intend to throw a special picket line around the place tonight. They've probably done it already, as a matter of fact. So? Union demonstrations are not our business. Yeah, but business, the demonstration of the White Cross Mothers, is with complete violence. What? That's right. Mrs. Morris warned me that something like this would happen, and I'll stake my life if the White Cross Mothers throw a demonstration outside the Brandt Mills tonight, and that they resort to violence to break the picket line. Well, it's a good thing they're just a bunch of women. That's what you think. I'd rather face a man with a gun than a woman with a heavy pocketbook. At least you can reason with a man. But the picket line will have to face both tonight. Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You're going too fast for me. You remember that letter from Layton and the group of 100? Sure. Well, how much would you like to bet that 100 will be 100 of the city's choices hoodlums, all set for a bloody free-for-all? Holy smoke! Smoke! Sure. Layton and the guys in back of him have been financing this group of mothers to stir up class hatred and to set group against group. Their plan is to get America so involved with racial and religious troubles that the public won't notice if these politicos move in and take over the government for their own not-too-pleasant use. The way I see it, Cartwright was their contact. When we get a hold of her tonight, I think we can persuade her to talk nicely. Huh. You mean if we get a hold of her. Come on, get her. Let's break the lousy picket line. They're all communists. That's one. There's a rotten figure. Beat them all. Run around and down. Oh, we're too late. We're too late. It's already started. Don't worry. The riot squad will break it up fast. But quick, can you see that Cartwright dame? There she is, over by the curb. Lord, what a mob. Never mind that. Let's get after her. She's got a lot of talking to them. Wait, bud. Hey, she sees us coming. Hurry. I think she's trying to get away. Oh, no you don't. Come on, Mrs. Cartwright. Oh, thank heaven you come, officer. I was just terribly frightened. The riot, it's just awful. Oh, don't be too thankful to see us, lady. We're here to take it down a heck. What is our suspicion of... Oh! Riley! She had a knife. Get after her. Don't let her get away in the crowd. After her. Hey, Marino. Riley's been hurt. Get someone to take care of him and come with me. What's the matter? Don't ask questions. Get that woman in the red hat. I can't shoot this car. I might hit someone else. There she goes, across the street. Try for her now. Quick, before she gets away. Okay. You got her. Come on. Come on. Come on. Ah, she's all right. I hit her late. She just passed out. I'm glad she's not dead. I want to talk to her a little, and then she can spend a nice long time in prison thinking all about this. You know, Warren, I never shot a woman before. I never thought I would. But come to think of it, she's not much of a woman at that. Not a real one, anyway. I don't feel as bad as I thought I would. As a matter of fact, I feel kind of good. Mrs. Cartwright recovered in time to stand trial for the attempted murder of Riley, the police officer, and is now contemplating the value of her hate creed in a state penitentiary. From the evidence she gave against her backers, it was discovered that Layden and his political machine had supported and encouraged the White Cross mothers from as early as 1940, using the misguided, bigoted women to stir up racial, religious, and political differences for their own end. The organization was destroyed as soon as the newspapers printed the full story of inside backing. There are many other organizations of the kind described in tonight's chapter still functioning, and Philadelphia has the dubious honor of having the worst of these groups still in operation. There are, of course, many organizations in this city and the rest of the country who have contributed a great deal to America's victory in the war and who are making added contributions to America's future. The important thing is that each woman, before joining an organization, investigate its purposes with thoroughness and care. This program is dedicated to the newly won peace and the problems of democracy that remain to be solved. The purpose is to make it plain that these problems can be solved only by the people of America, all of us, white and Negro, Protestant, Catholic, and Jew. Tune in again next Friday night at 10 when WIP, in cooperation with the Philadelphia Fellowship Commission, brings you another story in the fight against subversive and un-American activities of... State Incorporated. Philadelphia's pioneer voice, station WIP.lerin theory. Thank you.