Everyone has a stake in fire prevention. These are the facts. We maintain a well-organized and efficient fire department, but it cannot do much against plain carelessness. Fire prevention is a problem of individual responsibility. The carelessness of one person may threaten the lives and property of many others. It is up to each of us to fight against negligence in matters involving fire prevention. Many of the causes of fire have shown that most of the 44,370 fires in our city last year were the result of somebody's carelessness. Nine out of every ten fires that now occurred can be prevented. Last year, four firemen and 124 civilians were killed in fires or died of injuries received in fires, and 432 persons received injuries at fires. These people died or were injured because someone forgot to put out a cigarette before he threw it away. Because someone was careless in using flammable liquids. Because someone allowed waste material to collect in the closet. Because someone was just too lazy to be a little careful. We can directly control fire in our homes and places of business by observing the rules of fire prevention and the laws designed to protect us from fire. Fire prevention means that every one of us must do our part. Fire prevention statistics prove that nine out of ten fires can be prevented. As for the ten percent that occur, in spite of all the precautions, such as the fire started by lightning striking a house, it is up to us to be prepared for fire at any time. Here are some simple rules to follow in case of fire. Know the location of the fire alarm box nearest your home or place of business. Remember that various types of alarm boxes are operated in different ways. For whatever method is employed, directions will always be found on the box. In reporting a fire by telephone, dial or call the operator and say, I want to report a fire. The operator will immediately connect the call to fire headquarters. It is important for the person telephoning the alarm to give the address of the fire to fire headquarters. If you discover a fire, send in an alarm immediately. You will have any fear of sending in an alarm for a small fire because of the possibility of the fire being extinguished before the firemen arrive. The fire department will be grateful to you if you report a fire. Remember that the first five minutes of a fire are most important. Prompt action by you in case of fire can prevent a small home fire from turning into a real catastrophe. During fire prevention week, eliminate the danger of fire from your homes. There are some things you should do. Have all worn or frayed electrical cords or defective electrical appliances repaired or replaced. Clean out all combustible rubbish, old papers, and other waste material from your basement, your closet, and your attic. Place plenty of ash trays about the house. Have your furnace cleaned and checked at the end of each heating season. Have automatic controls on heating plants checked before use each fall. Repair defective flues or pipes. If supplementary heaters are necessary, fix them so they can't be moved around or knocked about. There are things you should not do. Don't leave matches within reach of children. Don't smoke in bed. Don't use gasoline or other flammable liquids for cleaning in the house. Don't run electrical cords under rugs. Don't use candles or matches for illumination in closets and attics. And here are the things to remember. Nine out of ten fires can be prevented by being careful. Carelessness is the chief cause of fire. Fire prevention is an individual responsibility. Fire safety is a matter of personal daily effort. Fire prevention week is a time when we should give serious thought to the danger of fire. Consider this appalling fact taken from the annual report of the fire department. During 1950, 30 children lost their lives in fire or from injuries at fires. The total loss of life from fire in New York City last year included 128 men, women and children, four of them firemen. Ninety percent of the fires that occur in our city could be avoided if people would not be careless with fire. Most of the fires were started by matches and smoking, by stoves and other heating devices, and the misuse of flammable liquids and electricity. To protect your home and your family, guard against these major causes of fire. Parents are urged to follow these rules to protect their children from fire. Have an adult or responsible sitter in charge when you leave the house. Keep matches out of the reach of children. Teach them that to play with matches is dangerous. Keep children out of the kitchen or any room where boiling liquids are likely to be in their reach. Don't allow children to kindle bonfires. Have a metal screen in front of a fireplace. Fire safety is the year-round problem. Regard fire prevention as an individual responsibility. Your reward for this effort may save your home and your loved ones from death or injury. Fire prevention week is a time to look at the record. The annual report of the fire department for 1950 disclosed that the deaths of four firemen and 124 civilians were due to fire. More than 50 percent of these fatalities resulted from two causes, smoking carelessness and kerosene heaters. Here are some suggestions to eliminate these terrible listings from the fire records. Don't smoke in bed. Place plenty of ashtrays about the house. Use extreme caution in disposing of lighted matches, cigars, cigarettes and pipe tobacco. Obey the laws of our city governing smoking in public places. Such laws are for your protection. If you use kerosene heaters, keep them clean and free of dirt, surface oil and soot. Never place them near curtains, tablecloths or other hanging material. Never use kerosene heaters in a room where all doors and windows are shut. Keep the fuel container outside the building whenever possible. Do not fill tank on heater completely, but leave room for expansion of the oil. Inspect and trim wicks of kerosene heaters regularly. Ninety percent of the fires could have been avoided if people had not been careless with fire. Carelessness is the chief cause of fire. Fire prevention must be regarded as an individual responsibility. Fire safety is a year-round problem, a matter of daily effort.