There are no finer moments in the lives of men than those they give to help others in distress. I am glad and honored to speak for New York Catholic Charities, a great private welfare federation, whose public services give all of us an opportunity to share in the task of comforting the unfortunate. To carry out that mission, Catholic Charities is now making its 30th annual appeal. Asking people of every faith to contribute to its goal of $2.5 million for 1949. Last year, the many services rendered by Catholic Charities, through its 186 agencies and institutions, helped nearly 400,000 people, men, women, and children. Its hospitals gave more than 200,000 days of free care. More than 19,000 children were served by its organizations for the care of dependent, neglected, and handicapped children. Its family division gave helpful counsel and, where necessary, financial aid for more than 107,000 individuals. Its leisure time programs assured wholesome recreation for more than 141,000 boys and girls. Its youth counseling service helped more than 4,000 youngsters in serious and minor troubles. As head of the police department, I am particularly interested in the activities of Catholic Charities, which deal with the young folks of this community. Both by providing recreation to occupy leisure time, and by giving wise counsel and trained guidance to those whose actions indicate the need. The youth counseling service, since its establishment five years ago by Cardinal Spellman, has given close and valuable cooperation to the juvenile aid bureau of the police department. Both organizations are working toward the same goal, to keep youngsters out of trouble, and help them to develop into useful and responsible men and women. The juvenile delinquency is not new. It flourishes in crowded cities with their poverty, sickness, lack of pleasant home surroundings, and limited opportunities for children's play. The New York City Police Department, through its juvenile aid bureau, makes use of its case working and youth counseling services. The JAB refers many cases of delinquent and potentially delinquent children to Catholic Charities. Because of the splendid services provided in redirecting erring youngsters. On the preventive side, the JAB has established the Police Athletic League, which operates 91 full and part-time youth centers in the city. As well as summertime play streets and a camp in the Adirondacks. Records indicate that delinquency has declined in those neighborhoods where such centers are located. The trained personnel which staff these centers strive to develop character and a sense of community responsibility in youngsters. And to bring about a friendly association with and respect for the officers of the law. Catholic Charities has been helpful to us in our PAL program by making available, at a cost of only one dollar a year, a large youth center located in the Bronx, which we operate under the PAL. The juvenile aid bureau of the police department was founded in 1930, and gives individual attention to each case brought to its notice. In less serious cases, we advise the child and parents, when necessary. We enlist the help of private and public social agencies. I believe that the work accomplished in this field by Catholic Charities, JAB, and other private welfare agencies, devotes thousands of children every year from activities that might wreck their lives and cause sizable property losses to the city and its citizens. It saves the community money by reducing the number of youngsters who must make court appearances, and those committed to correctional institutions. In years to come, those children who have received necessary guidance before wayward traits became fixed, will develop into useful citizens, thereby cutting down the potential number of adults who otherwise might become inmates of institutions for criminals and the mentally ill. The cooperation between the child welfare agencies in the city of New York contributes to the success and progress of plans for future citizens, mentally and physically healthy, who will preserve the integrity of the American family life. I ask earnestly that you contribute to this goal by giving to the full capacity of your resources, to the 30th annual appeal of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. There are no finer moments in the lives of men than those they give to help others in distress. I am glad and honored to speak for New York Catholic Charities, a great private welfare federation, whose public services give all of us an opportunity to share in the task of accompanying the unfortunate. To carry out that mission, Catholic Charities is now making its 30th annual appeal, asking people of every faith to contribute to its goal of $2.5 million for 1949. Last year, the many services rendered by Catholic Charities, through its 186 agencies and institutions, helped nearly 400,000 people, men, women and children. Its hospitals gave more than 200,000 days of free care. More than 19,000 children were served by its organizations for the care of dependent, neglected and handicapped children. Its family division gave helpful counsel and, where necessary, financial aid for more than 107,000 individuals. Its leisure time programs assured wholesome recreation for more than 141,000 boys and girls. Its youth counseling service helped more than 4,000 youngsters in serious and minor troubles. As head of the police department, I am particularly interested in the activities of Catholic Charities, which deal with the young folks of this community. Recreation to occupy leisure time, and by giving wise counsel and trained guidance to those whose actions indicate the need. The youth counseling service, since its establishment five years ago by Cardinal Spellman, has given close and valuable cooperation to the juvenile aid bureau of the police department. Both organizations are working toward the same goal, to keep youngsters out of trouble, and help them to develop into useful and responsible men and women. The juvenile delinquency is not new. It flourishes in crowded cities with their poverty, sickness, lack of pleasant home surroundings, and limited opportunities for children's play. The New York City Police Department, through its juvenile aid bureau, makes use of the help of private as well as public case working and youth counseling services. The JAB refers many cases of delinquent and potentially delinquent children to Catholic Charities, because of the splendid services provided in redirecting erring youngsters. On the preventive side, the JAB has established the Police Athletic League, which operates 91 full and part-time youth centers in the city, as well as summertime play streets and a camp in the Adirondacks. Records indicate that delinquency has declined in those neighborhoods where such centers are located. The trained personnel which staff these centers strive to develop character and a sense of community responsibility in youngsters, and to bring about a friendly association with and respect for the officers of the Lord. Catholic Charities has been helpful to us in our PAL program by making available, at a cost of only one dollar a year, a large youth center located in the Bronx, which we operate under the PAL. The Juvenile was founded in 1930, and gives individual attention to each case brought to its notice. For less serious cases, we advise the child and parents, when necessary, we enlist the help of private and public social agencies. I believe that the work accomplished in this field by Catholic Charities, JAB, and other private welfare agencies, devotes thousands of children every year from activities that might wreck their lives and cause sizable property losses to the city and its citizens. It saves the community money by reducing the number of youngsters who must make court appearances, and those committed to correctional institutions. In years to come, those children who have received necessary guidance before wayward traits became fixed, will develop into useful citizens, thereby cutting down the potential number of adults who otherwise might become inmates of institutions for criminals and the mentally ill. The cooperation between the child welfare agencies in the city of New York contributes to the success and progress of plans for future citizens, mentally and physically healthy, who will preserve the integrity of the American family life. I ask earnestly that you contribute to this goal by giving to the full capacity of your resources to the 30th Annual Appeal of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York.