Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand considers the alternatives in American foreign policy. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the crisis we face and an appraisal of the courses open to us. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are James A. Eldridge, Midwest Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Frank L. Hughes, reporter and writer for the Chicago Tribune and author of the recent book, Prejudice and the Press. And Franklin D. Scott, Professor of History at Northwestern University. Now gentlemen, what are the alternatives in our foreign policy as you see them? Scott, would you speak to that first? The alternatives as I see them with Bernie are very unpleasant, but very simple. They're struggle or perish, cooperation or disintegration, action or inaction. To my mind, when you choose, as we must choose, the program of struggle and cooperation and action, then we have within that various other choices. Are we going to act by a policy of imperialism and dictatorship, or are we going to act by a policy of cooperation with those whose interests are the same as ours? Do you accept that analysis, Hughes? I agree with Professor Scott that our alternatives are unpleasant. But I think they lie in two directions. The first is to continue this policy of internationalism that we have pursued in all crises for the last 35 years. And the second is to reorient our thinking around a really American foreign policy. To do that, I would suggest, first, that we get rid of all communists in our government and bar people who have had any affiliation with communist front movements from ever holding a government job. Second, to get our military forces out of Europe, to get out of Korea now, to occupy only the strategic air and naval bases that the military selects, and to offer arms and munitions only to the potential allies in Europe who demonstrate a wholehearted will to fight communism. We will fight and fight only when the existence of the United States as a sovereign nation is threatened. And that should be decided by the Congress and not by the President. Now that gives us the position of Scott and Hughes. Eldridge, where do you stand? Well, I join with Professor Scott in the idea that at the present time we must choose either action or inaction. I choose action along certain clearly defined lines, a vigorous American foreign policy. I emphatically disagree with Mr. Hughes that a policy of internationalism has brought us to our present position and problems. Now, I wonder whether or not that is the case. How have we managed to get ourselves into the present difficult situation? What mistakes have we made, Hughes? Our mistakes, I believe, started when we entered the First World War to settle Europe's quarrels. They continued when we entered the Second World War. That has brought us to the crisis of a Third World War. If we had stayed out of that first hassle, I don't think we'd be in the position that we're in today. Of course, this assumes that we really have followed a policy of internationalism for a long period of time. Perhaps the real trouble is that we have waited too long in the case of each crisis preceding this and have not engaged in a real international policy until after it was too late, until after other great nations of the earth had so locked horns that we were in such a dilemma that it was almost impossible to get out of it except by disaster. I'd like to go on record as disagreeing with Mr. Hughes' point of view that in the First World War, we went in to settle Europe's quarrels. And I also say that we didn't go into the Second World War for the same purpose. Mr. Hughes wants apparently a foreign policy consistent with the best interests of this country. And I say that we participated in both world wars because the self-interests of this country were directly involved. Of course, I disagree with that, Eldridge. I think that in the First World War, if we had stayed out of it, the war would have ended in a hurry and the unbalance of power in Europe that has been set up through that war would not exist. Equally, if we'd stayed out of the Second World War, we might have had two totalitarian dictatorships fighting each other or maybe in an armed truce, but we wouldn't have to face one dominant one as we do today. Now, I'm going to stop this rather interesting discussion. It's perfectly clear to me that we could explore this for the rest of the time available to us. I think these preliminaries do help to identify our positions and our attitudes. Scott? May I, McBurney, just add one thing before we leave this subject completely? There is more or less implicit in this discussion we've just had the idea that the United States is primarily responsible for what has happened. I react violently against that whole idea. It seems to me that the forces which have created trouble in the world in the 20th century have been for the most part outside the United States, that really the difficulty stems from fascism in Italy, Nazism in Germany, communism in Russia, and the attempt at communist revolution throughout the world. The United States, rightly or wrongly, has been put on the defensive. We have not instigated trouble. We have merely, from time to time, attempted to avoid it and recover from it. Or got into it, you might say. I think probably we would all accept that larger interpretation of the causes that have been at work. But let's get on to what is probably our most important question here. What are the factors determining future policy, however we may have gotten into the present situation? Who are our enemies today and how united are they, Scott? Well, it seems to me the enemy can be identified very easily. I'd put it, I think, really in the singular. Our enemy is Russian communism. Russian communism that's two-headed. It's the old nationalist Russian czarist imperialism on the one hand. On the other hand, it's the new communist ideology which seeks for world revolution. Now, stemming from Moscow, then, we have this enmity spreading itself throughout the world, through the satellite states of Russia, through the other regions of Asia and of the new world, but the head of the whole organization seems to be in Moscow. I agree with what Professor Scott says about our enemy being communism. But I think it is a world communism rather than a Russian communism. And I think that we had a part in it, in the establishment of it, as a nation, when we first recognized Soviet Russia in the early 1930s. That, I think, was one of our greatest international mistakes. I'd like to speak to two points here. First of all, I quite agree with Dr. Scott that we face two clear-cut issues. The one is the revival of the old Russian imperialism and the fact that it can today exercise a certain stretching out because of the destruction of the balance of power by the Second World War. I also agree that Russia comes today as the Marxist spokesman. And I think that the two problems require two different answers. One, a program of military coalition to hold against Russian expansion. And as far as the extent of international communism, I think we have to hit head-on with economic cooperation, certain programs that will set back the communist revolution. I disagree with Mr. Hughes' thesis that our recognition of the Soviet Union placed her in this strategic position. I think that the factors of history and the factors of the 20th century that Dr. Scott spoke of earlier made Russia's preeminence today inevitable. Well, now, you men keep referring to a two-headed monster with which we're concerned here, Russian imperialism on the one hand and international communism on the other. Now, do those two heads always look in the same direction, Scott? Probably not. But the way they hide behind the veils or the iron curtains of the East, it's a little difficult to tell sometimes which is which. Actually, it looks a little bit as if the main motive force at the present time was a Russian imperialism. But that that Russian imperialism is using not only force of arms, in fact, not at all the force of arms of Russian armies themselves, for they haven't yet directly come into action, but that that Russian imperialism is using as its means an infiltration ideologically and through the working classes and affiliated parties in various other countries in order to create confusion and in order to be ready for the social revolution when and if it may come. Since our subject here, McBurney, is alternatives in American policy, I think that we ought to look very carefully at this idea that Dr. Scott has set forth, because certainly paramount to American best interests at the moment is to break up, if possible in some way, the strength of the coalition that Russia is amassing. And I think it can be demonstrated in lots of places. I think Titoism in Yugoslavia, I think certain relations between Mao and in China and Stalin demonstrate that increasingly there are coming conflicts between the international communist movement and the Russian national interests and repeatedly, particularly of recent months, Stalin has placed the emphasis on the best interests of Russia and where he does and where we can play to the nationalism of the satellite countries that are under Moscow, we should do it. I think it must not be overlooked, however, that Tito is still a communist and an orthodox communist, just as Mao is. And I believe that while we're fighting communism, we mustn't scatter our shots by distinguishing between good communism and bad communism. We're not making a distinction between good communism and bad communism, Hughes, but we do, at the present moment, have to make the distinction between who is aggressing and who is not aggressing. And as long as Tito is willing to keep whatever form of government he's pursuing within Yugoslavia, I consider that his business. The problem that you and I are up against is not that there is communism in Russia, but that the fact that Russia is attempting to impose something outside the borders of the Soviet Union, and that we're opposed to. We're up against a very difficult dilemma, because Russia, through her communism, through this international policy which she is pursuing, is making herself the leader of all reform movements. She's making herself, and communism, the alternative to everything that has existed in the past which can be considered evil. We are, therefore, sometimes in danger of being put in the position of defending everything that has been, whether it's good or bad, and obviously there have been some bad things in the past. We are facing, in the world today, a social revolution. That's most obvious in China at the present moment, but it's clear throughout Asia, it's clear through much of Europe, and we cannot succeed if we identify ourselves wholly with a policy of reaction. The United States has traditionally been herself a revolutionary force in the world. and up to a very large degree, the democracy of the United States, of our founding fathers, has succeeded in producing change throughout the rest of the world. We're hardly in a position yet to put ourselves in the position of simply standing pat on what exists. I would say only to Dr. Scott's remarks that I don't believe this nation is a democracy. It's a republic. Well, I regard that issue as beside the point. Yes, I do too. I think that it is our business as a nation to hold our system and form of government up as an example, but I don't think that we ought to take part in any social revolutions elsewhere in the world. It may be true that Russia does, in the minds of foreign people, stand for all that means progress and advancement, and that communism carries that banner. But we know the true fact that it carries it under a banner of tyranny. I think that our alternative there is to show by our own government and our own form of economy the true way for the rest of the world. I'm glad to find one thing on which I can agree with Mr. Hughes. I don't think that we need at the present moment to become outright leaders of social revolution in other countries. I agree that our primary job is to make our own system work so well that other peoples will want to adapt themselves there too. So far, I can go with Mr. Hughes, I'm glad to say. Well, I can go with Mr. Hughes and Mr. Scott both on the fact that I want the conduct of this democracy or this republic, whichever we choose to call it, to be an example to the rest of the world. But I also think that there are given areas where we're going to have to help in the social revolution. If you took Mr. Hughes' thesis, Mr. Hughes would probably have rejected French assistance in 1776. And if specifically at the moment there's an issue at hand, I think in the problems of India where there is a great social revolution going on that we should assist with food, with wheat. Well, we should assist, but shouldn't we assist for humanitarian reasons, not for the purpose of building a particular political party or policy? I do, but I think we have that in mind. For example, I think certainly Mr. Hoover's idea of going along with the Truman proposal for wheat to India is a humanitarian position. But at the same time, realistically and politically, we realize that if something isn't done about hunger and poverty in India, that the communists in India are going to work on that hunger and poverty. That's right. But the advantage of this whole thing is it all works together. If we can prove to a place like India and therefore to all the world that we have the resources and we have the will to aid regardless of political purposes, then we have one of the strongest arguing points possible for the democratic system. Well, now, we've been talking about our enemies and just how united they are. Who are our friends, Hughes, and how strong are they? Do you share General Eisenhower's optimism about Western Europe? No, I do not. I think with Mr. Hoover that a strong will to fight communism ought to be demonstrated by our potential allies. I had my attention called to a Senate report the other day. I believe it was McCarran who brought it in pointing out that there is in some parts of Europe a disaffection with the idea of fighting communism. Now, it may be that that report is not complete, but I don't think that we have any present showing of strength against communism that we should reward by sending our men to Europe. I think we have an evidence of will, at least. This particular report made to and through McCarran is an interesting example of how some individuals and some groups attempt to mislead public opinion only late in that article and hidden was the admission made that the investigation covered only certain countries in the North Atlantic states and did not include either Britain or the Scandinavian countries. In other words, it excluded just those countries where communism has been most successfully conquered. It covered only those countries where it is still most right. That is an unfair kind of balance. I would like to take up one point Mr. Hughes made. He said there was a disaffection to the idea of fighting communism. I would say it's more accurate to say, and I think if you view the destruction of two wars in Europe in the last 30 years, there's a disaffection with the idea of fighting at the present time or at any time. Europe is tired, extremely tired, and I think that we Americans who are well fed and who are secure and have a high standard of living should have some consideration for the fact that Europe's recovery has been different. But I'd like to go a bit further, and that is that I'm not ashamed to say that one of the reasons I want to go to the support of Europe is based upon something that I can't prove by statistics, but it's a faith. Europe represents Western civilization. Europe represents everything that's come down in the Greek and Hebraic tradition through the Christian tradition of the last 2,000 years. And paramount among that, Europe has contributed to the West, the existence of a social and a political order that has led to the freedom, dignity, and integrity of the individual. And I, as an American, in 1951, am willing to take a gamble on that faith in what Europe represents. I share your faith in Europe to an extent, but by the same token, I want to call attention to the fact that many governments of Europe have moved so far to the left that they can almost be identified with communism. George Bernard Shaw himself, just before he died, called the British Fabian movement true communism. He said that he was among the spiritual leaders of world communism. And I think, as you pointed out, Eldridge, that the people of Europe retired, they don't want to fight. And until they do show the willingness to fight Russia and show it heavily, we'd be foolish to send ground troops over there. Well, now, Hughes has raised precisely the question that I wanted to put to you, Scott. Can the interests of these countries of Western Europe be sufficiently polarized to achieve strong, united cooperation with us? I think they are coming. Hughes thinks not, obviously. There is no question but what they are reluctant to fight. As we are reluctant to fight, it's a tragedy that the decisions in this conflict in the world can't be reached by other means than by fighting. But when the other fellow is armed to the teeth and will not listen to the arguments of reason, it's a little difficult to apply any method but fighting. At least man has not yet discovered how to do it. The Western Europeans, I believe, realize that, in general, as keenly as do the Americans. Perhaps the chief difference between Western Europe and the United States in this regard is that Western Europe realizes that she will be the battleground. Western Europeans do not want to see their countries devastated and then reconquered. We can hardly blame them for that. Therefore, they want before they commit themselves, they want before they spend vast sums of money on armament, to be absolutely sure that they're going to have the support of the United States immediately on the outbreak of conflict. not after they have fought and bled and been devastated for a year or two, as happened in World War I and as happened in World War II. If they can count on American support from the beginning, I think they will really have the will to fight. A recent report from France indicates what the French have been doing, and in the French, there is a strong Communist Party, but the majority is definitely non-Communist. The French have agreed to a budget for 1951 of a total of $7,471,000,000,000, of which approximately one-third goes for military purposes. That's an extremely high percentage. It's an extremely high sum of money for a France which has already been devastated and which is still reconstructing from the last war. Other countries show a similar willingness to participate to the extent of their ability. Isn't it true, though, Dr. Scott, that while the French budget may be a third, our budget is about 55 percent? Not for direct and immediate military expenses, no. It is much less than that. Proportionately, it is less than the French. Well, now, in pursuing this policy that you gentlemen are discussing, to what extent should it be identified with the United Nations? Now, you have made a commitment in that direction, I know, Eldridge. Well, of course, if I have any disagreement with American foreign policy in the last five years, it is on those occasions when the United States has bounced off unilaterally in various directions and not followed the course of the United Nations. I think, first of all, that we accepted at San Francisco an international commitment in the Charter of the United Nations. And if another country, the Soviet Union, chooses to violate this, it doesn't relieve the rest of the nations of the obligations they assumed. I think more than that, that the United Nations, where we have pursued the United Nations course, where we've used the pattern of the United Nations, where we've followed the principle of collective security in the United Nations in the last five years, we have succeeded. I think the principle of collective security is bankrupt. It's true we accepted a commitment in the United Nations at San Francisco, but we did it in an atmosphere of deceit. The United Nations has proved to be nothing except a debating society where our statesmen and our principles are excoriated by people like Vyshinsky. I think we ought to get out of the United Nations and we ought to get out now. Well, with regard to that particular issue, I think I would say that American policy should be, certainly, American policy first and foremost. The responsibility of the American people and the American government is primarily to the United States and its people. On the other hand, our own aims can best be attained through cooperation with the other peoples and the other states of the earth, not by independent action on our own. The United Nations has not been all that we have hoped to see in, but it has been something, and it has, for the first time in history, taken united action immediately and vigorously in Korea last July against a common aggressor. With regard to the present moment, perhaps there are just three points that I think specifically ought to be mentioned with regard to our own foreign policy. With regard to Korea, we must stay until and unless the cost of staying becomes excessive. Then we should withdraw. Second, with regard to Red China's admission to the United Nations, we cannot admit Red China as long as she is pursuing a policy of aggression. But when and if the Chinese Red Government assumes the responsibilities and the principles of the United Nations, then admit her. With regard to Western Europe, aid her in her economy and her defense as long as the common interest demands. That gives us Scott's program. What is yours, Hughes? Mine is simple. Get rid of the communists and fellow travelers in our government. Sign peace treaties with the conquered nations. Withdraw our military forces from Europe and send them munitions when they show a will to fight. Build the greatest air force in this nation the world has ever seen. Guard our own resources and treasure as Mr. Hoover says we must. Cut non-military spending by the federal government exactly in half this year and next year let's cut it in half again. Get out of the United Nations and get out now. I would like to say that Mr. Hughes has made a great point of serving the best interests of the United States in his foreign policy. And I want to go on record as saying that I reject this position because I emphatically do not think it will serve the best interests of the United States. I'm afraid that Eldridge is correct on that point. We live in a world of interaction and interrelationships. We cannot live isolated and by ourselves. Mr. Hoover thinks that we still have moats around us. Yes, we do have moats that are probably defensible by Air Force and by Navy. We cannot thus defend ourselves against ideas. I think Mr. Hoover made a good point when he said that atom bombs do not transport troops. Our experience in Korea has shown how effective moats can be. Eldridge? Well, I would like to say that of course in discussing the question of what you can do in Korea and what you can do with the Soviet Union in a military sense you have two different problems. I'm not qualified to discuss either one of them. But I again return to the main thesis that I think the 20th century the historical forces all the things that have happened in the 20th century that grow out of centuries before demand that there must be in our time some form of international organization and some form of international cooperation. I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion The Alternatives in American Foreign Policy. Our guests today were James A. Eldridge Frank L. Hughes and Franklin D. Scott. You can secure a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. One dollar will bring the reviewing stand into your home for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year. Write to The Reviewing Stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. That address again The Reviewing Stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Next week The Reviewing Stand will consider the question Are the public schools doing their job? Our guests will be Wilbur Helm National First Vice President of the Friends of the Public Schools of America Eldridge T. McSwain Dean of the University College Northwestern University Lloyd S. Michael Superintendent of the Evanston Township High School and George B. Christensen Attorney and Partner of the firm of Winston Strawn Shaw and Black Chicago We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of Are the public schools doing their job? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast as a public service. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.