We take you now to Idlewild International Airport. ...coordination at this time. Will the public works chauffeurs please meet Mr. Osborne at the end of the hangar here, as you face the hangar on the right side of the hangar. As you face the hangar on the right side, the public works chauffeurs. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelitieri, is host this evening out here on this great plain at Idlewild Airport to the general of the army, Douglas McArthur. We have seen the development of air facilities in New York City from the early beginnings of Floyd Bennett Field. At that time, we thought Floyd Bennett was a vast undertaking. And then came LaGuardia Airport. And now, finally, it seemed only a few months back that we were out here at Idlewild Airport for the dedication ceremonies at that time. Again, we visit the same spot tonight, and everything is attuned to the reception to the general of the army, Douglas McArthur. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelitieri, has made every possible arrangement to assure General McArthur that his homecoming here to New York City is a token of gratitude and appreciation for a great man. It was just 14 years ago that General McArthur was married in the municipal building and went to the Philippine Islands as Governor General, and his young son, Arthur McArthur, was born in the Philippines and is getting his first look at his native country on this return visit of his father and mother to New York City at this time. The mayor's committee, under the able leadership of the Honorable Grove Ray Whelan, carrying out the wishes of Mayor Impelitieri, has made every possible effort to see that this reception will be an epoch-making reception in a history of receptions to distinguished guests in our great and wondrous city of New York. In front of the City Hall today, everything was in full preparation for the festivities which will be held there tomorrow when the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelitieri, grants the freedom of the city to General McArthur, and he has tended the courtesies there of the city of New York by the mayor representing the people of the city of New York. It's a very interesting thing indeed to watch the progress of these events and to see the changes that take place from time to time which so clearly denote the expansions and the progress of our great city. We've spoke at these airports. I remember at the time of the dedication of Idlewild, we never even saw the administration building all the ten days we were out here because we were almost five miles away from it. And the end of the field on which most of that particular dedication ceremony took place just a few seasons back, it gave us some idea of the vastness and the expansion of air travel. And Idlewild Airport, New York Airport to be exact, is certainly an indication not only of the problems which the city has to meet and solve, but as to the expansion and development of aviation as well. And today when General McArthur arrives at this great airport with his lady Mrs. McArthur and his young son Arthur McArthur, they will get some idea indeed of the changes that have taken place even in 14 years in New York City, changes greater possibly that have taken places in centuries in other parts of the world. Because at this time, due to technology and the technocracies that have been developed, it is an easy matter indeed to constantly meet situations that prevail and make changes that are amazing overnight it seems. This airport itself is an extremely dramatic spot for an occasion of this kind. The various twinkling lights and the signals which we couldn't hope to thoroughly understand and the various atmosphere that prevails while planes are being dispatched to all parts of the world and coming in from all parts of the world, the skimming around of motorcycles, bearing messages from one end of this vast field to the other, to at least the active part where the mayor's committee is assembled here at Idlewild, gives us some idea of the situations that have to be met and met successfully. The police arrangements are absolutely perfect here at Idlewild and General MacArthur will thoroughly understand that discipline is carried to its fullest extent in the training of the police department to meet vast occasions of this kind. General MacArthur is on the ground now and we're just waiting for such a time as the gangplank will wheel up and the plane will be taxied into the spot here about 15 feet from where I am standing and that will be a great moment indeed. We can hear the engine there in the background but so far it is quite far away from where I am actually working and it'll be a few moments before the plane actually comes into view here. We have the cooperation of the Port Authority in keeping us thoroughly informed. He landed at 9.16. The official landing time was 9.16 at Idlewild which is the information just given us by the Port Authority. Now the plane as you know after it makes a safe landing for the benefit of those of people who are not familiar with the technique of an airport it has to be gently and gradually taxied to the spot where the formalities will take place that have been arranged for by the mayor of the city of New York to impress General MacArthur with the idea that he is heartily welcome home and he indeed will be mightily impressed with what has taken place in New York in the short space of 14 years. And now the plane is coming up and I have the cooperation of the Port Authority officials in getting directions from them as the plane is coming into sight. And now we're just watching very... How far back would you say he is? I mean just for the sake of giving the idea of the radio audience of the vastness. He's still a mile and a half away according to one of the authorities at the field here. We can just see the twinkling lights and the moment the expectancy of the crowd here and the guests that have been invited out here by the mayor to be part of the reception to General MacArthur in his first landing here in New York City is only a very light overture to what will take place in New York City tomorrow when the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri is the host at that very historical building the City Hall that has seen almost the complete development of the great city of New York and the great government that it is called upon to meet the situations which it does. There's a very beautiful clear moon right over here ahead here at Idlewild and that seems to mean that the weatherman is going to be a good citizen tomorrow and give us a typical Grover Whelan day for a reception. Inspector Byrne from the Telegraph Bureau and Communications of Police Headquarters is busy around here seeing that everything is ship shape as far as communications are concerned and now our friend from the Port Authority tells us he's about a mile away. Of course you understand the plane is on the ground and this element of time means that the plane is taxiing. He landed at Idlewild at 916 and we're just gently watching this huge ship the Bataan being gently we might say wafted up here on the ground with all essence of its speed and grandeur completely dismissed in favor of safety and the proper maneuvering to get it to the spot where Mr. Whelan and the Mayor's Committee has arranged that it will locate for the formalities of reception. Oh yes I can actually see the plane now I could just barely see the lights and know from the information that was pointed out to me by our friend from the Port Authority I haven't even had time to ask him his name but he's been most cooperative in telling us and here it comes now we can see absolutely the outline of the ship as it passes other lights that form a silhouette and we can get some idea the white lights grouped on the front of the ship and she looks very beautiful coming in there and the very pace the slow pace makes us think of a great dramatic moment in a production of some kind as though it was solemnly in procession to declare a great event and a great occasion which this evening at Idlewild most surely is. Again we like to say that contrary to some of the reports we received by radio the police arrangements here are the calmest in the world everybody's smiling nothing is out of place and we're getting a complete orderly setup to receive the general of the army General MacArthur the Honorable Vincent Impeloteri mayor of the city of New York has been here for some time he was very anxious to get out here he's had many engagements this evening he still has to go back to a testimonial dinner at the Hotel Plaza in New York but being mayor of New York means that you almost have to be everywhere at once and on an occasion like this why we couldn't possibly miss this greeting to General MacArthur although he will be his formal host tomorrow at City Hall he's leaving the runway now and coming right into the taxi position here and right here on the ground is a large circle with a square circle superimposed on it which will actually locate the gangplank and here are the lights actually blinding me now as the baton is coming right toward me and if it wasn't for the fact that we know how wonderfully under control these machines are we'd almost be inclined to run yes there's an absolute rule that you must stop smoking nobody must smoke from now on since the plane is adjacent to the balconies and galleries here where the press movies television my what a beautiful sight that is you can see her riding lights the red she's swinging around now I could almost reach up and touch it with my hand and it's coming into position getting that side position and then the attendants at the field of course will wheel up that gangplank and then the dramatic moment will come when the general himself will appear in the doorway with Mrs. MacArthur and Arthur MacArthur and now just a few of the propellers are operating I say a few because there are four on the ship and here can you hear the propellers one wing of the plane is directly over my head now and it's poised right here and there's the open hatch door and in a few moments the gangplank will wheel up and all the drama of this situation will be in full play and now here's the gangplank going in beautifully decorated with red white and blue bunting and we're moving our microphone over now to the foot of the gangplank with the cooperation of the police department and might I say that the regulations here tonight the police regulations have been most perfect pleasant enjoyable everybody smiling because New York knows that the law has to be obeyed and it is through the medium of law an organization that these things have form and quality and now the gangplank is being placed there's a nade in the doorway there we're just waiting now for the it's moving right up to the plane barely touching and now we're moving the microphone we're walking along with it and we'll get over to the gangplank a little closer as soon as the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeloteri the Honorable Grove Ray Whalen and the members of the mayor's committee who have come here to honor the general of the army Douglas MacArthur the band is moving over into position now that's the first army band is it Mr. DeProspo yeah the first army band in those wonderful new uniforms that we saw for the first time in front of City Hall just a few months back and here's the cheers now here he is General MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur coming down the gangplank and they seem a little bit and there's little Arthur MacArthur with a white peak cap on and the same red corduroy suit that they spoke about out in San Francisco it isn't red corduroy it's a satin we're moving the microphones up now we can't be rude we have to be a little bit careful and we'll get it in position in a few moments Mrs. Impeloteri now is taking her place in the social scene can I get by Mr. Cameraman just a moment Mrs. Impeloteri has just handed the beautiful red roses to Mrs. MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur is holding the beautiful red roses and the general is shaking hands everybody seems to want to shake his hand at once and we'll have now Mayor Impeloteri has just shaken hands with Douglas MacArthur and we'll forget all the titles and the 19 guns it's 17 guns isn't it 17 guns salute is now in progress Mrs. Impeloteri looks so charming she has just given the bouquet of roses to Mrs. MacArthur a little Arthur MacArthur here in a white peak how are you Arthur just say hello hi thank you here's Arthur MacArthur say hello hello Arthur MacArthur made his debut at Idlewild and that is his first look at New York his father's city the city where his father and mother were married and we're just waiting now get Mr. Whaler this with the parcel will you could I get in with the microphone please Mr. Whalen the radio Mr. Whalen the radio Robert Robert General you know the audience of the press General welcome home I want you to raise the garbage we've got them chained up there Mr. Whalen is conferring now with General MacArthur and in a few moments the formalities of this occasion will take place get out of the way of the cameras for a minute because they want to get pictures I beg your pardon I'm moving the mic now we're getting pictures now go ahead cameras Mayor Impeletere has a big broad smile and now the entire company here is most happy and pleasant ladies and gentlemen the mayor of the city of New York the honorable Vincent Impeletere General MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur your boy distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the city of New York it's my great pleasure as mayor of this wonderful city to come out here to Idlewild Airport and to tell General MacArthur that the people of their city through me extend to him a very very cordial welcome this is only a sampling general of what the people of our city intend to do for you tomorrow in my judgment from present indications this will be the biggest the best and the warmest parade that the city of New York has ever witnessed that will demonstrate to you general that the people of our city hold you in very high esteem I as their mayor am very happy to bid you welcome to our city tonight and now ladies and gentlemen the general of the army Douglas MacArthur I cannot tell you we have a job will you kindly observe a little prodigal I cannot tell you how heartwarming is this very splendid welcome when we reach the city of New York we know we've come home good night Mrs. MacArthur we just we want to get that cable Mrs. Impeletary yeah and now you've heard general MacArthur is very short and very happy speech that he's back in New York City it's quite amazing how much little Arthur MacArthur resembles his mother and there's no doubt about the relationship when you see the two faces so close together Mrs. MacArthur is very beautifully gown in a purple costume a deep shade of purple with a velvet jacket purple flowers carrying the lovely bouquet of roses you're very kind say a word Mrs. MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur well it's a great pleasure to be here thank you so much thank you it's a great privilege to have you here with us and now the lovely red roses contrast so beautifully with the purple of Mrs. MacArthur's costume a beautiful lady who is very happy indeed at this homecoming to New York City after 14 years of absence and Mrs. MacArthur will be amazed at the changes that have taken place in New York in just 14 years and will give her some idea of the responsibilities of a great city like New York the cameramen are very demanding they're talking and ordering General MacArthur around in a way that he never dared order an army but now Mr. Whalen is conducting the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri to the review of the troops who are an honor guard here at the Idlewild Airport now I'm quite far away from what's taking place down there but I'll try to keep you interested in what is taking place at such moment as this entire affair concludes here at Idlewild Airport the mayor has conducted General MacArthur now down to the spot where the distinguished guests who form the mayor's committee are engaged in meeting General MacArthur personally a great many of them know him personally and it certainly is a heartfelt and a heartwarming welcome at this time I'm getting too close to the loudspeakers I'll have to get back we're taking the loudspeakers out huh no we can't take a mic down there it's too far away the leads won't go down that far and now there's a real reception taking place down there and I never saw anyone with a happier expression of face than Mrs. MacArthur may I again describe how beautiful she looks yes we can take it down we'll find we'll lengthen the cable get more cable on it will you we're going down now to where the occasion is and no he's moving away we won't have to bother now he did come over though to personally visit with the press we're in a very specially arranged balcony here beautifully designed and laid out draped with the colors of red white and blue and it really is a beautiful sight here in this immense hangar the number five hangar at Idlewild Airport General MacArthur landed at 916 this evening and came in on runway number 22 we had the cooperation of the port authority in getting all this intimate detail and material that was so important and really and truly I do wish it was possible for me to use the words that would describe the picture of that beautiful ship at ease there after having performed its amazing journey all the way from Japan to the very spot where we now view it right under its very wing here at Idlewild Airport the gangplank again draped in the colors of the United States the red white and blue our great and wonderful country is being moved away from the plane now the plane itself silvery and beautiful with the flag of the United States on the wing of the back part of the ship there I don't know the actual nickname for it I'd call it a rudder but that sounds a little bit too seaman-like and it just looks now as though everything that could be done to make General MacArthur welcome here at New York City is about completed now here's the First Army Band and I certainly won't talk against that Ace of Inc.ами who 넌 will break up to um but he didn't Spring first and come with me we can see it again where you can see it again and come with me go with me You just heard the official ruffles to General MacArthur. There'll be more music a little later. Now more music to First Army Van. General MacArthur is walking out to review the troops. He's making a formal review now. He's passing right beside us now. He really looks very marvelous. He looks amazingly rested, amazingly spied. And the very radio itself will attest to the fact that he has had very little rest if we're any knowledge of the amount of broadcasting that he has put over the air since the time that he left Japan. He's reviewing the Honor Guard now here at Idlewild Airport. And what a beautiful sight this is out here tonight in the bright moonlight. The vast expanse of Idlewild Airfield. And in the distance, the planes landing, the planes taking off, the twinkling of lights, the magnificent jewels of red and green, which are the signals of stop and go, and the scintillating white lights that are also riding lights of an ordinary plane in its procession through the air, as well as its landing. General MacArthur is now going through the last formation of ranks here in the review. His flag, the five-star flag of a general, is being exhibited and held by an honor guard. And the flag of our own United States, the wonderful red, white, and blue, is side by side with the flag of the First Army. Now the review is about completed, and he's coming back to a point of attention in front of the guests. But those very imperial newspaper men are insisting, newspaper photographers, I should say, are insisting that they get... Here's the band. The general salutes. Of all the occasions we've ever had of events in New York City, I don't think anything has ever equaled the splendor and the beauty of this reception here at Idlewild this evening. The vastness of the thing bespeaks the very vastness of the concept of the people and the minds of New York City, this great, wonderful imperial city of commercial and grandeur and all the things that mean the consummation and the result of the efforts of man to build this great and wonderful city. And now we're going to get out of the way because there's going to be a review here now. We're moving our microphone into a point where we can clear the roadway for the cars to take place and that the general will be on his way. We hope to a little rest before the great duties of tomorrow start in and we'll get some idea then, or at least he will, of what it means to visit New York and be received by this great and wonderful city and put through the paces. Chief Inspector Flath is going along there now with some movements, commands to the police department, and we'd like to pay tribute to the police department tonight for the wonderful arrangements which they've made here. Everything is pleasant. Even we who have a job to do, sometimes we get a little order, sometimes it's peremptory, but we understand and appreciate the responsibilities of the police, especially in a matter of this kind. And I didn't have my badge properly exposed and he finally said, Where's your card? Is that my card out there, John, laying on the ground? I think I dropped it. Huh? I'll give you another one. Okay. I mean, I might have trouble with the police if I can. Have you got another one with you? I think I dropped it when I picked the mic up. Thanks so much. There's the band. I won't talk against that wonderful music. Thank you. I long ago. I love you. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End I Would Hasten To Thy Side Homing Teresa Del Riego's beautiful song that was sung so much even in the early days of radio and it's epitomized here tonight. It goes to show that no matter how the vanities may expand or no matter what may happen, we come down to the simplicity of being human beings with the heart tug and the heartfelt warmth and love for the things that mean so much, that mean love itself. And surely, the famous old song itself covers that subject so beautifully and every great primadonna that could ever sing has made the most of There's No Place Like Home. From Adelina Patty right down to the present day. There's still a great deal of hands shaking and greeting and it seems as though everybody hates to move away. The scene is so beautiful, no doubt some artists are out here to capture the graphic beauty of this setting. Uppermost of all is the moon in the blue sky above Idlewild. The silver plane that catches in its silvery brilliance, the reflections of the moon, the beautiful ruby lights of these motorcycles, the magnificence of these automobiles, some of them privately owned, some of them city cars that are part of the cavalcade that will escort General MacArthur back to New York City. Mr. Whelan now is shaking hands. No, Mr. Whelan's going to get in the car. It looks as though General MacArthur asked him to get in the car and he's taking his place and here's the motorcycles. The cavalcade is moving and General MacArthur is on his way home to New York, the greatest city in the world, the greatest city to come back to no matter where you go, no matter where you roam. Home sweet home, New York. And now with just a little bit more of the atmosphere of the motorcycles escorting the cavalcade, the music of the First Army Band from Governor's Island, the moon shining brightly in the heavens, everything that could be done to make this a memorable, a magnificent, historical evening has been achieved by Mayor Vincent Impelitari, Mayor of the City of New York, and the able chairmanship of the Honorable Grover A. Whelan in carrying out the mayor's wishes. And that's about all we can give you now from Idlewild and exalted and inspired, we take leave of you from this great airfield, the New York airport, known as Idlewild, and we take leave of you and say good night, good luck, and God bless America. This is the municipal broadcasting system.