Moving out of the port of Sherberg. That fell on June 26th, didn't it? That's right. And then with General Patton, we moved on to St. Lowe. Remember that town? That's where we broke through, wasn't it? Like a ton of bricks. And the Nazis' defense in the west collapsed like an old accordion. The supermen just fell apart. That was on July 18th, 1944. And the American forces shot across France like an uncoiled spring. On August 15th, the Allies invaded southern France. The great pincer movement against Hitler began. Avranche, Le Mans, Chartres. Cities dropped like ripe plums into our hands. And on August 25th, I remember the day, because on it I got my first German sniper, Paris was liberated. And in the east during those days, victories were coming thick and fast. On August 31st, the Red Army rolled through Bucharest. On September 4th, Finland gave up the fight. On October 18th, the Red Army plunged into Czechoslovakia. And on the following day, the invasion of East Prussia began. The battle was at last on German soil. And during those days, mister, I was outside of a city called Aiken. I had Hitler's inner fortress and my gun sights at last. And I peered through them, and I thought of the deserts of Africa. I thought of the hungry people in Sicily and Italy. I thought of North France and Paris. I thought of all the anguish and pain the New World Order had caused. And I took careful aim before I fired. And it was there, outside a German city, that I came to a more profound understanding of my rifle. What do you mean, soldier? It was the stretcher bearers again who did it. They were carrying a young kid, I remember. And they passed close to me, and I could hear the kid crying and calling, Mama. Mama. I couldn't get it out of my mind. All at once, I held my Browning automatic tight and whispered, Look at him, baby. And don't forget him. You can put an end to things like that happening. You can stop it better than anything else. And all at once, I realized that I was much more important than the statesman who made speeches. How? Don't you see? With my rifle, I put the periods and the exclamation points to the things they said. I was the guy who made their words mean something. Words don't kill. It's bullets. And bullets were the only things that could smash fascism. Don't get me wrong. I think their speeches were necessary. They still are. But they needed me to ban the point home. You took the city of Aachen on October 20th, 1944. Yeah. We entered the Garden of the Third Reich. And here, once again, I saw what fascism can do to people. What, soldier? It had twisted them so much by lies, by stirring up prejudices, that truth could only breathe in a prison. It wasn't real in the beginning. These Germans resented us. Why did we declare war on them, they asked? Why did we commit such atrocities on them, they added? It was like an amazing story, you know. The men from Mars stuff. Imagine it. We. We committing atrocities. And we'd just marched across a Europe they'd left in ruins. You saw a lot in your newsreel, didn't you? Yeah, enough for a dozen lifetimes. You saw the beginning of the great winter offensive on the Western Front, didn't you? Yeah, I saw it. I gave my periods and exclamation points to it. On December 3rd, you crossed the Saar River. Yeah, we got across. We dug in and then we got hit. Hit? Yeah. Ever hear of the Battle of the Belgian Bulge? It took us two weeks to stop them. That was Christmas. Peace on earth. Goodwill toward men. To democratic men. Not to murderous Nazis. The new year broke. It came up with tremendous power and new hope. And a sense of victory was in the air. In the Wilhelmstrasse there was a tension. For in the east, just outside of Warsaw, a mammoth red army lay crouched and ready. And on January 12th, 1945, under Marshal Shukov, soldiers of that army struck. They captured Warsaw on the 17th. They plunged across the Polish plains and on the 21st crossed into German Silesia. And on the 29th they invaded Pomerania. The year began big. It began big, all right. On February 4th, the big three met again. At Yalta this time. And they planned the last great offensive. I was in it. It began on February 23rd, 1945. We crossed the Roar River and drove toward the Rhine. Funny, when I say it calm and ordinary like that, I don't see anything. It's just a date, a number. I don't feel anything. What makes you feel something, soldier? A word. What word? On March 7th, 1945, we crossed the Rhine. And the flood tide of Nazism receded. And it laid bare. What? Another fruit of fascism. The most evil of all. And that one is? Slaves. Slave labor, mister. Concentration camps and death. Tell us about them. No. Everything in its place. Everything has to come in order. I can't jump or skip anywhere. I've got to come to it in order so that the whole picture can be seen. The way I saw it. Each little thing adding up until the end. The full horror of the system that wanted to conquer the world. It sinks all the way in. I got a message. I tried to tell you why. I want everybody to know it the way I know it before I get home. All right, soldier. You crossed the Rhine on March 7th. Yeah. A million Siegfrieds on a Rhine journey. Give me music here. Make it something out of Wagner. It took us seven days to smash the defenses of the Sarlan. And then we began to see those pretty German towns the tourists used to talk about. They all had statues. Can you beat it? Statues of poets sometimes. Of kings and soldiers most of the times. And they all had slaves. Russians. Frenchmen. Bulgarians. Poles. Try to understand that. They weren't guys working for pay. They were slaves. When they first saw us, they just stared and tried to talk. But their emotion was too great. And they were sick and hungry. It got so I couldn't bear looking at them. But I made myself do it. Why? So that I'd never forget. I was seeing the rewards of fascism. I was seeing the New World Order in operation. I no longer fired at Nazi soldiers because that's what I was supposed to do. I was firing to wipe out a rottenness in the world. You can stop the music now. We cut across Germany like a knife through butter. By the end of March, our commander, General Eisenhower, announced that the German defense line in the west had been broken. And we drove clear to the Elbe River. Anglo-American forces reached the Elbe in April. And in the east, the Red Army mounted its last great offensive along the Oder River, 40 miles from Berlin. It was the citadel of Nazism that was the target at last. After six years of war, after six years of the Nazi boot ringing out in Europe, their heart city was under fire. And it fell on May 3, 1945. And when it fell, the entire Nazi structure collapsed with it. The surrenders began. They came up whole regiments and armies, dumping their rifles in the public squares, in the fields. Supermen no longer. If this was the twilight of the gods, they were a sorry lot of gods then. Not only the surrenders began, but the suicides. Nazi goerlighters, burgomasters, and the great self-executions. Hitlers and Goebbels fascists always come to such an end. Where they are alone and must die either by their own hand or by the peoples. For only war can sustain them in power, and defeat turns them into outlaws. The End So it's done now. A victory is complete. But the newsreel isn't over. What else is there? The meaning of it all. The meaning of what we did, what we destroyed. You see, I saw a belt in Buchenwald. I saw the mass graves, the lime pits, the human beings lying there in those barracks like living skeletons. Fascism has made a monument of corpse in the world. It has brought death and destruction to millions. It leaped into the world like an assassin, and like an assassin killed and burned before it could be broken. This mustn't happen again. That's what I want to say. This credo, this program of ambush against the world must never rise again. I said democracy was the eighth wonder of the world. It is more than that. It is the hope of all men. Only on democracy can the future be built strong. The End So it is done now. The guns are silent. The last wisp of smoke drifts across the sky. Yet it is not completely done, for there are more battles to be fought, more enemies to face, and our American dead will lie in many foreign soils. Through them, through these young men from this vast United States, we are bound to all lands. For where one of them lies, there is America. They died so that the democratic power can hold ascendancy over the earth. They died so that men might walk free in future generations. They died so that the world might have a new birth of brotherhood. So from these honored dead, we must take increased devotion to the cause for which they gave their last full measure of devotion. that this nation under God shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth. The man who cleans them and threw them against the land, and no- The End
