Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I cannot be with you at Carnegie Hall, but by means of radio, I would like to welcome you to the first concert in WNYC's ninth annual American Music Festival. All of us are proud of our city station's annual spotlighting of music by Americans. This eleven-day period between the birthdays of Lincoln and Washington, devoted to American music, is a magnificent expression of the cultural heritage of our democracy. It is especially fitting that the official station of the city of New York should so honor in its annual American Music Festival the musical contributions of Americans of every racial extraction and belief. For here in New York, perhaps more so than in any city in the world, we have benefited from the genius of people from every corner of the earth. That this city should have been chosen for the permanent site of the United Nations is itself an indication that here in New York City, the spiritual atmosphere aids achievement for humanity. New York was built by the hearts, hands and minds of many who gave their best to a dream of freedom. Thus it was inevitable that this city should become the political and cultural center of the whole world. That New York City's own broadcasting system should reflect our city's importance in the universal pattern was equally inevitable. We New Yorkers who want to witness history in the making welcome the exclusive complete broadcasts of all United Nations open meetings over WNYC and WNYC-FM. We also look forward to the programs of American music which are annually presented during the WNYC Festival. These two events are unequaled in radio. In welcoming you, I should also like to thank the Commanding General of the Military District of Washington for making available to us the splendid United States Army Band under Captain Hugh Cain. Captain Hugh Curry. To the members of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, I am also grateful, because without their cooperation, these programs could not be presented. To all those who give of their time and talent to make the ninth American Music Festival the memorable listening experience it will be for all of us, I send my greetings. Now, on with the festival and the music of the United States Army Band.