One of the most pulsating spots anywhere in the world is the front stoop here, the old porch on Borough Hall, Brooklyn. You look down into a sea of faces toward the East River, right down that greater plaza that's going to be the civic center here in Brooklyn eventually. When the alterations are necessary and the removal of the old and affectionate parts of Brooklyn make way for the new, and countless thousands, I won't say millions because we're always supposed to be exaggerating on the radio, but with the tapes of the various networks here recording for news broadcasts a little later in the evening on the networks, why everything here is bubbling and sizzling and just waiting for those Dodgers to arrive in the personal custody of the great gentleman of Brooklyn, the Honorable John Cashmore, its borough president. He'll be here shortly. They're making a very triumphant but slow progress down Flatbush Avenue, and in due time they'll come to the back door of Borough Hall so they can make a more peaceable and better entrance, because if you ever upset this huge crowd here at Borough Hall, Brooklyn, to welcome the Dodgers as they intend to do and will do when they get here, why it'll be just too bad. So they'll slip in back there by the municipal building there which faces the back of Borough Hall, and they'll be welcomed here on the porch of Borough Hall, now undergoing repairs and a face lifting after years and years of service, facing as it does the great old downtown section of Brooklyn and Brooklyn Heights. There's possibly no more interesting section of the country anywhere in the world than this Brooklyn Heights, just across from the early colonial settlements of New Amsterdam and the early British colonies here in New York, and finally the great government of New York which started at Nassau on Wall Street. Well, Nassau Street's in New York and Orange Street is here in Brooklyn. Orange Street was the scene of Henry Ward Beecher's church and his great fight for the end of slavery, and the American has always understood that there was nothing to be gained from slavery but the inconvenience and the doubt of it. And here on Orange Street and one end of the Amsterdam and Nassau household, because, you know, the Royal House of Orange and Nassau are the ruling factors in the government of Holland which took its early beginnings into Amsterdam from the ancient land of Holland, which has always understood the idea of freedom. And one of the greatest freedoms in the world is the way the people here in Brooklyn express their admiration for their great and only ball team, the Dodgers. Well, the Dodgers are not going to have the slightest bit of doubt when they face this sea of faces. I look over there at the old Arbuckle building, a relic of the past, but it's coming down to make way for the progress of the new Brooklyn that's sure to follow eventually. And crowded in between all this construction and reassembling of the assets and the qualities of Brooklyn itself is this tremendous sea of faces. It looks as though there's some activity now toward the back of us here in Borough Hall. Of course, we can't see that because we're way around here on the front under this pillared portico of Borough Hall, and we're just waiting as anxiously as anybody else because we have no visibility on the rear entrance of Borough Hall, and we're just hoping and waiting that the Dodgers get here on time because we want to get as much airtime as we can because we have to leave the air at 4 o'clock in order to cooperate with United Nations. Some planes are going over now, but of course, that's a customary sound here in Brooklyn because we're so near LaGuardia Field and Idlewild and all the other transportation features that make Brooklyn one of the most active, scenic, and interesting parts of the great and wondrous city of New York. The fire department band has been entertaining us, and Honorary Deputy Chief George Briegel might be induced to play a tune for us now if George will play a tune for the radio while we're waiting for the Borough President to escort his team in while we listen to this splendid musical organization, which just crossed the bridge so hurriedly after welcoming the American Legion post over there, the Fife and Drum Corps that won the prize there, as well as the Ladies Auxiliary of the American Legion for the Borough of Queens that won the Glee Club Award at Philadelphia. Well, Philadelphia and New York are still tied together as they were patriotically, but we're in Brooklyn now. We're going to listen to some wonderful music from the fire department band. Honorary Deputy Chief George F. Briegel. All right, Maestro Briegel. Oh! Am I right here? Come on. Let's do it. In the United States, Joe started the parade standalone woman from Isaiah No, you drinking the helped us move Putting our friends Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we're going to put up another wonderful stand here. He's the Max Reinhardt of these productions and he arranges these stands. And certainly everyone in Brooklyn and the arrangements that public works is made. Commissioner Valenti sitting right over here beside me. The arrangements Public Works has made will certainly expose all the Dodgers to the compliments of the crowd here, and they'd better be compliments because with a crowd like this, they'll certainly, and in the vantage point they're in, they'll have to be enthusiastic about it and be in the point to cause enthusiasm because if a crowd like this ever turned on them, they're beautifully exposed and they just couldn't take it with the arrangements that have been made here. But they'll get a wonderful view of the entire team spread across the front of the portico here at Borough Hall, Brooklyn. The rostrum in the center, of course, will take care of the chairman, will make the introductions, and Borough President Cashmore will have his hands full handling this huge party here in Brooklyn. We're just waiting anxiously now. You know, it takes company a long time to get the wraps off and get settled, and, you know, when the doorbell rings and you're expecting company, it's a long time before they finally get in and say hello, and that's the way it is here now. And we're waiting expectantly, and this crowd isn't missing a trick. There's a little bit of anxious movement in the police department here. The police arrangements are perfect here in Brooklyn, as they always are, because the police know how to handle the situation in New York City, and it's all smiles and pleasant, even though there are so many, many, many thousands of people. I can imagine people being anxious with less experience than New York City has in these matters, but everything is pleasant and going along and smilingly. There's a police who are maintaining perfect regulation. There's nothing rough or unpleasant about it. Everybody knows their place and where that place is, and I hear a lot of motors buzzing back there. What do you suppose it is? And now we're looking for Gladys Gooding. We ought to page her on the loudspeakers. Gladys Gooding. The only ladies around here are charming policewomen. Oh, they found her. Gladys Gooding is here for the Star-Spangled Banner. You're going to sing the anthem, aren't you, Gladys? Good. Gladys Gooding. Say hello, Gladys. Gladys. What do you think of this celebration, Gladys? Well, I'm about the happiest gal in town, thank you. Why wouldn't you be? I think it's wonderful. What team do you represent? Oh, no, the Dodgers. Quiet, please. I don't come from Boston. I do come from St. Louis, but I'm representing the Dodgers today. I think you're better than everybody else around here. If you didn't represent the Dodgers, you'd better dodge and dodge quick. Then I would. Yep. Well, that's fine. You're going to sing the anthem for us, are you? That's right. Good. Well, now we've got the Star-Spangled Lady here, and that's always a sign that something's going to happen. I wish President Cashmore would get out here and satisfy this anxious crowd. They're taking pictures. You know that bunch over there on that side are getting a view of what's happening back there, and we can't see a darn thing. Oh, yeah. I think the newsreel men are tricking that one up. Just imagine a crowd like that if it wasn't friendly to you. Ooh, I can't imagine such a thing. The wonderful, neighborly, friendly spirit of Brooklyn is epitomized here in this huge assemblage here in Borough Hall today. And I hate to see our radio time evaporating because 15 minutes of it is already gone, and nothing's happened here yet to make this available to the radio audience. I wish they could do something to speed it up back there. John, do you suppose you could send anybody back there to hurry things up? We're going with the United Nations at 4 o'clock, and it's essential that we do that. And yet, I don't know how we're ever going to snub the wonderful event here in Brooklyn. It'll take a United Nations to get us out of that, I guess, if we do. Well, the United Nations is only an athletic attitude towards politics because we're learning to talk it over and take it out in a fair and friendly contest because that's what the athlete does. He has great strength, he has great power, but he only uses it for the support of something, never for the destruction of anything. In making a record, he inspires all the youngsters who are coming up. And you know how those tiny little kids yet that can't run very far or even walk too fast. They all look up to the athletic hero, and they have an imitation and an aspiration and an inspiration to look forward to. And that's just exactly what athletics does for life itself. And the United Nations is developing that wonderful spirit in the world scene whereby we'll talk things over and reach a common ground of understanding. Communications has annihilated space. There's no point to pointing to any particular spot as being too far away or unacquainted now because things happen in a few hours. The facility with which we hop oceans now and do all those sorts of things are quite amazing. And in a world like that, we've got to get together. We've got to live together. Are we near ready? Yeah, we're waiting. Everyone, will you hurry it? We're losing time. Looks as though we've got to speed it up now. Something's going to happen. We're not sure now. If he brings Borough President Cashmore out in the Dodgers, I think we'll get him a medal here at Borough Hall. I hate to see our radio time vanishing. We're waiting now. It's a very expecting moment. And if only the face of the Borough President, I see Emerson Radio's coming through. This is not a commercial. I think they're prizes of some kind. Well, the photographers are coming out. Apparently, there's nothing inside to take anymore, so they'll just come and take the outside pictures. John, do you think you can hurry anybody up in there? I'll try, Tom. See if I can. Yeah. Yeah. We're down almost nothing now on radio time. And what's going to happen if we don't carry this on the radio? I'll be afraid to go back to New York. It's very hard to predict these great public functions because, after all, the enthusiasm of the crowd and the neighborly spirit of a wonderful borough like Brooklyn that's had the longest and most enduring neighborly attitude because it was the great borough that developed after Manhattan had the start on the tip end there with the early Dutch settlers. And we know that even in the colonial days, a great many of them crossed the rivers and founded the old Dutch colonies here in Brooklyn. And Brooklyn and Manhattan have always been very closely wedded. The other boroughs have come in later and developed with remarkable speed and alacrity and expertness, but Brooklyn has been established so long and has been so friendly and so neighborly that we just seem to hold that spirit no matter what happens. It looks to me now as though, oh, here they are. Here they come. Listen to that crowd. Here's the borough president. Borough president Cashmore. This is it. This is it. This is a great популяр education. This is a great 56 per video. It's a great opportunity to have a lot of kids to havetaraval. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the party's on, and we want to present Mr. Dowden, who is the chairman of today's event, and he'll make the introductions. Mr. Dowden. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you understand that we were not given the okay on this affair until early yesterday morning, after the gang got in and got a little settled. And in that short time, we were able to arrange this affair. But we could have done nothing without the great help and cooperation of the police department of the city of New York. And we want to, we also want to thank the fire department band that's here with us, and we appreciate it very much. Without further ado, this is to be a great Brooklyn ball game day. And we open it with that familiar voice from Everett Field singing the Star Spangled Banner. Gladys Goody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. to see by the dazzling night what so proudly he hailed and the bright lights and the last gleaming who brought stripes and bright stars through their weather's sky. For the ramparts we caught were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare from the last gleaming gave proof through the night that the night was still there. Oh, say does the stars' anchor that we ever made? For the ramparts of the sea and the moon through the night. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to present to you Brooklyn's number one fan. The man who predicted that this celebration would take place here after the Brooklyn's won the pennant. In other words, he predicted before the opening of the season that this was our year. Without further ado, Brooklyn's great champion and Brooklyn's number one fan, our own borough president, John Cashmore. John Cashmore. Thank you, Woody. Thank you, Woody. Thank you, Woody. Today is our day. You and I are living in the greatest city's greatest borough, the borough of Brooklyn. And in that borough, and what makes it possible to be a great borough, is the greatest baseball team in the world, the Brooklyn Dodgers. To prove to you what I mean, and they say a picture is worth 10,000 words, I am going to show now what the bats of the Brooklyn baseball Dodgers will look like to the Yankee pitchers. Hold it up. And now to get on with the show. In the great colleges and universities of our country, we have a great many learned professors who have taught many thousands of students. But here in our borough, we have a radio announcer who has taught 75 million men, women, and children what baseball is, what it stands for, and how to understand it. The greatest baseball announcer in the world, Greg Barber. Thank you, John. Hello, everybody. And this ball club is one you can be very proud of. It's had a long road to home. It had tough competition, especially in the last two weeks. It has conducted itself as true champions. And I'm certain that you will always be very proud of it. I'm glad to be associated with it and with the borough of Brooklyn and all of you. Thank you. Thank you, Red. And now, of course, with the great baseball announcer, there are always the two men in back of the scene to take in and move over. And we consider them two of the greatest assistants that any baseball announcer ever had. One is Ernie Howell and the other is Connie Desmond. Will you step forward? Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Now, on behalf of the borough of Brooklyn, and so as to save time, we have for every member of the baseball team, from the manager right down to the bat boy, a beautiful gold watch to present to each one. And at the same time, we have in this cabinet here a portable radio. So rather than give it to each one individually now, they will present it inside. And so, Eddie, if you'll remove those, please, we'll go on. Ladies and gentlemen, as a fellow that came from Ohio, he now makes his home in Florida. He's starting to approach middle age. He's been in baseball 41 years. I'd like to present to you probably the greatest manager in baseball, Bert Schotton. Thank you, Johnny. You know I was proud to be here in 47. And you know I'm proud to be here in 49. And I hope 50, we won't disappoint you. I had a great club in 47. I have a better club in 49. We win the pennant with ease. Only took us 154 games and 10 innings. Outside of that, it was simple. I want to beat the Yanks. After we beat the Yanks, I want to become a resident of Brooklyn. So I may be able to vote for John Cashmore, president of the borough. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now I'd like you to meet Bert Schotton's Board of Strategy. If they hadn't won this pennant, we probably would call them the Board of Tragedy. Now let's give them a big hand as I introduce them. There's a fellow that's a native New Yorker. He now lives in Binghamton. His name is Jake Pitler. Jake! Come on up there and give him a wave, Jake, and tell him what you're going to do over at Yankee Stadium. Thanks, John. John, we're going to murder them Yanks. That's about all I got to say. And now there's a fellow by the name of Stock, Milton Stock. He was born in Chicago. Now he lives in Mobile, Alabama. But we're going to let him vote this year. Come on up here, Milton. Thank you, John. I was here a long time ago in 1924. We won 15 straight ball games. We finished second by a half a game. But this year we had a great organization, a good manager, and a great ball club. And I think we'll take the Yanks. Thank you. And now another member of the Board of Strategy. That's the fellow who we hope will never have to walk out at the Yankee Mound or the Brooklyn Mound to interfere. He was born in Maine. We think he's a great fellow. We love him. Clyde Sockfort. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We let you down a little bit two years ago, but I don't think we'll do that again. I think we'll take you right on through this time. Thank you. All right, thank you. The greatest shortstop of them all. The boy who started the winning rally at Philadelphia on Sunday and scored the tie-breaking and winning run. Captain Pee-Wee Reese. Thank you. Well, this makes my third time I've been here. And each one is more greater than the other. And I tell you the truth, I hope it isn't my last one. And if Mr. Ricky can stand me around for a few more years, I believe I can make it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now the player who helped hold down the hot corner on third base. Broke into baseball in 1941 with the Santa Barbara Club of Class C in California League. May I present to you now the third baseman, Johnny Jagerson. And now, Mr. Rifle Arm himself. He's the hottest batter in the closing days of the pennant race. Who drove out four hits on Sunday in Philadelphia and wound up with a season batting average of 322. Right fielder, Carl Ferrell. You have just heard an on-the-spot description of the official reception given for the victorious Brooklyn Dodgers baseball team at Borough Hall Plaza in Brooklyn. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Yeah. We'll have uppiced afternoon reinforcements.enenoteins MARTINа It's about 30 minutes to 20 seconds Aren't per Machim's Universe too much ahead. The thousand busky lever has been pushed. Thecar is creed of the small andечно-ffiti and competitive Geek, which is a big contest node forrestrial life to be . You're there, Jeff. The thousand busky lever will be created overень共icial nation. On footus valeur. The full-storey area is about 400 foot-compensate space. The whole field ofancies oczywiście はい.