Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Roosevelt, your city station is about to bring you the second of three broadcasts today of the 32nd annual meeting of the National Health Council. Here now is Dr. Ernest L. Stebbins, President of the National Health Council and the Master of Ceremonies at this luncheon meeting of the Council, who will introduce our featured speaker, Dr. Stebbins. It is my pleasure to greet you on this 32nd annual meeting of the National Health Council. It is also my pleasure to introduce to you our distinguished speaker of the day. In view of the development of the interest of the National Health Council in the international field, we felt that it was highly appropriate to invite as our speaker today the Honorable William Willard L. Thorpe. Mr. Thorpe is a man of great distinction and has served his country in many capacities. As Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, a position which he has filled since 1946, he has come in contact with the developing international health field. Prior to this, he served for one year as deputy to the Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. Secretary Thorpe, who was a professor of economics from 1926 to 1934 at Amherst, was a member of the United States delegation to the Paris Peace Conference in 1946, serving as Special Advisor on Economic Affairs. He was also Special Advisor on Economic Matters at the New York meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in 1946, and the U.S. Representative on the U.N. Economic and Social Council from 1947 to 1950. From 1947 to 1948, he was also Alternate Representative to the United Nations General Assembly, and in 1949 served as acting Alternate Governor of the International Bank and International Monetary Fund. For ten years, from 1935 to 1945, Secretary Thorpe was Director of Economic Research for Dunn and Bradstreet, also editing Dunn's review from 1935 to 1940. In 1939, he served as an economic advisor to the Secretary of Commerce. Secretary Thorpe will speak to us on health and geography. Secretary Thorpe. When I was very young, my proverbial education taught me that if I would only eat an apple a day, it would keep the doctor away, and that if I were early to bed and early to rise, I would become healthy, as well as gain some other desirable characteristics. Of course, a person's health depends largely on his own behavior, but no regularity of apple eating, nor early bedding and early rising, nor any other form of personal invigoration or personal precaution will provide protection for the individual. Health is also a community matter, all the way from pure drinking water to protection against epidemics. And today, the community involved is the globe itself. Health is a number one national and international problem, a problem with a number one priority. The old forms of snail's pace transportation used to provide a kind of automatic quarantine against communicable diseases. The first ship to go around the world took three years before it returned to Seville in 1522. By 1874, the world had shrunk in time units of distance, so that Jules Verne's travelogue presented a practical 80-day itinerary for global circumnavigation. Today, flying on scheduled commercial airlines, it is possible to circle the earth in 142 hours and 45 minutes, less than six days, weather and machinery permitting. Obviously, the opportunity for exposure to airborne, water-borne, or man-borne disease has been tremendously increased, and the need for concerted international health action is clearly apparent. If I were to make this 142-hour trip around the world, I could develop a cold or influenza halfway on my trip and remain in an infectious state the rest of the way. Scarlet fever, a streptococcal sore throat, typhoid fever, and diphtheria could all be picked up anywhere en route, and I could be an innocent but dangerous carrier of infection halfway around the world. I could be exposed to mumps, chickenpox, and measles in New York, and not even show evidence of the disease till after my return. Of course, public health officials are taking such steps as they can to deal with this new problem. But these facts mean to me that in terms of today's geography, control of disease and progress in achieving increased health is a global problem. Our own health security depends on measures taken halfway around the world to control diseases. But the problem of communicable diseases is but one limited aspect of the field of health. A healthy people is a nation's most important and fundamental asset. This we have long since recognized at home. And the massive effort that is going into research, health education, disease prevention, and therapy in our own nation stems from this knowledge. These programs undoubtedly draw much of their vitality from the humanitarian desire to reduce or eliminate pain and misery. These are ancient and direct enemies of every man, woman, and child. But in addition to this sympathetic consideration for the individual, there are important social and economic consequences of health or its absence, which more than justify all the efforts which are being made. Physical and mental disability impose a great economic and social burden. Sick people must be cared for and supported by someone. It has been estimated that in 1949, in the United States, we spent over $10 billion on medical and institutional care of the diseased alone. No one can estimate the total burden on us all of physical and mental illness, nor the loss this imposes to our national creative and productive life. Another social and economic factor related to health conditions is what Dr. Winslow calls the economic burden of premature death. Looking at the matter coldly, it's fair to say that the desirable situation is one in which the social and economic cost of bringing up the young is more than repaid by a full life of productive activity. And programs which increase survival through the productive period are obviously good social investments. The cost of illness and of premature death are direct economic consequences of ill health. But health cannot really be dissociated from the other factors which make up a society. It is involved in many chain reactions, which may be either constructive or destructive. Poor health means lower productivity. Lower productivity means a lower standard of living. A lower standard of living means less food, less education. These, in turn, mean poor health. Clearly, physical vitality and well-being are essential not only to productivity and efficiency. They contribute as well to mental alertness, active ambition, and spiritual resilience, all essential in a democratic society. Good health, democracy, and social and economic progress go hand in hand. Good health, democracy, and social and economic progress. With these considerations in mind, let us make a quick exploration of the geography of the world health scene. Today, about one-fifth of the world's population lives in economically developed areas where mortality rates are relatively low and health and sanitation conditions relatively advanced. These are the areas of greatest economic productivity, and they tend to be in the vanguard of economic and social progress. About another fifth of the world's population lives in areas fairly well advanced in the application of modern technology. But three-fifths of the world's population lives in technologically backward countries. Here, the standard of living is miserably low, and bad health conditions are a major factor in this tragic situation. Let us consider for these areas the three social and economic burdens which I've already mentioned. The cost of preventable disease, which is largely responsible for low health status in underdeveloped areas, represents a colossal burden. In the Philippines, in a recent year, for example, in a total population of 20 million people, there were 2 million victims of malaria with 10,000 annual deaths and 1,300,000 ill from tuberculosis with 35,000 annual deaths. Here is a tremendous economic loss from these two diseases alone. The cost of premature death is also tremendous in these underdeveloped areas. In them, a much smaller proportion of healthy adults must support a much larger percentage of unproductive children and disabled grown-ups. For example, in various countries of Southeast Asia and the Middle East, only about one half of the children born reach the age of 15, and only 15% live to the age of 60. By contrast, in the United States, 90% become adults, and two-thirds are still alive at 60. In the underdeveloped areas, the chain reactions to which I referred are all clearly in evidence. Poor health, low productivity, illiteracy, and poverty. And all are holding back economic and social progress. Let me give an example. In the fertile Terai district in India, malaria had become so serious that an area which had once sustained 350,000 population had been reduced to one-fifth that number and the population pressure had been correspondingly increased in other areas. After only three years of malaria control in the Terai and neighboring areas, the population had increased by over 100,000, the agricultural area under cultivation had been increased by 35,000 acres, and grain production had increased 35%. In relation to a country as highly populated as India, experts have debated whether public health programs and efforts to reduce mortality do not accentuate economic and social problems. But health programs such as this extend the working life of the population and the span of time during which they can serve as efficient producers. A healthy, productive farmer is always better than a sick one and increased health contributes to increased food supply. In 1951, the Iranian Ministry of Public Health started a campaign against malaria in an infected area near the Caspian Sea where 2.5 million people live. 224 tons of DDT, shipped from the United States as part of our 0.4 program, reached Iran in time last May to spray half a million dwellings. Already, the incidence of malaria has been cut from 88% to 35%. And two more years of anti-malaria warfare will, experts believe, completely wipe out malaria and greatly improve general health conditions as well as increase productivity. Throughout the underdeveloped areas in Africa, the Near and Middle East, and South Asia, I think it would be fair to say that up to 90% of the rural population is sick much of the time and only half well. When limited human energies are concentrated on the day-to-day struggle for survival, the possibilities of economic and social progress and democratic growth are almost nil. It's clear that sickness, poverty, and lack of education form a vicious circle and that the loss in economic terms alone resulting from these conditions is incalculable. Up until recent years, the possibility of breaking this vicious circle seemed dim. Remedies for the control of preventable disease when they were available were beyond the financial means of poor countries and the peoples in these countries lived in a hopeless state of misery. Recent discoveries in preventive medicine, such as the antibiotics and powerful new insecticides, have made it possible to control several of the most debilitating diseases at very low cost. For example, with the availability of DDT in India, the cost of malaria control has been reduced to 12 cents per capita. This miraculous change from disease to health costs only the price of one bus ride in New York City. It's easy enough to talk about the problem of health throughout the world, but the real question is what is being done and what should be done about improving health conditions. We do have a tremendous interest and concern about these other less fortunate countries. We have a humanitarian interest, but we also have a social and an economic and a political interest. In much of the world today, economic development and political stability are interdependent. And I need not remind you, the world today is 142 hours around. Doing something helpful about health conditions in other countries is not a new experience for us. Up until a decade ago, nearly all of our contributions to world health were made by private organizations and institutions. And their rich experience has contributed greatly to the developing program of international collaboration in health. For many years, remarkable work has been done under difficult conditions in many of the most needy countries by medical missionaries and by missions for relief and reconstruction, such as those sent by various religious groups. This people-to-people form of service has helped not alone to improve health conditions, but to exemplify the great concept of brotherhood, which has been the motivating force back of the individuals who went abroad and back of the widespread support given them by millions of Americans. As another illustration of private activity, since 1913, the Rockefeller Foundation has been pioneering in an outstanding way in the international health field. It has sponsored public health demonstrations throughout the world. It has granted fellowships, organized institutes, carried on research, provided the knowledge and experience which has made far more productive the work of governments, including our own, and the World Health Organization. Without this pioneering, we would probably be at the experimental stage of demonstrations instead of actually improving the health of millions of people. Other organizations, such as the Kellogg Foundation, have followed in this path notably with fellowships. The work of the private agencies goes back many years. Today, our government is also actively participating in the effort to improve health conditions in other countries. For over a decade, the United States has been cooperating with the other American republics through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in a broad variety of cooperative health programs. The Institute is now the operating arm of our Point Four program in Latin America. This hemispheric program has had four chief points of interest. First, the development of local health services through health centers. Second, sanitation of the environment with particular emphasis on water supply, sewage disposal, and insect control. Third, training and full-time employment of professional public health workers. And fourth, education of the public in health matters. It's concentrated on complete community health development with full-trained direction and active community participation. Over 1,300 professionals from Latin America in the health field have been given advanced training in the United States in public health. 240 local training courses have already been given at sub-professional levels. And 2,820 distinct projects have been undertaken jointly with the health ministries of these countries since 1942. They've included the construction and operation of health centers, building and administration of hospitals, construction of water supply systems, sewage systems, and other health facilities such as nursing schools, laboratories, markets, public laundries, and so on. Out of this program, improved public health has achieved the status of a national movement in many of the Latin American countries. And the experience and knowledge gained has been of immeasurable value in health programs developing elsewhere in the world. Today, the United States is carrying on programs not only in our own hemisphere, but in many other parts of the world, in Near Eastern countries and in Pacific Islands, in Northern Africa and in Southern Asia. Whatever the initial reason for these programs, all of them have been designed to build towards a future secured by stronger national and local health services in the countries concerned. Any review, however, of world health problems and progress would be incomplete without paying tribute to the role of the World Health Organization, whose 79 member nations are dedicated to the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health. We shall all have an opportunity on World Health Day, April 7th, to honor the WHO objective, the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health. The WHO, during 1951, spent about $10 million on its worldwide program, including $3.5 million beyond its regular budget supplied by the Technical Assistance Program of the United Nations. The sharing of knowledge, the training programs and fellowships, and the field operations of WHO are vital and effective weapons. It has provided us with international sanitary regulations and has issued an international pharmacopoeia which sets uniform standards of strength and purity and provided publications and information. But most important of all is its work directly with the many member governments in aiding and encouraging them to move forward with public health and similar programs. The various governments and the WHO are important instruments, but they are only instruments. They can be effective only by means of individuals. And that's where you and the organizations you represent come so importantly into the picture. Certainly a role of major importance must be played by the international professional societies and their national affiliates. Many of them have been admitted into formal relationship with the World Health Organization. But international non-governmental organizations are still lacking in some fields, malaria and other tropical diseases, environmental health, and sanitary engineering. The organizations which you represent can make significant and invaluable contributions to the World Health Programme. The basic requirement is that you reduce your sensitivity to geographical boundary lines and think of your problems in international terms. other countries share the same problems, often in a much more serious form. Individuals in other countries are working as you are to try to record progress. And there is here a tremendous opportunity to give sympathy, encouragement, and help. There are certain things which organizations as organizations can do. They can contribute to the planning and operation of the World Health Organization through their consultative arrangements. And furthermore, we are anxious to see coordinating committees in each country which will help to assure that there will be one integrated health program and not many local projects independently sponsored by various international agencies. If outside help is to have its full effect, it must not only aim at strengthening the national health service of the country, but must also receive the full support of the medical and allied professions. And this can only be assured if the professional organizations are willing to sit on the coordinating committee and share the responsibilities. There are three fundamental types of contribution which you and your organizations can make. First is in the field of professional knowledge to continue to seek solutions to the problems not yet solved. Second, you can actively help in the transmission of our knowledge and experience to the other less fortunate countries. Not only is your help tremendously important in providing training and hospitality to the doctors, nurses, and other health workers visiting this country, but you and your colleagues as you travel abroad for professional or personal purposes can share your store of wisdom and experience with your conferees in other parts of the world and in turn benefit by the knowledge they share with you. And third, from your ranks must come many of the skilled people who are needed in the world health program. For many of them, this will mean a substantial personal sacrifice. I hope that you will find ways and means to encourage them, particularly to provide professional assurances that these men and women going abroad will not be handicapped professionally because of their contributions to public health service. Moreover, they will be going, many of them, to face primitive conditions where human ingenuity must often substitute for modern equipment, where the capacity to adjust to different languages, modes of thought, and traditions is as important as the technical knowledge they bring to their work. Your organizations can assist them by keeping them in touch with professional thoughts and ideas as they develop and even, in appropriate cases, by contributions of needed equipment and materials. Looking at the picture in the longer run, we must find ways and means to encourage and to train personnel who are equipped for and capable of undertaking health assignments for brief or long duration outside this country. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Roosevelt, your city station has brought you a talk by Willard L. Thorpe, Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs of the U.S. State Department. Mr. Thorpe has addressed the luncheon meeting of the National Health Council on the subject Health and Geography, America's Stake in World Health. Our Master of Ceremonies this afternoon was Dr. Ernest L. Stebbins, President of the National Health Council. We invite you to join with us again at 2.30 this afternoon for the last of these sessions which will be devoted to a symposium on health planning and action on the state level through state health councils. This has been another public service feature of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.