New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York's recovery after eight long years of the Revolutionary War was amazing, but it was not an easy accomplishment. Commerce was almost at a standstill. British marine laws had prohibited the building of ships for commerce. Most of the hastily built craft used by our infant Navy, or those sent out as privateers during the struggle for freedom were out of repair or inadequate to the needs of commerce. In the period from the day the British left New York in 1783 until 1789, much activity took place in the city. Here the federal government was located, and the Continental Congress worked to establish a firm basis for the recovery and well-being of the new nation. Here General Washington came to be inaugurated president on the balcony of the Old City Hall, which was then in Wall Street. It was in New York that the new president and his family came to live at Number One Cherry Street. The beautiful colonial mansion which stood there was placed at the disposal of the Washingtons by John Franklin, a New York merchant. This remarkable man, Franklin, was one of a group who determined to up-build the nation's merchant marine and to establish trade with the far-flung markets of the world. He was typical of the hardy breed of merchants such as Isaac Gouverneur, the Griswolds, Browns, Beefmans, and others who made commercial and shipbuilding history in those stirring days. Shipyards and ways extended all along the Lower East River from Maiden Lane to Corlier's Hook. Franklin's Yard and Wharf were near the foot of Roosevelt Street, where the Alfred E. Smith housing development now stands. In 1785, the whole town was thrilled and excited over the return of the first American ship to establish trade with China. Here from Huampoa, the harbor of Canton, came the ship, Empress of China, with new and curious treasures and huge profits to her merchant owners. Elias Nexon, another well-known merchant, was not one to overlook opportunity or delay action. With a companion, he strode into the dim interior of the Indian King Tavern in Cherry Street, and the following took place. Good morning, Elias. Ah, good day to you, John Franklin. Permit me to present Captain Stuart Dean. Captain, it is a pleasure indeed. I am honored, sir. Be seated, gentlemen. Now, Mr. Lennox, please be so kind as to introduce my friends here to that remarkable new shipment of Madeira you've received. It is shipments I came about and not wine, John. My associates and I are determined not to delay further. We must have a sound bottom for China trade, eh, Captain Dean? Yes, you're right. My yards are working from dawn till dark. Within another month, you'll have a choice of either of the ships, the Governor Clinton or the Hope. A month? Why, I expect Captain Dean here to be coasting South America within a month. No, it is not satisfactory. But, man, we can't do the impossible. John, among the next few merchants to reach Canton will be one who will establish the first permanent trading house there, and I aim to be the one. I realize that. You'll get your ship as fast as I can drive my men, but I can't... Mr. Franklin, would it be possible to look over the work now in progress? By all means, Captain. Well, let us go to the shipyard. Come, gentlemen. I think you'll be interested in seeing the yard. Holder, Sam. Got it? Aye, John. There. That'll do it. Yep. Those Paul Revere copper spikes sure do the trick. Say, John, look at that new sloop. See how she rides and see how she carries herself. Well, now that her spars are shipped and rigged, she's fine. She launched well, and she'll sail well. Ah, she sure treats a sailor's eye. Yeah, there isn't a... One of these ships down here can lay a candle to her for grace. And I'll wager she'll stand up to anything. It's almost a shame to waste her on the farmer's trade up the Hudson. I'd like to go anywhere in there, but... Whoa, but up there. Shh, shh. Here comes Mr. Franklin and that Nixon fellow. And that's Captain Dean with him. Aye. I know him from the Navy. What's he doing here? Looks like we'll soon find out. John Wooden. You, Sam Bell. Gentlemen, two of my most trusted men. Thank you, Mr. Franklin. I think we've met before. I was showing Mr. Nixon and the Captain how our hulls are coming and how soon we shall be able to give him a ship. He should be able to sail within 60 days. Ah, within seven days. What did you say, Captain? I said within seven days. See there, Mr. Nixon. Rumors didn't do her justice. By my oath, she's the prettiest sitting sloop afloat. But, Nixon, no. Oh, it's time you're worrying about. I can see that and speed you want. Well, there it is. But, Captain, to China. Across the whole world in that sloop. It's suicide. If Dean says he can do it, he can do it. She's for sale, isn't she? Yes. To think of experimenting with life in such a cuckold shell is... That's it. We'll call her the experiment. It's a deal. We'll settle the details later. She doesn't rate any more than 85 tons burden. Whetton, you'll never get an underwriter to insure her. And you'll never get a crew to ship in her, either. I'll go, sir, if Captain Dean will have me. And I know Sammy wants to go along, too. Well, lads, that's real fine. Mr. Nixon, I've heard of John Whetton. I'd like to name him first mate right here. And, Sam Bell, while you're a bit young, if you're determined and your family approves, well, I can use a cabin boy. If Mr. Franklin agrees. I'll not stand in the way of free men if they're determined, but there's cannibals in swift canoes and bloodthirsty pirates. Well, Mr. Franklin, I have an order from Mr. Paulding of the Navy Department for six carriage guns, powder and grape, ball and bar shot, and a supply of pikes and cutlasses. Mr. Nixon will provide a triple set of small arms for each of our crew. That's right, Captain. Mr. Franklin, can your men pick up this ordinance and install it all ship-shaped? Yes, it will be done. My cargo of trade goods, and mostly furs and ginseng root, is made up, ready for loading. So be it, lads. One week from today, we sail. And what a trip it will be. Right on schedule, the trim little experiment dropped down the East River and passed the battery with a full set of sails and her head held high. The crew of nine mustered in the narrow waist of the Hudson Sloop, gave three rousing cheers opposite Whitehall. Storms, ice, Pacific gales, and long, tedious calms tested the little craft. But true to the prediction of first mate John Whetton, who helped build her, she remained a sound ship, and she could sail rings around anything they ever saw. In spite of inaccurate maps, adverse winds, and risky navigation through various island formations, the landmarks of Hwampoa Harbor and Canton, China finally came into view. Mr. Whetton, ease her off and come up into the wind. Aye, sir. We'll coast up to meet that fancy barge being rowed out to meet us. Hmm, through the glass I can make out several important-looking Chinese and an English officer. Stand by the anchor cable. Mr. Whetton will catch bottom here. Right, sir. Cast away the anchor. Barge ahoy! Ahoy there! What ship are you from? What's your main ship? Greetings and goodwill! Our ship is the Sloop Experiment. I'm Captain Stuart Dean of New York, USA, with a cargo of furs and ginseng, seeking trade with the Honorable Chinese of Canton. I'll be blasted if I can believe it. You came all the way from America and round the horn in that? Yes, and what's wrong with it? Nothing, sir, but it seems incredible. Allow me. My name is Brockway, employed as interpreter for his honor, Li Hong Chang, collector of the port of Canton, and the distinguished Hong merchant, Sun Kei Chang. Well, my respects to you, sir, and the Honorable Gentleman. What does his honor say? He says, Ni Hao Ma Ni Quot Yen. Uh, what's that? Ni Hao Ma means greetings, or how are you. Ni Quot Yen is the Chinese name for Americans. They pay you the compliment of Mi Quot for beautiful country, and then add on yen, which means man or people. Beautiful country, people. Oh, well, I do declare. Do you stand ready for inspection of your cargo and payment of Kumshoa, Captain? Uh, what is this Kumshoa? What duties are? Well, then come aboard and bring your men, Mr. Brockway. Gentlemen, I'd say this has been a very successful trip. Yes, a very, very successful trip. Those who didn't believe that the little sloop experiment would ever reach China certainly couldn't believe that it would ever get back again. But back again she came, through months of buffering and hardship for her tiny crew. True, she had to show her teeth to marauding natives in some of the islands, but nothing could outsail her or stop her. When the lookouts on Staten Island spotted her and signaled the city that she was making her way into the narrows, almost the whole city turned out, for here was a feat of daring and fortitude rarely matched on sea or land. And so the second United States vessel to reach and trade with China and the first ship to sail directly there and back was the little Hudson River sloop experiment. She was built, sent, and manned by men of skill, vision, and courage. The material treasures she brought back were but little compared to the priceless ingredients of character which the accomplishment of this feat represented. Yes, there were many important factors that went into the making of New York, the Queen of Commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Today, beginning Manhattan's Maritime Bottoms. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alan Feinstein as the captain, Alfred Israel as John Franklin, and Phil Dixon as John Whetton. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York, Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Duncheve. The next voice you will hear is that of Mr. Frank O. Brainerd, director of the Bureau of Information, American Merchant Marine Institute. Mr. Brainerd. Such was the beginning of our great port under the stars and stripes. It was also a beginning of the American Merchant Marine as such. This voyage to China made in 1784 by the Tiny Sloop Experiment was certainly an ambitious project. But the following 160 odd years have shown that New York and American ships and shipping have more than fulfilled the promise of their inheritance. Today, New York is the world's greatest port. New York's commerce means much in peacetime and in war. Without it, our culture would be seriously handicapped, our way of life completely disrupted. Since 1784, New York continued to be the site of great stepping stones in our maritime progress. Two decades later, the Palisades were to echo to the shrill toot of Robert Fulton's Claremont. Ten years after that, the Savannah was built in New York to become the first steamship to cross any ocean, and so on down to the great liner, United States, whose home port is New York. Thank you, Mr. Brainerd. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City of Commerce. New York City of新聞谷 and New York City of Australia andчик of the residents of Australia and 25 distinct disciples, from the National Science Association, whoм using sunday for rewindSCarOH. ohne