...country, here in America, where those cultures find their free expression and development and do so much to augment the American scene. That is one privilege the American has, of course. He is of all the nations because in this great melting pot of America, all the cultures have come here, found the freedom to express their ideas, their hopes and their aspirations, and that always is exhibited in the accomplishments which we recognize and reconcile with the American scene. Now, the mayor of the city of New York is taking a few moments of prodigal and formality downstairs. The Shah of Iran has just arrived. There's been a magnificent turnout of military orders here in front of City Hall, and our own veterans of the police, fire, and other city departments have turned out as well, and the mass bands of our department have done their part as well. Now, we have a very distinguished representative of that ancient land here, Mr. Abdullah Faryar, who is a bilingual announcer for his country in the League of Nations. May we now present... I mean, United Nations, rather. May we present him at this time? America. I beg your pardon, the voice of America. The same thing. We hope it'll be one universal voice in time. How about that, Mr. Faryar? Yes, sir. Well, all I can say is that I've been assigned by the Voice of America, which is part of the United States Department, and covers to cover the Shah's visit to Iran, which we broadcast in Persian every night. And I can see that the Shah is just coming in, and everybody is standing up. I'll give you the announcement. I'll give you back the microphone, Mr. Faryar. Just a moment. I want to get the arrival of the Shah of Iran, and there he is. He's a little bit shorter than the mayor, a very handsome young man. I believe his age is but 30. And the mayor is now conducting him to the roster here in the council chamber in City Hall. He looks very boyish, very dark eyes, very much black hair, parted on the side. He's wearing formal clothing, the usual gray tie, black suit, striped trousers. He looks like the mayor's young son, to tell you the truth, the graying hairs of Mayor O'Dwyer, great as they are by the cares and worries of this great metropolitan city, one of the greatest in the world, incorporating, as it does, many states in its responsibilities, in fact, more than any one state anywhere in the world. And this young man, to think that he is a potentate of the Eastern nations, and yet he is very much impressed by this reception here. Now the cameramen are having their innings, and the mayor has asked the Shah of Iran to sit down in the customary place where we usually find the president of the city council, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere. And now in just a few moments, Mr. Whelan has just asked for the anthems. In the meantime, the cameramen are clicking. ed 1945 The End The End The End And now, Mr. Whelan. The End Mr. Mayor, I have the great honor and privilege to present to you, sir, his imperial majesty, the Shah of Iran. Mr. Whelan, ladies and gentlemen, we're taking part in these ceremonies of welcome to his majesty. Ladies and gentlemen who are listening in, your majesty, the people and the government of the city of New York today greet you as the youthful leader of an ancient nation. The Shah of Iran, who is with us here today, is the heir to a throne that goes back to the days of great antiquity. His land has known 6,000 years of civilization. And today, he stands as the leader of this Middle Eastern nation of 18 million Persian-speaking people. But while his country is ancient, his problems are modern. Persia fought in the last war on our side. Persia has since been on the side of the Western democracies. After the war was over, the Shah found his land with a disrupted economy, occupied by foreign troops, and flooded with tens of thousands of refugees who were starving and discontented. He was confronted on every side with political confusion. But his patience, his love for his people, and his outstanding courage led him to fight for constitutional authority to bring about reforms that have earned him the affection and the loyalty of his people. The security and freedom of his country are important to us. He is here at the invitation of our president, who remembers that this leader entered the war against the Axis and during the dark days gave away his fortune to save his people from starvation. his country is remembered by our government as the scene of one of the world's historic conferences. He is known throughout the world as a friend of the free nations. He represents the new in Asia. He is a human bridge between antiquity and the future. and the future. Though his country has suffered 200 years of trouble, she stands at our side today, ready to step forward with us and with all the world's unfettered nations. For these, and many other reasons, let us make him welcome here today. Let us tell him that we join him in his hopes for all mankind. We ask him to take back to the people of Persia our message of goodwill. Let us assure him with all our sincerity that he is welcome here in New York City as often as he is willing to return. And now, on behalf of the people of the city of New York, I present you, your majesty, with this certificate of distinguished service. We hope that in the future it will help to remind you and your people of the great esteem our people have for you and your nation. I shall read it as I have had the honor to sign it. I shall read its content to your majesty. It is headed for distinguished and exceptional public service. Office of the Mayor, City of New York. Know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, and the United States. I shall read it to hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service your imperial majesty, Shaw of Iran, whose public benefactions in warding off outside foes of Persia, in promoting social justice, and improving in improving internal conditions by supporting educational programs, equitable legislation, and providing a national plan of economic and social development for the people of his homeland, one of the world's oldest nations, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the City of New York, in witness whereof I have had the honor to fix my name. To your majesty, with my greatest compliments. The mayor of the City of New York has just presented the scroll which he read personally to His Imperial Majesty, the Shaw of Iran, representing, as he does, the ancient land of Persia. The cameramen are now insisting on their usual photo of pictures and issuing their usual instructions. The mayor is going to speak.