It is truly appropriate that your first stop in America should be in New York City. For it was here only a short time ago that the United Nations, with the strong support of the United States delegation, made the decision which implemented these worthy objectives. Our people have great hope and great confidence that your people will attain permanent security and permanent peace and happiness. Through an unfaltering integrity of purpose and action. May I take this occasion to pay respect to your illustrious career in the service of the Jewish people of Palestine. When you first entered the government of Tel Aviv as a member of the Municipal Council in 1922, Tel Aviv was a very small city with a population of only 10,000. During the 25 years of your services, which marked your rise to the leadership of the municipal government, Tel Aviv experienced a remarkable development into a great Middle East center of industry, commerce, and culture, with a population of 250,000 persons. This is indeed an outstanding example of accomplishment of Jewish self-government. It is my understanding that you and Mr. Abraham Hossfeld have come to the United States at the invitation of the Jewish National Fund of America on the highly important mission of presenting to American Jewry the land program for the implementation of the United Nations decision establishing the Jewish state. Mr. Mayor, the work of the Jewish National Fund is outstanding. It is making a great contribution in the Palestine program, and I want to take this opportunity of congratulating Judge Rothenberg and his associates for the good they are accomplishing. As Mayor of the City of New York, may I express the sincere wish to you, Mr. Mayor, and to your sweet lady, and to Mr. Hossfeld, that your visit will be a pleasant and a successful one. May I assure you that I, as Mayor of this city, will exert every effort to make your visit to our city both pleasant and productive. Thank you. Thank you. The Honorable Israel Brokaw, Mayor of Tel Aviv. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Wallen, ladies and gentlemen, may I first thank you cordially for your hearty welcome. For many years, I have dreamt of realizing my wish to cross the Atlantic and visit your great country and mainly the noble metropolis of New York. That coveted dream, which is now a fact, evokes in me an unlimited emotion for whatever I see here is most thrilling. The snows, which were so cruel a few days ago by subduing your city with a heavy white carpet, were kinder to us when yesterday afternoon we flew over this city. They enabled us quite clearly to see your buildings and famous skyline. The view of the Statue of Liberty, which every boy at school has learned about, made our hearts beat faster. My wife and I realize that you are in the country of liberty and classical democratic institutions. And your honor's welcome to us makes this an outstanding day for us. Let me bring you the warm greetings of my hometown, the all-Jewish city of Tel Aviv. We don't think of competing yet with New York. Neither in size nor in your well-developed social institutions. We only dare to consider ourselves as its distant little daughter. From you we can and have to learn a great deal. This city of New York holds the greatest Jewish community of the world. And when Jewry in Europe passed, especially under Nazi tyranny, through such very savage experiences, we always turned our eyes for protection and help to American Jewry generally and to New York Jewry in particular. The response for help and consolation was always abundant. More important, morally, was the generous attitude of its first citizen, the mayor of this city. To you, your honor, we owe the gratitude of our people in Palestine and the diaspora for your affirmative attitude in supporting the righteous decision of the UN Assembly endorsing the establishment of the Jewish state in Palestine. We thank the United States of America for its leading part in securing this historic decision. Tel Aviv, which is to become the principal city of the resurrected Jewish state, extends to you and your inhabitants the expression of its gratitude for your aid and cooperation. We hope to be worthy of your confidence in establishing in the Holy Land a state of liberty, equality, and tolerance which will follow the example of your country and this magnificent city of New York. On behalf of Mrs. Rocha, my friend Mr. Hartfield, and myself, please accept our sincere wishes for a happy and prosperous new year and many of them. My friend Matt. Wolf-Dear Holly roof- healthier wishes for 2023,анов- At the end, may I allow myself, on behalf of my citizens, on behalf of my council, and of my sweet lady, as you call it, and myself, to extend my invitation, our invitation, to come and visit the city of Tel Aviv in the near future. Thank you. Mr. Whalen. The Police Glee Club will render the concluding number, after which we shall adjourn, the This Is My Country. This Is My Country, Land Of My Birth. This Is My Country, Grandest On Earth. I bless thee by allegiance, America the Lord, For this Is My Country, To Have And To Hold. What difference if I hail from the north or south Of these o'flares. My heart is filled with love For all of these. I only know I swell with pride And deep within my thirst. I'm thrilled to see All glory paint the breeze. All glory paint the breeze. This Is My Country, Land Of My Birth. This is my country, grandest on earth. I pledge thee my allegiance, America, the love. For this is my country, grandest on earth. Thank you. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, was privileged today to grant the courtesies and the freedom of the city to the mayor of Tel Aviv, the Honorable Israel Arachef, the courtesies of this city and every possibility for he, and as the mayor said, his sweet lady and his committee who are here in New York City. It's fitting that the great city of New York, reverend as it is towards all religions, should receive this contact with the ancient Holy Land where the cradles of all religions have found their early beginnings, both the Old and the New Testament. And it was a happy union today in this reception to the mayor of Tel Aviv. The Police Glee Club furnished the musical background for the program. And we have now about concluded the ceremonies here in City Wall as Mayor O'Dwyer leads his guest out of the Board of Estimate Room, this very beautiful room designed as it is almost as an ancient church, we might say, of the early revolutionary period. Period.