We're speaking to you from the auditorium of the City College School of Business and Civic Administration at 17 Lexington Avenue here in Manhattan. The convocation ceremonies this year are part of a week-long celebration of the school's 30th anniversary entitled Business Education Week. The celebration includes a series of exhibitions, seminars, demonstrations, and lectures dealing with various business fields. Today through the facilities of your city station you will hear the Honorable Bernard M. Baruch, graduate of the class of 1889, deliver the convocation address at the annual Charter Day Exercises. The present speaker is Harry Noble-Wright, President of City College, who will introduce Bernard Baruch. Ladies and gentlemen, it's my pleasure and honor to introduce to you one of City College's great graduates to address you upon this occasion, Mr. Bernard Baruch. Mr. President, fellow guests, and fellow students. It is an honor to be here today. It recalls happy memories. Sixty-five years ago I was a student in the old school of the city college building located here. Every morning we filed into assembly. President Webb read from the Bible, a sophomore climbed the rostrum to deliver a declamation, then a junior and a senior anoration. When my turn came, how my knees trembled and my heart pounded. as they do now. Of marking. Every morning every morning we filed every morning we filed into assembly. Every morning we filed into assembly We filed into assembly. than a junior and a senior anoration. When my turn came, how my knees trembled and my heart pounded, as they do now. Of all my teachers, the one who influenced me most was Professor Newcomb. He was never strict about requiring attention to his lectures. Students who preferred to play chess could sit in the back rows and pass the chess boards across their desk. Professor Newcomb wouldn't bother them. The students, interested in what he had to say, sat up front. That was where I always sat. It may strike you as quaint, even old-fashioned, that Professor Newcomb taught political economy, logic, ethics, philosophy, and psychology, all in one course. Today, these subjects would be fragmented among several professors. Such specialization is not necessarily a mark of progress. Too many educators seem to have forgotten that you cannot teach good economics, good politics, good ethics, or good logic unless taught together as parts of one whole. With over-specialization has come the tendency to mistake information for education, to turn out quiz experts who are crammed full of useful detail but who have not been trained how to think. nor is this defect confined to our educational institutions. Washington today is a dismaying example of Dryden's observation about those who think too little and talk too much. For five years, we have been engaged in a mighty struggle for peace and survival, the Cold War. Yet nowhere are all the tangled strands of that struggle brought together in one place to be woven into a unified global fabric. We continue to stagger from crisis to crisis with the initiative left to the enemy. We remain too obsessed with today's details to think through the bold strategy so vital for tomorrow. What is lacking is not so-called information. There's never been so much news, so many statistics, so many alleged real inside stories, yet the public has never been more confused. To print all the facts collected by our great communications agencies would exhaust our paper supply. Of what avail is a forest of facts if we have lost the art of sitting on a log and thinking the facts through. We appear to have lost our ability to distinguish between the true and the false, the good and the evil. The object of all fact-gathering is to furnish material for thought and reasoning to arrive at sound judgments which can lead to a clear and constructive decision and action. That ours is a well-intended confusion is significant. It indicates that the failure of our educational system is a double one. of bad moral habits as well as bad thinking habits. I refer to morals in the broadest ethical sense. Too many people seem to regard good morals and good intentions as the same thing. Morality rests upon values. what we regard as good and evil what we live for what we would die for. Without such values everything would be reduced to a cynical zero. Values in turn rest upon discipline on regulating one's behavior by the light of one's values and the rights of others. Morality in other words requires both good intentions and the strong backbone of self-discipline. Yet how many of our schools and teachers attempt to teach values without discipline. This dual educational failure the failure to instill in students the know-how of thinking and a discipline grounding in ethics is all the more tragic because never were these two qualities in greater need. I have already remarked on the folly of dealing with national and international problems on a peaceful basis without a thought through strategy. Let me now turn to the moral dilemma which grips us all and which will grow ever sharper as the role of government grows. some of you who look to government action as the cure-all for our numerous ills may be startled by this statement that our moral problems will grow more acute the more the government undertakes to do. With the revolt against the old laissez-faire do-nothing government philosophy has come a sense of community responsibility for the individual welfare and rightly so. Civilized society cannot survive the jungle law of fang and claw with its ruthless survival of the fittest but do-nothing government is dead. Virtually every phase of economic life is subject to some government intervention or regulation. The issue we now face is whether as some say community responsibility should be everything and individual responsibility nothing. This doctrine ignores the human law that there are limits to the burden a community can carry. There is a point of no return beyond which government intervention and the lack of responsibility among non-producers slow down all production and defeat their own purposes. to lift the level of human dignity and living is a proper function of government. I joined with both Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt in their programs of humanitarian reform in the Addison-Ada law, collective bargaining, economic equality for farmers, and other new freedoms. I opposed the conscription of labor in the recent war, even when President Roosevelt's liberal advisers favored it. I have favored pensions and care for the aged and firm and handicapped, and I have urged that America take the lead in lifting wages and working standards all over the world. Enormous advances have been made under our present system, the best government. These advances can be pressed further in years to come, as long as we preserve our form of government. But the way to protect human rights is not to socialize them. The chief threat to human rights is no longer one of too little government, as it may have been 30 years ago when the School of Business and Civic Administration was founded. Freedom's greatest threat today is too much government that all limits to government action may be swept away. Is there to be no line beyond which government shall not go, as it is in Soviet Russia, and becoming so in socialistic England? is government action to be prompted by the sheer expediency of whichever greeds or pressure groups appear strongest at the moment? Or is it to be subject to higher ethical restraints? And if so, what are they to be? That is the dilemma which will confront you for the rest of your lives. you will have to ask yourself not should the government take action, but how can the government's action be made just and fair to all? Do-nothing government, we were told, was a cloak for powerful interests who wanted to be let alone to despoil the country's resources and the public. How unselfish are they who today invoke the power of government to further their own interests or to get votes? The plunder of our natural resources has been largely checked, though not entirely. Are we now to have a new system of plunder of the national treasury? Is the old let-me-alone philosophy to be replaced by nothing better than a give-me-mine philosophy? Under the old philosophy of do-nothing government, it was not necessary to define or regulate social relations in detail. It was assumed that if each individual looked after his own interests, the end result, through a Darwinian process of natural selection, would be for the general good. that age had never met Hitler. With government regulation, we now must consciously define man's relations to his neighbors, or the various segments of society to one another. To consciously regulate ourselves poses enormously greater problems than when taking things for granted, trusting to the automatic wakings of competition. Look at the inflation that has racked the country in recent years with such injury to those with fixed incomes and wages, firemen, teachers, policemen, nurses, civil servants, pensioners, the ages, and others. This inflation has not been the result of do-nothing economics. It has come from government-managed economics, from government favoritism to certain pressure groups in disregard of the national interest. To prevent this inflation, as you know, I urge that in war, priority controls be accompanied by an overall ceiling over the entire economy, over all prices, all rents, all wages, all costs, with taxes high enough to eliminate propertyering. This plan would have treated everyone alike. It would have frozen all prices arbitrarily as of some fixed day. adjustments could be made where essential to stimulate production and relieve inequities. Instead, under political pressure, and only after much cost the day, a piecemeal price control plan was passed. This law legalized inflation. It allowed farm prices to rise to 110% of parity. It left wages free. When this broke down, the administration attempted to hold the line with an overall ceiling as had originally been recommended. But then, the damage had been done. with the war's end, we scuttled and ran. The process of inflation by pressure groups was given world after world with the end not yet in sight. millions have been penalized through a cruel reduction of their purchasing power. Was that just or fair? What moral would you draw from this inflation? Only recently, old age and pensions were voted increase. increase. This justly recognized that since 1939, living costs have arisen around 60%. What good will increasing pensions do unless the spiral of inflationary policies and deficit spending are halted and pressure groups fought off? Every form of saving has been depreciated. Life insurance, government bonds, thrift accounts, annuities, and pension funds. Week after week, bit by bit, these sums were put aside by millions of persons for their old age, for buying a home, for sending a child to college. To the extent that these savings are cheapened, the ability of these millions to care for themselves and their families is weakened. They have been made more dependent upon the government. They have been made more insecure. Yet, all of this has been done in the name of security. This false gossip of security through deficit financing is evidence of bad thinking habits. If men and women are to provide for their futures, they must be able to put aside part of the earnings of their most productive years and be assured those earnings will not be wiped out. Savings is the first bullbook of security. Inflation is the worst enemy of savings. In Soviet Russia, the people saved up their rubles, the accumulated sweat and hopes of a generation of weight and deprivation. then, ruthlessly, the Soviet government slashed the value of the ruble to one-tenth. For all Russians over 40, nothing was left but to work at a bare subsistence level until they died. They could never hope to regain the savings their government had wiped out. In Eastern Europe, the communists have demonstrated another form of tyranny. near-feudal slavery through inflation. Farmers, for example, are paid liberally for their crops. After the crops are collected, the money is ruthlessly depreciated. To get working capital for a new crop, the farmer is compelled to join a communist-dominated organization which controls his planting and returns. Wherever they have come to power, the communists have wrecked the value of money. They have robbed savings of their value and keep the people enslaved through a system of perpetual inflation. Nothing quite so bad has happened here yet. If American fiscal policy becomes a perpetual inflation machine, as deficit financing would make it, the result must be to enslave us to the government. One of man's oldest delusions has been that he could avoid the necessity of working and saving by some money trick, lowering its value, printing more of it, changing lead to gold, burying gold in caves or concrete dungeons. In every instance, these efforts have brought ruin. Moreover, deficit financing has convicted itself as a system of practical economics. It has been tried. It has failed. England, where Keynes and his school were born, cannot finance her own recovery by deficit spending. In this country, when the recent war ended, the apostles of bigger and better deficits predicted a calamitous depression. Ten millions were to be unemployed. Waging a campaign of fear against the American people, these deficit spenders pressured for and got tax reductions. Inflationary increases in prices and wages necessarily followed. I opposed reducing excess profit taxes after the war, an action which to date has cost the Treasury $30 to $40 billion. Even before the war ended, I stated for at least five and possibly seven years after the war, there would be more work than there were minds and hands to do. no matter what the government did or did not do. After that, it depended upon the peace. If those taxes had not been reduced, there would be no budget deficit today. Now, what I have said here is not intended to suggest that a return to do nothing government is either desirable or possible, nor that we should cease to strive for a more equitable sharing of the fruits of our production. I do want to impress upon you that the mere shift from do nothing government to government intervention does not in itself solve our problems. Unless this ever expanding government activity is brought under the restraints of the highest moral laws, it will wreck our society. Woodrow Wilson wrote, it will be a bad day for society when sentimentalists are encouraged to suggest all the measures that should be taken for the betterment of the race. Everywhere were taken for granted that change was good any longer. We must have seen change can be bad and oppressive. Yours is a far more confused and difficult outlook than which confronted my generation. You must stand amidst all the many changes pressing upon us and decide which are good and which are bad. You can take nothing for granted. the world is always in need of leadership. Today the need is for self-discipline leadership. With the training you have received here and the self-discipline which can only come from your own soul, you will find open to you positions of ever-good trust and responsibility, positions in which you, holding firm to the values and freedoms we cherish, can join in leading this country towards peace and a fuller life. Thank you. You have been listening to the Honorable Bernard M. Baruch, who delivered the convocation address at the annual Charter Day Exercises of the City College School of Business and Civic Administration. The convocation ceremonies are part of the week-long celebration of the school's 30th anniversary. Mr. Baruch, of course, is one of City College's most distinguished graduates. He's a former member of the Board of Trustees of the college and at the 100th anniversary celebration in 1947, he received an honorary doctorate. Today, Mr. Baruch is going to be presented with a key, making him a member of Sigma Alpha, the school's honorary service society. And now, in the minute of two left of our broadcast time, we return you to Harry Wright, the president of the city college, who is speaking after Mr. Baruch. I think I shall see that it is put in condition so that it can be said again to any one of us who wishes to have a copy. Now, these exercises sometimes are accompanied by a special event of the induction of the honored guest of the occasion into Sigma Alpha. Mr. Irving Talb will have charge of that exercise. As Chancellor of Sigma Alpha, the undergraduate honor society of the City College School of Business, it gives me great pleasure to induct you into the society. Membership in Sigma Alpha is the greatest honor that we of the student body can confer. In choosing our undergraduate and faculty members, we stress such qualities as personality, character, leadership, but above all, service beyond the call of duty. In your service to the United States as an advisor to presidents and to the world through the United Nations, you have exemplified the very ideal of Sigma Alpha. It is with personal enthusiasm and on behalf of the society that I present you with our triangular key of membership. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. tomorrow. willing to address. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.