May I at the outset take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation to WNYC and to Mr. F. Charles Adler, Director of the Saradoga Spa Musical Festival, for permitting me to speak briefly during this evening's festival concert intermission about music and adult education. It was my good fortune to attend the first concert of this year's festival and WNYC's radio audience who listened in to this particular concert and to those which have followed well know what a treat the people of the Saratoga area are enjoying. Increasingly, informed and thinking people of this country are beginning to realize that music is an essential part of a person's education. And that education is something that covers the whole of life and should not, therefore, be confined to youth. Adults constitute an important and controlling part of our citizenry. And education for citizenry, my friends, never ends. Youth cannot make best use of its talents in an environment where the adult portion of the population is illiterate and ignorant. Nor can a democratic society long exist in such an environment. Unless I am greatly mistaken, education for adults will in the future be on a par in importance with education for youth. The extensive work now being done by the extension divisions of our colleges and universities, by our state and federal departments of agriculture, and by our radio broadcasting stations, is evidence of the fact that in the realm of things educational, we are increasingly concerned with adults as well as youth. Until recently, music as an integral part of adult education has been largely neglected in America. Whatever else we may profess to be, we are a practical, materialistic people. The great majority of our forebears who came to these shores came to improve their social economic status. The first comers found an unexplored virgin continent, which they, in succeeding generations, proceeded to conquer and to exploit. Values were expressed in terms of money or personal material advantage, and not in terms aesthetic. Success in life meant getting on in a material way. To spend any part of one's time gaining an acquaintance with literature, music, or the fine arts was regarded as sheer waste. True, during the last decades of the 18th and the opening years of the 19th century, popular singing schools sprang up as part of an effort to publicize a scheme of universal musical education. Again, when in the mid-19th century, Stephen C. Foster, inspired by the work songs and religious spirituals of the Negroes, wrote his haunting, tuneful melodies with sweet and touching sentiments of home and loved ones, America possessed a body of admirable folk songs, known and sung by everyone everywhere in the country from that time to this. But outside of the churches, there was no counterpart as far as instrumental music was concerned. The music of Italian and French opera was played in New York and New Orleans, and impressive festivals of German immigrants were held. But the vast majority of the American people were too busy getting on in the world to bother about instrumental music. The coming of the 20th century, characterized as it has been by urbanization, industrialization, and mechanization, has brought about a great change. Despite these inflationary times and black markets, people are aware that they have more leisure time, and that there are other things in life besides accumulating material wealth and wielding material power. Coupled with this change has been the music contribution and leadership of the foreign born, especially the Germans. In fact, from the beginning, the foreign born have exercised almost a monopoly over musical activities in the United States. A list of the conductors of the leading symphony orchestras in the United States during the 1930s and 1940s is ample evidence, it seems to me, of the truth of this statement. Significant, too, of the growing interest of adults in music was the response to the music project under the Works Progress Administration during the administration of the late Mr. Roosevelt. The institution on many evenings in cities all the way from Portland, Oregon, to Atlanta, G, and Georgia one might have heard WPA orchestras. in this country, and especially adults, involves the opening up of a new province of learning. This may be easy or difficult, depending upon the method employed. It will be most difficult if the teacher emphasizes factual information at the expense of feeling or insists that the layman register for a course. The key to music education for the layman, be he youth or adult, is listening and feeling. It is not necessary for the average layman to make the distinctions which the professional thinks so important. As Mr. Adler himself pointed out in an article entitled Music as Vital Education, which appeared in the Saturday Review of Literature a couple of years ago, when a layman feels music. If he is a man who knows without too much effort why he feels that way, then he is indeed on the threshold of paradise. Until recently, the American people have depended upon a few wealthy and enthusiastic persons to finance our opera houses and symphony orchestras. It would be a happy day for America when instead of depending upon a few wealthy individuals to underwrite our musical ventures, we can look to the community. This shift is already taking place as more and more of the population become music educated. The WPA orchestras helped enormously to effect this change. They supplied inexpensive or free music to communities where music had never before been available and to people who had never dreamed of entering a Carnegie Hall. It is not without significance that in several communities the citizens carried on the orchestras after the WPA withdrew. Please do not conclude from what I have said that most adult Americans are on the way to being educated musically. We have a long way yet to go, but the path we should follow is clear. We must get on with the job of convincing the adult that loving music is not an occult gift reserved for the few with an ear. We must make him feel that music, like the arts, is closely linked with the emotions and morality and that the human spirit can take innumerably good forms. We must lead him to see that music is one of the essential keys to an understanding of modern life and a happy life and that this understanding is the result of intelligent, thoughtful, open-minded listening. The task of educating the pragmatically minded population of any American community. To be music minded is one of America's greatest educational problems. And to the solution of this problem, every well-wisher of America should give, it seems to me, most careful consideration.