Through the cooperation of the Federal Communications Commission in Washington, D.C., your city station has been granted permission to remain on the air past its customary sign-off time at 10 p.m. in order to bring you this special broadcast. We are speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel at 49th Street and Park Avenue in New York City, where New York's official banquet and reception to General Dwight D. Eisenhower is being held. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia, will preside. And now, ladies and gentlemen, his honor the mayor. I believe it's proper and fitting that one of the senior state officials, a son of the city of New York, should present to you this evening our guest of honor. I have great pleasure in presenting to you the presiding judge of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, the Honorable Irving Lane. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. General Eisenhower, today, on the sidewalks of New York, from its roofs and windows, from the borough grounds and parks, millions roared their warm welcome home to you. They brought you a wordless message, more eloquent than the most carefully chosen words could achieve. a message of affection for you as a man, and gratitude to you as the Supreme Commander who led the armies of the Allied nations to triumphant victory in Europe. That message I know went straight to your great heart from the great hearts of millions of New Yorkers. And believe me, sir, that the people of New York have great hearts. Since that night in November 1942, when our armies attacked in North Africa, we have shared your anxieties as we have shared your confidence in ultimate victory. And even when we grieve for the loved ones we have lost, we bore our losses with all the fortitude that we could suffer. It has been said that there are more Italians in New York than in Rome, more Irish than in Dublin, more Jews than in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv. Doubtless you, sir, have heard some say that because of this diversity of racial and national nationality of the great principles of freedom and democracy, the great principles of freedom and democracy on which American institutions are soundly based, are not perhaps as deeply cherished or as well understood here as, let us say, in Kansas. And that our citizens will not make the same willing sacrifices to maintain what we call the American heritage. The names General Eisenhower on the daily casualty lists, which we anxiously scan with heavy hearts. The names on the list of men cited for heroism and selfless devotion, which we read with glowing pride, attest beyond challenge the worth of New York's immigrant sons. Those who say otherwise ignore the real spirit of America and the real spirit of New York. I once heard that spirit grammatically expressed by Al Smith, the happy warrior born in New York of immigrant parents, and John W. Davis, the accomplished diplomat, statesman, and acknowledged leader of the bar. We had a small private dinner in 1933, soon after Hitler became chancellor, a member of the German death commission. Then, in this country, cried with a skill never surpassed by rebels to persuade us that night the roots of Nazism lay in Germany's economic misery and that the way to destroy Nazism was to assist Germany to become a prosperous and satisfied nation. Al Smith then spoke up in his inimical way. He said, Sir, America can't understand that talk or accept that kind of excuse or explanation. Five years ago, he said, I ran for president. And I will say that racial and religious prejudices were without influence in that campaign. But I got over 15 million votes. And if the winners had attempted to put me in a prison or concentration camp, more than 15 million Americans would have marched on Washington and would have freed me. That, he said, is America. And Davis then broke in. And Davis then broke in and said, and the Davises would have marched side by side with the spirits. That, that is the spirit of America. As you, General Eisenhower, know perhaps better than any other. For you have seen Americans of British stock and of Irish stock, of Italian stock and of German stock and even of Japanese stock. Catholics, Protestants and Jews, but Americans of all. Talently marked shoulder to shoulder through heavenly self that government of the people, the people, by the people, for the people, should not perish from the earth. Talently, at your press conference in Paris, you gave expression to that knowledge. When in reply to a request for a comment on the contribution made by Negro soldiers, you said, I do not differentiate between soldiers. I do not say white soldiers or Negro soldiers. Mayor LaGuardia will surely agree with me that nowhere is the spirit of America more fervent than in New York, in the hearts of those millions who greeted you so warmly today. And that noisy greeting, with its eloquent message to you, of the city's warm affection and gratitude, still left unsaid, part of what was within their hearts. And I think the people of this city would wish me to bring you tonight a more smaller message than you heard. Last month, when the victory in New York, Europe was announced, there was some unrestrained joy, just as there was unrestrained rejoicing today. But almost immediately, the people of the city of New York, in sober mood, flocked to churches and synagogues, there to give thanks to the Lord, whose prophet had said that out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And men shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. And nations shall no longer lift up harm against nations, neither shall there be war anymore. anymore. On that day of victory, the same millions who today greeted you so joyously, Catholics, Protestants, and Jews, yes, and even men who reject all queens, worshipped the Prince of Peace, who taught all the world the way of peace, when in Jerusalem, he proclaimed for all the world to hear, that the two great commandments of the law, which God had proclaimed long before, on the slopes of Mount Sinai, were thou shalt love thy God with all thy heart and all thy soul, and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. That was the law, that was the law, that was the law which went forth from Zion. That was the word of the Lord which went forth from Jerusalem. And when all the world listens to the Prince of Peace, and obeys the commandments of the Lord, then will the kingdom of God be established on earth. And the word of the Lord will be fulfilled, for nations will no longer lift up arms against nations, neither shall there be war anymore. And so I say to you, General Eisenhower, for the people of this great city, that we who have greeted you so tumultuously today, also silently love you deep in our hearts. Because never for a moment have you forgotten that American soldiers are not mere pawns in the game of war, but are loved you, and because you have loved them as we do. And we honor you, sir, because you, the man trained in the arts of war, commander of the embattled nations who in righteous wrath took up their arms to defend their rights to live in peace, have alongside a Franklin Roosevelt, the peace-loving leader of a peace-loving people, brought the day nearer, when all men shall live secure in their own homes, fearing none and hating none. applause And now, New York City's latest and most illustrious citizen, General Eisenhower. And now, New York City's latest and most illustrious citizen, General Eisenhower. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. hanya et aliyanando And now, New York City a great powinsi helper of the country Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. These tributes that were brought to me and to my comrades brought a curious idea to my head. I don't mean curious. I mean it was one I hadn't thought of before. It was this. Why shouldn't America, as represented by New York, and I thoroughly agree that New York is representative of America, why shouldn't New York be celebrating what it has done? Don't ever let anyone sell short what America has done in this war. Not only has it been the arsenal of democracy, it has furnished some of the best fighting divisions, the best air forces, and the best navy that this world has produced. America's record in production and on the battle line is one that will fill our histories forever. And today, you should turn your thoughts to what you have done, and I mean you, America. And remember that you can do it, because self-confidence is one of the great things that brings greater achievements still in the future. We are still at war. I hope that the rejoicing in which we indulge because of the crushing of the Nazi will never blind us to the task we still have in the Pacific. The reason I bring this up at this moment is this. It is to your interest always to remember it. With the enormous quota that you have furnished for the battle lines, you have a tremendous interest in seeing that losses are minimized. Losses are minimized by producing the most powerful machine that you can possibly crowd into a given area of ground to defeat the enemy. If you apply on the battlefield equal forces, a bloody result is certain. If you apply overwhelming force, losses for your side are negligible. That is what you must do in the Pacific. Apply the maximum force that America is capable of developing and you will win quickly and with the least losses. One of the things that you must remember particularly is production, because here, represented in many of its forms, financial, industrial, economic, New York is the heart of America. Production must be kept up, because when a bomb can do the work, let us not spend an American life for it. Thank you. Thank you. But this connection of yours with the battle line is no impersonal thing. Your quotas on the battle line prevent any such idea creeping into our thinking. And you can do more than merely your share in producing the arms and equipment that save American lives. There is a spiritual side to the soldier's life that is often scarred. I mean, it is opportunities for recreation, for feeling close to his home home. One of the ways that that can be helped is through the entertainment sponsor of the USO. It is something that deserves your support just exactly as does the Red Cross. They have done magnificent work and sent great artists to the field that have made the soldier feel he was back on Broadway almost. With your energy sustained at the full, our soldiers fighting in the Pacific, and by soldiers I mean all fighting services, not merely land animals, the victory in Japan is certain. with overwhelming force it will come more steadily. When that job is done, there will be other problems facing you. Two of them I want to mention because they are related. They are jobs for men and peace in the world. Prosperous nations are not war-hungry, but a hungry nation will always seek war if it has to in desperation. We cannot be isolated from the world. From New York to my headquarters in Frankfurt is exactly 16 hours by air. You are that close to trouble all the time if trouble starts in Europe. It is to our interest to see that we are strong to repeat the remark I made this note. Weakness cannot cooperate with anything. Only strength can cooperate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As I see it, peace is an absolute necessity to this world. civilization itself, in the face of another catastrophe such as we have faced in the last three years and for other nations more, would tremble or possibly decay, to be destroyed. We must face those problems of peace with the same resolution that America showed in 1941 and 42, when not the greatest optimist could believe that within 11 months after landing in Normandy, the American arms and Allied arms would stand triumphant on the Elf. and the rest of the world and the rest of the world I believe that we should let no specious argument of any kind deter us from exploring every direction which peace can be maintained. I believe we should be strong, but we should be tolerant. We should be ready to defend our rights, but we should be considerate and recognize the rights of the other man. This business of preserving peace is a practical thing. But practicality and idealism are not necessarily mutually antagonistic. We can be idealistic. And we can be practical along with it. You have great hospitals in your city that are filled with wounded men. I call them my wounded men. They came back from my field. I don't want to see any more of them there ever. I feel that if the brain and the intelligence, the genius of America, are placed on this problem, if we can forget self, if we can forget politics, if we can forget personal ambition, we can solve this problem. And we must solve the problem, or we will all be lost. No man can tell me that America, with its glorious mixture of races, of creeds, its Jews, its Catholics, its Protestants, it cannot lose, and we can't lose this one. And we must forgive you. Starscream, we will call me down to the CDU, the güzel, the society, its beloved... And then God defunding will the people of Congress, who 62 years later, their staff are not in fear of bonding to anyone. The vast majority of the country is now going to be common. And then the dollars that actually restate them in their service. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.