Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, is World War III inevitable? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussions will center around an analysis of the factors which may lead to war and methods of dealing with these factors. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Stringfellow Barr, former president of St. John's College, and author of the recent pamphlet, Let's Join the Human Race, and William McGovern, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now let's look at our question, gentlemen, is World War III inevitable? What do you say to that, Mr. Barr? Well, I would suppose, Mr. McBurney, that if we continued our foreign policy, if we continued to behave in the way we have been behaving, and doing the things we've been doing, that we'll end in the World War rather soon, because we're engaged in the greatest arms race in history, and I think it's pretty obvious the way arms races end. On the other hand, it's not inevitable that we continue as we've gone. And the future is never bound in that way. We could change our policies and postpone war rather indefinitely. Where do you stand on the question, McGovern? Well, I'll agree with Mr. Barr that nothing is inevitable in life except debt and taxes. On the other hand, I don't believe that this war is inevitable, but for different reasons than Mr. Barr. I think we are drifting into this war. I think we're drifting into this war by the policy of appeasement, which still dominates so much of our State Department thinking. World War is inevitable if we are weak, and Russia is strong. World War can easily be prevented if we are stronger than our enemies. Well, now, what are some of the factors leading us toward war? McGovern suggests that Russia is the principal factor standing between mankind and world peace. Do you accept that thesis, Mr. Barr? No, and I don't think the bulk of the human race accepts it. I think that for the bulk of mankind, a very acute mass misery in the world is the basic problem that stands between us and the happy, peaceful world. And it's a mass misery that Russia is exploiting by offering what she claims is a solution to the misery. And to date, I don't think we've made any effective offer of a solution. Well, I will disagree with that for many reasons. Basically, we've got to face the fact that the Communist powers, whoever they may be, Russia, the satellite powers, and China, are part of a worldwide conspiracy, an ideological conspiracy armed by a brute force to seize control of the rest of the world. I don't think that the millennium will come, given when Russia is defeated, or red China is defeated. But the threat to war comes from an immediate known source. And they are utilizing, sometimes in Europe, sometimes in Asia, armed forces to overrun the free world. That is the aggressor. And the aggressor must be stopped if we're trying to prevent a worldwide catastrophe. I don't think most of the human race, Mr. McGovern, is trying to get the millennium. I think they're trying to get a few square meals, which is quite a different objective. Well, certainly, as far as I'm concerned, judging by all the facts and figures that we know what's going on behind the Iron Curtain, whether it's in Russia or whether it's in China, there is more misery there than even the, in the vast places such as India and elsewhere, which are outside of the Iron Curtain. But the Indian doesn't know much about what's going on behind the Iron Curtain, does he? He only knows he's hungry, and he only knows that the Russians claim they have a solution for that. Yes, of course, on the other hand, the Russians in no cases have, the Communists in no cases have been able to secure control of any area to date without an arm, the use of armed forces. In other words, whether it's in Czechoslovakia or Hungary or Poland, or whether it is in Korea or in Red China, there's been the armed forces, the Communists, well-trained and well-equipped, that have organized and put the rigid dictatorship upon the people. And they've always had people in the countries they went in to cooperate with them, on the basis of their offers. Well, they've had many people cooperate. Where you have, where you have a staunch minority, but as far as us concerned, the Chinese Communists have made no attempt to convert the people to Communism. There are less than 1% of the Chinese are allowed to be members of the Communist Party. They'll try to weaken their opponents by making the divide up their opinions, but the control is vested in a very small group of people. Well, it is in Russia, obviously. Exactly. In other words, Communism is the same the world over. It is a conspiracy of a small group of professional ideologues backed up by a great number of divisions to impose their might upon countries they find weak and open to them. Well, isn't there a question, though, whether Communist arms would be as successful as they've been if the program of the Communists was not appealing to people in the countries that they enter? Yes, no, of course, undoubtedly. Well, undoubtedly, let's take it this way. If a war were to break out in Western Europe tomorrow, you'd find 15 to 20% of the French people who would be actively pro-Russian, an equal number in Italy. On the other hand, we've got to face the equal fact that the majority of the people in Italy, France, and England are definitely anti-Communist. And we've also got to remember that behind the Iron Curtain, there wouldn't be 20 to 25% of the people who'd sympathize with us. It would be closer to 60 to 80% who'd be sympathetic to us. Well, now Barr is suggesting here, McGovern, that we have millions of people in misery, and that Russia is offering to them what appears to be an answer. It only needs to appear. It only needs to appear. We don't need to waste time discussing whether it is a good answer. We're agreed on that. It appears to be such an answer. On the other side, we offer no such program, nothing that appears to them, apparently, to be an answer to the misery. In other words, you've got a social revolution on your hands here, and we're responding to it by force of arms. Well, as a matter of fact, the social revolution has never brought about the conquest of a single area. That's what I'm saying. You have economic unrest in China, economic unrest in India. But as far as that's concerned, that doesn't bring on communism without the communist arms. The number of people who are pro-communist in India, pro-communist in India, is very small. Nehru, for other reasons and not for economic reasons, is mildly anti-American and mildly pro-Russian, but that is not the economic factor involved there. It's the national factor. Are you suggesting, Mr. McGovern, that Mao succeeded only by arms, or did he succeed because he used not only arms, but that he offered a program of land reform to the peasants? As far as that's concerned? There's a famous communist slogan, shoot your landlord and pay off your mortgage. That is actually historically, it's a very amusing, very interesting thing, how the Cameras have wanted to build their propaganda by departing radically from Karl Marx. They claim to be decided... Well, they'll never hesitate, I take it. But isn't that, in terms of Mr. McBurney's question, isn't it offering a program to people that they want? Yes, but on the other hand, what are we offering to them? We're offering them to aid them in independence, let them solve their own problems in a way that suits them. We're not trying to impose... But does that mean anything to a hungry man? If you say, we'll let you solve your own problem, and he says, I have a landlord and a usurer on my back. Yes, as far as that's concerned, we see that the land reforms in China have worked out disastrously. As far as that's concerned, those people in China, there's enormous unrest in China, because they found the land reforms so-called in China work much more misery than good. That might well be, and we agreed, I think, just now, that we would not waste time arguing over whether the communist solution is a good solution. But before they, before the reforms are put through, I would judge that the offers that Mao's boys made appealed very heavily. Appealed, but that didn't make, it was the defeat of the Nationalist armies, not the Mao's propaganda they made. In other words, the weakness and inefficiency of the Nationalist armies, rather than the economic factors, that was the really determining factor there. In other words, but I think, Mr. Barr, that you make a serious mistake that you, uh, a mistake made by some in the classical economists, in which you think that economic factors are the only, or in any case, the main factor in determining action. I believe, as a matter of fact, men are fundamentally irrational, and the non-rational, non-economic factors are just as important. I mean, take, for example, the question of India. The enormous fight between Pakistan and Hindustan, the fight over Kashmir has nothing but ever to do with an economic basis, so that is a question of a, uh, racial, of a religious factor. May I defend myself against the accusation of being a classical economist, or like them? Uh, when a man is sufficiently hungry, it doesn't seem to me to make too much sense to say that, uh, men are not motivated by economics. Uh, he doesn't think of, uh, about economics, he thinks about bread. And he'll do a great many things, uh, that may look very irrational to a man that's been well-fed, but he does them because he's hungry. Of course, McGovern, uh, looks at that analysis of yours, and looks at the record, and takes the, takes the position that the factor that has, has counted, uh, has been the, the military force of Russia. Well, I take it a great many people would disagree with him. I mean, a great many people that, uh, that have watched the phenomenon that he has. Just look at the facts, just look at the facts. Tell me of one, of one country that has gone communist without the force, the use of armed forces. Well, tell me, tell me, tell me of one in which the other factor didn't enter, didn't soften them up. Even Czechoslovakia. Of course, other factors, uh, come into it. As far as that's concerned, other factors, the thing that we're trying to preach them here is independence. We've aided, uh, the various Asiatic powers. But does this hungry man think independence meets his problem? In many cases, he is more concerned over there than he is over, uh, over economic factors. Don't you think in many cases he's more concerned with some food than with the status of his government? In many cases, no, that's strange enough. You would think it's, it's irrational that he shouldn't be, but it is. We haven't joined the issue. I said, don't you think in many cases he's more concerned with food? In many cases, it is. In many cases, he is not. Well, it's these many cases that disturb me about our foreign policy. Well, it's in many cases where they do not concern with economic factors. And supposing I admit that, you are admitting my contention that in many cases that is his prime concern. Well, how hungry are these people, anyway? Well, I think in a great many parts of the world, they are, uh, they're rather desperately hungry. In the parts I've visited, uh, hunger is a, is a sort of constant, a fairly, fairly grave constant. Sometimes it's just a matter of malnutrition. That is, people, uh, people are able to get something to put in their bellies. Uh, but it's not the right thing to put in their bellies. And, uh, they're weak. They're not productive. They're not able to work. Uh, they are more readily subject to disease. And the bulk of them are sick. And I think you've got a, a first-class mess on your hands. But isn't this, uh, first-class mess something that these people have, uh, lived with for years? Yes, I think the new factor is not the mess. Although some, sometimes it's worse than it was. Uh, the, the new factor, however, is that these people are now convinced, or their leaders are convinced, frequent of the peasant has no view, except that life is agony. But they, their leaders are convinced that the mess is no longer necessary, because of the technology that, uh, the Occident developed. Well, of course, I'm going to break in here, Mr. Barr, if I may, for the moment, and say that some of the real troubles in the world, certainly in Japan, in China, and in India, are overpopulation. That is not true in some other areas. But those areas you have got, simply the land will not and cannot support that huge population. And that population has been increasing, uh, year by year, especially since 1800. In other words, the British came into India, uh, there in 1757. India had a population of 150. There was all, even then, there was much starvation, much misery, much famine. But even so, India could physically support 150 or even 200 million. But when you, she's now trying to support, uh, 400 million people, simply cannot be done on the land available. And yet it's an interesting fact, isn't it, that the Indian Socialist Party has as one of its major, uh, one of the major planks in its platform, the development of the cultivable waste in India, land that's not being put to any use. Well, exactly. And as far as that's concerned, we, uh, we have had, uh, experts working for years in our agricultural missions there in China, to see what can be done to aid Chinese, uh, uh, agriculture. Just the British for years and years had these various irrigation projects in India, and they've added millions of acres there through the irrigation. But it's what the trouble is, that the more land that you open up through irrigation or through scientific agriculture, the more they produce children, the, and the, you, overpopulation becomes even greater at the end of a few years. Well, very apparently, gentlemen, there are two facets to this problem, the economic facet and the military and the, and the political. Uh, and I would like to add the psychological factor, which is a very important factor. In other words, your whole nationalism is a psychological factor. I take the bar with that, as well. Oh, oh, the hatred of the white man and areas where he's dominated. Yes. Well, in terms of the, the military and, and political, are you satisfied with the policy we're now pursuing, uh, in the government? I'm very far from it. I think that we've had one of the stippities foreign policies, especially in connection with the Far East. We have had no policy. We've contradicted ourselves every few weeks, in many cases, every few days. Here, as far as us concerned, from 1945, I think that the, our policy in the Far East has been perfectly disastrous. We are largely responsible for the mess over there because, uh, it was through our appeasement policy that Mao got control over China. We then, in 1950, January 6th, 1950, we announced to the world we're not concerned about Korea. If anyone grabs Korea, we're not concerned about it, which is simply giving a green light to the, uh, to the communists to grab. Then, when they do grab, overnight, we, uh, announced that we do, are concerned with and are going to fight. Since then, we've tried various other policies about Formosa. Yes, we're going to keep Formosa. No, we don't care about Formosa. We will give Formosa to the, to the communist owner. We're going to see the communism. We have no policy. And we're now fighting a war in Korea, a bitter, brutal war, with a thousand casualties a week, in which I have our, um, commander's hands are tied behind them. May I, since I disagree with, uh, with, uh, most of the views Mr. McGovern is expressing me, I heartily agree with the one he just expressed. I, I don't think what we've been doing can be dignified by the word foreign policy. On the other hand, I think we have got a foreign policy now that is not, uh, to use a word he used, drift. And that's rearmament. I think that's going pretty steadily. And you object to that. I don't think that's the answer to the problem I'm concerned about. Is it part of the answer to the problem? Uh, not quite. It, it, because these people can't eat what we're, the arms we're making. Uh, there are two problems, I take it. One is that, uh, the problem I tried to indicate, that we're not going to have peace in the world, as long as these people are in this condition, and know that they don't have to be. Uh, because the, the overpopulation thing is a very complicated problem, and there are a great many areas where misery is acute, and if anything, the country's underpopulated. Uh, I think of many parts of Latin America I'm familiar with. But I think there's another problem, and that is we're locked in the power struggle with Russia. And would be locked with Russia, I think, whether there was any communism in the world or not. There are many reasons for it. Now, on, on the second problem, it's obvious that we have a defense problem. Uh, on the first, the arms don't do the trick. So that, uh, I'm not saying that you disarm. I'm saying that if you think you can solve the first problem, the mouth misery, with arms, then we're in for rough sledding, because it won't solve it. On the contrary, one trouble we're having with our allies in Europe at the moment, is their fear that the arms program will so squeeze the economic condition of the people as to cause political instability, infiltration, and even communism. You think we're in any danger of losing the support of Europe? Oh, certainly. There's never been a time since the Atlantic Pact was signed that the people of Western Europe as a whole said, that's it. That's what we back. Well, we've got, I think, the real funding. Let's get back to our fundamental issue. And then, where we, where we are very much of divided opinions, you feel that simply, uh, spending billions and billions and billions of dollars, and feeding everybody, getting a higher standard of living, will do away with the Russian menace. Well, I wouldn't care to state it that way. Well, you certainly came very close to it. I think, as far as that's concerned, we are facing here just the very opposite. We are facing here a military menace. I think the, the Communist powers, with their four million soldiers in Russia, their four million soldiers in China, are aiming through infiltration and propaganda, through, uh, little, a casual biting off this group and biting off their group, or aiming bit by bit at trying to win over the world by the force of arms, or the, or the threat of arms. It is their psychological threat either of arms or of armed threat in many cases. That we, whether we find it in Korea, whether we find it in China, whether we find it in Indochina, they're relying upon arms. And in no cases have arms. Alone? Arms plus infiltration, they use all types of psychological warfare. That is exactly what you're saying. And what's the psychological warfare based on? Why is it successful? Or is it successful? The utopia trying to say, if you'll just join us, you'll have utopia. I, I really must object again to calling a square meal utopia. I think that's, uh, uh, a fundamental American vice. Alright, let's put it this way. To consider between meals for people who are having to eat. If you will join the Communist Party, if you just have a Communist, everything you'll have enough to eat, you'll have everything you want. As a matter of fact, I think the fact is awesome. Most people, including Americans, want enough to eat. So I don't, I don't, and I don't think we should call that utopia. Well, on the other hand, what I'm saying is that the... If so, we're in utopia now. Well, exactly. And we have not got it here by simply, uh, by a, by a hand out state. We've had it here by hard work and self-reliance. Well, some of these people are working very hard. But as far as that's concerned, what we're trying to do is to aid them, consistently aid them. But on the other hand, it is not the duty of American, or the American taxpayer, to subsidize, uh, 400 million Hindus. May I agree? I think any effort to solve this problem by simply calling out the American taxpayer is doomed to failure. And this is not an American problem. It's a world problem. How would you go about it? Well, it'll have to be solved by many peoples, uh, in cooperation. It can't be solved by America. Would you care to spell out some of the details? Well, I think, uh, very obviously the Charter of the United Nations pretty nearly spells it out. And we never have, uh, invoked that part of the Charter effectively. Uh, they, when the United Nations was set up, it was set up not only to, uh, not only with a Security Council, but with an Economic and Social Council. And if you look at the budgets for the past five years, you'll see that what we've spent on the Economic and Social Council doesn't amount to much, in terms of the problem that it was designed to cope with. Uh, I don't know whether it's too late to use the United Nations, because the United Nations has lost a lot of prestige in most of the world since Korea. Certainly the United Nations has lost a lot of prestige, and why? Because it was never able to get together on a policy. And where the United Nations have recently done their best to sabotage the policy, our Far Eastern policy, in which they were delighted to join in as soon as long as it seemed to be winning. Therefore, I, the very fact that the United Nations has failed in its primary mission of maintaining peace and opposing aggression means that I'm very dubious about handing over to the United Nations, without any control by Americans, 500 billion dollars or some figure that you're talking about. And you're, you're opposed to pooling our resources with the resources of other nations, and putting the pool under the authority of a group representing everybody, including us. I certainly am. As long as they're going to spend, we are going to give the principal amount of money. Most of the capital, most of the skills, technical skills. Well, I take it, I take it, you know the reason why we would be getting the most money, because we had the most. Yes, and, but we'll be, we'll be... What if we gave our share? I still would say that we will give no more than our share unless we have an adequate control of how it's done. You know again and again... I don't want to give more than our share on any basis. And you know exactly what has been done here when we have been pouring money into these countries, whether in Indonesia or whether in India recently, and through a World Bank incident, as an international organization. We've just given the India loan of some 265 million dollars through a World Bank, but our money primarily. And that hasn't affected the situation there at all. Well, you see, I'm in hearty agreement with you that this is not the way to cope with this problem. I don't think the Santa Claus stuff at Washington is the way to cope with this. Well, that is the whole thing. In other words, that I, uh, my fundamental position is we are faced with a military problem that must be answered with a, with a military way. Then in the other way, we've certainly shown our willingness to cooperate with all peoples, and trying to make them self-sustaining and self-reliant. But on, tell such a way you can show that giving them or lending them so many billions is going to aid them to be self-dependent and self-reliant. Then I think it's perfectly... Well, you see, I don't think this is primarily a moral issue. I think, uh, many Americans have had their feelings hurt because they've given a lot of money, of their money. And, uh, we're rather heavily taxed at the moment and feel that somehow people are not very grateful. I think it's true they're not very grateful. I think the reason they're not very grateful is that it's a very difficult posture for, uh, another people to have to come to the capital of one country, uh, and beg help. I, I don't think a good program can be based on that. I think it would have to be based on the pooled resources of many countries. How do you think, uh, the, uh, countries you're talking about, these underprivileged countries, would respond to that kind of program? I think it would be the first time in five years that an American statement would really ring around the world. I think they'd been wondering what's gone wrong, because we hadn't been looking to them the way they thought Americans looked. This is Wendell Lokey's point. You think it would ring in, in China and in India? Uh, if they heard about it. Now, they might be more or less effectually prevented from hearing it. Well, I very much doubt it would have any effect whatsoever. As far as that's concerned, you can see in which the, um, the Marshall Plan, which was unilateral, but still was trying to aid Europe. How that was suppressed and not allowed to act behind the Iron Curtain. I think that any international organization, under any auspices of a truly international organization, not dominated by Russia, would not be permitted to act in China. I don't believe that answers Mr. McBurney's question. I understood you to ask Mr. McBurney how the ordinary Chinese would react to such a declaration. How do you think they would? That's a different question from whether it would be a... He would react if he was allowed to hear about it. If he'd hear about it in such a way, this is another, uh, an attempt for the, uh, Wall Street to dominate, uh, dominate the world. The same way that even Mr. Nehra would be deeply suspicious. The Indian peasants would be deeply suspicious. Well, that is simply another way in which America is now utilizing a world organization to try to secure control over our beloved India. Well, I take it at this point, if you're not allowed to enter China, you enter the countries that do allow you to enter. Get on with the job. Yes, and the whole point of it is that the place of the people who are fighting us are the places where your organization would do no good whatsoever. India's not fighting us. China is. And as a matter of fact that... Why? I'm not proposing an international pool to help the starving merely because they're fighting us. I'm proposing that until we cope with that problem, you'll have continual disorder in one form or another. I think one of the forms of take would be war. Well, now, might it not be possible that we would pour our resources into communist-dominated countries and they would accept it and turn against us? And we'd serve only to, to strengthen the enemy. I think it would enormously strengthen our position in the world, even militarily, if we put, if we offered to put our share and no more, I'd like to get away from this handout stuff we're going in for, and no more, into a common pool to be used in whatever country would accept it. Now you are, if I understand you, Mr. McBurney, you are saying, supposing a communist country did accept it. That's right. I would be perfectly content to leave it to the international authority what to do. Perfectly content. Because actually, I think our position would be vastly strengthened. Of course, McGovern thinks they won't accept at all. I... I... I... I... ...cline to agree with Mr. McGovern. And they, first of all, they wouldn't accept at all. And, um, convinced, and secondly, that if by some miracle they did accept, they would utilize it in such a way as to tend to, to strengthen their selves and not ours. In other words, that... Well, who's ours here? Who's being referred to? I'm... I am an American. Therefore, when I say our, I mean we... But you're also a human being. What about the, uh, pool in which you'd have a stake? And which we would have, in which I'd supply the money and have no control over it, no? You'd supply some of the money and have some of the control. Yes, but I... You want... In proportion here, no. I think as far as I'm concerned, I want to... I want to aid every country to solve their own problems in their way... That would be the purpose of this organization. Yes, but I am not going to commit American taxpayers here to a, uh, to a grandiose scheme here, in which are pouring billions of dollars, let's say, into India, which will ultimately be controlled by Nehru. Well, now, the, the grandiose part of it need too much to disturb us, because we're involved in the grandiose operation now, the arms race. It's the biggest in history, I take it. And, in addition to this arms race, you're now trying to add umpteen billions in addition to that. Don't forget that, uh, here, this is not going to stop your arms race. Well, that was precisely the question I was going to ask. Where, where do you stand on that? Does, is this come on top of the, uh, present arms program? At present, you couldn't, uh, put it on top for a very good reason. Not, not the great reason usually given, where's the money coming from? Because that's always said just before somebody appropriates ten billion dollars. I don't know where it comes from, but it seems to come. Money is not the snarl. Things like steel are the snarl. We're running into shortages. Now, you couldn't start this program without tapering on arms. And you cannot taper on arms without destroying. The problem we've got is, what is your ratio between handling this problem, uh, with quite different kind of weapons, and handling national defense with arms? At present, I think we're busy losing our lives, because the ratio is too heavily weapons. Well, I've, uh, serious to disagree on this point. It'd be catastrophic. At the moment, we did not start this arms race. We'd demobilize and deal with the prize. Does it matter who started it? Yes, it matters a great deal. I know it matters morally, but I think we have a political problem. No, it is a problem here. As long as our enemy, our active enemy, are heavily arming, then it is our duty to out-arm them. And we, and throwing your billions of dollars here into wastelands in South America or India is not going to solve a military problem. But, uh, isn't the, the program you're talking about likely to lead us straight into war? Not the slightest bit. Not the slightest bit. And, uh, I show that if we simply have a firm, a vigorous, and a, and a positive foreign policy, and a positive military policy, in which we can get into, into no involvement, which we do not carry out. In other words, we should either withdraw from Korea completely and let the whole of Asia go communist, or we should fight them with, uh, with our hands not tied behind us. We can win a victory, an easy military victory. Well, I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Is World War III Inevitable? Why not send now for a printed copy of today's broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Stringfellow Barr and William McGovern. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. The reviewing stand inaugurates the observance of Mental Health Week with a discussion of the question, Are we emotionally prepared for today's world? Our guests will be the internationally known psychiatrist, William G. Menninger, Secretary of the Menninger Foundation and past president of the American Psychiatric Association. Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, Medical Director of the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene. And Helen Harris Perlman, Associate Professor in the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Are we emotionally prepared for today's world? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Koffer. This program has come to you from Chicago. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.
