Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, are we headed for moral bankruptcy? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the factors contributing to moral weakness in the American scene and ways of dealing with them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are the Reverend Charles M. Crow, pastor of the Wilmette Methodist Church in Wilmette, Illinois. Ben Cartman, associate editor of Coronet Magazine. And Dr. Alfred P. Hockey, consultant and lecturer and mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois. Dr. Hockey is also chairman of the Layman's National Committee. What is that Layman's National Committee, Hockey? That committee, McBurney, is to activate laymen all over the country to give support to their churches and implement their daily lives with the principles of religion. And as a committee, are you concerned with this matter we're talking about here today? We are intensely concerned. Well, now our subject today, as you've been told, is the matter of moral bankruptcy. Are we headed for moral bankruptcy? It's suggested by a forthcoming issue of Coronet Magazine, which carries an article, Let's Take Off Our Moral Blinders, in which Peter Nelson discusses what he calls the non-criminal criminals. Let's look directly at the question. Are we headed for moral bankruptcy? How do you see that, Crow? Well, there's no doubt, but that there are many evidences that we are in a period of moral decline. Violations of moral codes are commonplace, of course, even among educated people and people in positions of influence and authority. More important still, however, there seems to be a widespread toleration of immoral acts and attitudes, as though they were necessary or inevitable. However, this is no new phenomenon on the human scene. It seems to me that bankruptcy is a pretty strong term. I, for one, have faith to believe that there's going to be and will be a swing in the other direction. In other words, I don't believe we're going into moral bankruptcy. After all, we find what we look for. There are a lot of people, of course, callous to ethical principles these days. But on the other hand, we have a lot of decent and honest people of character and integrity. The very fact that many people are concerned with the whole problem is, to me, a sign of real hope. Well, the enormous popular reaction we had to the Kinkoffer investigation would be an indication of that, wouldn't it? Exactly. It was a groundswell of public indignation over the revelation of the criminal acts in the country, perpetrated by a great many people which were undercover up to that time. How do you see this, Cartman? Well, there's no escaping the signs of a weakening of our moral standards if we just look around us, if we read the newspapers, if we listen to the radio, if we have it in high places and low, in public and private life. To me, the most disturbing aspect of the situation is the fact that it shows itself up in so many of the everyday actions of the so-called good citizen, the good father, the good husband, the good housewife. Hockey? Hockey? I think that we cannot escape the conclusion that there has been a steady decline in our moral standards and the conduct we judge by those standards. We are not a morally depraved nation by any means, but the trend is in that direction. We have already gone so far that a frankly corrupt government can even get itself re-elected by the very people whom it is corrupting, if only of promises, enough for nothing. Our hope, it seems to me, is an individual spiritual regeneration, a hope that is made somewhat the more difficult by the fact that while we have always had these things, now we have government taking over more and more responsibility and substituting its edicts and its standards for what used to be the standards of religion. Oh, precisely what do you mean by, Hockey, by moral deterioration, by moral laxity? Is morality circumscribed by the law? Do you agree that a man is moral if he stays within the law? No, I do not. I think that morality and legality may be very different things. Legality is something that is set up as legal or as a rule of the game by people who have the power to pass laws. Morality is something that goes behind human nature itself into the laws that finally govern the universe. And our unfortunate trend is to identify morality and legality. I think it is more a matter of individual conscience than it is of law. Certain laws are moral. There probably are some laws that are immoral. In fact, there have been test cases made in the courts by people who have felt that certain laws were immoral. I think here we must get back again to the individual and the individual conscience rather than be guided entirely by law. Law, of course, can't reach many of the evils, so-called, which are subtle and behind the scenes, such things as human greed, for instance, or the betrayal of a friend or of a responsibility, or the simple matter of gossip. The effort of the law is to codify a moral principle, but obviously behind the law and making it possible and giving it strength are the moral and ethical principles that are commonly held by the great religions and by all decent people and that are the basis of any decent society. You think there's anything immoral, Cartman, in skirting the law as closely as possible? Let me give you some examples. Going five miles an hour over the legal speed limit in zones where this slight, in quotation marks, violation is permissible, getting traffic tickets fixed, padding expense accounts, padding insurance claims, wheedling on your income tax. Now, you're within the law. Yes, you're within the law, but you're not within the law of your own conscience, and certainly you are trying to get away with as much as you can. Padding expense accounts, for example, or falsifying insurance claims, or cheating on your income tax, you may be able to get away with it, but that's another evidence of this moral breakdown, the fact that we do try to get away with things. There was a statement printed quite recently to the effect that cheating on income taxes by the small taxpayers cheats the government each year out of something like a billion and a half dollars. These are all in the form of errors made on the side of the taxpayer. Some 14 million returns every year contain errors of this nature. What Cartman's pointing out, what I agree with, is that you can agree with the letter of the law or live up to the letter of the law and still violate the spirit of the law. Not only that, but it seems to me that there's a point here of importance, and that is that such minor violations, when carried on thoughtlessly, create a certain tolerance for law-breaking. on the part of people, not only for their own breaking of the law, but a tolerance when other people break the law. After all, we are concerned that we have a conscience on these matters, and if our own consciences are dulled by our own willful, even, violation of small matters, then we are not able to challenge the conscience of other people. Are you saying, then, that morality is essentially a personal matter? It is an exceedingly, intensely personal matter. If morality had to depend upon law, we would not be moral people. The best that law can do for us is to prescribe certain limits within which conduct broadly should be contained. But the individual choices that a person makes in choosing his acts can only be made on the basis of individual codes of conduct. And the moment that that individual is relieved from the responsibility of making those decisions, those choices, on the basis of his individual code of conduct, which makes him responsible to God, if you please, and is given the privilege, instead of living up to a law that a legislature passed or a dictator laid down, he's relieved of the individual responsibility and morality goes out of the window. Of course, there's some danger in pressing this problem as a purely personal problem because you might not like my code of morals. And if it's a personal thing, it's mine. That is quite correct. And mine is mine. But both of them must work. It seems to me to be a combination of the law and personal responsibility. There are certain laws that circumscribe our activities. We must obey certain laws or pay the penalties. But we must at the same time pay some attention to the guiding of our own conscience and our own feeling of responsibility. I don't think that we can say that moral law or moral morality depends on our own individual consciences in every instance because certainly there must be some objective standard of measurement or concern there. Are you saying that there's a higher morality that transcends the individual? Well, exactly so. Moral values are those standards of action and attitude which in a sense stand on their own feet as being desirable traits of life such as purity, honor, goodness, self-sacrifice for the good of others, loyalty to worthy responsibilities, love, and so on and so forth, respect for the right of others, self-respect, regard for the truth and for the right. All these things are more or less, you might say, ultimate standards without which common life is impossible on a decent level. I think that is what I meant when I said that we might have different standards but they must work and they can only work if they are right and that means that they must be in accord with the nature of things as they are and those codes, those standards of integrity, honesty, decency, and so forth, while they exist in and of themselves, can become effective only as I take them for my own. If there's something outside of me, they don't mean much. I must accept them as a guide for my own conduct. That's what I mean when I say that it must be individual. Yes, well, I'll go along with that. Well, now, what evidences of this moral breakdown that you discussed do you find in the American scene? You seem to take a fairly dim view of the moral stature of Mr. Average American. What evidence do you find of it? Well, we've already pointed out these evidences in everyday life, the insurance frauds, the fixing of traffic tickets, the cheating on income tax, and that sort of thing. But it also shows itself up in other ways. For example, appropriating company properties, stationeries, postage, things of that sort. That's another form of immorality, dishonesty, certainly, yet the average person thinks nothing of using his company's supplies on a wholesale scale. Walking off with a hotel, hotel, or walking off with a clock that's in the repair room, as Mr. Nelson points out, a very expensive clock, because there was something wrong with it. Yet he brought it home, paid nothing for it, and had it fixed up very easily. And yet when his, when his son pointed out, he said, that sure is a nice clock, Dad, he instantly corrected the boy on his grammar, but he didn't do anything about setting an example for the boy on the much more important matter of honesty. You see, communities are also guilty in some ways on occasion. For example, in my little hometown of Park Ridge, we've got to find a lot of people. We're moral people, we're highly educated, high middle class, and all that. We don't believe in federal aid to education. We don't believe in all this awful spending, this wastefulness in government. And if in Wilmette or Evanston or Chicago or some other flights, the government gave the people some money to build a school for them, that would be waste. But of course, when that's done for Park Ridge, we're only getting our share, and it's high time we got it. Well, now, are you suggesting, Dr. Hockey, that federal aid to education and federal aid to communities all over the nation is immoral? I don't think it is. You didn't offer your example precisely to make that point, but that implication might be there. The implication might be there. I would not say that the offering of it is immoral, but the accepting of something for myself that I don't think ought to be given to you, that is immoral. I think that is reflected all the way down the line again in this philosophy of getting something for nothing, or what Peter Nelson in his article called the Eldorado complex that has persisted throughout our history and is probably stronger at the present time than ever before. Everybody wants something for nothing, whether it is a government handout or free postage. Well, now, Dr. Crow, let us look at some of these specific examples of personal morality, such as dishonesty, lying, cheating. Do you think that is immoral? How about the white lie? Well, of course, I certainly do think dishonesty and lying and cheating are immoral. The point we're talking about here, it seems to me, is that when these things are done in a sense undercover and under the counter and done by evasion rather than by actually labeling our acts dishonest or lying, therein lies a form of immorality that they were particularly concerned about. We had some high school youngsters on this Northwestern University reviewing stand, I think it was a week ago, who got into this matter of moral bankruptcy and were themselves concerned about it. And they suggested, Dr. Crow, that evidences of it could be found in excessive drinking, smoking, and gambling. Do you think those things are immoral? Well, yes, I do. Of course, I think the matter of smoking certainly you wouldn't want to call the average smoker, though I don't happen to smoke, an immoral person. Any of these, particularly in the matter of smoking, since you mentioned that, the matter of excess comes in. And when a smoker smokes to excess to the damage of his own personality or to the using of money that ought to be spent for more constructive things for his family, then certainly it's an immoral act. But if you eat too much, is that immoral too? Well, uh... How about strawberry pie? It makes you fat. Well, strawberry pie doesn't have the danger of nicotine, for instance, or alcohol, as far as that goes. What are the moral issues in that area, anyway? Well, the moral issues it seems to me are the fact that, or to the extent that it damages human personality, anything that tears down or betrays or degrades life or makes it insensitive to the finer and the better things could be considered certainly immoral. I think that's true, and I think the real danger, the great danger in things like alcohol specifically, lies not only in the excess, but in the fact that they remove inhibitions, moral inhibitions, which open the door to even worse immoral acts. I think even in this field, again, it's a matter of personal responsibility, however. There's certainly nothing illegal about drinking or smoking. It's only if it's carried to excess that it becomes an immoral act. Well, of course, the matter of excess is a statement that's made so frequently about drinking, and to a certain extent is true, and yet you wouldn't consider excessive drinking of lemonade, for instance, as harmful as excessive drinking, or regular drinking, even, of alcohol. There's something in the character of the stuff itself. Just for instance, Jerry Voury is before the committee in Congress that is investigating ethics in government made the statement recently that more harm has probably been done to our foreign policy through such cocktail parties in Washington than in any other way. And one of the places, he says, where ethical practices are most often broken down our Washington cocktail parties and a certain type of dinner party. I don't think Mr. Voury, however, was referring to the alcoholic intake of these parties so much as to the associations that are formed at them. Undoubtedly, the thing that makes these parties particularly wicked is not so much the direct effect of the alcohol, the taste of it, and so on, which I am told on occasion can be rather delectable, but is rather in the fact that when they are under those conditions in that surrounding and environment, the moral inhibitions that would make them behave as good citizens are lowered and even removed, and they do things that they would not do under other circumstances. Well, this seems to delineate the problem as you men see it at least. What are some causes contributing to this moral deterioration with which you're concerned? Before we get away from the evidences, Dean, I think we ought to point out a few more evidences of moral deterioration. What are those evidences? You're concerned with. Well, for instance, the whole matter of syndicated gambling and lotteries which are certainly widespread today, the RFC scandals, the 5%er proposition in Washington, the harboring of men with communist leanings in the State Department, which was certainly revealed to be a fact within the last week or ten days, and also sex perverts in the State Department. Oh, such matters, too, as bribery of police by the criminal element, such matters as landlords gouging rent, particularly taking advantage of people in, for instance, the camps, around the camps where servicemen have had to pay exorbitant rents for just barns to live in. Now, all these things are deplorable, but as I look around the table here, I see, if I may say so, men with graying hair and some with not much hair. Is this a reaction of old, tired men to a gay young age? You sound very dismal and blue-nosed here today. I want to identify myself as having graying hair. And I want to, I'd like to point out that I think the thing that makes this present situation different from that of earlier days is not so much a difference in the people themselves as in the conditions under which they live. now what I'm getting at is this. We have been gradually substituting the state for God through the growth of central government. This business of morality is essentially an intensely individual thing. The person must feel individual responsibility and he must be free to exert that responsibility to the extent that government, especially central government, removes responsibilities and powers from us. it makes it less necessary for us to exercise our own responsibility. We are less responsible for the moral standards that we once adhered to and acts that we once would have deplored now become perfectly all right because government permits them. I think the key to the whole business immediately begins in cutting down the power of government and renewing and restoring and strengthening an individual sense of responsibility. I wouldn't quarrel with an individual sense of responsibility but in the degree that we live in a complex society which doesn't service the things we need Dr. Hockey which denies us opportunity denies us food, shelter and clothing then shouldn't a benevolent government enter in and help us out? No. A benevolent government should never enter in and help us out to the point of relieving us of our responsibility. People can take care of themselves cooperatively. What I mean is this, all the things that Washington attempts to do for us could be done by communities. Park Ridge should take care of its own people and should not look to a bunch of senators and representatives in Washington to give us handouts and pay the salaries and keep us alive. We'll take care of ourselves. You really think that we are headed toward something approaching moral bankruptcy and you think that this factor that you're now discussing is an important cause? It is a vital factor. Bringing it out of that realm for a moment and getting it down to the basis of everyday action on the part of people, there's another cause here, it seems to me, that's important and that is that too many people govern their own conduct by what others do. That is to say, they go along with the crowd. They're afraid to incur the displeasure of the group that they go with by holding out for what to them may seem to be privately the right thing to do. This of course is always a poor standard of morality. Good people must resist the temptation to do wrong just because everybody's doing it. Of course in the degree that you have in places of responsibility from high office to high responsibility in community and in home, that factor would, in the degree that you have irresponsible people in those positions and they set bad examples, that factor would become an exceedingly important. Well, absolutely and not only in people in high places setting bad example, we mentioned those in the political realm perhaps, but in the case of business, top executives or minor executives or superintendents of factories or what have you, fathers and mothers in the home, teachers in the school, all people in places of responsibility have a responsibility for the influence that they exert, whether it's a direct influence or an indirect influence. I think we'd all concede that, but do you think that fathers and mothers and people in responsible positions are any less morally sound than they were 50 years ago? What do you think about that, Carl? I would hesitate to say that they're less morally sound. there has always been a certain amount of immorality in these places, but I think that an unfortunate result of this widespread immorality in high places, the fact that it creates an air of cynicism, an air of skepticism, which results in people thinking, well, they're getting away with it there, why can't I? The feeling that it's being done, as Mr. Crowe pointed out, they just follow the leader. quite apart from irresponsibility in high places, don't you think that the fact that we face a very unsettled world is a factor contributing to this cynicism and skepticism? Undoubtedly, that has had a great deal to do with it. And along with it is a growing and persisting cowardice and timidity. Due to our interdependent economic relationships, we grow increasingly afraid to tell the truth when the truth needs to be told. And a lot of us condone by our silence the things that are wrong and that we know that are wrong. The basic cause, it seems to me, here we have mentioned is the plain fact of godlessness. When men forget God, they don't care what happens. Life is cheap, decency and honor lose all meaning. The law of the jungle replaces immoral sense. Get yours while the getting's good becomes the rule of life when men forget God. I would subscribe to that completely. I think you've got three steps to take. First of all, you must restore faith in God and in God's justice. Then there must be understanding of what the problem is all about and then there must be the courage to act. Well, now, we're talking about moral bankruptcy here today. Do you have a program for moral solvency? Hockey begins to suggest one. What would you do, Hartman? Well, Mr. Nelson, again, winds up his article with the call for a crusade, what he calls a vast ethical crusade which must begin in the home and must spread out from the home as far as this morality has gone. He calls upon each of us as an individual to enlist in this crusade. Not only in the home but in the church, too. Certainly, in religion lies our hope, it seems to me at least, in this whole matter. Jesus was not interested in minor matters. He was interested in commitment on major issues or brotherhood and justice rather than applying the rule of thumb to some inconsequential matters. And I am afraid that it begins exactly with us. May I suggest that so many of us, except, of course, the four of us, believe that the answer to this thing is always in getting the other fellow to behave. I propose that the four of us here and now begin that crusade and ask those of the people on the air who agree with us to join here and now in that crusade. We shouldn't forget the matter of education in the schools. Certainly in our public schools and colleges, there should be a moral teaching, a teaching of high ethical and moral attitudes toward life. Of course, as I sit here on these programs day after day and week after week, so often we boil down the answer to the school, the church, and the home. Can you make this prescription a little more specific in the political area, Dr. Hockey? First, everyone should vote, and it should vote for those things and for those people which are right, not on the basis of friendship or favor. Time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Are We Headed for Moral Bankruptcy? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were the Reverend Charles M. Crow, Alfred P. Hockey, and Ben Cartman. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand in cooperation with the Institute on Contemporary Africa, now being held on the campus of Northwestern University, will discuss the subject, Problems of a Changing Africa. Our guests will be Leonard Allen, senior assistant in the Government Model School in Sierra Leone. Lyndon Harris, lecturer in Swahili at the School of Oriental and African Studies of the University of London. Melville J. Herskovitz, professor of anthropology at Northwestern University. And Clark Tardis, member of the French Association for the Increase of Productivity. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the subject, Problems of a Changing Africa. This has been the Northwestern University reviewing stand from Chicago. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. You are being thankful for everything walls are practical the awful lot of els addition to the dialogue completely fuels theaffficult