We may be sure that this meeting, a symbol of our devotion to America, is singularly full of meaning to those here who, forsaking other lands, have this year become citizens of the United States of America. To them in particular, and on behalf of the rest of you, I venture to address these words. Our American civilization is not a mechanical thing composed of gigantic physical structures of ingenious material achievements. Those are but its means, its tools, its heart, its essence is a moral attitude, a magnificent living faith. Had Hitler invaded and conquered this continent, the mechanical achievements of America might have remained, and its physical resources would have endured, but that which we cherish as America would have perished. It is our moral quality that has made and will mark our greatness. We are a fortunate people, with a fortune you will now share, for we have a brilliant past made brilliant by our departed heroes. Their greatness consisted in their refusal to be passive, a refusal to rest on their past. Daringly, they opened up the future for us by breaking with the traditions of the old world. We must emulate them. We must not live like lazy errors on their accomplishments. Our past, which they created, we must not take as a finality. The core of the American faith is not ancestor worship. Our departed great gave us not a finished job, but an opportunity. The opportunity to be ourselves creating, both as individuals and as a nation. They founded and they preserved a nation, a community. But they did not intend a society of the slavish-minded, all submerging their differences for the exaltation of the group. They intended a nation of free and inventive persons. Our democracy escapes the twin evils of anarchy and despotism. Reconciles the conflicting desires for liberty and authority. It satisfies the craving of each man for some elbow room, some freedom to be unique, to be on his own. That freedom, which an authoritarian regime would denounce as anarchy, we applaud as desirable initiative. We have attained our kind of national unity because of our diversities, not in spite of them. We detest the notion that all individuality means lawlessness. That by laws, every phase of every man's activities shall be ordered, smoothed into common patterns. Ours is an unfinished symphony in which some discords are not unwelcome and innovations are expected. Two aspects of European culture America has refudiated. First, it has wiped out respect for the caste system. Here, there is no deeply embedded servility based on inherited status. Second, ours is not a kindergarten state. The citizens are not to be treated as children. Our governmental officials must not play father to us. They are neither our guardians nor our masters. They are our chosen representatives under a constitution which requires that their authority be bestowed upon them by us, the people, and for but brief intervals. If in every proper sense they can be called rulers, there is a peculiar limited rule. In truth, we are our own rulers. We are self-guardians. This is an association, a brotherhood, a stirring adventure in cooperation. It has succeeded in the past. Whether it will so continue in the future is up to you, for you must share the responsibility of ruling. To play a part in our government as one of a brotherhood has become your inestimable privilege. It is also your duty, but not, as fascism has suitably called the participation in government, an irksome chore. Rather, is it an exciting, fascinating, exhilarating enterprise that you have joined. Because we are finite human beings, never has our government been perfect, and never will it be. We have made mistakes in the past, and we shall make them in the future. Often we have fallen short of the goals of our ideals. But our very recognition of human fallibility saves us from the evils of dictatorship. Our democracy highly esteems reason. But it makes no pretense that it operates by reason alone. The heart has its reasons, which reason does not know. We Americans eagerly heed the intuitions of the heart. We are not ashamed of being swayed by sentiment. No longer can we be content to enjoy mere domestic tranquility. Our country is now immersed in world affairs. To other peoples, we must lend assistance, not only or primarily for our own self-preservation, but because the basic sense of decency which our American civilization fosters impels us to that task. That all other peoples will adopt our precise mode of life, we do not expect or intolerantly demand. We do dare hope that we will so conduct ourselves abroad that the spirit of democracy will, sooner or later, spread to other lands. In the direction of our foreign affairs, there, too, you new citizens must participate. American citizenship entails no obligation to join any church. Nevertheless, it involves a faith. The American faith, which briefly stated, means this. Humility in the face of inherent human limitations, but a belief that our will, guided by the moral intelligence of those whom we approve, can keep us moving forward on the road to the good life. That faith is voiced in our Declaration of Independence, which announced its basic rights, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and in our Constitution, which proclaims that our government was created by the people to establish justice, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty, not only for the present, but also for our posterity. But that government was not established once and for all. It was not frozen into permanence. Enemies of democracy recurrently appear, both at home and abroad. There is real evil in the world. Our faith does not guarantee a riskless existence. Our democracy is a never-ending quest, a never-ceasing struggle. We must create that democracy daily. Our heritage, your heritage, is not a certificate of ease, but an opportunity to partake in a great cause. To signify the willingness of all present so to participate, I shall ask each of you, please, to rise, to raise your right hand, and to repeat after me this pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you Dr. Edward M. Bernica, Commissioner of Hospitals of the City of New York, who will introduce our next number. Dr. Bernica. Ladies and gentlemen, we've taken a few hours out of a busy schedule on this I Am an American Day afternoon and have brought our student nurse choral group of 100 voices to these exercises as a tribute to a great American, Mayor William O'Dwyer, in appreciation of his deep and genuine interest in and devotion to the indigent sick of this city. His leadership during the past year and a half in rebuilding our services and raising standards and bettering our lives.