Music The End And if you'll please remain standing for the invocation by Rabbi Sidney S. Tedeschi, trustee of the Brooklyn Public Library and rabbi of the Union Temple. God, our Eternal Father, we ask Thy gracious presence with us this day. We are gathered here across sections of humanity and across sections of our beloved country. We are welcoming the breaking of ground of a great institution of learning for the library of all the people. May this library not be a mere repository of the knowledge of the ages. May it rather hold forth the means to further equate all the public with the great opportunities so that they may integrate themselves with their fellow men of every age and of every kind. May it help them to be in tune with the infinite and in tune with Thee. Amen. Amen. For our first speaker this afternoon, on this occasion that is mean so much to the library as well as to the people in this particular area, we have the president, not of the borough of Brooklyn, but of the Brooklyn Public Library. Mr. Davenport said that the job that he's credited with on the program is one he never would want. I don't blame him much. But I will ask Mr. Davenport to speak for the library on this occasion. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the trustees of the Brooklyn Public Library, which I have the honor of being president, it's a joy to welcome you all here to this groundbreaking for the Kings Highway Regional Branch Library. This occasion is important in many respects, but in two respects it is particularly important. Number one is, and this represents the physical style of the first branch public library ever built in the borough of Brooklyn by the city of New York. The branches that we've had up to now have been Carnegie branches, built by the monies that were given by Andrew Carnegie many years ago, or have been branches in stores and other rented fillers. Therefore, this is important as marking a milestone in the development of Brooklyn Public Library's attempt to care for the library needs of the borough. And it's been a long haul, and it represents the culmination of the efforts made by the trustees, by the city authorities, and especially by the representatives of the local area, that have been insistent over the years that the very inadequate quarters that we've had up to now, should be replaced by a substantial building which would meet some degree of the reason for the community. That's one reason it's important. The other reason is this, that for the first time in the history of the city, there will be constructed here, for this regional branch library, an utterly modern library building. You know what library buildings used to look like? A long flight of steps up, a forbidding exterior, created for some purpose, perhaps the only purpose that libraries used to be used for, the delectation of a few scholars, and of the repository for books. The library is not that any longer. It's a live, working, workshop, that all the people may take part in the work that can be done best in a library. We're making books live for the benefit of the people to whom the library belongs. Now this library building is the first to go, in particular interest, and will be, not only to you, the neighborhood, and to us as a library organization, but to the company of life, as an example of what an entirely modern library building should be. To the end of us, we know that, when our budget architect was appointed on his job, our first instructions were, that he cared for, he would not see, or look at, any exterior of his building, until the interior had been entirely planned. And that proceeded on that building, and his interior has been built, and then this very handsome, but not elaborate, and certainly not forbidding structure, has been planned as the outside of the core, or the important part of the building, which is the inside. I welcome you all here, and I'm sure you'll watch the progress of this building, and have a goodness, and we will. And when it's finished, we're going to have something, which you may be so proud of, because the people will come, to see this branch from all over the United States, and the United States, as an example of what a modern library should be. Thank you. When we set the day for this groundbreaking ceremony, it was with the idea that our borough president could be with us, because we felt it was especially appropriate that he be here at this time, and he had done so much to bring about the realization of this, the first French library building in the borough, that's been built from city funds. However, as you all know, there is an exit political campaign on right now, and he has to be in another part of the state. He has asked Mr. Joseph Reach, who is the secretary of the borough, to represent him here at this time. Mr. Reach. Mr. St. John, gentlemen of the Claude, distinguished ladies and gentlemen on the platform, and my friends of the Kings Highway section of the borough of Brooklyn. I think it's attributed to an old trooper. And everybody, I'm sure, recognizes the name when he gets on the stage. Says, Is everybody happy? Everybody recognizes, particularly the youngsters as we mean, Ted Lewis. And I think it's appropriate to ask that question today. And the answer obviously is that you indeed must be happy, first by the large number of folks that I see here this afternoon, and secondly, you have reason to be happy because of the knowledge. The people of this area have the opportunity for the first time in many, many years to actually see the breaking of ground, and soon will be the dedication of the library, which has been a hope and a dream, not only of the people of this particular area, but the adjoining areas. I should like to say at the outset that I come here not of my own accord, although it would be very delightful for me to do so in that capacity. But I come here primarily at the direction of Borough President John Cashmore. And to say to you, my friends, that he himself would have loved to have been here to greet you this afternoon. And to rememberation of this dedication that you're going to witness in a little while. And to say how happy he personally is that he was able to get the members of the Board of Estimates from Mayor Impilateri down to vote the appropriation to make this event and your dream possible. Unfortunately, the Borough President, who has distinguished himself for many years as a public official in many capacities, and more than any others in the capacity of Borough President, has had an extra honor bestowed upon him, and that is, as candidate for the United States Senatorship, the great Empire State of the New York. And I don't mean to take advantage of these ceremonies by singing his praises, but I think as his emissary, I should let you know that the Borough President isn't here, and I'm sure that it's with your grace that you permit him to be absent, and that you wish him as well in his campaign as he wishes each and every one of the three million people that he has the honor to represent. I want to point out that the City of New York indeed has to be grateful in general for many improvements that have come to our people, and of course, there are many projects that are sponsored in the Board of Estimates by our Borough President. He's delighted in doing it personally and because it's his duty. But in giving thanks to him and the other members of the Board, in this particular instance, we want to remember, too, Commissioner Zemelin, who is the Commissioner of Public Works, who's had a big hand in the blueprints of this particular project today. And so, in the name of Borough President Cashmore, I wish to thank him, too. I want to say to you, my dear friends, that we'll soon forget the words that have been imparted here by the gentleman of the Claw, by the other speakers as well as myself. But it's important to point out, because most all of us read the newspapers, the people who watch television sets and listen to the various commentators on the radio. And we hear so much about communism that is prevalent, of course, in Russia and the satellite nations, because they are communistic nations. But we hear so much about communism in our land, communism that has been infiltrated into various agencies of our borough, city and state. But we here in the United States of America are enjoying a freedom par excellence, a freedom for which all Americans, whether they are born here or became naturalized, ought to be grateful for and ought to thank God Almighty every single day of the year, that he's privileged to live in a democratic form of government such as is given to him in the United States of America. When this particular library will be built, three people will be able to enter the portals in order to receive a better knowledge and perhaps a little education. Three people over there. Three people over there. I mean, when you go into the library to read those books, you wouldn't have to give any Heil Hitlerstein as you did years ago in the days of Hitler. And you won't be asked to praise the name of Stalin. You'll be admitted there free, no charge whatsoever, and the thousands of books will be there for you to read and learn. And I call attention to this fact because of all the freedoms that we're enjoying in this free democratic country of ours, the greatest freedom so far as I personally am concerned is the freedom, the right of worship. There are thousands upon thousands of us in our land who appreciate and look upon with dignity and dignity. Those of the faith that believe in his love will Girav nenhum, shall we. There are thousands upon thousands of us in our land who appreciate and look upon with dignity to those of the faith who believe that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish but have everlasting faith. We look upon those people with dignity and rightly so because their faith belongs to them. They on the other hand look with dignity upon people of another faith, those of the faith of Israel from which I come who believe in Shammai Ischua'el Adonai L'Haini Adonai Achut, our God, one God. And this is a free country. So we ought to be thankful to God for the privilege and opportunities given us to us here. Thank our public officials for being on the alert and looking out for our welfare. And to you mothers and fathers, the last parting word is, if you want to help decrease juvenile delinquency, make it a part of your program, the same as you do listening on the air or television, to instruct your children and see to it that they go to the library and make a regular habit of it. You'll keep them off the streets. They'll become wiser, more talented, a better department, and more respectful. And so now, in the name of Borough President John Cashmore, I congratulate the people of this area for the good fortune that comes to them today. And I congratulate each and every one of the public officials of the City of New York and this Democratic administration who had to do with it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. I'm sure that all of you realize that in a library system as large as is necessary to cover the borough of Brooklyn, that there must be some one person who coordinates the activities of the various branches, who helps to select the staff, the books, and to make sure that you're getting the service that you should get in that branch. And our next speaker is the person who does that in the Brooklyn Public Library. Our supervisor of branches, Miss Margaret Freeman, who will also, besides talking to you briefly about what this library is going to mean in our overall system as a regional branch, introduce the staff that will be here. Miss Freeman? Miss St. John, Miss Davenport, guests, and particularly the people of King's Highway, who have worked so hard and waited for so long for this day, October 24, 1952. Although I have been in my present position for a number of years, I've never participated in the groundbreaking ceremony before, and I'm very anxious to get to the point where we use the chromium-plated shovels, because many of my fellow librarians think I don't know how to wield one, so I won't be very long. Even though we have not had any new library buildings in Brooklyn for some time, we have, in the last three years, opened seven new store branches. And the interesting part about this is that three of those branches are in this general area. The Flatlands branch at Flatbush Avenue, that's off King's Highway. The Kings Bay branch on Northeastern Avenue near Avenue V. And the Hylann branch at West 6th Street near King's Highway. The reason I'm speaking about this particularly is that this building that will be erected here is to be a regional branch, which will serve those branches in a way as well as this immediate area. The reason we have chosen this as the center is because it is a larger, more densely populated area, and the library has been here much longer. I think there are some of you people who have lived in this area for quite some time, and I thought that you might be interested in just a very brief review of what has happened in the library at King's Highway. Over 42 years ago, the first library was opened on King's Highway. It was called Station Number 4. And in those days, there was a population in this general regional area of 33,000 people. We loaned the first year 16,000 books. That's 42 years ago. In the period between that time and 1940, we moved the branch four different times to get into what we considered the larger quarters, and the circulation had grew from 10,000 books to 273,000 books each year. But the population in that time had grown to nearly 400,000 people. It shows what tremendous growth in this area has been in that period, and how badly we have needed a larger library. The other day, I happened to be looking at the dictionary, and I came across the definition of a library. It said, a place set apart to contain books and other library materials for reading, study, or reference, as a room, a set of rooms, or a building where books may be read and borrowed. The history of King's Highway Branch shows it has gone through this process of the rooms and the set of rooms. And now we are almost to the final achievement, where we will have a building where books may be read and borrowed. But the public library today is much more than that. The building which we are going to erect here will serve not only, as I said, this immediate community, but will extend its services to all the branches in this area. It will have plenty of space for quiet reading, browsing, and research. There will be space for the additional services of a modern public library, which involve group activities with all age groups, including the latest service which we give now to senior citizens, those people who admit to being over 60. There will also be a great opportunity to use new visual aids, which are made taking such an important place in the field of education. I'd like to quote from the annual report of the bench I ran in 1930, King's Highway. He said, Steps should be taken without delay, for the library will have a suitable building of its own. The community building had served well in the past, but the time was now at hand, when we should be housed by ourselves in a separate children's room, a quiet reading room for older people, ample shelving space for books, a more spacious workroom, and storage space for magazines and comfortable provision for the staff. Since 1930, we have gone through a great expansion and a war, so it is taking a long time for those steps to be taken for a larger building. Now we are at the point where we don't have to have very far sight to see the completion of that building. So at last, all of you people who have climbed the stairs to the King's Highway branch since 1939 can see the place where you will be able to go in to a building which will be on ground level and will have lots of space for all of you. I would like to introduce the members of the staff at King's Highway. I'm sure you all know them. Miss Eapswood, the branch librarian. Miss Hollander, the first assistant. Miss Lawson, the children's librarian. Miss Newman, the rest of the librarians. There are in the audience several more. Miss Marks, I can see the young people's librarians. We do have something on library staff now that we didn't used to have even five years ago. We didn't have many of them and that is men. We do have a lot of men and you have three on your staff. Please, King's Highway. Now I'm going to ask the Reverend Dr. Alfred Grant Walton, the pastor of the Flatwood Thompson Congregational Church, and also a trustee of the Brooklyn Public Library to give the prayer. Mr. Walton. Let us pray. O Eternal God, we thank thee for our beloved land. We are grateful for all its beauty, for its majestic mountains and its mighty rivers, for its hills and its fertile plains. But we are not unmindful, O God, of a richer heritage, more important than material prosperity and our economic strength. We thank thee that here we may live in liberty and that freedom is ours, a land where the noblest treasures of civilization may be cherished and increased. Particularly do we thank thee for the treasure of literature, which represents the best thought of the ages and in which is recorded the treasures for the enrichment of mankind. Grant thy divine blessing to rest upon this civic enterprise in which we are engaged today. May this branch of the greater libraries of Brooklyn be a place of great usefulness, to which many may come for pleasure, for the increase of knowledge and understanding, and for the discovery of the truth that makes men free. May the services of this library be enhanced. May those to whom it seeks specially to serve use its facilities wisely and well. And may the community spirit here expressed be inspired to even greater attainment in the realization of the finer interest of this great metropolis, which we are proud to call our home. May it ask in thy holyultanate? May that we ask in thy name. Amen. At a ceremony of this type, which usually takes many, many years to bring to this specific point, there have been literally hundreds of people who have worked at various stages in trying to bring this about. bring this about. We tried to figure out how we could do honor to those people today because this is the beginning of the fulfillment of their dreams and it was obviously impossible to try to bring out of a community as large as this the number of people who have worked on this library project. Consequently, we have asked people to this platform who would be representative of the various areas of your community and I would like to introduce them to you at the present time as representatives of the many hundreds that have been working on this project. First, I'd like to introduce to you the members of our own board of trustees who have had the interest of this community and of the whole borough in mind as they've worked without pay in guiding the destinies of the library. You've already heard some of them and I'd like to introduce all of them to you. First, there's Mr. Davenport, whom you heard the president of our board of trustees. You've also heard Dr. Tedeschi give the invocation. I'll introduce them to you again. And also Dr. Walton, one of our trustees who has just given the prayer. You will soon hear the benediction given by still another one of our trustees. We are extremely proud of the fact that we could call upon our own board today to give the prayers at this particular ceremony. when it was all very honorable, but the ones that they're with, us may be, a very famous speaker, because it's been very part of knowing the volunteer children, but the volunteer children until it sits in our own� 피부 and their marquee to want their education, so we can they're not to be the Fehling company. Monsignor Fitzgibbon. And then of your own community, and here also as a representative of the Nottingham Association, is the secretary of our board of trustees, Mr. Harold Bailey. And Mr. Joseph Resnick, another one of our trustees who is here. At least that's all of them that came up on the platform, but we're glad that they're here today. Then the men who represent you in the Congress and in the State Senate and Assembly and in the Council of the City of New York. I've seen Mr. Adrian Malter here, the congressman. Mr. J. Sidney Levine, the State Assemblyman. I haven't seen Mr. Louis Priest. Is he here? He had hoped to be here, but is not. And I understood that Mr. Edward Vogel, your councilman, would be here, but I haven't been able to find him. I know he planned to be here because he wrote me to that effect and has had a great deal to do in battling for the library interest here in the city. And then representing the community, there's Mr. Dominic Cisternino, the president of the King's Highway Board of Trade. Mr. Leon Shulman, I'll call in in just a moment. Is Mr. Dan Greenberg, the editor of the King's Lake Courier? Right here. Here. Right here. And Mr. David Burenberg, the leader of the discussion group at King's Highway. Then representing the PTAs, Mrs. Evelyn Glass, who is representing the PTA at PS 234. And Mrs. William Cohen, who is representing the James Madison High School PTA. Mrs. Jean Ladden of PS 238. Mrs. Sylvia Newman of PS 153. And Mrs. Pauline Oroban of PS 197. Then we have here the representative of the newly formed Brooklyn Library Council, the president of that council, Mr. Irving Engel. I don't see Miss Ryder, who is the chairman of the Friends of the Library. She did plan to be here. Is she in the audience? She did plan to be here. Then I saw over here at the side, I tried to get his eye a little while ago, the man who's probably more responsible than any other, the architect, Mr. Johnson. The good-looking man on the hill. Now, to speak for that group, because we tried to find someone who would represent the various groups that are represented here, we've asked Mr. Leon Shulman, who is chairman of the library committee of the local PTAs, to speak for this community group. Mr. Shulman? Mr. Chairman, honored guests, parents, friends, neighbors, children. This occasion is undoubtedly one of the happiest in our community's history. However, it took the coordinated efforts of many, many groups, such as our own Kings Highway Board of Trade, our neighborhood school parent associations, civic and religious organizations, as well as the efforts of many individuals, to bring us here today to witness what many skeptics said would never come to pass. No one individual, no one organization did the job. It was a team. The coach of our team was a modest, unassuming man, a man with a national reputation in his own field, one who is known among librarians as a librarian's librarian. I mean, friends, our own chief librarian, Mr. Francis St. John. In addition, an active member of our team, who is well known for his many untiring efforts on behalf of all worthwhile community projects, Mr. Francis St. John. was on that team, and he is none other than our own assemblyman, Mr. J. Sidney Levine. Last week, I attended two public hearings before the City Planning Commission. The City Planning Commission is the branch of our city government that recommends capital improvements to our Board of Estimates. The first of the hearings was on libraries. In attendance were about 30 parents. The second hearing was on needed school buildings. Hundreds of parents were there. Which of these two groups had the better opportunity of getting what they wanted? Of course, those at the public school building hearings. They won't have to wait 40 years as we have waited. Naturally, we want needed school buildings. But aren't we forgetting the corollary importance of our libraries? Our libraries complement our schools in the education of our children. And we adults who use the library certainly are entitled to some consideration. Whose fault is it that we have had to wait since 1912 for this beautiful library that we are here to dedicate? Not our city officials. Not our library administration. Not our library administration. Not our library administration. But we alone are to blame. The needs of our library system in Brooklyn have been pressing for many years. And will be for many more years to come. But as long as we sit back. And think that others will present our demands for a larger share of the city budget. In the form of more libraries. And more librarians. We will be sadly disappointed. The remedy is simple. Become active members of your parent-teacher organizations. And your civic and religious groups. We parents should always remember. That just as in our own family budgets. The first bite on pups pay is for the children's needs. So must we impress upon our elected representatives and officials. That we expect the first bite on the city budget. To be for the welfare of our children. I'm sure you agree. But just agreeing isn't enough. At your next meeting. Or whatever organization you are a member. Be heard. Speak up. Come down. One final word. Through your organization. Make certain. That this beautiful library. Will not only be completed. But the funds necessary to make it a functioning part of our Brooklyn Library system. Will be appropriated. Thank you. Before I introduce our next speaker. I would also like to introduce a couple more people up here on the platform. First. Two more representatives from the Nottingham Association. The President. Mr. Robert Gold. And Mr. John M. O'Shea. Then not on the platform. But right down here. Is the Chairman of the 61st Precinct Coordinating Council. Another group that works very closely with the library. Mr. Morris Chivak. And then our Superintendent of Housing and Buildings for the city. Mr. Benjamin Saltzman is here. And last. But certainly not least. The leader of this particular area here. Mr. Joseph Whitting. Now the next speaker that I'll call on will be here in a dual role. First for himself. Because his department has more to do with the development and the planning. The erection of these buildings than any other department. We are very fortunate to be able to work closely with the men that he assigned to the jobs here. We consider them of top caliber. But today he's also representing the Mayor. Who unfortunately couldn't be here. And so I've asked him as one of his commissioners to represent him. I'm going to call now upon the Honorable Frederick Dermielen. Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. To speak both for himself and for Mayor and military. Mr. St. John. Reverend clergy. Distinguished guests. Ladies and gentlemen. And children. As your chairman, Mr. St. John, told you. I have the particular honor of appearing before you today as a representative of Mayor and military. And of the Department of Public Works. Mayor and military has asked me. To tell you how much he regrets his inability to be with you. At this groundbreaking ceremony. He promises to be here when the library is open. The pressure of duties at City Hall just made it impossible to keep his schedule. Now this groundbreaking ceremony is more than that in one sense of the word. We are not only breaking ground today for the Kings Highway Regional Branch Library. But we are breaking ground for a program of community libraries for Brooklyn. Of which Kings County Regional Branch is the first. The first. Erection of libraries ceased in this city in the early twenties. When the Carnegie donations for library construction was discontinued. In the intervening thirty years. In the intervening thirty years. No community library was built in Brooklyn. Although the city did build the magnificent Brooklyn Central Library on the Grand Armory Plaza about twelve years ago. As a result. As a result. Many communities of this borough have not had. The kind of library facilities which they require. The libraries as you have been told under our theory of government have ceased to be a luxury. They have become an adjunct of the democratic process whereby our people can educate themselves and improve their economic and social status. Public libraries have become a vital part of the educational opportunity which has made our America great. So it is a great pleasure for me both as a representative of the mayor and as the commissioner of public works to participate in a ceremony of this kind. I might add a personal note here. I think it's just about thirty years in nineteen twenty two. When I broke ground for the first building of my own design and my own responsibility. Not too far from this site. In age fourteen street and King's Highway. And I was amazed today in coming out here. At the tremendous growth since that time. In fact I might add that I was almost believing. That all those decorations along King's Highway. Mr. President of the Board of Trade. Was in honor of this groundbreaking. But on closer scrutiny. I found out it was in honor of a three day bargain sale. There will be many more of this same kind of ceremony. Because this city administration has embarked on a program of library construction. And intends to pursue it. Despite the city's difficult financial situation. Next year for example. We expect to start construction. On four more library projects in Brooklyn. Including the Midwood. The Mapleton. And the Borough Park Branch Library. Plus the reconstruction of the Williamsburg Regional Branch Library. Now the construction costs of those four projects alone. Is estimated at this time to be $1,340,000. In addition. Before the end of this year. We expect to start work on the completion. Of the second story of the Brooklyn Central Island. In fact we took bids on that work. Received favorable bids. And the appropriation for its starting. Was made at yesterday's meeting of the Board of Estes. So the city in cooperation with the Borough Brooklyn Public Library. Has been engaged on a program of modernization. And rehabilitation. Of some of the existing libraries in Brooklyn. Some of you know that alterations have already been completed. At the DeKalb. The Carroll Branch. The Arlington Branch. The Pacific Branch. And the Mekom Branch Library. In your borough. And we are working on the alterations. Of two other libraries at the present time. Now my engineers. And I noticed that the chairman introduced that good looking architect. Who designed. Who designed. His firm designed this building. That young man was a member of our own city administration. Prior to his appointment to the job. To design this library. These men. Working in our department. Are now drawing plans for two additional libraries for Brooklyn. The New Cooney Island. And the Utic Branch. Next year. We are going to start designing four more. The New Lots. The Rugby. The Rugby. The Henginton. And the Downtown Montauk Branch. Now I think you will admit that this is a tremendous program. When one considers that it is just a library program. For one of five boroughs. The Brooklyn Public Libraries. The people of Brooklyn. The people of Brooklyn. And the people of this area in particular. Are to be congratulated on this. The beginning of a well-thought-out plan. Of library construction for the borough of Brooklyn. My department, the Department of Public Works, is very proud and very happy to have had a very important part in it. You can depend on us to put up this building in the very shortest possible time. Thank you very much. I think you can see now why it's such a real pleasure to work with Mr. DeMillen and his men in Public Works. Now, to conclude our program, I'm going to call upon another one of our trustees to give the benediction, but may I ask that after the benediction, those of you who are seated remain seated so that we can ask the officials who have been so designated to actually break the ground, which is the main purpose for this ceremony. Monsignor Francis Fitzgibbon of St. Joseph's College for Women will give the benediction. Directly beseech thee, O Lord, our actions by thy holy inspiration, and carry them on by thy gracious assistance, that every prayer and work of ours may begin always from thee, and through thee be happily ended. O God, who didst instruct the hearts of thy faithful by the light of the Holy Spirit, grant us by the same Spirit to have a right judgment in all things, and ever rejoice in his comfort. Bless, O Lord, this work which we have commenced this day, that through our efforts and those of our friends, with thy help at all times we may bring a knowledge of truth to minds that seeketh consolation to weary hearts, companionship to the solitary, peace to the disturbed, and a better understanding of thy world. May the blessing of God descend upon us and remain with us forever. Amen.