There are rivers to cross. So, take the tunnel. Each Friday evening, Alice and I come along the airwaves into your homes to take you on little jaunts along the pathways and byways of that small section of America which we call New York, the wonder city at the mouth of the Hudson River. And today, that mighty river, which owes its beginnings to the depths of the Adirondacks, is our waterway to an historic wonderland. Joe, suppose we keep that story of the Hudson River for later in this program, which is presented in cooperation with the New York City Tunnel Authority. How about first telling all the busy war workers what the authority tells us about the super highway between Manhattan and Queens and Long Island? Yes, Alice, I think that would be a fitting way to open this fourth program of Series 2. The super highway you refer to is one of the most important traffic arteries linking Manhattan and Queens and Long Island. It's the Queens Midtown Tunnel. It's easy to reach the Queens Midtown Tunnel. Yellow and black directional signs guide the way along the main highways and streets leading to the tunnel from all sections of the city. In Manhattan, enter the tunnel from any street between East 34th and East 40th and First and Second Avenues or from the East River Drive. In Queens, enter the tunnel by way of Queens Boulevard via the underpass at 69th Street, connecting highway, Midtown Highway, or 21st Street to the Tunnel Plaza at Vernon Boulevard. The New York City Tunnel Authority at 200 Madison Avenue, New York 16, has a free official map which gives all the detailed routes and approaches to the Queens Midtown Tunnel, both in Manhattan and Queens. Write for your copy. And if you're a commercial trucker, and in that case you must conserve tires and gasoline, the traffic bureau of the self-same New York City Tunnel Authority at 200 Madison Avenue will map out the shortest, fastest route for you between New Jersey points and Manhattan and Queens and Long Island. Of course, the logical way to travel at all times between Manhattan and outlying Queens and Long Island points is the Queens Midtown Tunnel. It's open 24 hours a day, there are no traffic lights to slow you down, and it's never slippery in wet weather. So, do as we do, take the tunnel. Now for tonight's story. Joe, suppose you start us off. Well, from rocks as old as any in the world, fresh waters rise into a little lake beside the highest Adirondack Peak, Mount Marcy. The little lake is younger than the rocks, but older than man. In the whole state of New York, it is the highest body of water to feed an ever-flowing outlet. It is Lake Tear of the Clouds, the cradle of the mighty Hudson River. Aren't there wonderful names given to these headwaters of the mighty river, though? Mm-hmm. Mount Marcy, once called by the Indians Tahawas, the cloud splitter, looks down into the mirror of Lake Tear. East of the peak, beyond Panther Gorge, stands the dome called Haystack. To the north stands Tabletop, to the south Skylight, and westward rises Mount McIntyre. The clear water of the ancient rock spills from the lake to shallow feldspar brook, then plunges to join with other brooks, the uphill and the upper twin. Another fork, descending in the shadow of Calamity Mountain from flowed lands and the falls of Hanging Spear, meets it to form the swift opalescent river. And the opalescent at the hill town of Newcomb becomes the Hudson. And flowing south then to the Indian River Junction and between Badluck and Kettle Mountains, keeping east of the steep sides of Ruby and Balm of Gilead, a thin stream meets the splashing Scroon. There the Hudson widens into a strong river running south between gentler shores broken by the mouths of streams, Stony Creek, Wolf Creek, the Sacondaga River. Below the last of these, it flows east in level meanders, dropping after a few miles into a broken channel. From here, the Hudson flows through a gorge within an older valley. The floor of the gorge, almost as far north as Albany, lies below the level of the sea, creating a fjord or estuary where the fresh waters are ever subject to the invasion of salty ocean tides. Through a land of ice-built terraces, the Hudson runs south to the northern gates of its highland canyon. And now through the Gateway Peaks, Storm King and Breakneck, the Hudson flows southward past Mount Taurus on the east, their mountain on the west, and emerges from the gap between the mountains known as Dunderburg and Anthony's Nose, a few miles farther along after passing between Hytor Mountain. Is that the one Anderson's play was named after? That's right. Well, it passes through Hytor Mountain and Prickly Pear Hill. The gorge widens and the river spreads to its greatest width. For the next dozen miles, the stream narrows gradually and the west side becomes a sheer columned wall of hard basalt, rising from 300 to 600 feet. These would be our palisades. And so the river runs past the narrow island called Manhattan into New York Bay, thence between Staten Island on the west and Long Island on the east, and finally adds its waters to those of the broad Atlantic. And that's what it looks like. Now, if you'd like the history of the river, well, the Valley of Henry Hudson it is, Robert Fulton, of Washington and Rochambeau, of Arnold and Andre, of Rip Van Winkle, Ichabod Crane and Captain Kidd, of the phantom ship of Rambut Van Damme, and the headless horsemen of Sleepy Hollow. English navigators, Dutch patroons, Tappan Zee Indians, colonial troopers, and the heroes of Irving and Cooper, they all live again as the story of the Hudson unfolds itself. Alice and I will unfold it for you as we tell you the stories of the towns from the mouth of the Mohawk until the Hudson reaches the sea. Henry Hudson in the half-moon reached the vicinity of Albany in 1609. The half-moon was anchored and the Hudson continued by, and rather Hudson himself continued by a small boat to Troy and the mouth of the Mohawk River at Cohoes, and wrote, it is the most pleasant land to see. Fort Orange, later Beverwick, and since English days Albany, was built in 1624 and settled by 18 families of Dutch Walloons. It has been our state capital since 1797. The first patroon, Killian van Rensselaer, was granted 24 square miles centering at Fort Orange. That's the first and longest enduring feudal grant in New Netherlands. Rensselaer, originally called Greenbush, was settled in 1631. Fort Crelot, now a museum, has claimed to be the oldest port still preserved in the United States. It was here that Yankee Doodle was composed. On an island at Skodak Landing, the first council fire of the Mohican Indians was lit, and according to tradition, Hiawatha, the legendary chief of the Onondaga Indians, once lived in the vicinity of Norman Kill on the West Bank. Hudson was at one time a leading whaling center of all things, and was originally called Claverak Landing. Quaker fishermen and whalers from Rhode Island, Nantucket, and Martha's Vineyard came here for a haven from British cruisers. The beautiful and lofty Catskill Mountains of Rip Van Winkle are between Hudson and Greendale, the latter being opposite the village of Catskill. North of Tivoli is the site of Claremont, the manor of the Livingston family, financial mentors of Robert Fulton, in the first practical steamboat operation, which took place, as you know, in 1807, right on the Hudson River when the Claremont plied from New York to Albany. Kingston, founded in 1658 and one of the oldest towns in New York State opposite Rhynecliffe, was the first state capital. The old Senate House, erected in 1676, attracts thousands each year. Below Hyde Park is Crumb Elbow, the resting place of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and on the opposite side at West Park is Slab Sides, the retreat of John Burroughs. Poughkeepsie is about midway between Albany and New York. It was settled by the Dutch in 1698, and in this attractive place, New York State in 1788 ratified the federal constitution. Poughkeepsie is the seat of Vassar College and the annual scene of the pageant-like intercollegiate rowing regatta. From Poughkeepsie south, the Hudson gradually wind, gradually wardens until it reaches the northern gateway to the Hudson River Highlands, just south of Beacon and Newburgh. Beacon, formerly the villages of Fishkill Landing and Matawan, is located at the mouth of Fishkill Creek and at the foot of the rugged Fishkill and Beacon Mountains. Mount Beacon in this range is so named because in revolutionary days, Beacon lights were lighted by the continentals to signal between armies on either side of the river. And we go across the river from Beacon and find historic Newburgh. Quaint and inviting, Newburgh has the appearance of a river town in a foreign country, yet it's one of the most American of places, abounding in events and episodes of the Revolution. It was right here the Continental Army disbanded in 1783, and Washington took leave of his men. Washington had his headquarters here in the Jonathan Hasbrook House from the spring of 1782 to August of the following year. And so we come to the northerly portals of the 16-mile section of the Hudson River, known as the Highlands. In the heart of the Hudson River Highlands, where the river is at one of its narrowest points, there's a sharp bend forming a beautiful cove. In this cove, south of Storm King and Crow Nest Mountains, lies the village of West Point, formerly Camp Town. Here are the reservations and buildings of the United States Military Academy. Here was the scene of great events in the Revolution, and here, since 1812, the West Point cadets have prepared to serve their country. And here, too, we relive the trials of Washington and his loyal officers, Generals Knox, the Clintons, Kosciuszko, Lafayette, and Putnam, the tragic episode of Arnold and Andre. And we recall such names as Constitution Island, Fort Clinton, Mount Independence, Fort Putnam, the Siege Battery, Battery Knocks, and the Beverly, or Treason House of Arnold. Well, that's a nice mouthful. And so we pass Bear Mountain, Anthony's Nose, and the Manitou Mountains, and Dunderburg Mountain, with Captain Kidd's point at its foot, and reach the southerly portals of the Highlands. Well, the river now broadens into the Peekskill Bay, Havistraw Bay, the Tappan Zee region. Moonlight on the Hudson, a famous waltz by Wilson, is said to have had its inspiration from the lunar panoramas here. Peekskill is named after Young Peek, a Dutch mariner who established a trading post in 1760. Here, too, are three noted peninsulas. Verplank's Point and Stoney Point, both scenes of the heroic deeds of General Mad Anthony Wayne, and Croton Point, where anchored the British sloop vulture in bringing Andre to visit Arnold. And now come Tarrytown, Sleepy Hollow, Irvington, Tappan Zee region, so beloved and extolled by Washington Irving, whose home, Sunnyside, still remains in the Irving family. And incidentally, Alice, honey, Dr. Hugh Grant Rowell, the president of the Historical Society of Tarrytown, has announced that Sunnyside will be preserved as a nation's shrine, and will probably be open to the public next week. Ah, we must go up there and take a picnic lunch. We must. Well, Tarrytown is the site of an Indian village, and the name comes from the Dutch Tarvindorp, or Wheattown. This is the Sleepy Hollow of Irving's classic legend. Off of Irvington is a lake like Tappan Zee, where legend says the phantom boats of Rambut Van Damme, excuse me, and the storm ships still apply. Dobbs Ferry was of strategic importance in the War of Independence. Here, Washington's army started for Yorktown in August of 1781, and here Washington and Sir Guy Carlton negotiated the final peace terms. Yonkers, as you may know, was part of the grant in 1646 by the Dutch to Adrian van der Donk, and was called de Yonkers Land, or de Yonkers, and later Yonkers. The land passed to Frederick Phillips, and the Phillips Manor House is a leading example of Dutch architecture. On the west shore of the Hudson opposite Croton is Haverstraw, with High Tor and Little Tor Mountains, and the Hook Mountain section on the south. Opposite Tarrytown are Nyack and Piermont, where rail-hauled coal first reached tide water. And Piermont again becomes important, Alice, because I noticed in the papers a few days ago that our returning boys destined for Camp Shanks will be disembarked directly at Piermont instead of in Manhattan. And finally, from Palisades in New York to Fort Lee in New Jersey are the far-sung Palisades of the Hudson, the majestic ridge of the Saltic Rock, which rises from 300 to 600 feet. And so the river runs past the narrow island called Manhattan into New York Bay, thence between Staten Island on the west and Long Island on the east, and finally adds the waters of its birthplace, a tier of the clouds, to those of the broad Atlantic. This has been the story of the Hudson River, a story put together from material obtained from Carl Carmer's book, The Hudson, one of the Rivers of America series, and from a booklet issued by the New York Central System. And back to the New York City Tunnel Authority, we just can't remind you enough to take the tunnel. The Queens Midtown Tunnel, when you want to save time, gas, and tires in your travels between Manhattan and Queens and Long Island. You're perfectly right, Alice. And since the tunnel approaches are vividly marked with yellow and black directional signs, it's as easy to take the tunnel as it is to find a numbered street. In Manhattan, it's the Queens Midtown Tunnel Plaza, either direct from the East River Drive or between East 34th and 40th Streets and First and Second Avenues. And over in Queens, it's the Tunnel Plaza at Vernon Boulevard by way of the East River of Queens Boulevard, through the underpass near 69th Street or the connecting highway, the Midtown Highway, or 21st Street. And remember, too, that the Traffic Bureau of the New York City Tunnel Authority at 200 Madison Avenue has a free official map outlining all the routes and Queens Midtown Tunnel approaches from either end. And commercial truckers can receive help there, too, in planning short, fast routes to outlying districts. Well, Alice, I guess our time is up until next week when we'll be back to tell you about four interesting exhibits now on view in our museums. Until then, this is Jo Fishley. And this is Alice Lloyd saying, take the tunnel. So, take the tunnel. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. So, take the tunnel.
