Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. In 16 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year. 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks the question, what should be our national water policy? Our unrehearsed, give-and-take discussion will center around possible water shortages and an evaluation of our national water policy. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are W. W. Horner, consulting engineer from St. Louis and chairman of the Water Policy Panel of Engineers Joint Council. Julian Hines, general manager and chief engineer of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. L. R. Housen, consulting engineer in Chicago. Dr. Boris A. Bakmatev, consulting engineer in New York City and professor of engineering at Columbia University. And George W. Burpee, consulting engineer in New York City. Our speakers today are members of the Engineers Joint Council Water Policy Committee. Tell us, Horner, what is this Engineers Joint Council to which I just referred? And why are you men interested in our national water policy? Mr. McBurney, Engineers Joint Council is the coordinating agency for the five great national engineering societies, which includes the American Society of Civil Engineers. It's meeting in Chicago this week. Altogether, it's representative of about 100,000 engineers of the country. Water resource development in most all of its phases is an engineering matter. Engineers, accordingly, will probably represent that part of the citizenship best acquainted with all of the factors involved. Now, what do you mean by our national water resources? What are these resources? Well, they constitute all the water available in the United States on the ground surface, in the streams, and underground. Naturally, they all emanate originally from our natural rainfall. Do you think we face any serious water shortages in different sections of the country? How about that, Heinz? Well, no. So far as available water is concerned, I don't think so. There are certain areas that are short of water. Naturally, they're desert areas, but they should not be utilized in a way that would require too much water. And also, in other areas where there's plenty of water, we're short of facilities. And that is the main difficulty that we have in many of the places where you hear about water shortages. Well, now, there are two areas that are notorious nationally in this water question. One, New York City, and the other, Heinz, Southern California. Burpee, how about New York City? Are you people getting water to drink there? Yes, sir, we're getting water to drink in New York City. We're even getting water to shave now since we've abandoned the shaveless and waterless Thursdays. The situation in New York is not so bad insofar as supply is concerned as the public over the United States has come to believe. There has been a scarcity. The scarcity is not due to lack of water, but is due to lack of the facilities for collecting water and facilities for piping the water to New York City. Plans were made years ago to tap the Delaware River for a supply for water. And those facilities are in process of construction. They were delayed, seriously, by the war, by World War II. But in a year or so, they will be completed. And when completed, New York City will have a supply that will be good for at least 50 years. Beyond that, there is now in formation or under discussion a treaty between the four states bordering the Delaware River, and will allocate the uses of that river from its source to its mouth. Well, are you saying in substance then that the rest of the country can stop worrying about New York's water? Yes, sir. That you've got this problem in hand? Yes, sir. Handling New York water scarcity is a problem for the Metropolitan District of New York. How about Southern California, Heinz? Well, the situation in Southern California is just the opposite of New York. Southern California originally was a desert country. And the water that's naturally available there was nowhere near sufficient to support the civilization that we have there now. And that forced planning and foresight that was not forced to New York where the situation was somewhat easy. So the people of the cities of Southern California, 32 of them, have banded together in the Metropolitan Water District, and they built an aqueduct 400 miles to the Colorado River. This aqueduct is capable of bringing in a billion gallons of water a day. And to all of these cities that are a part of the Metropolitan Water District, there is no water shortage presently or in the foreseeable future. Well, what does that do to the people along the Colorado River? Do they object to that? Tapping their river and their water? There's no reason why they should because the waters of the Colorado River back in 1923 were allocated between the various portions of the basin by an interstate treaty, approved by the states in the basin and by the United States government. And the water that California is taking is the water that was allocated to California by that treaty. Well, let's look at this problem generally for just a minute or two here, if we may, Hausen. You often hear that the water level over the country generally is receding. We hear that right here in Illinois. Is that the case? Well, that is only true in very few isolated communities. Where the amount of water being withdrawn from underground sources exceeds the rate of which it's being replenished. By and large, over the country, there is no recession in water levels and no diminution in the amount of natural water resource water that is available for development. That would be true of lakes and streams generally, I take it? Yes, Lake Michigan right here at our door goes through cycles. We have records of it going back something like 150 years. And there is nothing to indicate any trend of a change. Well, I take it that rain from the heavens is the ultimate source of all our water. Is there any way of stepping that up? I'm thinking about the rainmakers that our friends in New York have been entertaining lately. Well, of course, we do spend currently a lot of money for the development of water resources, of which we know their location and means of development. Now, this rainmaking is something new. It's in a highly experimental stage. But if we spend money to develop resources that are here, it seems to me reasonable that we should spend some money for research to find whether there are available other water resources not yet tapped, but which would be developed as part of our whole economic system. Mr. McBurney, we've been using the word development. I think that ought to be cleared up. Mr. Houseman's statement about rainmaking is one stage of water resource development which would take place in the skies. In other words, that class of development would make it rain at the time that it's particularly needed instead of the time nature probably would do it otherwise. But our water resources development, as that term is generally used, recognizes the haphazard occurrence of water in nature, both our intermittent rainfall, the rise and fall of our rivers, and some fluctuation in the groundwater. We use the word development to mean taking the water as it occurs, doing those things with respect to it that would conserve it and convey it and make it available as it is needed. Mr. And all of our big water resources project are based on that objective. Mr. And that's really the problem we're discussing here today, isn't it? Buck Natoff? Yes, I think we should answer the question what operations are involved in water development. Well, there are different things. Of course, the oldest thing is transportation on water and probably domestic and city water supply. But then as things develop, now we have the building of these big dams which conserve the water and the conveyance of water from those dams by canals and by aqueducts to the plant. So we have the water and aqueducts to the places where they're used. Then, of course, we have the opposite problem. Sometimes, it isn't a question of shortage of water, but the excess of water. We have the flood control problem where we have to really protect people from the damages which devolve from floods. Then we have the problem of drainage. There's lots of lands in the United States which are excellent lands from the point of view of soil fertility and so on, but which are swamped. We have to remove that water by drainage, and that's one of the cheapest and most economic ways of reclamation. And finally, one of the problems is really to keep our waters clean. In other words, that's the problem of combating pollution. That's a national problem of very great importance. Keep the lakes and the reservoirs and the rivers and underground water clear of contamination. Now, who is responsible for these operations that have just been described here, Horner? For water resources development over the country as a whole. Generally. I judge you mean. Well, we've had one very good example of public water supplies where the responsibility is local. I think that ought to be mentioned in more detail. Well, let me ask my question another way. We're talking about our national water policy. To what extent are these operations that were just described a function of a national water policy? Well, as I've used the word national water policy, it covers a combination of all the policies of the various agencies within the responsibilities they should assume, which fitted together, would make a proper standard for water resource development for the whole country. I think you're probably thinking of the federal government and the federal government policy rather than the overall national policy. That's really what I'm thinking of. You see, we've had described here the problem of piping this water, of conserving our resources, of avoiding pollution. Is that a function of the federal government? Well, that depends upon the magnitude of the project. All the small projects that have been built throughout the United States for cities have largely been by the enterprise of the cities or private companies. And that's entirely proper. The work should be built by the people that are going to use them and benefit by them. There are certain projects of very great magnitude that the local people haven't the backing and the credit to finance. The government moves into that in one of two ways. They can come in and build these projects for the people as a gift because they have some general national benefit, or they can come in and they can offer their advice, engineering advice, and credit to the people on a self-liquidating basis, with the understanding that the people that benefit by the projects are required to repay the money eventually. Well, do we have a national water policy now, Housen? No, I think that we have no connected national water resources policy. What we have has grown up in a topsy sort of fashion and has little cohesion and little economic justification for the way it is exercised. Do we have regional and state policies? Only to a limited extent. My feeling is that these problems ought to be solved at the lowest governmental level that it's possible to solve them. The closest to the people that pay for them and use them. Many of them, probably most of them, can be solved at the city or the state level. A few others that affect such as pollution on a stream that flows through several states may become, and this problem that Mr. Burpee referred to about the New York Four-State Treaty solving the New York Water Supply. The next step above the states is state compacts. And there are only very few of them, in my opinion, that should go to the federal level for a solution. Well, do we have a federal policy now? Well, I think that we do not have really a federal policy because it's all helter-skelter. And one of the most important questions of this national policy, whenever federal funds are involved, is how are we going to use taxpayers' money? And I think that was one of the greatest concerns of our committees, of all our committees in this Engineers Joint Council. There are two problems in handling this taxpayer's money. One, whenever a project comes up, it has to be really appraised in the light of its economic visibility and the way it pays back. Now we find that the standards which have been used for appraising a project are extremely unrealistic, and sometimes involve all kinds of benefits which cannot be really appraised in any objective manner. So one thing is to establish clear standards how those projects will be appraised. And second is who is going to decide on those projects? Now we find that in so many cases a question of that or other project is decided by, under pressure of local interests, or political pressure, and I would say politics in quotation marks. And I think one of our great problems in national policy is to lift the decision of those problems out of politics and put it up on a high level of impartial adjudication. One difficulty with some of the projects that are being planned and built now by the government is that they're spreading the cost of projects that benefit individuals over the taxpayers of the whole nation. And when they do that, the people that are building the projects become uninterested in whether the project is worth what it costs. They'll spend a billion dollars to produce a project that's only worth a hundred million dollars because there's nobody to kick about the money that's being put up for it. The people that are benefited only pay a small part or none of the cost, and the public generally are not asking about it. They have to pay it whether they want to or not. Well now, what are some examples of these projects of the sorts you're talking about where funds are being wasted? Well, one example that I might mention is the central project of Arizona. There they are planning to spend over a billion dollars for a project which ultimately will cost the taxpayers of the United States, in principle and interest, more than two billion dollars. And that will benefit about four hundred and twenty private individuals that are in the farming business. And some of them will benefit to the tune of a quarter of a million dollars and with no requirement to make any repayment at all. Now, how would you handle that kind of a project? Would you just forget it, write it off? I would forget that project under present economic conditions, yes. Well, don't you think that the development in central Arizona, I'm not familiar with the area or with the project, you say four hundred twelve farmers would benefit. Might it not mean that the kind of development that's contemplated would bring thousands of farmers under productive lands in an area of that sort? I know nothing about it. I raise the question. No, no, the amount of new land, or old land that will not have to be retired if the project isn't built, will only cover about four hundred and twenty farms. Now, the project, Mr. McBurnie, if you look at it in its detailed economics, I understand that the charge against that land for putting water on the land would be way over a thousand dollars an acre. No land that we know of can justify such an investment cost. And then the other question comes up immediately. What is the excuse for the federal government spending taxpayers' money to put any new land in production in face of our present land situation? You're suggesting that there should be some correlation between our water policy and our land policy. Yes, if we have no sound water policy today, we've got to get one. But before we can have a sound water policy in many of its aspects, we have to have a sound policy of land utilization. For example, we have, we're supporting today in the United States, 25 percent more people in terms of food and fiber than we did 30 years ago. We're doing it on exactly the same acreage. There's been no appreciable increase in the acreage. In other words, our agriculture has developed an increasing efficiency, showing that the present land is capable of taking care of our needs and will for some time to come. Now, while those crops on the present lands are being restricted by the government in some cases, the government's spending tremendous amounts of the taxpayers' money in order to buy up surplus crops, doesn't it seem rather absurd to go around and spend the taxpayers' money again to put new lands into production? We need a sound land policy first, before we discuss these water phases that are related to land. Well, why, why are these projects of the set we're discussing here, this Arizona project, approved if they're as costly and apparently as senseless as you men seem to think? The primary reason for that is that Arizona is very well entrenched in the United States Senate. You're suggesting, in other words, that our national water policy is a political football? That is exactly the suggestion I'm making. Well, let's leave Arizona for a minute. You have something to say here. Yes, I have, because I think that situation has been discussed in great detail by the committee. And we came to the conclusion that one of the troubles is the way in which these projects come up, studied and then adjudicated, or better say, authorized by the Senate, or by the, by Congress. It's very greatly a matter, as I said, of local political pressure and political football. And the committee thought that one of the most important steps is to institute a kind of a supreme court. In other words, a board of impartial analysis formed out of people of the highest integrity, highest experience, and completely unbiased who should pass on those projects, and that no project should be approved and put into spending before it gets the approval of that board. That would lift completed a thing out of politics, and probably do away with most of the troubles. Well, from constitutional considerations, you probably could not say that no project should be approved unless it was approved by that board, because in the end, Congress has the authority. It would seem obvious that the findings of, by such a board, that a project was economically unsound, would have, and that finding publicly released, would have a strong influence on the action of Congress. Well, let's take a quick look at two national water projects that most people in America know something about, in relation to what you men have been saying. Take the Tennessee Valley Authority as an example. Now, do you regard that as a successful project, Werner? Well, any project ought to be successful if capable people are given several hundred million dollars to spend in a limited area. They can't help producing tremendous benefits. I, frankly, I don't like to discuss that matter of Valley Authorities versus other phases of administration, because the Valley Authority involves a question of political philosophy, in terms of a paternal government on a limited area. And I don't think that's what we're talking about today. We're talking about the best way to administer our water resources. Well, now, apart from administration, is there any question that the Tennessee Valley ought to be developed? You don't question that, I take it? There's no question that there was a great need for water resource development in the Tennessee, and of other classes of development, covered by the authority. But there's also great needs in other parts of the countries, too. The Tennessee Valley was initially authorized as an experiment. Now, if you have that attitude toward the Tennessee Valley Authority, what is your attitude toward the Missouri Valley Authority that's in prospect now? How about that, Horner? Well, I think the attitude would be the same. That there is a great need in the Missouri Valley for water resource development. But the real point, if we're going to do those things under a sound policy, would be to see that those developments included only sound projects, for which the taxpayers received a reasonable return in terms of the values in the United States as a whole. We come right back to the proposition that we shouldn't build anything, it isn't worth what it costs. I think, too, that in appraising these things, we ought to realize that the taxpayer's dollar, and the way it is spent, is a highly competitive thing. We have these multitudes of water resource projects that ought to be realistically evaluated. But the water resource projects are in competition with the federal funds, for federal funds, with hospitals, highways, schools, and other purposes for which federal money should be expended. Such as tanks? Yes. Right now, defense, I think that in face of the defense requirements, that there ought to be a very realistic reappraisal of other than defense expenditures. Well, now, are you gentlemen saying in substance that these water projects ought to carry their own weight, that they ought to be self-liquidating projects, and so far as possible in the hands of local communities? Is that your point? In general, they ought to stand on their own legs, and the people that receive the benefits ought to contribute to the support. Any question around the table on that? I don't think so, but again, they should be projects that are needed, and projects that are worth what they cost. As many of these projects are not really needed from a national point of view. They are, of course, desired by local people, but not really nationally needed. They produce products that we have an excess of already, and we should eliminate, until we have satisfied all of our other needs, we should eliminate the development of water projects that we can get along without. I think, Mr. Chairman, that the lack of policy has laid this whole matter at the federal level open to a terrific boondoggling situation. We've talked about a tremendous project that there's serious question about the pride of undertaking. But the present federal budget is being loaded up with a tremendous number of small projects, which are gifts from Santa Claus to local communities. A sound policy would stop that. I was very much interested when one senator this spring attempted to introduce amendments to throw out of the Rivers and Harbors Bill, one after another, of little projects such as a recreational boat harbor for Podunk, Wisconsin, to be built entirely at federal expense, hundreds of them. He actually got only a handful of votes to strike that sort of thing out of the belt, because in nearly every district there was something of that kind. A sound policy would make it infeasible to do that. I should like to point out that it is not impractical or impossible for the local level governmental units to take care of themselves. Water supply is the most important and the highest use of all of our water resources. And yet there are 13,000 waterworks in the United States, supplying 85 million people. They have spent about $6 billion and it has been spent and the works built wholly by the people that use the facilities. And it's been done so well that we have the best waterworks in the world. They deliver the water at an average cost over the United States of about five cents a ton, and at a cost per capita of, on a general average, about one cent per day. Well, specifically, Horner, what kind of a program would you propose? Well, we need a complete overhauling by the Congress of our ideas of national water policy. I think the national water policy revision has got to start at the federal level. The states haven't assumed their proper responsibilities, but I don't know how they would go about doing it until they know what the United States is going to do. I think there should be a revision and a restatement by Congress of policy in terms of the proportion of our financial resources that could be properly allocated to water resource development, just as they've done in highways. I think there should be standards set up by which economically justified projects could be determined on an even basis in all classes, which isn't true today. And I think there should be standards of repayment by which the beneficiaries, to the greatest possible degree, should pay directly the cost. That would still leave many projects to which the federal government would have to lend this credit in a big way, and somewhere they would have to pay the cost. Well, this, a program of that kind sounds so eminently sensible to me, I can't understand why it isn't done. Why don't we have a policy of that kind? Well, one reason for that is that the people that are building these projects are, have no responsibility for raising the money for them. They plan them, and then they build the projects, and somebody else, you and I pay for them when we pay our income tax money. If we had this Board of Impartial Review we were talking about, where the planning of the projects is controlled outside of the particular agencies that are going to do the construction work, I think it would be a very great step forward. Do you think the kind of program you men are sponsoring here is politically possible, Heinz? I don't see why it shouldn't be politically possible, but it would first have to become a demand from the public of the United States. The taxpayer, principally. We'll have to get public opinion back a bit. Are you in any danger of losing sight of rather intangible social values that flow from some of these valley authorities and other national projects? Aren't you trying to hold them to too rigorous bookkeeping on these things, Horner? I think those values will have to be considered, but we'll have to find some sensible way of doing it, which we don't have at the present time. Well, I take it, gentlemen, that we have taken our national water policy very largely for granted, that it's growing up like topsy. It's been a pleasure to have you here with us today to discuss what you conceive to be a constructive program for developing our national water resources. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, What Should Be Our National Water Policy? Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for copies of the reviewing stand for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Julian Hines, W. W. Horner, L. R. Housen, Boris A. Bukmetyev, and George W. Burpee. And now, once again, our moderator, James H. McBurney, to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, can we get people to work together? Our guests will be Leland P. Bradford, Executive Secretary of the Division of Adult Education Service of the National Educational Association. Arnold Lippitt, Program Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics at the University of Michigan. Malcolm S. Knowles, President of the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago. And Paul Sheets, Associate Director of the Extension Service of the University of California at Los Angeles. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, can we get people to work together? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Frank Babcock. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. But I will name you in這樣子 which we'll tell for you in 크� bug and snort hu Gavin a lot. We'll see you again tonight about two weeks it's the best of being做ed. Places