Your City Station's microphones are set up at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City, where shortly the presentation of the Greater New York Civic Center Association Medals of Award will take place. Among the speakers are His Honor Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere, John Postel, President of the Downtown Athletic Club, Thomas Darcy Brophy, President of the American Heritage Foundation, Bernard F. Gimbel, Chairman of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, and Robert W. Dowling, Chairman of the Greater New York Civic Center Association, who will act as presiding officer. These William Randolph First Medals of Award are given in recognition and appreciation of accomplishments during 1951 toward the improvement and preservation of downtown Old New York City on Lower Manhattan Island. Now, here is your host, Robert W. Dowling. Gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? We are on the air, and it's my privilege to present to you the President of the Downtown Athletic Club, Mr. John C. Postel, who is our host today. Mr. Postel. Mr. Dowling, Mr. Mayor, honored guests, Ladies and gentlemen, it is most appropriate that the Downtown Athletic Club, as an integral part of downtown New York, should act as host to the members and guests of the Greater New York Civic Center Association. We are met today to do honor to five outstanding citizens, three from private and two from public life, for their leadership toward the preservation and improvement of old New York and lower Manhattan. The developments for which we are extending recognition are the construction of the Beekman Downtown Hospital and the modernization of the equitable building. The completion of the Governor, Alfred E. Smith Houses, the restoration of the Hanover Park Square, completion of Battery Park, and a special award for the commissioning of the two luxury liners, Constitution and Independence. These are only the highlights of the many improvements made by others. The presentation of these awards are, in fact, representative of the continual development of lower New York by public-spirited citizens in maintaining lower New York as not only the financial center of the world, but, in addition, the center of many state, city, and federal activities. It is, therefore, my privilege as the president of the Downtown Athletic Club, to welcome you on behalf of our 3,700 members and to express our sincere appreciation in permitting us to join with you in honoring our five distinguished guests at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Posto. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Posto. The City Hall Park Association is the grandfather or the father or the godfather of the Greater New York Civic Center Association, of which we are here today under the auspices of that association. and so it is most fitting and proper keeping in mind the City Hall Park Association as an ancestor that our mayor should be with us today nothing I could say other than our appreciation of his coming here except to say that we all of us are pleased that Godfather Vincent is with us darling ladies and gentlemen today is the 89th anniversary of the birthday of a really great American William Randolph Hearst in his adopted city of New York principally in downtown Manhattan the greatest events of his astounding career took place a career which ended last year with his quiet passing in his native California that his memory should be honored today in this ceremony is a most appropriate tribute and I as mayor of the City of New York am proud to be part of this ceremony last year it was my pleasure and privilege to speak on the occasion of the first annual presentations of the William Randolph Hearst Memorial Medals of Award at this luncheon here today five prominent New Yorkers are to receive the second annual awards for distinguished service during 1951 for their achievements toward preservation and improvement of old New York in lower Manhattan two of the recipients are from the official family of our city government the Honorable Philip J. Cruz Chairman of the New York City Housing Authority and the Honorable and the Honorable James A. Sherry Executive Officer of the Park Department and I might add that both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Sherry are career service men in the employment of the City of New York the Honorable Howard S. Cullman is also a public servant in his dollar-a-year position as Chairman of the Port of New York Authority the other two citizens who will receive Hearst Medals today are Mr. John E. Slater and Mr. Robert H. Patchen both serving in high places in our downtown Manhattan maritime industry New Yorkers who do perform such distinguished service to the end that this historic corner of our city with all of its meaning for us in terms of the past will be preserved for posterity richly deserve rewards for their good citizenship and civic service I see gathered here today leading citizens representing many activities in the progressive life of our city their presence here is indicative of their interest in the preservation and improvement of downtown old New York I wish as Mayor of New York to thank you for your attendance I wish also to thank Mr. Percival Robert Moses as President of the Civic Center Association and Mr. Postel as President of the Downtown Athletic Club for inviting me to participate thank you thank you thank you very much Mr. Mayor the Mayor's graciously mentioned Percival Robert Moses well he is not a speaker today I do ask him to stand and take a bow President of our Association and on my left here the Board President of Manhattan Robert Wagner Jr. we are fortunate in having Mr. Thomas Darcy Brophy President of the American Heritage Foundation one of the truly great patriots of this country a wonderful person who is now engaged in so many civic endeavors and betterments that I could hardly name them but it's a most impressive list and he's a most wonderful man and we're glad and fortunate to have him with us Mr. Brophy thank you Mr. Dowling Mr. Mayor ladies and gentlemen at this time when so many leaders representing many business and civic activities of the greatest city in the world are gathered here in downtown Manhattan at the downtown athletic club I know of no better occasion to propose that we begin to think about the commemoration of New York's 300th birthday year which occurs next year we are about to honor five outstanding New Yorkers for their distinguished service during 1951 toward preservation and improvement of old New York in lower Manhattan but for the events which happened here in downtown Manhattan during 1653 and 1803 no William Randolph Hearst Memorial medals of award would have been struck from the sculptured work of George J. Loeber we are meeting today in the very locale where New York's early historic events occurred here is the place now is the time and the occasion I think is propitious New York has already entered upon its 300th year as an incorporated municipality needless to say this celebration should begin on February 2nd of next year 1953 for that is our city's 300th birthday date on that date in 1653 governor Peter Stuyvesant proclaimed a grant of municipal government by the Dutch authorities for the colonial settlement of New Amsterdam which then numbered only 800 souls living on this southernmost tip of Manhattan Island three centuries later the population is 8 million with downtown Manhattan still the hub and still the geographic center of the greater New York area during the year 1653 our first city hall was occupied Mr. Mayor its site is now number 73 Pearl Street and it is marked by an appropriate plaque that year Governor Stuyvesant ordered the wall W-A-A-L or first palisade erected for the defense of New Amsterdam it was completed that year across Manhattan and then Wall Street was born 150 years later the cornerstone was laid for our third and present beautiful city hall that was on May 26th 1803 and that same year saw Collect Pond and the surrounding extensive salt marshes filled in so as to provide land for the city's civic center begun that year in 1803 the old Dutch commons under British rule called the fields were ceremoniously named City Hall Park in 1803 on September 30th so these are the three important 150th anniversary dates which might be celebrated here in New York next year now all these events are worthy not only of extensive local celebrations but I believe they should be observed on a national and perhaps even an international scale through official though official action has not been taken I am inclined to believe that the American Heritage Foundation of which I am president will want to cooperate in this not only here in greater New York but in widely scattered sections of the United States and in its territories the year 1953 will mark several other of our nation's important historic events the 150th anniversary of the Louisiana Purchase is one next year is to be celebrated the 100th anniversary year of the Gaddiston Purchase and also our undertaking of the momentous job of building the Panama Canal that occurred too in 1903 in all of these observances next year I am hopeful that the American Heritage Foundation will participate at present we are rather engrossed in a non-partisan effort to persuade citizens to register and vote in the 1950 presidential election hoping to bring out at least 63 million instead of the usual 48 or 49 15 million more voters than went to the polls in 1948 so we have not been able as yet to give the consideration that should be given to the proposed 1953 celebrations attending these anniversaries I do believe however that organized planning should be begun here today looking at first for the New York celebration spurred on as it surely will be by the enthusiasm of this purposeful and propitious Hearst's Medal of Awards luncheon meeting and speaking as chairman of the educational and publicity committee of the Greater New York Civic Center Association I can say that a group representing downtown Manhattan is already at work in making tentative plans for next year's celebration L. Porter Moore our very able executive director has discussed the possibilities with the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau the New York Historical Society the New York Stock Exchange the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York the New York Board of Trade and others and though none have taken definite action as yet we believe that an organization and planning committee working to form a governing citizens committee should begin to prepare a program for this very important commemoration of the city's anniversaries its opening date obviously should be the city's birthday on February 2nd 1953 the 300th birthday anniversary of New York City it should continue at least through September 30th of next year that being the 150th anniversary date of the naming of City Hall Park the Civic Center Association is ready to act now and we hope that others will follow thank you very much applause applause applause applause applause applause thank you Mr. Bolfi our next speaker a great citizen of New York chairman of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau President of Gimble Brothers a moving spirit in many civic situations and very appropriately in the downtown athletic club may I again call to your attention the fact that Bernie Gimble is amateur heavyweight champion of the world Bernie Gimble applause applause applause applause applause took in a good deal of territory there laughter laughter Mr. Chairman Mr. Mayor ladies and gentlemen I'm sure that and so many of you who knew Mr. Hurst in view of the fact that today is his birthday I'm sure you'll want to stand for a moment in respect to his memory applause applause applause be seated please be seated please it was in downtown Manhattan where William Randall Hurst carved out his great career as the world's largest publisher of newspapers and periodicals is therefore fitting on this day April the 29th 1952 the 89th anniversary of his birth that we're gathered here in the downtown athletic club to do honor to his memory as a great American though Mr. Hurst passed his last years in California the state of his birth the son of Pacific Coast pioneers United States Senator George Hurst and Phoebe Apperson Hurst the famous educator and philanthropist those who knew him intimately and admired him greatly as I did knew that New York ever remained in his heart as much as his native San Francisco we are so reminded by the very fact that only two years ago he approved with pleasure the grant of a special fund by his son William Randall Hurst Jr. to the Greater New York Civic Center Association this fund to be used for the annual presentation of medals of award to deserving New Yorkers adjudged each year to have performed outstanding service toward the preservation and improvement of old New York and lower Manhattan as are these medals so inscribed Mr. Hurst Jr. who is with us today I should say Mr. John Hurst Mr. Bill Hurst had to go abroad so Mr. John Hurst is here today who is with us today as president and publisher of the New York Journal American will present the William Randall Hurst Distinguished Service Awards to the selected five recipients for their achievements during the year 1951 these distinguished citizens to be honored seated with us on the dais gold medal of award to Howard S. Cullman who's just finished 25 years just completed 25 years of the Port Authority chairman of the Port Authority chairman of the Equal Office Building Corporation and president of the Beacon Downtown Hospital for construction the medal award is for the construction of the Beacon Downtown Hospital and modernization of the Equal Building gold medal in the private citizen class to Philip J. Cruz commissioner of the New York Housing Authority for completion of the Governor Alfred E. Smith houses gold medal in the official class to John E. Slater president of the American Export Lines for commissioning of the Steamship Constitution and the SS Independence a gold medal silver medals of award have been awarded to Robert H. Patchen retired vice president of the W.R. Grace Company and past president of India House for leadership restoration of Hanover Square Park silver medal in the private citizen class to James A. Sherry executive officer of the Department of Parks City of New York for executive supervision of the completion of the Battery Park silver medal in the public official class Mr. Hurst established these awards as a memorial to his illustrious father in so doing he selected the Greater New York Civic Center Association as sponsor the organization having been founded not quite five years ago to preserve and improve downtown Manhattan south of Canal Street to the Battery this area is defined by Alan Nevins professor of American history at Columbia University winner of two Pulitzer Prizes as the old city of New York settled by the Dutch in 1623 though Henry Hudson sailed up the river which bears his name in 1606 and Giovanni Beranzano entered New York Bay in 1524 William Randolph Hurst made himself a part of downtown Manhattan on October the 12th 1895 when he acquired the old New York Journal the morning paper afterwards named The American in downtown Manhattan when old Park Row was young Horace Greeley the newspaper founder issued the famous advice Go West young man the West in those days was the beckoning land of opportunity but Mr. Hurst came East as a young man born in the West to make the most of the opportunities which America offers in 1896 a year later he established the New York Evening Journal naming the morning paper The New York American these newspapers survive and thrive today in their downtown Manhattan publishing headquarters at 220 South Street as the New York Journal American part of the great chain of daily newspapers allied with great international chain of periodical magazines news gathering and disseminating agencies and news photo services uptown in this chain the Daily Mirror is published as a citizen Mr. Hurst was for years a prominent leader during his Manhattan residence he served two terms in Congress from 1903 to 1907 as representative from the 11th district twice he was a candidate for mayor and once for governor of the state of New York as a property owner and builder he had a share in the architectural development of the borough recently the Hurst interest purchased the 10 story building at 63 Vesey Street to house the national headquarters staff of the American Weekly Magazine which indicates continued interest and confidence in downtown Manhattan area during more than half a century many of the Hurst policies have been devoted to New York's civic interests nationally the Hurst policies have stood staunchly for the American way of life and for private enterprise and have valiantly fought against communism and all other isms which Mr. Hurst believed would endanger the freedom of our country and of our citizenry could he be here today I'm certain that William Randolph Hurst would be aligned in the forefront of the New Yorkers now planning for the 300th New York City anniversary celebration in 1953 Thomas Darcy Brophy president of the American Heritage Foundation and vice president of the Greater New York Civic Center Association has spoken on the subject of celebration and the need to begin definite planning now I'm sure that at the right time the mayor will be glad to lend the prestige of his office to the organization of a committee representing all phases of the business and cultural life of New York to prepare for a proper observance of the 300th anniversary the convention and visitors bureau will of course lend its full support to these efforts thank you applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause Oh I thought the bill was what you can applause Oh there you can applause applause applause applause applause Mr. John Good morning ladies and gentlemen as addressed to Mr. Cullman I am delighted to say that the jury of award appointed by the Greater New York Civic Center Association has selected you as New York's outstanding private citizen to receive the William Randolph Hearst Gold Medal of Award for distinguished service during 1951 toward the preservation and improvement of old New York in lower Manhattan all citizens listening today either in attendance here at this luncheon in the downtown athletic club or over the airwaves are aware of your great accomplishments and public service over the past 25 years in connection with the port of New York authority of which you were the chairman of the Board of Education now they ought to know as well how you have served unselfishly and likewise without remuneration for as many years as president of the Beekman downtown hospital largely through your efforts the new hospital will be opened within a few months a successful drive for necessary funds have been concluded last year but there was another work completed last year for which you were also excited to receive this reward as chairman of the Board of the Equitable Office Building Corporation you caused the great downtown Manhattan building to be modernized for the most efficient continued occupancy by leading business organizations for continued preservation and improvement of our city's great lower Manhattan business area therefore the jury has seen fit to select you to receive this gold medal which I know my father would have been a joy to see awarded to you as I am it is a great place that I now make this presentation thank you Mr. Hurst Mr. President Mr. Mayor Mr. Borough President Mr. Controller in accepting this medal I in turn would like to with full humility and warm affection accept it on behalf of a man who originally interested me in Beekman Hospital in 1921 who appointed me to the Port Authority in 1927 a prominent resident of Lower New York Alfred Emanuel Smith born on Oliver Street graduated graduated from our leading college in Lower New York FFM as he affectionately called it the Fulton Fish Market and I'd like to feel today in accepting this medal the interest that he stimulated in me in caring for those in Lower New York through the hospital that will have a new building with health clinics all modern facilities opened this fall with a commerce that's been developed through the Port Authority which he and Governor Edge established in 1921 I'd like to feel in his memory and with the highest affection and regard I accept this token thank you applause applause applause applause the next is Mr. Cruz the splendid job you are now performing as chairman of the New York City Housing Authority is one which has endeared you to tens of thousands of New Yorkers who have most seriously needed and have now acquired comfortable modern quarters wherein to properly live and rear their families rapidly the worst of our congested city slums are being replaced with good apartment housing while not all of our citizens look with full favor economically upon so-called public housing made possible by virtue of government subsidy and control that is beside the point on this occasion you are doing an excellent work in the position to which you have been appointed by Mayor and Pelletari you have served the city honorably and well in this and other appointments since you joined the Department of Parks back in 1929 the Governor Alfred E. Smith houses which have replaced some of the worst slums on the downtown Manhattan Eastside waterfront are a credit to the city the state and the housing authority this particular development has been named to honor a great New Yorker and a great American Al Smith affectionately remembered by all who knew him to you Mr. Cruz on our award the 1951 Hearst Memorial Gold Medal as an outstanding public citizen and chairman of the authority now completing this needed improvement and project in downtown Manhattan Mr. Hearst Mr. Mayor Mr. Darling ladies and gentlemen I am deeply honored to accept the William Randolph First Distinguished Service Medal it will be a treasured memento of one of the greatest satisfactions I have had as chairman of the New York City Housing Authority the contribution I have been able to make towards the completion of Governor Alfred E. Smith houses when I joined the housing authority in 1947 the 21-acre site at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge was one of the most dilapidated in the city and the housing project slated to replace it was still an unrealized plan on the drawing boards today the transformation is almost finished seven apartment buildings widely spaced on landscape grounds provide 1140 low-income families with decent homes at rents within their means and the five additional buildings are nearing completion although as chairman of the housing authority I am being awarded the Hearst Distinguished Service Medal there are several other public servants who should also be honored for this improvement full credit must be given to Robert Moses who has been the spark plug behind this project and to the late Fiorella H. Ligardia who did so much to see it through the design was started when Edward Morgia Butler was chairman of the authority demolition and construction was begun under General Farrell who broke the bottleneck in public housing construction during the difficult post-war period and got this project and many others started before he returned to the army I believe both these predecessors of mine would agree with me that their jobs were made easier by the fullest kind of support from the three city administrations we have had since the inception of public housing in this city Mayors LaGuardia O'Dwyer and Impoletari who in turn saw Governor Smith houses planned started and finished each considered public housing one of the most important achievements of his administration and each saw to it that the program was administered soundly the basic credit however belongs to the people of this city who have made their public housing program the most important one in the country the achievements of the New York City of New York City and the New York City Housing Authority are their achievements as the administrator of the public housing program for the people of New York City I accept the William Randolph Face Distinguished Service Medal thank you as you know my brother Bill was supposed to have done this but he had to fly to Europe yesterday so this was written for Bill so this is to Mr. Slater do you mind if I digress for a moment when Porter Moore first discussed with me Bill the founding of the William Randolph Hearst Memorial Medals of Award Fund it was decided the medals would be presented to citizens I quote for distinguished service it is so described on the face of the medal but more specifically on the reverse side you will find the words for preservation and improvement of old New York and lower Manhattan now Mr. Slater I will address my words to you last year as president of the American export line you caused to be commissioned in the transatlantic and Mediterranean shipping service out of the port of New York and lower Manhattan two great new sister steamships the SS Constitution and the SS Independence Porter Moore and I talked about this important service to our city we submitted our thoughts to the board of directors of the Civic Center Association we contended that as New York City has grown to world supremacy in many industries because of our city's great maritime shipping and foreign trade activities that it would be fitting and proper to recognize the commissioning of these two new ocean greyhounds as contributing to the preservation and improvement of lower Manhattan it was so resolved and your name was put in nomination and voted upon enthusiastically by the jury to receive a special gold medal for this distinguished service to our old city I now consider it an honor and privilege to send this to Mr. Slater Mr. Huss Mr. Darling Mr. Mayor ladies and gentlemen I take it a particular honor to have received this special gold medal from the William R. Hurst Foundation because throughout his career Mr. Hurst was what unfortunately has not always been the case in the press or elsewhere was a consistent supporter of the American Merchant Marine and as far as I am concerned and as far as we in Expo are concerned we are particularly happy to receive this recognition from that particular source the Merchant Marine at the present time needs this support from the press from the public and especially I might say from various governmental authorities some of whom seem at times to have forgotten that responsibility I am particularly pleased to receive it because it is a recognition of the fact that Americans can still design build and operate large passenger ships it had become more or less in the course of the last 30 years an assumption that this was impossible and that we would have to leave to our foreign competitors and friends the job of building and operating large passenger ships I am pleased to say that along with the great job which has been done by John Franklin in the United States lines we are beginning I think to prove that Americans can do that job and do it well the fact that this has been done is a result of the efforts of many people of whom I happen to be merely assembled the important heads of the technical division of Bethlehem Steel shipbuilding division designed the hubs Mr. Henry Dreyfuss industrial designer was responsible for the design of the interiors and many officers and department heads of American export lines participated in the production of these ships it is only our job now to prove that we can operate them and thus justify the company because I look upon this award as being the company the company can do this job thank you Mr. Patchen an historic old Dutch common and public park has been restored for public use once more in downtown Manhattan this past year this came about in large measure due to your untiring efforts trees are green again in Hanover Square for the first time since 1871 when the 3rd Avenue Elevated replaced them there I understand that across the street from this rejuvenated park you enjoyed many years of important business activities though now retired having served as vice president of the W.R. Grace Company and as a founder of the first secretary and later as president of the famed India House as its chairman you headed the organized group of citizens working for the restoration of Hanover Square this was a committee of the greater New York Civic Center Association you succeeded in having the old square restored obtaining the cooperation of Park Commissioner Moses Manhattan Borough President Wagner Mayor and Pelletary and Art Commission and City Council for this accomplishment during 1951 you have been selected to receive the William Randolph Hurst Silver Medal of Award the jury has made a wise and worthy selection I would say it is my pleasure this time to present Aaron Pelletary Mr. Wagner Mr. Dowling Mr. Gimble and all others Hanover Square is now relieved of the shadow of the overhanging L and has been revived by plain trees now in full foliage thanks to the Mr. Robert Moses the Park Commissioner Commissioner Wagner and the late Charles F. Hand whose passing we all regret now it's a beautiful park it's coming into being and it's a place of recreation at the noon hour and at other hours of the day for the population around there but it still lacks some sort of a monument in the center your committee of the Greater New York Civic Center Association after long deliberation has decided that this monument should take the form of the reproduction of a clipper ship of the period of 1850 to 1870 one of the glorious periods of American maritime history and that will cast credit on the modern ship operating industries to which Mr. Slater has referred long study and careful thought have been given to the idea it is now taking the form of a clipper ship model at the hands of Mr. Michael Lance eminent sculptor and Mr. Harvey Corbett architect who have long clung to the idea that a bronze clipper ship was not only appropriate but a practical and inspiring monument standing forth in all its natural beauty and strength visible from all the streets that converge on the square Mr. Lance has given the problem painstaking study especially as to the durability of the ship and the rugged construction necessary to withstand wind weather and even possible acts of vandalism so are the police of the old slip station who have given the question of its protection careful thought our clipper ship will be a composite model of such flyers as the sovereign of the seas the flying cloud the golden state the red jacket and young America and others whose names are written imperishably in American shipping history the model for the monument will shortly be completed by Mr. Lance and the pedestal by Mr. Corbett and submitted to the inspection and criticism of marine architects practical shipping men and students of the art for their comment and suggestion then it will be passed on by the New York Municipal Art Commission and the Department of Parks for their approval it is to be hoped that the campaign for the raising of the necessary funds for its construction will be inaugurated by midsummer by the New York Civic Center Association India House facing Hanover Square as does the cotton exchange the sugar and the coffee and sugar exchange which stands next to or the cocoa exchange W.R. Grace while the great banks of New York are almost within a stone's throw they all form an atmosphere and a historical association running back as long as there was a place called Hanover Square and to place therein a clipper ship model will be an adornment an adornment and an ornament to lower New York India House facing Hanover Square is filled with paintings of ships upon a painted ocean what could be more appropriate in the beautiful little square outside than a sculptured ship upon a sculptured ocean thank you thank you very much Bob very great thank you thank you very great thank you very great thank you thank you now Mr. Sherry For more than a dozen years, Battery Park has been torn up due to the construction of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel under the most able steering and overall supervision of your present chief, the Honorable Robert Moses. The Manhattan Borough President's Office has contributed to the confusion within the park also, but has completed the underpass there, which connects our east and west side drive. Now I understand Battery Park will be officially open once more in its entirety to the public on July 15th next. As Executive Officer of the Department of Parks, the executive supervision of its restoration was placed upon your shoulders. For this job well done, the jury selected you as the New Yorker in the public office most worthy of receiving your contribution. By transcription. Thank you. Your contribution toward the continuing preservation and improvement of Lower Manhattan. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Hurst, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. For this job, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, I want to thank the William Randolph Hearst Award Committee as having selected for this award a Park Department project. And it is an honor for me to accept this award on behalf of the Park Department and particularly for Mr. Commissioner Moses, who has initiated not only this project, but other related public improvements in the battery area. And for the members of our design and engineering staffs for expediting the weight on this particular improvement. I thank you. Gentlemen, on behalf of the New York Civic Center Association, I wish to congratulate the winners of the medals today and to thank the mayor for joining with us in this presentation. And I'd like to say a special word about Mr. L. Porter Moore. He made this gathering really possible. His organization work on this party was really wonderful. I don't know where he is. I wish he'd stand up if he's in the room. Where are you? I want to thank the speakers, Mr. Gimbel, Mr. Brophy, and the distinguished guests, and one and every one of you that is here. And ask your support of the Greater New York Center. And, uh, because, uh, this kind of a gathering is indicative of the interest of all of us. And if we work together, this kind of a meeting and the results that come out of it can greatly enhance our whole community. Thank you. You've been listening to the ceremonies, attending the presentation of the Greater New York Civic Center Association Medals of Award. These medals are given through the William Randolph Hearst Memorial. Recipients for the year 1951 were Philip J. Cruz, Johnny Slater, Howard S. Cullman, Robert H. Patchen, and James Sherry. Each year, these medals of award are tendered in recognition and appreciation of accomplishments toward the improvement and preservation of downtown Old New York City. Among the speakers you heard today were, his honor, the mayor of the city of New York, Vincent R. Pelletere, John Postel, Thomas Darcy Brophy, John R. Hurst, and Bernard F. Gimbel. Robert W. Dowling presided. This special events broadcast came to you from the downtown athletic club through the facilities of your city station. We return you now to our municipal building studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system.