Well, we find, frankly, that we're able to live on our income. We get together when the budget is drawn up, and we understand this, that whatever the boys do with the budget, it may not add one penny to people's taxes. We've got to live on what we've had before, and if possible, we lower the taxes. And the interesting thing is that when you have to get along on a sum of money, you find some way of doing it. We have heard the theory that the debt should be increased. New deficits should be incurred whenever prices are falling, and vice versa. When prices are rising, the debt should be reduced. That sounds fine. But in reality, what we find is that actually they incur the debts all the time, except accidentally in two years. There's always some reason, because some people prefer less taxes, other people prefer more expenditures on the part of the government. And gradually, we drift into a psychological situation, where the theory becomes, as it is today, the theory of the advisers of the president, that we need a permanent deficit year in, year out. Of course, the present deficit may be rationalized partly on the basis that we incur deficits and expect to do so in time of war, and this, presumably, is a time of Cold War. That is, we're spending three to four billions a year on the Marshall Plan. We're spending nearly fifteen billions a year on the National Defense Program. Then we ought to save on something else, if that's really necessary to spend. Well, if we are in a Cold War, true enough, it's time we tightened our belt then, and did without a few of the other frills the government spent in. Now, let's be clear about it, there never was a period in history when there was no Cold War, in other words, a threat of war. Because what is the Cold War? A threat of a hot war. Would you not agree, though? That existed in all history known to mankind. Would you not agree, though, that there are good many expenditures in our budget right now, which are expected to taper off? I've mentioned the Marshall Plan. Also, such things as... Are you sure it tapers off? That is the... No new expenditures come in their place. Well, the Marshall Plan itself is presumably, will taper off, beginning in 1952. Now, what about such items also as veterans' benefits? Those are already beginning to taper off. We expect to reduce the amount of housing and mortgage program that we're carrying on. We expect to reduce the size of the Farm Aid Bill. We expect to raise the housing expenditures and talk in the remote future to let them taper off. Then we raise the expenditures for farm subsidies and for a lot of other things. Unfortunately, everybody's willing to have a reduction and a tapering off if it comes in the other fellow's district. And the net of it is that no one of these people, even those in Washington who talk in favor of economy, are actually willing to have reductions where it's going to hurt the possibility of getting votes. And even now, we're increasing very much the number of people required to handle Social Security, by requiring those reports once every month instead of once every three months. That means in every state, another horde of federal office holders who are going to vote right in November. You mentioned, Boring, that the principle should be to maintain prices. When prices fall, we should step in. The general price level, you said. Now, you are aware of it, of course, that there is no such animal as the general price level. There are only individual prices, and the general price level is as much of a statistical shadowy conception as if you would say that the average of American women is half blonde and half brunette, but you never seen one like that and never want to see one like that. That, really, they are either blonde or brunette. Well, it's a little different than just dousing the whole population in hair dye. What I'm suggesting here is that we use our monetary mechanism, which tends to affect the general level of prices through its effect on many individual prices, true enough. But if you raise many individual prices, it raises the average, or if you reduce many individual prices... Only problem is you can't figure out how the affects the price. And there we hit something terrifically important. Back of all these things, using the federal situation, the debt or what have you, in order to control a business cycle or an economy, we assume, apparently, that there are people in Washington who themselves understand this thing well enough that you can trust them to use these enormous powers. And what we're doing is to increase them and increase them and increase them, and build up their power for doing a lot of damage and harm, and taking ourselves right down the line into a totalitarian state. May I ask you then, Hockey, what principle would you apply? Would you just arbitrarily balance the budget every year, or would you balance it if the national income were over a certain level, or what principle would you apply in this situation? I would attempt to balance that budget every single year. Now and then you couldn't. Then it's not your habitready about balancing the budget. In other words, I would live on my income. If a war comes along and you've got to spend a lot of money quickly, then of course you're going to have an unbalanced budget. But then you do it like any householder does, who borrows temporarily, but gets out of debt as quickly as he knows how. Well, now I was talking to one of the staff of the Bureau of the Budget just last week, and he was saying that the preliminary results of some of their studies show a predicted drop of $13 billion within the next few years in the government budget. Now would you suggest that we raise our tax rates to extremely high levels at the moment, to balance the budget now, then suddenly turn around and switch them downward a year or so from now, and create all this uncertainty in tax rates and make it so very difficult for business to plan then? No, I wouldn't do that, Rosen. What I would do is not to raise the taxes. I would reduce the budget. I would spend less money. If you can't take five billions or six billions out of that budget right now, there's something wrong with the fellow who sets out to do it. That's the difficulty. We assume that we've got to keep the expenditures up. We don't. We should spend less money. Well, I've gone over this budget, and I can see perhaps where I can twiddle out a couple of billion. I would cut out some of the Reclamation Bureau projects which don't bring any returns worthwhile. I think, for example, of the million-dollar pork built on Lake Michigan a few years back, which in the space of several years since it's been built has handled only 450 passengers. What about the farm subsidies? The farm subsidies are presumably being planned for reduction by use of marketing quotas. Now, I'm as horrified by marketing quotas as I am by the supports. I would cut them out altogether. Well, there you are. And you have already a three-billion-dollar item if you cut them out altogether. Well, presumably that will be cut out according to the present plans. Why not sit here? But then... Would you make those same cuts in our budget, Hockey? Oh, undoubtedly. And I think I could find some more. You see, what I'm concerned with is a point of view. We've got to get the people in government to recognize that you cannot just balance budgets by raising taxes. And that isn't your alternative. We've got to reduce expenditures. And they must learn to live on our income. That's the point Hockey, the psychological point. Of course, you can argue that if you had to go into deficit a couple of years, nothing will happen. The country won't go bankrupt on that account. It's the principle that matters. That's why I emphasize that it goes on for 20 years, and every four or five years, we have... Or three or four years, we have a new theory why we must have a deficit. The latest one is that we must have a permanent deficit every year. And never mind what happens to the national debt and so forth. That's the theory of the president's economic advisers as expressed in their December report. The effect is not only that we do have a deficit and an unmanaged economy of the worst kind, a mismanaged economy, but that we create a psychological situation where every pressure group makes it its business to come in and ask for expenditures since they come from the printing press as promised. Well, Paul Yee, I think that I'm as worried about fiscal morality as you are. And for that reason, I would suggest that we put into operation some definite rule for enforcing fiscal responsibility. However, I wouldn't insist on the rule of a balanced budget. The rule I insist on is what might be called a balanced price level. That is, I would like to see the situation where our price level remains stable. That brings me back to the blondes and brunettes. There is no average hair color. There is only, and there are only individual prices. Now, if the cotton people, cotton price breaks, or the, if the potato price goes from the support level of $2.20 per bushel to one cent per hundred pounds, as it does now, actually, in the open market. Then, of course, the potato growers don't consider that a balanced price level. And if you have the principle of balancing the price level, you can manipulate your index numbers in any number of ways, since there are as many index number systems as there are statisticians. Well, I would suggest that we pick some index numbers, such as the wholesale price level, let us say. We pick it, but what do the politicians do with it? Well, let's put it in a piece of legislation here and use that as the mandatory rule. And then we change the piece of legislation. Next year, they have another mandatory rule. Well, on the same basis, you could change the idea of a balanced budget every year just as readily. No, no, you can't. That is, this was presumably put into the Congressional Reformation Act, which resulted in setting up a joint legislative committee on the budget. And this committee was to examine the overall expenditures, the overall revenues, and definitely... What if you can interpret an index number? For example, you save this index number, and then the statistician, I come in and can show you that it's open to interpretation. Because it's an average, you may have left out some figure, you may have weighted wrongly the average, you may have used the arithmetic instead of the geometric average, or what have you. It's all arbitrary and all open to political manipulation, and I question the principle itself, that it makes any sense at all to try to maintain a price level. Even if you had a price level, even if you were satisfied that your index was alright, I still wouldn't trust any human being to fix prices for 140 millions of people. I'm not suggesting that individual prices be fixed here at all. Individual prices would be completely free to move. The only thing that would be kept stable would be the average of all prices. But you don't manipulate averages, that's only in your theory, in your logic. In reality, you manipulate individual prices. Unless you make a runaway inflation, then all prices move the same way, or a runaway deflation, if there is such a thing. But otherwise, the effects on the price system are widely distributed and very different. If the price of automobiles and videos apparatuses goes up, that doesn't mean that the potato price will go up. The potato price will go up, and you have a great social tension in the country because the potato grower will know very well that the automobile market is bolstered, while his market is not being bolstered. Paoyi, do you agree with the principle then, and disagree that it can be accomplished? I disagree with the principle and with the possibility of accomplishing it. We've been talking a good deal here about the budget in 1951. I would like to ask each of you very briefly what you foresee in the very near future, or what you would recommend as a budget policy, say, through 1957. Hockey? That depends entirely upon who happens to be in office and things that happen in Europe that we cannot now anticipate. But of this we may be reasonably sure, that the people who are following the present policy are not likely to use common sense and ordinarily good fiscal principles in handling the situation. They want votes, and they're going to do those things that will get them votes, whether it's sound for the country or not. And that's why I'm so disturbed about this question of individual prices or average prices. You're not going to fix individual prices. That means then we're going to, in a position where, in a situation where the price level is too low, then we say we have to raise the average price level, pump more money into circulation. I would never suggest raising the bill. And the remedy is worse than the disease. You just can't tell what is going to happen. We've got to get into office somebody who's got some sound common sense and who's more worried about what happens to the United States than whether or not he keeps his job. I assume then that you believe deficit spending will be a definite campaign issue in the next election. I think so, and I think Mr. Truman's going to build his case on it. Brozen? Well, I would expect that the government expenditures are going to be tapering off. Such items as Marshall Plan, Farm Aid, the Housing and Mortgage Program, Veterans Benefits will be decreasing in total amount during the coming years. For that reason, I am less worried about the current deficit, more worried simply about fiscal responsibility and fiscal morality in general. In summary, may I say that we have heard expressed here on the reviewing stand today three divergent views with respect to our present government fiscal policies. I'm sure as March 15th approaches, you gentlemen have done your bit in making us increasingly aware of the financial stake we have in the federal government. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Is Deficit Spending Sound? A copy of today's broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed can be secured by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. In the next few weeks, the reviewing stand will discuss these subjects. The H-Bomb and World Peace, Should Children Be Spanked, and Is a United Protestant Church Possible Now? You can assure yourself of written copies of these broadcasts by subscribing to the reviewing stand now. One dollar will bring you these printed programs for four months. An entire year's subscription costs just two dollars and fifty cents. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Yale Brosen, Professor of Economics from Northwestern University, Alfred P. Hockey, Economist, Lecturer, Economic Consultant to General Motors, and Mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois, and Melchior Pauly, Economic Consultant and Former Advisor to the German Reichsmunk. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand asks an American political scientist, a French government official, and a former German resident to discuss the SAR, European Trouble Spot. Our guests will be Helmut Hirsch, one time Paris correspondent for the SAR newspaper, Vestland, and present Professor of History from Roosevelt College, Roy McCready, Professor of Political Science from Northwestern University, and Jean Viagli, Consul General of France. We invite you to listen next week for the inside story of the SAR, European Trouble Spot. Northwestern Reviewing Stand is broadcast every Sunday. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Bulldog
