It's a great privilege to be standing alongside of General John Franklin, President of the United States Alliance, who carried the great burden of building this ship and bringing it safely across the ocean and winning a blue ribbon in both directions, both east and west. General Franklin. Thank you very much, Mr. Whelan, for the splendid reception that we've been given in this great city in New York. The ship performed extremely well, and we're very proud of it. Thank you. We're waiting for Commodore Manning to come here. Where is he? Mr. Whelan, while we're waiting for Commodore Manning, we might get your reaction to this ship as it came up New York Harbor and the reception given by the people of the city. Well, I've seen many ships come up the harbor, but I've seen... This is the first one that has thrilled me quite so much as... that I hardly find words to express my point of view. In the first place, waiting a hundred years for a United States ship to break the record, both east and westbound, is an achievement of great proportions, and we're very happy to have it here. Now, I want the Commissioner of Marine Aviation, who is here today and who built this pier, which is so perfect for the United States ship and is in keeping with the great liner. Thank you, Mr. Whelan. You've heard a great deal about the reception, and as we stand here, the reception is not yet over. There's one feeling that I'm sure everyone has, and that is that over and above the feeling of pride for all Americans in this ship and its Merchant Marine is the great feeling of security. Having a ship of this character built to these specifications in our great Merchant Marine means a great deal toward the security of all of us. Now, here's a young man standing here, Mr. Gibbs of Gibson Cox, who is the naval architect of the ship. Mr. Gibbs. It's a great sense of humility that I'm here today representing the thousands of people who with head and heart and enthusiasm have designed and built this ship. And I can't forget the help that was given by the great government departments, the Navy, the maritime administration, the Coast Guard, and the superb piece of building work done by the Newport News Yard. But lastly, the courage of General Franklin and the United States lines in ordering this ship. Last but not least, the Commodore, Harry Manning. I'm proud and happy to have brought this wonderful ship into the port of New York today on a record-breaking trip both east and west. I hope that all Americans will share in this achievement and be proud of this ship as they should be. Thank you. Commissioner, the mall? Public Works. Come on. Well, being Commissioner of Public Works, I have no connection with shipbuilding. But being a Staten Islander and watching many ships received through the narrows, I've never had the thrill that I've had today in seeing this wonderful ship built, designed, built, and operated by Americans. Four people. All right, let's bring the microphones closer. We'll bring the microphones right here, Commissioner. We've just heard the ceremonies on the arrival of the SS United States, America's greatest superliner, into the port of New York. You heard from John M. Franklin. General Franklin is the president of the United States Lines. The chairman of the mayor's reception committee, Grover A. Whalen. The commissioner of marine and aviation, Edward F. Cavanaugh. The commissioner of public works, Frederick Aitzer-Muhlin. And Mr. Gibbs of the firm that designed the ship, and a number of other people who are here to greet the ship in a very heartwarming reception. We return you now to our studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.