From historic City Hall, New York, your city station brings you a special program commemorating the 60th anniversary of the opening of Brooklyn Bridge. And here is Major Irving V.A. Huey, Commissioner of the Department of Public Works for New York City. Major Huey. Exactly 60 years ago, on May 24th, 1883, at 2 p.m., the Brooklyn Bridge was opened. While there are many bridges older than this one, Brooklyn Bridge is the oldest suspension bridge of its size in the world. That, however, is a mere detail. Because of its location, Brooklyn Bridge has witnessed many interesting events and changes in the history and society of our community. The best way to learn the story of the bridge is for the bridge to tell it itself. The next voice you hear will be that of the Brooklyn Bridge. Foggy tonight. Thicker than soup. Makes it seem even darker than it is with the lights dimmed for the duration. I miss them. They were so friendly, winking at a fellow from all over the city. But everyone's got to do his part in this war. Even a bridge. Even a bridge? Oh, I must be getting old. Forgetting the important part a bridge plays in war. All the traffic I have to bear. Oh, yes. Oh, that's a good one. They don't think anything of saying, Oh, you just go over the Brooklyn Bridge. Nowadays, when some fellow in a big army truck wants to get from Manhattan to Brooklyn. Oh, but it wasn't always that way. No, sir, it sure wasn't. When they planned me, there was some thought I couldn't hold up all the traffic. And threw up their hands in horror when they added cable cars in 98. Four lanes for traffic and one for civilians were plenty. They said the bridge would never hold cable cars. They shouted. Oh, they didn't know. Wonder what they would have done when the Spanish war hit. With all that traffic moving over me. Ah, the Spanish war. Lots of things happened since then. And yet, seems like yesterday. When I saw the proud old man slip from oorings and go sailing out to Manila Bay. What a time when Roosevelt and his rough riders came back. By that time, it seems, they expected I'd hold most anything. Yes, sir. Didn't cause hardly a stir when they added the elevated railroad for my traffic. Except maybe folks figured it was more convenient to get from one place to another. I wonder what those doubting Thomases of 83 would have said if they could have seen me when the automobiles came along. 30,000 cars a day zipping over the old bridge, just as if it were child's play. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Oh, but it wasn't hard. Seems like as the city grew and more people came, they just accepted the idea that the bridge was there. And I just accepted the idea that the people were here. And we've been getting along fine ever since. Even in 1917, with all that traffic from the World War. Oh, I thought that would be the last time I'd see those warships slipping out at night to guard those long convoys. But here it is again. Ah, well, maybe this'll be the last time I'll see them. Kind of gives you a good feeling, though, knowing they're guarding lads from Manhattan and Brooklyn, alongside of the boys from Kansas and Minnesota and the Lord knows where else. I like to watch them steaming out so big and strong. It's real comforting knowing that they're guarding the kids that used to play under you and over you when they were little. Now that they're going off to war, the little kids. Kind of reminds me of my first birthday. Ah, yes, sir. That was some birthday party. One I'll never forget. This crowd is terrible, Tom. All of New York must be going to the opening. Well, I told you we should have started earlier. We'll never get within a mile of the bridge. Quit your fretting. The parade's got to pass this way, hasn't it? We'll get to see President Arthur and Mayor Edson even if we don't get so close. And anyway, the bridge looks prettier from a distance. Now, isn't that just like a woman? Who cares about the President on a day like this? I want to see that bridge get open. This is a historic day, Mary. Is it? Why? Woman, don't you realize that today New York and Brooklyn are being linked? Why, why, after today you can walk to Brooklyn and back. Think of that. Well, who'd want to do that? I don't know who'd want to, but if you did happen to want to, after today you could. And then, Mary, don't you remember what the fellow wrote in the paper? That the linking of Brooklyn into New York would have far-reaching effects. Will it? Sure. Why? Well, it just will, that's all. It'll make the city grow. Land, state, who wants the city to grow? Why, if any more people crowd into New York, a body won't have space to breathe. Look at all these people now. Oh, Mary, you just don't have any sense of history, I guess. History is being made today, and we are watching it. Well, I don't see why we can't watch them make history up here without pushing any further into that crowd. Well, you can watch them from up here if you like, but I'm going to get as close to the bridge as I can. On it, if possible. Tom! Tom Holloway, don't you dare eat me in this crush! Tom! Tom, wait for me! Hear that, young fool? Watch you get on the bridge. Why, the thing will never hold with all these people trampling over it. I tell you, George's bound to fall. Piddle, faddle. Don't you think Robing knew what he was doing when he planned it? And don't you think he's engineer enough to know it'll stand? That bridge will be here a long time after you and I are gone, Harry. Ah, you're just like all the rest of those young scatterbrains nowadays. But you mark my word, this day you'll see a great disaster in the city's history. Piddlesticks, you've been seeing a great disaster in the city's history for as long as I know you. And that's nearly 15 years. Come on. Start getting sick. We don't hurry. We'll miss it. Come on. One adult is special, they learn. Must have been 30,000 people come from over Pennsylvania for student celebrations. Now, Horace, hold on to my hand, Piper, dear. You're liable to get lost in the crowd. What? Oh, no, dear. The fireworks are tonight. Today it's only the mayor and the president. Balloons, balloons, get your balloons here for the opening of the great bridge. Get your city colors and show your loyalty, folks. Balloons, balloons, well, Mr. Greeley, I'm certainly surprised to see you here. And why might I ask? After all, you've been fighting the bridge project in your paper for months now. True. And I still believe it was wrong. Why, look at it. It's magnificent, wonderful. A monument to man's woolen industry. I have never appreciated your editorial, Hawkins, either in your paper or when delivered orally. Well, maybe you don't like my editorials, but you must admit that I was right in fighting for the bridge. I admit nothing of the kind. By man, what are you talking about? The bridge is here ready for use now. Yes, but we shall see whether or not it will stand. Then you've come to report a disaster, not an event of great social importance to the citizens of this city. Exactly. Wouldn't want to make a little wager that you're wrong, would you, Mr. Greeley? I would. Good. How about the loser buying the winner the best dinner in town with all the trimming? Much as I dislike spending an entire evening with you, Hawkins, you're on. They say the parade has started uptown already. Sure has. I saw it start. Then I come down on a dry dock in East Broadway Railroad. It was swell. You should have seen President Arthur riding with the mayor. And Governor Cleveland, too. Boy, he's a big guy. Here comes the band. Let's go follow them, Al. Not me. I'm going to the bridge. I'll be there later. I'm going to march along with the band. Here, you know what might you be doing? Nothing. Nothing, is it? Slipping into the governor's seat is nothing, I guess. Oh, I wasn't hurting nothing. I just came down to see the bridge get opened. So you just came down to see the bridge get opened. Well, now that's a piece of news. And I'm wondering what all the mother people come down for. Maybe to have a last look at the ferry that's been running all these years. About to get a cup of water out of the East River, maybe. Well, you can't do me anything for coming to the opening. It's free. Yes. All the people are invited. Yes, and by glory, they'll all come, too. What's your name, boy? Al Smith. Al Smith. And where do you live? On Catherine Street. Catherine Street? That's way over in New York. What are you doing here in Brooklyn? I told you, I come to see the bridge open. And how did you get here? I walked. Walked? That's a good one. Why not? Now the bridge is here, it's easy. Is that right? I was forgetting that. Gloria, you're right, lad. Now that the bridge is here, it's easy. Sure, it's easy. And this is the first time I ever been in Brooklyn, too. But now I'm going to come off. Don't you know this bridge won't be open to the public till 12 o'clock tonight? Yeah, but I didn't mean no... And don't you know it'll cost you a penny to walk the bridge? Sure. Sure, but... But I saw other people sneaking over, so I come along with them. And didn't you know you was breaking the law and defrauding the city by walking over without paying your admission? I didn't mean nothing. I just wanted to see the opening. So he wanted to see the opening. And you couldn't do from any other place but the governor's seat. What's wrong with the governor's seat? Someday I'm going to be important like him. And have a seat when they open the bridges, I'll bet you. Which governor are you going to be now? What's wrong with that? Can't anybody be governor if he works hard? And knows a lot of people and gets him to vote for him? A good system, lad. Be off with you, you young sod, before I lose my holiday mood and run you in. But, but, but, officer, can't I stay here and see the opening? I won't get in the way. Honest. You're a persistent little monkey. Why is it so important for you to see the bridge open? Well, I don't know. It's just that I like the bridge. It's sort of... So you like the bridge, huh? Sure. I've been watching them build it ever since they started it. It would be kind of funny now that it's finished if I wasn't there to see them open it. You're a queer one, all right. You talk as if the bridge was something alive and would miss you if you wasn't here. Well, it is kind of alive to me. Sticking up there in the sky. I kind of got used to it now. And it wouldn't be fair if I couldn't see him cut the tank. Well, now, if you'll be up behaving yourself and not be causing any trouble, maybe I'll see if a wee spot can be found for you. Gee, officer, that's swell. I'll never forget it. Will you be remembering it when you get to be governor? Sure. And I'll make you police commissioner, too, as a reward. Aye, lad, you got a paladin's tongue in your head. That you have. Oh, Leary. Yes, your honor. Is everything all right at this end? They'll be coming along soon. Yes, sir. Inspector Murray from the New York Fortwood Fortwood here a little while ago. He'll already at the other side, too, sir. Fine. Look sharp now when the parade comes. We don't want any slip-up. Walt Brookman has their eyes on us today. Yes, sir. Good. I'll be seeing you later. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir. You're a slick one, you are, picking your inaugural costume before your full groan. Here you are, Governor Smith. If you'll be so good as to crowd your worship's form under this pile of steel alongside this side of the stand now, I'll be turning me head and not seeing it. And you'll be getting a fine view of the parade. I hear coming. Come on. Come on. Come on. It was a fine parade, too. And the speeches, my, they were grand. The things they said about me. Mayor Edson of New York, he was wonderful. Mr. President, on behalf of the city of New York, I accept this great work which you now tender as ready for the public use of the two cities which it so substantially and at the same time so gracefully joins together. The city of New York welcomes this great moment with great joy. Yes, sir. He certainly did say some nice things. But then so did Mayor Lowell of Brooklyn. With profound satisfaction on behalf of the city of Brooklyn, I accept the completed bridge. The beautiful and stately structure fulfills the fondest hopes. The span was so long and the height so great and the enterprise likely to be so costly that you thought of it as something begun in earnest. The irresistible demands of commerce enforced these hard conditions. But science said it is possible and courage said it shall be. Today, a city of 600,000 people welcome with enthusiasm the wonderful creation of genius. I'll never forget it. What a day. And little Al Smith made good his boast too. He did become governor. Many as the time when he rode across me he'd look up and give me a smile and a wink. I hadn't forgotten. I knew what he meant. Uh, I haven't forgotten anything I guess in all these long 60 years. Steve Brody and the good-natured arguments in the subway cars about the Dodgers and the Yankees. Oh, Brooklyn and Manhattan were united all right but they never lost their civic pride. I guess they'll always fuss among themselves about Manhattan and Brooklyn but then they don't really mean it. Not really. It's not something that's mean or nasty. Because the cities are really united. Just like the country I guess. Sections fuss with one another but when anything happens they close ranks and they're united. Yep, here they come. Lads from Manhattan and Brooklyn marching along with boys from Minnesota and Kansas all of them united. Marching off to see that things stay that way. Ah, these 60 years have seen a greater volume of traffic using me than my designers of buildings ever dreamed of. I wonder what the future holds in store for me. Goodbye, lads and good luck. Don't worry, I'll be here when you get back waiting for you to come marching home across this old Brooklyn Bridge. Oh! When the Brooklyn Bridge was opened to the public it linked two cities. On that occasion the mayors of both cities made fitting speeches. On January 1st, 1898 these two cities became one. The city of Brooklyn is now the borough of Brooklyn and a part of the city of New York. It is therefore appropriate that we hear from the mayor of the city of New York and from the president of the borough of Brooklyn. The Honorable John J. Cashmore President of the borough of Brooklyn. Sixty years ago today a great event took place in the life of the city of New York. Probably no other single event contributed so much to the subsequent growth of our city. The Brooklyn Bridge was formally opened and the city of New York became physically joined with what was then called the city of Brooklyn and what is now the greater city's greatest borough. At the time it took vision and foresight to even dream of so vast a connecting link. Since then American initiative and methods have constructed other unusual projects and caused the birth of ingenious inventions which make the old wonders of the world pale into insignificance. The gloom peddlers of our day had their counterpart in the years preceding the construction of this bridge. There were people then who refused to believe that this marvelous feat of engineering could be accomplished. Just as now there are some of our citizens believe we have come to the end of our inventive genius and have reached the peak of benefits that mankind can receive. If we look back we can see the poor man of today enjoying comforts the rich man of previous eras did not even dream of. What will the next 60 years bring for us an even greater advance? just as the early Americans pushed past the frontiers of the land so future Americans will thrust past the frontiers which now limit the mind and imagination. When the Brooklyn Bridge was opened it was inconceivable to the average man that a plane would fly at all and even advanced thinkers could not imagine flying at 400 miles an hour. Now we find that in a tunnel in the west a plane has been tested that will fly almost 800 miles an hour. Before the construction of this bridge outstanding men opposed the plan claiming a bridge of this nature would not stand. Now we are planning to bridge the oceans with man-made islands so that planes can travel from continent to continent. At the close of this war passenger airliners will carry as many as 400 passengers from one part of the world to another. War has brought in its wake many terrible hardships but necessity is the mother of invention and war has called upon man's mind to provide new methods of traveling long distances more speedily and more accurately than ever before. It has provided new methods of combating illness and disease which formerly were fatal. It is interesting to note that 60 years which have passed since the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge have seen medical science devise the means of curing the very disease that felled one of the builders of the Brooklyn Bridge and made an incurable paralytic of him. This bridge stands as a symbol of initiative and enterprise and the benefits which can be obtained for the public at large when there is unity among our people. The ceremonies today are in commemoration of the 60 years of the past. I choose to view them as ceremonies which will mark the beginning of a new era of progress in our nation never before achieved. And now the Honorable Piorello LaGuardia Mayor of the City of New York. Well I got quite a thrill out of this program for the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge was quite an advent in the LaGuardia family. I was there. Father played in Conterno's band that you find on the program if you look it up. And I was five months old then. And mother took me and sister who was about three and a half years older than I. And for decades after that whenever any question would arise in the family as to dates mother always dated everything from the day of the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge. It was shortly after that that we moved out to South Dakota and then from there after sojourn up in Madison Barracks out to Arizona. Well President Cashmore I'm sure you got a thrill in representing your great borough today just as your predecessor Seth Lowe must have had a thrill on the day sixty years ago. Now I'll tell you something John Seth Lowe later became mayor of the greater city. It was a great day but this is what makes it so interesting to me and I'm sure President Cashmore you must get comfort and encouragement too as we turn back the pages of the history of our city and find that even mayors in those days had opposition and every time progress was sought to be made by opposition and opposition and all kinds of obstacles put in the way to prevent either construction of public works or progress in any respect. The Brooklyn Bridge which perhaps is the most beautifully designed bridge in the world and engineering a great engineering feat although many of the principles engineering principles and theories employed in the Brooklyn Bridge has since been changed yet there it stands a monument of courage and ingenuity and vision to the to our predecessors of those days. Just wait a minute Huey. Commissioner Huey is anxious to get the microphone back again but I got something here that I thought is rather interesting. The main speaker of the day and the speech in those days the main speech was called The Oration was made by the Honorable Abram S. Hewitt. He was a member of Congress at the time and later became Mayor and John that's a very good training you know Congress before you become Mayor it's very helpful as I was saying Congressman Hewitt was the orator of the day and pointed out this great undertaking and I want to read it to you if I can find the page here it is he pointed out that the bridge cost a staggering sum of nine million dollars well bridges cost more today but he said this the wages paid at the bridge itself may be taken as a fair standard of the wages paid for the work done elsewhere these wages were laborers one dollar and seventy five cents a day blacksmiths three dollars and fifty cents a day carpenters three dollars a day masons and stone cutters three fifty a day riggers two dollars and painters two dollars a day then he says taking all these kinds of labor into account the wages paid for work on the bridge will thus average two dollars and fifty cents a day oh how many bridges could Bob Moses build with those wages and yet we wouldn't walk those wages today would we because the wages in comparison to the then purchasing power of the dollar was much less than a weighted comparison of the wages paid today and then too you heard the dialogue really this brings it quite home today there was a great deal of talk then about tolls on bridges well something like the increase fare John you know it was very much along the same lines whether the tolls should be charged with the bridges or not and eventually the tolls were taken away but the the debate was rather acrimonious and bitter of course the issues today are always discussed so friendly like you know and well anyhow my predecessor was the honorable Edson who served as mayor at the time and who made a very modest yet prophetic statement he says will these two cities ere then have been consolidated into one great municipality numbering within its limits more than five million of people yes mayor Edson they have and we number seven and a quarter million people will the right of self-government have been accorded to the great city thus united and will her people have learned how best to exercise that right yes that right has been accorded and we're trying our best to exercise it properly will the progress of improvement in the preparation for commerce manufacturing for commerce manufacturers and trade and for the comforts of home for poor and rich have kept pace with the demand in the great and growing city and yes we can hold our head high and say yes that we have done and so closely merged that it will never be possible to unscramble the unity the greatest city in the world providing the greatest inspiration to the entire world for here people live coming all their ancestors having come from every country and climb in the world living in peace in harmony in neighborliness we've done it here in New York it can be done elsewhere thank you president cashmore and may we carry out the realization and the hopes of our predecessors of 60 years ago a technical engineering survey is now being made of the Brooklyn bridge by the regular forces of the department of public works under the direction and guidance of a board of three eminent consulting bridge engineers the cables the structural steel the masonry in the towers and the anchorages will be examined and tested and it is anticipated will provide the city with the data necessary to plan for the future use and for present day and future travel you have heard about the bridge's past you know about the bridge's present the future of the Brooklyn Bridge will depend to a great extent upon the outcome of this survey from historic city hall New York we have brought you a special program marking the 60th anniversary of the opening of Brooklyn Bridge first of the great suspension spans across the East River we've heard messages from his honor the mayor of the city of New York the honorable F.H. LaGuardia from his honor John Cashmore president of the borough of Brooklyn and from Major Irving V.A. Huey commissioner of the Department of Public Works for New York City the dramatization featuring this broadcast was written by Bud Fishel and was directed by George Astens Henry Sharp was the voice of the bridge and the members of the cast included John Neal Ann Miller Vernon Wenderoff Alan Grossman Louis Gottlieb William Carroll and David Judson this is the municipal broadcasting system william anyガust themaga
