I think it is quite important in this job of ours, not only to see that business prospers, which is the important thing, but to see that democracy lives in the city of New York, which is the barometer of America, because if democracy lives in the city of New York, the world will be contented and happy. And the only way, in my opinion, that democracy can live is by keeping our people, and I am talking principally of the 8 million people of the city of New York, happy and contented. And we can only do that by keeping them working. And it is only through business that we can keep our people employed. And so I say to you, Mr. Gimbel, I'm awfully grateful that you made this possible, that you acted as host for this wonderful afternoon, because as days go by, and it won't be so long, 51 will be around pretty soon, and the capital of the United Nations will be here in the city of New York. In 52, we hope to have the convention hall completed. In reestablishing the Department of Commerce, which virtually had been a nonexistent agency up to January 1st, last, the mayor did not have in mind that the department should supersede or supplant existing chambers of commerce, boards of trade or other agencies already serving the city and its business community. Rather, he had in mind an organization which would act in liaison with such groups and agencies, and to coordinate programs already in operation with any overall program the city might undertake. It was in this sense of cooperation that the Department of Commerce proposed to its Business Executive Advisory Committee the establishment of a central promotional bureau. Just how such a bureau should be organized and operated will be determined by study, examination, and analysis of the factors involved. To that end, the department has been authorized by the Business Executive Advisory Committee to recommend to the mayor that to appoint a special committee to meet and discuss the subject and subsequently to report its findings for official consideration. It is not proposed that a central promotional bureau should supersede or supplant existing agencies or to take over activities already underway, any more than it was proposed that this department should absorb the functions of our established Chambers of Commerce and Board of Trades. Any promotional undertaken within the department would have to be along cooperative lines with full recognition of the highly valuable and effective promotional and sales activity of all existing agencies in the civic or promotional field, such as the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, with which the department now works in close cooperation.
