I have suggested certain General Brady and I will want the suggestions and the advice of every member of this council because it is an important matter. But I repeat, let those who preach economy be willing to practice it and set an example to their supporters. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Massages and pages from the Mayor. Office of the Mayor. Communication relative to legislation pending for the state legislature. Print number 722, introductory number 685 in the Senate. An act to amend the administrative code in the City of New York in relation permitting the election of payment of benefits on death and active service under New York City employing the retirement system in the form of annuity. State legislation. Presentation of petitions and communications. Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C. D.C. Number 827, an act to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation permitting the election of payment of Bennett's on debt and active service of the New York City Employers and Climate System in the form of annuity. State legislation, presentation of petitions and communications, Washington, D.C. Reply to resolution of counseling, facilitating the President upon his birthday. Councilman Schalke, White House, Washington, January 30, 1939. My dear Mr. Cruz, the President has received your letter of January 27, including a certified copy of the resolution adopted by the Council of the City of New York, and he sincerely appreciates the kindly interest which you and the members of the Council expressed in his birthday. He asked me to say that he is deeply grateful for this evidence of goodwill and to thank all of you ever so much for your friendly thought of him. Very sincerely yours, M.A. Leafland Private Secretary. Councilman Schalke. This message be printed at the City record. Is there a clear objection? No audit. Communications from City, County, and Foro Offices. Office of the Controller. Relative to receipts and general funds for the last four years and fiscal year 1939 to 1940 for information only. Committee on Finance. That's all. Reports of special committees. None, sir. Reports of standing committees. Report of the Committee on Buildings. Introduction number 402, Council 382. In favor of adopting a local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation to Metro Lab. I move that all committee reports today, except where they entail matters that have been amended in committee, we made general order. Is there objection? Hmm? What's I say? Report of the Committee on Buildings. Is there a right to object on any particular bill? There'll be no objection. All right, I will continue. For the Committee on Buildings, introductory number 471, council number 441. In favor of some costs of county government, we could solve this whole problem of economy. I have taken the trouble to add up the total claimed costs of county government as contained in this table and items about which there is no question. And I have found the total cost of county government to be $18,840,027.26. On a budget of $589 million per year, that's exactly 3% of the cost. Now, most of this $18 million is embedded in the Constitution of the State of New York and has been in there for many, many years. Neither the legislature nor this council could cut that cost in any way. And $18,840,000 out of a total budget of $589 million is exactly 3% of the whole budget. Now, do you realize how unfair the budget director and others are when they lay the whole possibility of economy and the cost of the government of the city of New York to the possibility of retrenchment in the cost of county government? If you cut off 10% of this 3%, what a ridiculous percentage of this whole budget you would have. You realize now how unfair, how unfounded are your criticisms. We will show you when the budget is presented to us that we will make every possible cut in it. And we challenge the city administration and the commissioners of its various departments to likewise cooperate with us. And when the question of economy will really come up in the council, when the budget will really be acted upon, we will prove to you that we will economize far beyond the present city administration's willingness to go. Mr. Sharkey is recognized. I agree with Councilman Thorwin's suggestion that we can cut this budget. And I think we should get to where I can cut it when we get to that job. Now, Mr. Bellis made a speech, but I don't hear anyone answering Councilman Spellman's defy to them about this 80% of mandatory money in this budget. They're very silent about that, or even a 30% of mandatory monies in this budget. Mr. Bellis reported the 1933 budget as to the size of it. I can tell him the 1933 budget was approximately $100 million less than this budget today. Now, let me remind everybody here that the mayor six years ago told us that he would reduce the budget at that time, $50 million. Now, he was in receipt of all of this information the opposition is trying to give us today about mandatory items in the budget. Six years ago, those mandatory items were still in the budget. And at that time, he said in a speech that he could reduce that budget $50 million. And the budget was then $100 million less than it is today. Or shall I say $120 million, because we all know he's in the hole for about $20 or $30 million in this budget. Now, I can't agree with the opposition when they say that he has so little to do with most of this budget. I see $327 million here, which is directly under his supervision. I see expenditures here under the supervision of the Board of Estimates of $17 million, which he has plenty to say about. I see expenditures here under various bureaus and pension systems, the amount of $30 million. Why do I mention pension systems? I do that because Mr. Sepplis in this body has a resolution, I believe, in which he's asked for action in regard to pensions from the mayor. Now, the mayor has resisted every effort on the part of this council to reduce this budget. He resisted every effort on the part of the old Board of Warlerman to reduce the budget. In two last boards, the budget was reduced. In each case, he vetoed the reductions. We know the fight that we had here in the first council last year. We had to go to the courts before we were finally upheld on our budget. This mayor has refused and resisted every attempt to reduce the budget. He resisted an investigation into the welfare department. When, after his commissioner said that $24 million a year was being stolen or lost in the welfare department, he resisted an investigation of that department, which might have enabled us to save the city somewhere is up to $24 million. Now, on pensions, a rearrangement possibly of the pension systems, a ceiling on the pensions would possibly reduce the city's expenditures or contributions to the pension system somewhat below the $30 million which it has to pay today. If we reduced it only half, it would be a saving of $15 million in this budget. Now, in the past, we've only had 20 days to consider this budget. And the Board of Warlerman for a great many years in its finance, a report of its finance committee came into this body and stated that 20 days was not enough to consider the budget. We only scratched the surface in 20 days. The administration has a full year to prepare its budget. It has a budget director with engineers and accountants working on it through the year. We get it for 20 days. With that in mind, I introduced three local laws here to change the time in which we've received this budget and give us possibly 45 days to work on it. Now, if we wait something out of this, giving us an additional 10 days, it would mean 30 days. I hope this Board will attack this budget and get to it and show the mayor what can be done with this budget. We know that we're going to get reduction in the submitted budget to requests of department heads because we know that those requests are not on the level. But we want them to show us a cut in this budget below the level of 1938. Councilman Cypress is recognized. I am very glad that Councilman Stark reminded me of the situation in which our pension investigation committee or proceeding is now existing. the gentleman intends to go into his pension resolutions. I must object. The report has been subject to long debate. and I submit that he'd better confine himself to the report. Vice Chairman's point is well taken. Councilman Cypress, as Shakespeare said, this is the most unkindest cut of law. Well, Mr. Chairman, keeping in mind the kindly admonition of the acting vice chairman, may I say that I heartily endorse everything that Councilman Baldwin said. I heartily endorse in substance everything that Councilman Spellman said, Councilman Sharkon, my other brother of training from Brooklyn, Councilman Shandler. And I just want to summarize again what should be kept in mind by us and by the people of the city of New York. Ever since the mayor has been mayor, he could have pursued an orderly method of meeting this problem that he tells us about every few months of mandatory pay increases. He could have gone to Albany in a nice, gentlemanly, orderly way and he could have appeared before the committees that have handled that mandatory legislation and he could have said, gentlemen, I am going to take a cut in my salary of 20 or 25 percent and knowing that I ask you to amend these bills which are compelling the city to pay the salaries that we are now paying. Why hasn't he done it? Why? Because there's no political benefit in that. He would have antagonized the men in the various departments and that would mean a loss of votes. So it would be unthinkable that he should follow that procedure, rather have the corporation council go into court and try to make a judge override the existing statute and then when he loses in court then he comes out with a blast and tells us mandatory legislation. Why to me? Well, I want to say this. At one time when words failed me, I want to say this. On January 31st, let us not forget, the mayor sent his message to us in which, as we all remember, he was urging us to be economic. And then a few days later, my dear friend and neighbor, Comptroller McGoldrick, issues his statement about the necessity for economy and that we only have a small cushion in regard to our debt-incurring capacity. That's number two. And then yesterday, dear old brother Kenneth Staten comes along with his plan. The council, the council, we must be economic. Now what is a program that comes up every time a budget is a program that comes up for discussion to get, bring the people of New York to believe that we are responsible for the extravagance of the administration. Now this $127 million that Mr. Backer spoke of, that was, of course, 1936, as being the only discretionary amount. But even so, I repeat, why didn't he go to the legislature like a brave executive and tell them, I repeat, I will take a cut. I won't ask this subordinate to this city to do anything that I won't do. No. Instead of doing that, innuendo, subtle hints, there may have to be a cut. And it will be the council that will do the cutting. Well, I repeat, and I will close with this with the permission of the acting and vice chairman that the bill I have put in to cut salaries a sliding scale is done for the specific purpose of applying the acid test to the mayor. Let him lead off and say that he'll take a cut. Meanwhile, we can hold this bill, and when he is ready to take his cut, then we can take the bill up. Council, Councilman Earle, this vernographer has quite a little difficulty getting you. Will you speak just a little louder, please? I'll do my best. I'm sure the gentleman who has just spoken remembers that the mayor and the members of the Board of Estimates imposed salary cuts on themselves when they came into office in 1935, amounting each to about $5,000 a year. So their good intent was very definitely shown, and I personally would be very much against a mayor of the city of New York taking any cut in a salary of $20,000 a year. I don't know what he thinks about it, but I think the mayor of this city should be paid $20,000 a year and possibly more. Point of information, Mr. President. The lady is misadvised because the salary of the mayor of this city is now $25,000. I would take no cut. One further question. Which gentleman? Mr. Surplus, I believe, is the one. Congressman Surplus, will you yield? The question I wanted to ask to the president. I object to this proceeding. The gentleman from Brooklyn has already finished. No, no. I said the gentleman from Brooklyn has already finished and thus can't yield. Well, it's a common practice. I think the gentleman from Queens is using this as a subterfuge to again be heard on a matter on which he has already had plenty of attention. I'm sure you're lonely to your question, Mr. Chairman, and most of the gentlemen refuse to yield while they're talking. I withdraw my objection. The vice chairman withdraws his objection. Do I understand, Mr. Surplus, you have a bill that is a local law here in the council which proposes to cut... Oh, now I object to that because that's not in the debate. I'm sorry. The point is well taken. I think you made that statement at the conclusion. The point is well taken. The vice chairman is recognized. Now, Mr. Chairman, until this discussion took place this afternoon, I was under the impression that the only people who were going to be fooled about the coming budget were these 50-odd million visitors we were going to have to the World's Fair. But I discovered that the gentleman from Queens, in addition to probably not reading his mail even, to discover the temper of the taxpayer, doesn't understand the mayor's process because the heads of the mayor's departments have not only been subject to the mayor's orders, but they've listened to the mayor's orders in preparing their departmental estimates. And the mayor and the heads of those departments are not fooling anybody but the mayor and his department heads with what they've done with their departmental estimates because, as you know, the budget director very deftly permitted the newspaper men to learn, although the council was never informed of it, the details under which the department heads were asking for appropriations, $50 million in excess of their present running expenses. Now, who is so stupid as to believe that the newspaper men didn't get that with a special purpose in mind, possibly only a few misguided and naive councilmen, certainly not the taxpayers of this city because they've been practiced on by that same method for too many years in this town to be kidded by the mayor or any of his predecessors. Yes, the gentleman will yield to a question. Is it a fact that we have as a council here a representative at those budget hearings and that we were entitled to know as much as the newspaper was what those departmental estimates are? Yes, it is a fact. Is that the gentleman's question? Yeah. That's my answer. Now, we know from previous practices and not only with this particular mayor because I have a habit of speaking about the misguided application of these things not only by fusion mayors but by democratic mayors. We know from past practice that it's an old gag on the taxpayer in this city and it's especially deftly practiced by the present mayor because none of his predecessors had the gall to go beyond about 20 million in the departmental estimates. He's just added a little mounting percentage to the thing so that when he eventually cuts those department estimates down in the proposed budget that will go before the board of estimates and eventually gives it to us as the budget of the board of estimates the mayor's budget it will be cut 50 million dollars from the departmental estimates and the taxpayer who doesn't stop to think about what the bill is going to be but who has a habit of making quick mental calculations will say hooray for Mayor LaGuardia he saved us 50 million dollars on this year's budget. The mayor kid's nobody but a few councilmen and possibly the visitors to the world's fair with that kind of practice because we've watched it and I don't think he'll get away with fooling many of the visitors to the world's fair because if they come from other American cities as we hope they will they've probably seen the same kind of practice in their own towns possibly even on the eve of their departure for our great exposition. Now I think on the whole this is as I said before the most comprehensive document ever prepared for this body or for any of its predecessor legislative bodies. I think in adopting it the council should pay a special tribute to the chairman of the finance committee for his diligence and effort and I move the adoption of the budget with that stipulation and with the further of the report rather and with the further direction that the clerk of the council transmit to his honor the mayor immediately a copy of this report in its entirety. The vice chairman of the attorney type of last year. They recognize the vice chairman. Mr. President and members of the council there's been a remark made here today about every time a committee report is adopted by this council it starts off with a brick back. Well if it starts off with a bouquet and writing then verbally I'll start off with a brick back and I say now Mr. President and members of the council that it looks like one or two of the coalition group don't even believe in the bible because they didn't write it. This report today is without a doubt the cleanest and the most sincere report that's ever been handed onto the floor of this chamber in a hundred years and if the members of the coalition group were sincere in any sense of the word and they could back up their statements they would have filed a minority report. Now Mr. Strauss has said that 80% of the $589 million is mandatory and cannot be cut. Well it seems that everybody in this council has lost sight of one thing that Mayor LeBourdieu is the mayor of the city of New York not since January 1st 1939 but since January 1st 1934. That's a long time. Five years and one month. Now let's just take a look at some figures and I'll give you the oaths of office filed in the city clerk's office for the year 1938. The oaths of office in that year 12,541. So far in 1935 1939 is 537 oaths of office filed. and I'll we have the opportunity with the help that's delegated or assigned to this council to check into these things. But I want to tell you that on January the 31st when the mayor sent in that communication begging us to cut this budget that's going to come in it was not only an insult to your intelligence but it was one of the biggest political tricks known in the history of politics because you're going to see a mayor in the newspapers with his coat on and his vest off and his hair hanging down over his face and you're going to see him there in his shirt sleeves and his suspenders sitting next to the budget director and that's going to come pretty soon and he's going to be excluded from everybody and then the caption is going to be just this the guardia fighting to save the taxpayer money oh I've been in politics too long to know this game the wrong way gentlemen I love it and I'm going to tell you that in October the 7th 1933 and I know that statement just like I know Sheridan's ride and the statement is this that when I am elected mayor and I take office on January 1st 1934 I'll chase all the clubhouse pumps and loafers off the payroll I'll reduce this budget 50 millions of dollars I'll reduce the water rates they should never have been increased and today you're operating under a budget the highest in the city of New York 589 million dollars I'll give you the rest of this story when the budget comes in I'll show you the promises that he made but I want to say in answer to that letter that came in here on January the 31st begging the council we won't pass the buck I'm warning the mayor of the city of New York now that when we get this budget and the only way we get it is after the mayor has signed his name to it let him get in there and cut this budget clean and wholesome it's not 52 million dollars overboard oh no don't let him fool you your budget is exactly 27 million 500 thousand dollars overboard he's gonna take the credit for that difference which he never intended to say those are old tricks Joe Baldwin knows them he knows them very well he sat here with me years and years ago I can tell you the true picture the night before the mayor takes off the coat and the vest he puts in a call of the city editor he gets out the cigars he asks him to send over a newspaper man and he asks him to send over a photographer now there's the picture gentlemen see if I'm wrong he'll do it he's done it every year since he's been mayor it's an old trick but it isn't going to work I want to congratulate not only the members of the finance committee but I want to congratulate the chairman this has been a report that hasn't been easy to get up and for the benefit of the unseen audience I want to tell them what a budget looks like just in weight a budget weighs 15 pounds and 4 ounces on thin paper this council is supposed to be of every rank and station in life we weren't elected as CPAs with the help that we have here in this council we have been cut to the bone we're expected to go through $589 million in 20 days I could criticize the mayor and show that this $589 million goes over the desk in the other end of the hall at the board of estimate meetings and three times gentlemen just three times since January the 1st 1938 as the chief magistrate of this city sat as a member of the board of estimates and that's where the money is being expended if there's any sincerity in the members of this council they should vote for this finance committee report without any hesitancy because in this report we too are begging to get the information necessary to help the overburdened taxpayer of this city Mr. President at this time may I move the previous question all along Mr. Armstrong doctor I have to be briefly excused from voting and explain my reason for it the explanation must have necessity Mr. President carry with it a bit of autobiography I began what I sometimes refer to as my career in want of a better word by working on a newspaper and I was at that time assigned to the center street headquarters and I would from time to time as a police court reporter and from time to time it would be my I suppose you'd call it pleasure to go to the night courts and the police courts in the city and that my career Mr. President I preface my remarks by saying the explanation of my vote would necessitate a certain autobiographical sketch and that is the way I'm going to explain the reasons for my vote and in this process of going to the police court I heard lawyers who were defending various types of petty criminals when I left newspaper reporting I thought I had left that all behind me those little technicalities Mr. Chairman by which an obviously guilty person is relieved of the obligation of undergoing the penalty determined by the law there is in that I suppose a certain legitimate cleverness practiced by these attorneys but it never had any great weight with me now I said during the course of the debate that certain things were mandatory upon the city I wish to give just one illustration I quoted the police department now it is technically and absolutely true that the whole of the budget is not mandatory but the salaries fixed for patrolmen is now we could say very well that oh that's not mandatory enough because we can discharge half the patrolmen but that is what I call a technical evasion of the fact that it is mandatory if we have 16,000 policemen that we must pay them the mandatory salaries fixed under the law and that's what I call a mandatory charge I found it rather impossible to follow the entire charge made by Mr. Spellman and this I have a kind of weakness Mr. Chairman Mr. Disraeli once said when asked if he had read anything by Mr. Gladstone he said he found it impossible after he read the first sentence he got a headache that's a constitutional limitation something about the way Mr. Spellman speaks makes it impossible to me to follow either his mental processes or the words that issue from his mouth from time to time I I was unable to follow but he did say something about eating my shirt I object that the gentleman cannot yield his time under the rules on the explanation of a vote two minutes I just want to say that I think he said something vaguely about eating my shirt I have if I could prove that 30% of the budget were mandatory I have Mr. Chairman just a little too much respect for my shirt to have them destroyed in that way but I intend 30% of this is mandatory this little autobiographical sketch Mr. Chairman was necessary in order for me to show why I'm going to vote no it comes from the long line of distaste with technicality with small time police court lawyers skill at dialectic I offer Mr. Chairman no further apology for the fact that I now vote no on this vote councilman Carroll is recognized I was part of this committee report while I did not do a whole lot of the details of it I knew everything that was going into it and much to my surprise today was brought out here that on one hand we have a situation where the city is pleading bankruptcy and is asking for a reduction in the salaries of all civil service employees and they are preaching economy and according to the city record today in one office an appointee of the mayor that is the corporation council's office there was from the first of january of this year increase is given to some 32 employees amounting to $12,075 now it's either we stop increasing in these times the salaries of appointees in an office where the head of whom is appointed by the mayor or we stop talking about economy I vote for the report I am very glad indeed that the finance chairman has gone to the trouble and work to prepare this report I think it shows that the finance committee of the council is conscious of its obligations and is trying to do a good job however I feel about the schedules the same as Mr. Backer and Mr. Strauss and Mr. Bellis these these are arbitrary classifications I think a much fairer picture of the city's financial position would have been indicated if the chairman of the finance committee or the majority of the finance committee had put a star next to every item for every department within which there were mandatory provisions either council manic by the city legislature or by the state legislature as to salaries and other necessary services that would give a true picture of the control even under the mayor of the large amount of money of which the budget is made up that also applies to departments not under the mayor's control in order to be perfectly fair it should apply to county and other departments of the city government now everybody knows for instance that to put any such statement as this under the department of education is an unfair implication even though it is technically true that the mayor exercises control of the expenditures of the department of education through the appointment his appointment of the commissioners and we know in this council and everybody who knows anything about government knows that the salaries of the school teachers and the pensions are set by the state legislature so that that is entirely out of gear that particular picture now let's take again a very popular department which nobody wants to deprive of any money and that is the police department in the next year's budget about 10 million dollars in this last year's budget about 10 million dollars were required for the three platoon system and for certain mandatory increases in the policeman's salaries nobody nobody I am sure disagreed with the action of the old board of alderman and the board of estimates when the three platoon system was instituted in this city but it cost money gentlemen and we are bearing the burden of some of this desirable social legislation in this budget and that's the reason why this particular classification while it is technically true only shows half the picture of the financial problem that not only faces a mayor but the board of estimate and this council and in the absence of any qualification as to the totals and the items which make up the totals of this statement I wish to be recorded as voting no as chairman of the finance committee express my appreciation and gratitude to the various members even of the opposition who have been so kind as to compliment the members of the committee and myself for the work which we have accomplished the committee has endeavored to render an honest report which would provoke thought not only here in the council but also in the various groups who are affected by the budget either as employees of the city or as taxpayers we think that we have presented the report in a form which will in some measure bring home to the populace the real true responsibility for the expenditures of money in city government we have had in the last few days editorials in various city papers last night's son in its lead editorial said which way to economy and the first paragraph in part is very interesting the city administration seems to have a slight attack of confusion of purpose it has come close to the end of its financial role what to do receives varied answers from what should be a united front controller McGoldrick declares that economies must be found but not by cutting the salaries of city employees the mayor's budget director mr. Dayton says that it will depend on the public and the city employees to decide whether economy will be reached through cutting salaries generally or by the repeal of mandatory legislation quote which now binds the city administration closed quote now I believe that the report is fair of course the authors of it are only human but I wish those in the opposition were just as fair with us as we have tried to be with the present administration because on page three I must reiterate it once more your committee respectfully submit that it is in no position to pass judgment on the necessity for such action that is the repeal of the mandatory increases which he refers to until it has had full complete and ample opportunity to study every phase of the budget to be submitted by him and and I want to emphasize this for those who have said that we are bound by mandatory increases and until the mayor and the mayor should know well and until the mayor has furnished the council with detailed information of what he claims to be the effect of the alleged mandatory increases on the budget of each department of the city government we are not passing judgment we have heard many claims made by the mayor by the budget director and by the controller certainly the mayor through his cabinet should be in a position to give us this information and the other information which the committee has requested again gentlemen may I again on behalf of the committee and personally express my appreciation of your cooperation I think this talk this afternoon about mandatory legislature legislature is there a lot of bunk these men that went into those departments on the civil service were guaranteed a rate of pay and I think that that's just a lot of noise and talk to cover all the other effects that they've made in the different departments and not living up to their rule of being used in economy now we're not allowed to increase this budget nor were we allowed to increase the capital outlay budget but we did at that time deduct around $400,000 and when it was sent back to the mayor the mayor immediately put it back in the budget in other words I'd say he was pulling the McKesson and Robins on us now I'm not in I'm not up here to criticize the mayor or anybody but I think that the different departments and as Mr. Cashmore and the other members have stated can reduce this without affecting any of the employees so I vote aye now I want to say that the outset that I was very much surprised when Mr. Bellis from Queens started out about the appendage on all reports from the various committees committees in reference to bouquets now I'm the chairman of a committee likewise sit on other committees and I can safely say irrespective of this particular report that half of the legislation today introduced by the other side has been advocated by the members on this side and brought out a committee now that's a fact there's no getting away from that I think at this time that the report made by the finance committee headed by Mr. Kinsley is a report well founded on fact there has been perhaps omissions there perhaps has been things said on this floor but the sum and substance of the whole argument today pertaining to this so-called budget which we will face within a short few months is one that takes more than the average enlightenment of the average councilman we need more than 20 days and I think when this report is accepted today which I think it will be know it will be that once again in my humble capacity I too wish to congratulate that committee and the chairman of that committee of the work they've done and the report they have made it's one of those little humble things in our everyday life doesn't mean an awful lot perhaps it doesn't mean a bouquet but a lad likes to get slapped on the shoulder once in a while because that's all we get here in the council and all we have to do is look at that great literature that has been sent to us by the board of purchase our letterheads our envelopes wonderful fine accredited to the city of New York Kinsley had no help I don't know who's going to pay for this report I don't think the city of New York is going to do it but however we ought to slap them on the shoulder we ought to give credit where credit is due and for that reason Mr. Chairman I vote aye will Quinn Kansas Chick Gottlieb Spellman I challenge the members of the other side I won't say the members of the other side that's unfair to too many of them I challenge two of the members of the other side who had made a gross exaggerated and untrue statement on this floor to present figures to back up their statement the challenge still remains the challenge is still unanswered one of them has weakly said that he'll furnish me with figures I hope that the time never comes when I make a statement on the floor of this council that I won't have the figures to back up that statement before I make it instead of chasing them after the statement's out of the box now to show how ridiculous the statement is that 80% of the budget results from mandatory increases may I remind you that a mandatory increase is $120 per year and that for 80% of the budget to result from mandatory increases the city of New York would have to have 4,833,333 employees I think that answers the question I vote aye Strauss I plead to vote explain my vote Strauss is recognized two statements which were made by the gentleman on the other side of the house whose presence in this chamber I'm trying very hard to forget continue to continue trying to forget during the next year I won't mention his name first of all first of all there was a criticism made because the minority did not prepare a minority report the explanation for that is very simple the minority at least speaking for myself had every intention of signing the majority report until the table which was not submitted at the committee meeting was appended to the report and that changed the whole character of the report and as I explained in my speech before as we did not see the table until today we had had no occasion to prepare a minority report nor did we know that it would be necessary to do so I might say amplifying Mr. Bellis' remark that the bouquet was the first part of the report and the brick bat was the table and that had I known the brick bat was going to be there I would have prepared a minority report secondly this same gentleman said something about mandatory increases mandatory increases we did not say anything about mandatory increases we were talking about that section of the budget which is controlled by state legislation and which approximates 80% of the total budget and if the report which was prepared for the constitutional convention under the direction of a very able committee headed by the lieutenant governor the present lieutenant governor of the state is wrong I would be very happy to be so informed by anyone other than the gentleman who made the speech I may be wrong but I don't believe that I am thirdly the vice chairman I think made a misstatement of fact in his speech he said I don't know whether it was a slip he said that the budget of last year was the largest that it had ever been that is not so the city budget in 1931 was 620 million dollars in 1932 it was 631 million dollars this was before the present administration came into power and this last year it was 589 million dollars so that to catch up to the administration of Mayor O'Brien we still would have a margin of some 42 million dollars of his last budget however I don't think that that is a desirable objective but I just wanted to make that correction in the statement that was made by the vice chairman perhaps it was a slip I vote now I vote now I vote now I vote now I vote now I vote now I vote now I vote now Mr. Chairman I didn't intend to make any effort to explain my vote but two matters have come during the roll call that I think make it essential first of all I'm not as grieved as my colleague councilman Spelman is about the failure of the minority to make a minority report because I think they used their time in the interim to better advantage by rushing to the director of the budget to invite his attention to the fact that he hadn't complied with the charter and thus we're grateful for having received although belatedly the detailed requests of the department heads as we should have had it initially under 114.1-0 now with respect to the explanation by councilman Strauss of what he thought was an inadvertence or a mistake on the part of the presiding officer when he temporarily relinquished the chair to address the council there's still no error in the statement made by the presiding officer with respect to the budget figures because the budgets that councilman Strauss draws in comparison to this enormously high budget he forgot included items such as the banker's agreement the rotary fund under the banker's agreement and the relief appropriations during the years of 1931 and 1932 which were then met from budget appropriations to the extent of over 6 million dollars a month but which since the advent of the present administration have not been accomplished by direct budgetary appropriations in the tax budget but are accomplished by the imposition of a sales tax to the harassment and annoyance of all the people who must purchase anything in the city of New York from a coffin down to a package of cigarettes with that explanation correcting the gentleman I withdraw my request to be excused and vote aye vote aye 20 votes in the affirmative 5 in the negative the chair declares the finance committee report adopted councilman D. Giovanni is recognized the board of the state of the state and the members of the old but not forgotten board of all of them I see here from Brooklyn alderman Michael Calendrillo and alderman Victor Sanna and alderman John McManus I move the privileges of the floor to these distinguished gentlemen the chair is very happy to always extend the privileges of the floor to the greatest legislative body that ever existed in the city of New York continuing on the reports of committee report of the committee on rules resolution number 213 favor adopting a resolution requesting heads of all city county and borough agencies the grant leaves of absence would pay to employers who desire to participate in parade on St. Patrick's Day March 17, 1939 so ordered the following general orders now appearing on the calendar general order 122 council number 428 council number 428 so ordered want to read them yeah read it out general order 122 council number 428 7-33-215 Denverرت'22 out got really sleepy esto Temporarily later signed. Report of the Committee on Civil Employees. Favor adopting an amended local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to permanent employment of employees in the labor and competitive classes in the Department of Parks. Temporarily later signed. General Order 123, Council Number 315. Report of the Committee on General Welfare. In favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York. I interrupt the play. I understand the author of that local law has some suggestion to make with respect to amendments. I suggest Councilman D.C. Councilman D.C. of Honor is recognized. Now, with reference to this Order Number 123, the license of the fathers, in view of the fact that there are certain fundamental changes and amendments that have to be made in this bill, which, because of the fact that it seeks to encroach on the powers of the Board of Estimates and therefore would be illegal if passed by the City Council, I ask you, Mr. President, to recommit this bill to the Committee on General Welfare for the purpose of amendment and reprinting and for consideration. Is there objection? Recommitted to the Committee on General Welfare for further consideration. Fight will continue. General Order 128, Resolution 186. Report of the State Legislation. Report of the State Legislation. Committee in favor of adopting the resolution. Petition to Legislative Body of the State of New York to establish without further delay Administrative Body to investigate sites for some elimination projects and to pass on and appropriate. The money is authorized by the voters' elimination purposes. No order. General Order 129. General Welfare for request to have a letter to charge from the covering. I so can. I'll follow the letter to sign. The President has amended his request to have it lay over, when I so moved. No order. General Order 129, Council No. 370. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting a local law to amend the New York City Charter in relation to the powers and duties of the Comptroller. Coupler. No order. General Order 130, Council No. 414. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to signatures on warrants and checks. So ordered. General Order 131, Council No. 436. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to the Comptroller in relation to power of the Board of Estimates in relation to the power of the Board of Estimates and the Comptroller to release contractors from fines or penalties under contract. Coupler. So ordered. General Order 132, Council No. 152. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to use of vacant lots by house or coach trailers. The Coupler. So ordered. Councilman Burke is recognized. It might be requested. I should like to have... 132, Council No. 152, held over until our next meeting for purpose of further study. There seems to be some question as to whether it conflicts with the provisions of the Sanitary Code. There's objection. So ordered. Over. General Order 133, Council No. 222. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to solicitation of pedestrians by pullers in. So ordered. Following three matters will again lay over. General Order 134, Council No. 226. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to licensing and regulation, gunsmiths and dealers and firearms. Lay over. Also, General Order 135, Council No. 304. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to restrictions on dealers and second-hand articles. General Order 136, Council No. 321. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the Administrative Code in relation to sale of alcoholic beverages and grass of minimum content. Lay over. Over. So ordered. General Order 137, Council No. 332. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to permits the operations of dump cell places for reception and disposition of water waste materials for full or final disposition. Lay over. No order. General Order 138, Council No. 385. 365. Report of the Committee on General Welfare in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to towing and storage charges for motor vehicles. Lay over. Is that amended? No. No. Oh, couple for General Order. So ordered. General Order 139, Council No. 335. Report of the Committee on Parks and Playgrounds. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to parks and playground names Frank M. Charles Memorial Park, Borough of Queens. So ordered. General Order 140, Council No. 337. Report of the Committee on Parks and Playgrounds. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to parks and playgrounds, Johnny White Playground, Borough of Richmond. Move it to be coupled. No order. General Order 141, Council No. 346. For the Committee on Parks and Playgrounds. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to park names, Michael J. Mahoney Playground, Borough of Richmond. Move it to be coupled. Couple. No order. General Order 142, Council No. 314. For the Committee on Public Theraffaires and Traffic. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to street names, Edward Block Square. No order. General Order 143, Council No. 331. For the Committee on Public Theraffaires and Traffic. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to street names as Sencia Square. Move it to be coupled. No order. General Order 144, Council No. 437. For the Committee on Public Theraffaires and Traffic. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to discontinuance of certain lands in the Borough of Queens as park lands. And the transfer of such discontinued lands to the President of Borough of Queens for street purposes. Move it to be coupled. No order. General Order 145, Council No. 440. For the Committee on Public Theraffaires and Traffic. Favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to street names, Duffy Square. Move it to be coupled. No order. General Order 146, resolution number 192. For the Committee on Rules. Favor of adopting a resolution. Requesting the public hearing be granted by the Department of Sanitation for any contemplative removal of the Rikers Island dumping project to the Borough of Richmond. Move it to be coupled. No order. That's all. Call the role. Move the adoption of the couple general orders. Like to call the role on the couple general orders and local laws. Resolution. Including the commissioners of deeds. Want to call the commissioner of deeds, Ray? By the acting president, resolution appointing various persons commissions of deeds. Coupled. Michael. Go on. Michael. Call the role. Armstrong. Packer. Baldwin. Bellis. Quirk. Carroll. Christensen. Conrad. Deering. DeGivani. Mrs. Earles. Hollander. Kendrick. McCarty. Menschen. Wegwerver. Fr Может. Man. Truman. Deore. Will. Quinn. Lieutenant. questo può Pizza? Non è peore. Capitore. Coro ! Il- Il- Cayro. Croo ! Michael. I'll just spend a moment, Mr. President. I want it. If you can find a telephone, you can find two. As soon as the Sergeant Alamos is finished, look for the members. Because of the length of the session, ladies and gentlemen, fellow New Yorkers, it's essential that business to be transacted and so forth has necessitated a few of the councilmen leaving the room. And for that matter, that is the reason for suspending the roll call in order that they may be represented in the roll call. And in a few moments, we resume. Need I remind you that you are listening to the session of the City Council in the Council Chamber in City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System, New York City's own station, WNYC. Justice O'Rourke<|it|> Schmauze. 832. 192. Dental Order 146. President. Aye. Acting Vice Chairman. Aye. Acting President. Aye. Mr. McCarty. Aye. Mr. Shanty. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. Government Director.elect Matt Thank you! Sorry, sir. Mr. Kinsley, Mr. Kinsley. Good evening, Mr. Kinsley. ат assure. That is theounce Summerse board266 is the apresentam Division, and both so آ록 itsедulate advisory board24F. So they attest. 24 votes in the affirmative on all local laws and resolutions, More votes in the affirmative on all local laws and resolutions with the exception of resolution number 192.