Good afternoon. The facilities of your city station are at the disposal of the New York City Fire Department for this morning's memorial services. In charge this morning is Lieutenant James P. Coyle of the Fire Department. Here is Lieutenant Coyle. Comrades, Commissioner Monaghan, Chief Loftus, members of the Fire Department, and friends. We are assembled here, as we have in years past, to remember our honored dead. The two plaques before which we are gathered commemorate our comrades-in-arms who gave the last full measure of devotion to our country in her time of peril, and our brothers-in-blue who offered their lives in the demands of the hazardous duty of our profession. Lieutenant, will the Sergeant-at-Arms, the Officer of the Day, and the Color Guard advance the flag of our country? Forward. March. Hands. Salute. Watch the light. Watch the light. Two. The National Anthem by the Fire Department of Glee Club of the City of New York.抗議. ¶ Protagonist, the Fire Department of Glee Club of the Day O say can you see Why the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight All the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare While the bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there Oh, say does that star-spangled Ranner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Do. We'll have the opening prayer by Chaplain Robert A. Brown, New York Fire Department. Let us pray. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, We come to Thee thanking Thee for the many blessings Thou hast bestowed upon us as a nation and a people. We gather together to honor those who have fought the good fight And have laid down their lives for the service of their country. Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord, And may life perpetual shine upon them. We pray for our country And all at the present time are in the armed forces. Be with them on the day of battle. Be with them and sustain them As they go forth from day to day doing their duty. Bless us all And this we ask in thy name. Amen. Amen. Can we have another selection from the fire department glee club? Yeah. Softly and tenderly. Softly and tenderly. Softly and tenderly Jesus is calling Calling for you And for me Calling for you And for me Sing at the portal He's waiting and watching Watching for you And for me Watching for you And for meoscope for Hombre Come now Come home Come home Come home Come home Come home Ye who are weary Come home And the street tenderly Jesus is calling Calling for you And for me Why should we tarry When Jesus is pleading Pleading for you And for me Why should we linger And heed not his mercy Mercy for you And for me Come home Come home Come home Come home If one will be Come home Earnestly, tenderly Jesus is calling Calling Calling For you And for me In the few short months That we have had the pleasure Of working under our new commissioner We have enjoyed his humane attitude Towards firemen, his interest in organizations in the fire department And the special interests That he shows for veterans organizations And post 930 I'm going to ask our commissioner The Honorable George P. Monahan To say a word Lieutenant Coyle We're gathered here today In humbleness of spirit To pay tribute To our honored dead Our brave brethren Who made the supreme sacrifice In defending And preserving our rights Our privileges And our very freedom And to the members Of our dauntless Uniformed force Who died In the line of duty Our debt To these heroes Is so great That we can never Repay it All we can do Is to revere Their memories Ever verdant In the hearts Of all of us And as a token Of the sentiments Of the entire department I Want to place Wreaths On the flag draped plaques Whereon Are emblazoned The glorious Names Of those who Paid The supreme sacrifice In the line of duty And now the wreath Is being brought out To this narrow corridor Of the 11th floor Of the municipal building From which we are broadcasting It is handed to The commissioner Of the fire department Commissioner Monaghan While the commissioner Is placing the wreath Will the fire department Blee club Sing My buddy That we must cut You and I Nights are long Since you went away I think about you All through the day My buddy My buddy Nobody Why it's so true Miss your voice The touch of your hand Just long to know That you understand That you understand My buddy My buddy My buddy Your buddy Misses you One more One more Look at the wreath Look at the wreath Please Look at the wreath Please Thank you Thank you And now pictures Are being taken At the presentation Of the wreaths And once again Here is Lieutenant Coyle We will have a Reading of the scriptures By the reverend Merity Yeager Fire department chaplain Behold I tell you A mystery We shall all indeed Rise again But we shall not all Be changed In a moment In the twinkling of an eye At the last trumpet For the trumpet shall sound And the dead shall rise again Incorruptible And we shall be changed For this corruptible must put on Incorruption And this mortal must put on Immortality And when this mortal Hath put on immortality And when this mortal Hath put on immortality Then shall come to pass The saying that is written Death is swallowed up in victory O death where is thy victory O death where is thy victory O death where is thy sting Now the sting of death is sin And the power of sin is the Lord Is the law But thanks be to God Who hath given us the victory Through our Lord Jesus Christ Therefore my beloved brethren Be ye steadfast and unmovable Always abounding in the work of the Lord Knowing that your labor Is not in vain in the Lord We now have the necrology The reading of the members Of post 930 the American Legion Who have passed to their eternal reward Since our last exercises one year ago By the Reverend Edward C. Russell Chaplain New York Fire Department Amy J. Hogan Arlington H. MacDonald John T. Nevins Martin Grogan Thomas A. Craig Thomas O'Hara Vincent M. Medina McQueenie John J. Farrell William A. Donnelly Thomas J. Conner Joseph Roda Hugh P. Moran Jr. Albert B. Carlson Martin Sweeney John J. Buccell Morris V. Mullen Morris J. Leonard James J. Smithstick Edward F. Ryan Joseph P. Gallino Owen J. O'Neill John A. X. McNaught William Horan May the souls of the faithful Through the mercy of God Rest in peace Taps by the fire department bugler And salute Hu. Cut Thank you. Two. Well, the Sergeant-at-arms and the Officer of the Day advance the colors to our second plaque at the further end of the hall. And now the color guard is marching down to a plaque which is directly in front of us. It is dedicated to members of the New York Fire Department who died in the performance of their duty. We see that the names on the plaque date back as far as 1865 and go right up to the present day. One of our old friends, as members of Post 930 and a charter member of this Veterans Organization with a glorious record of service to the Fire Department and the City of New York, is our present Chief of Department, Peter Loftus. Chief Loftus. Chief Loftus. Bodies of the Fire Service, I deem it a notable honor as Chief of Department to this day commemorate the memories of those who have gone in the Fire Service. The message I would leave for those who have been permitted to stay in the Fire Service over so many years is that we should carefully record the benefit of our experience and pass it on to those who have to take over when we pass on to the end that no fireman will ever again lose his life unnecessarily in the discharge of duty. Thank you. We fired. Department Glee Club. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. In all it be a cross that raiseth me. Still, all my soul shall be. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. Nearer, my God, to thee. Weep the sky Sun, moon, and stars for God Award I fly Still all my song shall be Nearer my God to thee Nearer my God to thee Nearer to thee Amen As firemen, the mutual dependence of one man to another In the dangers we face Forges a bond of brotherhood With a lasting memory for the brother who yields only to death The plaque at the end of this hall contains the names of the men who have made that sacrifice And we are honoring them today I'm going to ask Commissioner George P. Monahan and Chief of Department Peter Loftus To place the wreaths at that plaque We might mention at this time That the New York Fire Department post 930 of the American Legion Is in charge of these proceedings Chief Monahan now takes the plaque in hand Places it very carefully In front of the plaque dedicated to the New York Fire Department The New York Fire Department Ave Maria San Fabian Mary San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin San Margin Oh And et benedictus et benedictus proctus ventris ventris tui jesu ave maria ave maria mater dei ora pro nobis pecatoribus ora ora ora pro nobis ora pro nobis pecatoribus nunc et in hora mortis mortis in hora mortis nostri in hora mortis mortis nostri mortis mortis mortis nostri mortis or or mortis mortis mortis mortis mortis rest me building, your city station has brought you the memorial services of the New York City Fire Department. In charge of proceedings was Lieutenant James P. Coyle of the New York Fire Department. Also, he is the commander of the New York Fire Department post of the American Legion, number 930. Following station identification, we'll return you to our studios and the program in progress at present recorded for the ladies. This is WNYC, the voice of New York City. Thank you.