To vote is the privilege and duty of every citizen, but in order to vote you must register. This week is registration week. Here's an important message for you from Dr. Edward M. Berniker, former New York City Commissioner of Hospitals. On election day, the people of the state will vote on a constitutional amendment, amendment number seven, authorizing the City of New York to borrow $150 million outside its debt limit for the construction of urgently needed municipal hospital facilities for our needy's sake. This measure merits the wholehearted support of every qualified voter. But you cannot vote unless you register. So please remember, register during the week of October the 10th to the 15th and vote yes on amendment number seven on November the 8th. You can multiply by the number one onPalmками and that September 5th. Because when you register when you register you are in the street, You can follow just on watch the most popular language. By all means one is the vostre change button for the 20th and it is Greg and the T-iza to Carmela . Heil, he chas ego, Pete you must follow. Lord, help you remember and follow. The first time you areaciones please turn notifications after the dichot報 be sure not anything you need to see the question button. Your logic of this man onned canε, but use theructure of the totalement . Don't wantrestful to inglés friend, it's not happening so you can see the samequé as he was the largest man in the street. Shaun now and a m Cheeseown see you are in the street To vote is the privilege and duty of every citizen, but in order to vote you must register. This week is registration week. Here is an important message for you from Dr. Edward M. Berniker, former New York City Commissioner of Hospitals. On election day, the people of the state will vote on a constitutional amendment, Amendment Number 7, authorizing the City of New York to borrow $150 million outside its debt limit for the construction of urgently needed municipal hospital facilities for our needy's sake. This measure merits the wholehearted support of every qualified voter. But you cannot vote unless you register. So please remember, register during the week of October the 10th to the 15th and vote yes on Amendment Number 7 on November the 8th. Let's do that over now. To vote is the privilege and duty of every citizen, but in order to vote you must register. This week is registration week. Here is an important message for you from Dr. Edward M. Berniker, former New York City Commissioner of Hospitals. On election day, the people of the state will vote on a constitutional amendment, Amendment Number 7, authorizing the City of New York to borrow $150 million outside its debt limit for the construction of urgently needed municipal hospital facilities for our needy's sake. This measure merits the wholehearted support of every qualified voter. But you cannot vote unless you register. So please remember, register during the week of October the 10th to the 15th and vote yes on amendment number 7 on November the 8th.
