A verdant valley spreading west from the American Carolinas to the Mississippi River. A giant valley holding a giant river fed by many rivers. A sheltered valley cradled from the fierce Atlantic gales by the wall of the Appalachians, strung a thousand jagged miles from Alabama to Labrador. For two centuries after the discovery of America, this wall held the white men-pens of the Atlantic seaboard, where the old world overflowed into the new. Each ship brought its quota, ever their numbers increased. Lonely outlying settlements jostled other settlements, flowed together and became villages, towns, cities bustling and raucous. And ever the march was westward, westward from the sea, westward until it crowded, baffled at the very base of the impregnable Appalachians. The year 1760, the town of Newland, in the far northwest corner of North Carolina. Hey, that's you, Tim! Aye! It is a disgrace to be Irish, insist as I be, leaving the laces and dancing. But there's times a man needs a breath of air. Yeah, you have the right of it, Tim. It is why I am out here. Phew! Never have I seen such a crowd here to crawl his barns after this night. The way this town's going, it makes a man feel stifled. Hey, remind me of my father. Was his belief a neighbor lived too close if you could see his house? He died for that belief. How was that? He got together a bond of ten men and thought as he did. They struck out westward, over the mountains. One came back. Everett, his name was. Ratskins? Partly. Everett says mostly it was these everlasting hills. Feeling of being cut off from everything by that endless forest night drove him mad. Oh, boy. Here comes Tillmore, folks. Whoa. Evening to you, gentlemen. Good evening. Yeah, good evening. Good evening. I wonder if you could tell me where I might find Mr. Daniel Boone. Daniel Boone? He's not here the moment, but we expect he'll show up for the dancing's over. Come far? Yes, quite a way. My name's Mosby, Arthur Mosby. I'm Luke Timmons, and this is Tim Connors. It's a pleasure, I'm sure. Oh, Jed, Jed. Mr. Mosby, this is Jed Needham. How do you do, sir? Pleased to meet up with you. And this here's Ned Jacobs, whose fiddle you've been hearing. Hope you won't hold it again me. Mr. Mosby's looking for Daniel Boone. Yes, I heard he's the greatest hunter in these here parts. Blood brother to the Indians. You're lucky to find him in town. Aye, he's what we call a long hunter. Filled his powder horn, shoulders his pack, and gone into the woods for months at a time. Out there somewhere. Out to them western hills. Aye, here comes Donald now. Evening, boys. Good evening, sir. Donald, this is Mr. Mosby. Come a long way, especially to see you. And mighty glad to find you, Mr. Boone. Howdy, Mr. Mosby. The dust of the roads in my throat. If you gentlemen will be my guests, I say, let's all have a drink. Sure thing. Yes, sir. Oh, marvelous, sir. An extra good after a long journey. What was it you come to see me on, Mr. Mosby? I guess you'll want to be alone with Donald here. Oh, no, no, no, gentlemen. What I have to say may interest of all of you. Gentlemen, you know how most every town here in the East become overpopulated. So a man can hardly beat his wife without the neighbors to witness. Well, sirs, Mr. Richard Henderson of the North Carolina Land Company has asked me to commission Daniel Boone to scout a passage through these mountains to the West and to look for new sites for settlement. We plan to establish base camps and offer these sites for sale to the public. Gentlemen, there's good money to be made from the land of the West. I've heard tell these Indians out there. And there's a hill or two in the way, five, six thousand feet high. Oh, man, I know how difficult an undertaking it is. But once a pass through those hills is found, why... If any man can find that pass, Daniel Boone's a man. Exactly my sentiment. Point is, are you willing to accept, Mr. Boone? Uh, Daniel's a name. Yes, there's nice land over there, Mosby. Great trees, green hills, and rich valleys will grow things higher in a man's head. You beat over? Aye, I've been over. And you found a pass through the hills already? Not through, Mosby. Over. And you can wade your horn and powder, ain't an ox-cart-maid could come over the trails I followed. And a pass is still to be found. Aye. But it might be a public service to give folk a chance to spread a bit. Probably spoiled some nice hunting country for me, but I reckon I'll join up with you. Thank you, Daniel. And here's my hand on it. Now, gentlemen, may I count on you for the follow-up expedition? You might count me in. What about you, Nick? I'm a-coming and bring my fiddle. You'll need a bit of a tune to lighten the Long March. More like to scare the Indians away. Yeah, what about you, Luke? I say, you'll be mad. Did you forget what happened to my father and the half-score with him? Big farms are rich me not to scalp dangling at a brave's belt. Well, I thought the Redskins hereabout were friendly. Hereabout, aye. But going west, you've got the Overhill, Cherokee, and the Chickasaw, and the Creeks, and the Shawnee. An Indian has a long memory. Aye, Mosby. Since the Spaniards came through here burning and slaughtering, those Indians hold a blood hatred for us. Steal our chances with you. And looks like I'm bound to follow my father's footsteps. I'll be one of you. Then it's done. This calls for a drink. Gentlemen, I'll give you a toast, gentlemen. A pass through the hill. A pass through the hill. Up! Up! Pull you lazy devils up! I tell you, Pat. We were fools to come. Seems endless, these hills. And this crazy winding trail, if you can call it that. Up! Up! Don't you know? You're right to complain, Luke. Daniel Bowles had to travel it twice before. Second try, when he was established at the outpost, he was at least had others with him. But the first time, there was one man alone against all this. It took more and more courage to find that pass. Up, you four-legged impo Satan! Up! Lamb, Daniel says, while he's top the rise, we'll be in sight of Joseph Bactavish's tavern. Up! Get given! Ah, glad to the sight of it all be. I'm thinking they'll be just as glad of the sight of us, him and his three sons. Nine weeks out here, never knowing if there'll be a top to your head come sunrise. Hey, listen, Conor. Oh, dear, who? No! Conor! It's, it's Daniel. It's Injun! Injun's attacking the McCabber's cabin! Come and show me! Vanishing them woods if they'd never been here. Aye, you'd never know except their dirty work. The three boys be dead, Daniel. Hey, how's McCabber's? Bad hurt. Get some water back quick. Daniel! Daniel! If, if only it did a mite sooner. We, we never even seen him till too late. The trees. We won't have a chance with the trees. He was behind the trees. He was right, Daniel. Damn the trees. Oh, God. Oh, oh. He's gone, poor devil. I told him and them at the other outpost before I left. First thing, even before your cabins are done, clear the trees. There's danger behind every tree. Cut the trees. Cut the trees. Clear the land. This is now the religion of the pioneer. This is now the religion of the pioneer. Throughout the valley rings the blow of the axe, the rasp of the saw. The great white wave sweeps in land and the forest giants fall like straw before the side, while plowed furrows make grudging detours around a million mute stumps. As the century turns, farms of horizon-reaching acreage come into being. Negro slaves toil unangely over the lush, rolling land, planting cotton, planting tobacco. Year after year, cotton, tobacco. Year after year, taking the treasure from the land. Year after year, putting nothing back. Why bother? The valley is endless, inexhaustibly rich. Let's find it, mama. Ah, this is good. Sitting here on the veranda with a cool drink. Then why do you want to move it, John? It took us here to build all this. Nothing but wilderness when we come here from Carolina. Now I broke my back and you you're in a clearing of the land. Living in a cabin one of our field hands wouldn't spit on, was it given as a gift. And now, when we got all this, you say we gotta move. Amanda, I tell you, I had to sell. This land won't grow us another paying crop. It's wore out. Washouts and gullies and all the good topsoil gone. When that happens, the only thing to do is to move on to another place. If it's that bad, how come you found someone to buy? There's so many new settlers coming in, they'll buy anything. As for us, that new piece of bottom land I bought on down the river will grow us better cotton and tobacco than we ever raised. Still, I hate to think of leaving this place, especially at this time of day. Work done, sun is setting and the doggies singing. They're always making up new tunes. Take them right out of the Bible, seems like. Ah, someone coming. Looks like a stranger. Evening. You Mr. Burton? Evening to you, sir. Yes, I'm Burton. Come in. Give me. Take care of the gentleman's horse. My name is Bushmill. Mr. Burton, cue Bushmill. Pleased to know you. This is Mrs. Burton. It's a pleasure, ma'am. Sit down, sir. Thank you. Now, Mr. Bushmill, what can I do for you? Well, sir, there's a bit of boom down river apiece, and I've contracted to build a few houses. Naturally, I'll need some lumber. Now, I understand that you've just bought a piece of land, but you've got to clear the lumber before you can farm it. Is that right? Yes. I ain't present my dockies at it next month. Well, suppose we make a trade. Your property being near the river, I can float the logs down to where I need them. I'll clear the land for you in return for the timber. What do you say? Sounds reasonable. But I'll be needing some of it for my own uses, for to build cabins for the dockies. You build those cabins for me, and it's a deal. Oh, ho. You see, you've dumped the debt off her, Carson. I'm telling you, we're going to make money. Suppose you stop raising, and tell what happened. Well, about a dozen planners have given me the timber on their land for the cotton office. We build the barges, get a new load of freight, float down in New Orleans, deliver the freight, and sell the barges. Then we cut more timber and start into... Hey, cut your own throat, Jimmy. Now, what do you think them fellas who's buying the barges want them for? Posies? They'll be competing with us, and we help them there. Oh, no. Ain't nobody going to compete with us. Fellas buying them barges don't buy them to use his barges. Well, what in blazes they use them for? Sidewalks. They break them up and use them to build sidewalks in the streets of New Orleans. Or we could sell them every tree in the Tennessee Valley. They were building sidewalks in New Orleans, so they cut down the trees of the valley. They were building ships, so the axe rang in the Tennessee. They were building railroads, so they raised the hillsides of Tennessee. They were building cities, so they fell the trees of the valley. They were building ships. They were building factories. They were building railroads. They were building... They were building... The Civil War. The Civil War. June 24, 1861. Governor Isham G. Harris speaks at the state capitol at Nashville. While the power invested me by the state of Tennessee, I hereby proclaim all connections between the state of Tennessee and the federal union severed. As the contest rages, the valley becomes the most important battleground of the war. Its fertile bottomlands are rich in food. Its rivers offer easy transportation. Its hills strategic positions. Whoever holds Tennessee will win. On valley soil, the most decisive battles are fought. On valley soil, the soldiers of the Union forefought their blood. That the nation may remain united. And at last, they prevail. The war is over. War is over. The valley, graveyard, fun, and the chair. Rates by battle, trampled by fighting hordes. I've gone from drill. Here, then, is the age-old setting. The cue for the horsemen of the apocalypse to sweep the stage. Cholera, yellow fever, typhoid, grips of valley. Thousands die. Tens of thousands flee and panic. Acre upon acre of exhausted farmland. Raw hillside, naked pasture. Untilled, untenanted. The valley soil is dried dust. Flown idly before vagrant, stifling wind. Then, rain. Gone the forest giants whose roost had held its precious moisture to the earth. Gone the verdant crops which had anchored the fertile soil to the sloping farmland. Unhampered now, the rains run from the barren hills, the rolling, unseeded land. Taking the topsoil, the riches. Washing it into the streams, the rivers. Washing it into the Clinch River, the Holston, the French Broad. Into the Howells, the Little Tennessee, the Hawassie, and the Docks. Washing it 600 miles along the Tennessee and 600 more down the Mississippi to the Gulf. Washing the richness of the valley out to sea. Rain and more rain. Endless. Endless. The streams become rivers. The rivers turn into torrents of destruction, roaring madly down the valley. Washing out traps. Sweeping away villages, towns, cities. Drowning hundreds and driving thousands to the hills. Homeless. Blood, plague, terror, past in the valley. Its people straggled back to shambles which once were home. Square now, the turn. In a certain factory in the northern city, a board meeting is in progress. Well, now, this year's... Please continue, Sergeant Britt. Well, as we charge the hill, a ball hits a small building. And all of a sudden, the whole world explodes. They are powder magazines. Right you are, sir. And where it was is a hole the size of a cellar. And it's all as black as coal. Coal! Coal in Tennessee? We must organize the mining company. We'll ship our own coal moth to our factory. Right, yes. We will not ship coal to the factory. We will ship the factory to the coal. We can get labor for next to nothing down here. Fine, Jupiter. He's right. Scores of farmers without farms. Star of all the land. The proclamation is 3,000 of slaves. Good for them to work. That's clear. Light and naked bones. The deserted uplands of the valley are blackened under the smoke of myriad chimneys. But I can't assume how zeroed more in quil ejecravperty may have been coming from a gilt-like lantern system. Han eric care of her family and__t Pearl and كل Yeom is passed by theirrimenti. plate城 to theirforeIA, which is
