The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Can we maintain a bipartisan foreign policy? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the crisis in our bipartisan foreign policy. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the demands of such a policy, the reasons for its breakdown, and recommendations for action. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Kenneth Colgrove and William McGovern, both professors of political science at Northwestern University, and Irving Flom, a foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. What do you mean, open here, Flom, what do you mean by a bipartisan foreign policy? Mr. McBurney, if Republicans and Democrats agree in peace times, as all of them virtually agreed in wartime, on a program that both believe is the absolute minimum for the welfare and safety of the United States, then that is a bipartisan foreign policy. John Sherman Cooper, who was a Republican senator from Kentucky and now is in the State Department, puts it this way, bipartisan foreign policy means a good-faith effort to agree on matters affecting the security of the country. Do you accept that, Colgrove? I'm afraid I cannot accept that, McBurney. I would say that a bipartisan foreign policy is a national program of external affairs originated and maintained by two political parties. In the case of the United States, this implies the participation of both the Democratic and the Republican parties. It means a policy in which both political parties participate in policy-making through their congressional leadership. It is not a policy initiated exclusively by the President and his Secretary of State, or by the President and the Democratic leadership in Congress, and then suddenly announced to the Republican congressional leadership, with the implication that patriotism demands the slavish compliance of the Republican party leaders therewith. Under the American Constitution, both the President and the Congress should and must control foreign policy. Therefore, no policy is bipartisan unless the President permits the full participation of both the majority and the minority leadership in Congress. For instance, President Truman cannot honestly call a foreign policy bipartisan unless the Republican congressional leadership participates in the initiation, in the formulation, in the development and in the execution of this policy. Well, now, Flam has emphasized the importance, McGovern, of substantial areas of agreement as a basis for a genuine bipartisan foreign policy. And it's clear that Colgrove is emphasizing the importance of party participation in the formulation and execution of such a policy. Where do you stand on this? On the whole, McGovern, I would agree with Colgrove when he lays down the position as to what the bipartisan policy, foreign policy should be. But I'd like to emphasize even more strongly than he did, that the so-called bipartisan policy which we are asked to follow, as in most cases has been the dictates laid down by the Democratic administration, which they simply ask the Republicans to go along blindly, without consultation, and without having their views put into the record. And for that reason, I think the bipartisan policy, for the most part, has been a failure and has liked to remain a failure for the indefinite future. Do you share that view, Flam? Well, it hadn't been a failure all throughout, of course. We all know that it succeeded during the United Nations Conference in San Francisco, but it has been failing lately. But I would give another reason for that failure, McGovern. I would say the reason why it's failing is that the Republicans are repudiating the leadership of their party, which existed during the period when the bipartisan foreign policy succeeded. That is the leadership of Wilkie, Dewey, and Vandenberg. Well, McBurney, I would say that the bipartisan policy got off to a very good start back in 1944 and 1945, when Secretary of State Cordell Hall worried a good deal about the Constitution of the United States, which requires that the ratification of treaties should be by two-thirds vote in the United States Senate. The Treaty of Versailles had been destroyed by an obstreperous one-third minority, and he hoped that the Charter of the United Nations would not be destroyed in that way. And I think the credit for the bipartisan policy in the beginning very largely should go to this great statesman, Cordell Hall. But the policy that Hall initiated was successful because he followed the lines which I have just indicated, a reference to congressional leadership. When the San Francisco conference was called, under the plans of Cordell Hall, the Republican leadership was given a complete equality with the Democratic leadership on that delegation. The delegation consisted of eight altogether, but four of the delegation were congressmen, two of them were Republicans, two of them were Democrats. The appointee in each case was on the Democratic side, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations in the United States Senate, and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the United States House of Representatives. And then the ranking Republican member on each of those committees also sat with his Democratic colleague. And the result was a colossal success. Mr. Vandenberg was able, in defending the Charter before the United States Senate, to get a vote of 89 for the Charter and only two against it. I wanted to take that example that Colgrove just gave, of the bipartisanship at the time of the United Nations, as a touching off point for our discussion, inasmuch as today, bipartisanship is falling down, is failing, because of the policy in China. And I think one of the reasons, perhaps the biggest reason, is, if I may say so, the lack of good faith on the side of the Republicans in attacking the China foreign policy. And this is how this illustration that Mr. Colgrove just gave fits in. Mr. Colgrove said that the success of the policy at San Francisco was due to the fine work of Mr. Howell, and no doubt it was due to the fine work of Mr. Howell. But we had a Democratic president, two of them, during the San Francisco conference. One was named Franklin Delano Roosevelt, and the other Harry Truman. And we also had another Secretary of State, Justinius, who was a Democrat. Now, I maintain that they did this in order to build up bipartisan foreign policy. It was not the work of one man, but the work of many. And that participating in it was Vandenberg and Mr. Eaton of the House of Representatives, both of whom shared in the principles of the United Nations, and one to see it carried out. Now, in the case of China, we now discover that the administration is responsible for a catastrophe in China, that it's a Democratic policy that failed in China. It was a bipartisan policy that succeeded at San Francisco. May I bring up my point on that, Flaum? I think that we've had one of our worst diplomatic blunders, one of our greatest political disasters has taken place in the last two years in China, with the capture of Chinese by the Communist forces. And I do feel, as a matter of fact, during this period in 47 and 48, when I was serving as a consultant to the Congressional Committee on Foreign Affairs, and know exactly what the Democratic and Republican leaders were after down there, in that point that the Republicans almost were men who were violently in opposition to the Department of State. There were violent opposition to the policies carried out here, both by General Marshall in the earlier stages, and later on by Mr. Acheson, the Secretary of State. And I think, therefore, that if the bipartisan policy makes us simply accept a disastrous program such as that sort, then I'm definitely opposed to it. Well, the point I wanted to make is this. That when a thing fails, when a policy fails for the Republicans, then it becomes a Democratic failure. When it succeeds, then it becomes either a Republican success or a bipartisan success. Now, I don't think that you can make out that General Marshall, General Stilwell, Pat Hurley, and the others who shared in making policy in China were Democrats. They were Republicans or they were nonpartisan. I think Flown misses entirely the point that I've been making with reference to the necessity for congressional representation in making foreign policy, if it is to be called bipartisan. Now, Mr. Marshall did not represent the Republican Party when he was sent to China. He was sent to China by President Truman, and not because he was a Republican, but because President Truman thought that he'd be able to carry out a policy. And Congress thought so, too. No, Congress had nothing to do with that. You're quite mistaken. They unanimously supported him. Oh, no, they did not. He didn't even come for confirmation before Congress. And the Republicans began the attack even then upon the administration for a bypassing... When he was nominated for Secretary of State, he had unanimous support. Oh, yes, later on. Well, that was after he did his work in China, so they approved of his work in China. No, not necessarily. His work in China was criticized by Vandenberg, who at that time it pointed out that the Republican Party had not been consulted on the Chinese situation, and that the government had gone ahead to make foreign policy without consultation with the congressional leaders on the Republican side. Now, the bipartisan policy began to break down through the unwillingness Mr. Truman as president to carry out the fine machinery which Cordell Hall had set up. The Truman Doctrine was announced in 1947 without consulting the Republican administration. The Marshall Plan was announced in 1948 without consulting the Republican congressional leadership. And the four-point program Mr. Truman's made so much of, as Mr. Taft pointed out the other day in Congress, was initiated and developed without any consultation with the Republican leadership. Now, Colgrove makes this element of consultation and participation a vital element in a bipartisan foreign policy. And he denies, as you've just heard, that such consultation has taken place. Well, of course, those are questions of fact. And preliminary to those questions, there's another question that I don't think we can answer today. And that is, what do you mean by Republican Party? When you say, consult with the Republican Party, Colgrove says, consult with the leaders in Congress. The leaders in Congress do not necessarily represent the Republican Party. They represent the Republican Party on the legislative side. And that's what we're dealing with. Well, you have presidential candidates, for example, who represent the party too, but you don't want to consult them. Now, let me get to one more point about this consultation. They're not responsible. They're not elected yet. You have to consult the people who have a responsibility to the people. All right. But there's a big difference between consulting the people who are responsible, say, to the people of Massachusetts and Maine, Senator Lodge and Senator Smith, and the senators who represent Ohio and some other parts of the country. Oh, that's begging the question. We're speaking of them in the... Well, that's not begging the question, Colgrove. When they vote on opposite sides, for example, I just noticed last week in Congress when they passed the foreign aid bill, Senator Lodge and Senator Smith, both Republicans, representing Republican voters, voted for the bill. And Senator Taft, for example, a Republican representing Republican voters, voted against it. Now, I say it's a question, who is the Republican Party? Well, who is the Republican Party? Well, the clown part has concerned, what is the Democratic Party, what is the Republican Party? If you analyze your votes, you'll find that on a great many so-called Democratic issues brought in by the administration, the Democrats vote against the administration. On a great many issues, and many Republicans vote with the Democratic administration. I agree with that. So both are important. But these are important issues, remember. But these are important issues for us to remember in any case. And that is that people can say this is a bipartisan policy, because such men as Mr. Dulles and Mr. Cooper have been brought in to the State Department as consultants. That, to my mind, is ridiculous. Mr. Cooper and Mr. Dulles are very charming, very amiable men. But to say that the fact that they are working in the State Department does not make it a bipartisan policy. No. They can no way claim to represent any... As I understand it, it doesn't even help if the President, if the administration takes with him on, or takes, sends with the Secretary of State to important international conferences, leading Republicans. Say, for example, Vandenberg, when he was able to do it. And when Vandenberg was not able to spend so much time out of the country, then he would nominate Mr. Dulles. Now, I'm being told that these people no longer represent the Republican Party. And they shouldn't be consulted. Well, then, Mr. Cooper, who was elected by the State of Kentucky to the Senate, no longer is a Republican spokesman. Well, where is the President to go? He cannot consult the committee every time there's to be a move, or every conference to be taken. Well, Flom, it's very clear where the President should go. You asked where he should go. He should go... To Senator Jaff. ...to the respective committees. No. You're begging the question again. He should go to the respective committees having charge of these policies in the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. In other words, he should go to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the United States Senate and should consult, not only the Republicans, the Democratic side, but also the Republican side of these committees. Now, a reference to Mr. Dulles. There was one period of time when you could say that Mr. Dulles was a man selected by Vandenberg, and when Mr. Dewey was nominated by the Republican Party for President of the United States, and everybody knew that Mr. Dewey would appoint Mr. Dulles as his Secretary of State, when you could say that Mr. Dulles fitted in to the bipartisan policy program. Or a pattern. But today, Mr. Dulles is not in that position. Today, Mr. Dulles and John Sherman Cooper are mere employees of Dean Acheson or President Truman. They're hired and fired by Mr. Truman and Mr. Acheson. And they are not responsible to you and me. They are employees of the State Department and in no sense represent the people of the United States through their representatives in Congress. I don't want to get off on this new theory of Professor Colgrove's that employees of the federal government are not responsible to the people of the country. I understood that they were, but I don't want to go into that issue at all. They have no legal responsibility. I'd like to get back to the question. They take an oath. I'd like to get to the Constitution. I'd like to get back to, of course, that's the only oath the President takes, too. So he's not responsible. No, he's elected by the people. Well, I want to get back to this collaboration on bipartisan foreign policy and try and suggest that the administration has made mistakes. I mean, they made a mistake, say, in .4 in the way it was announced. But you, I think it's unrealistic to suggest that the administration should take into its family and consult with people who are opposed to its principles. That is, the principles of our foreign policy. A man who votes against the foreign aid bill must, I think, at least be considered as a potential enemy of the whole principle, of all the principles. Now, I want to make one more point. Both of you gentlemen are political scientists, and you know that the enunciation of a policy by the administration is not the passing of anything. You act as if, when the President makes a speech or when Marshall makes a speech at Harvard suggesting the Marshall Plan, that is double-crossing the Republicans. On the contrary, the Republicans participate in the formation of the Marshall Plan. They vote the money. The committees are consulted by the State Department and by the White House. And the whole constitutional process is carried out. The making of the speech doesn't mean a thing. It's just starting it off. Well, I think you, Flam, you brought out a very fundamental point, one with which I'm heartily in agreement because I so thoroughly disagree with you. And that is on the question here that whether the Republicans should subordinate their principles in order to aid with the bipartisan policy. I think in those points where the Republicans disagree with the bipartisan policy, with the Democratic administration, they not only have the right, but they have the duty openly to attack and to oppose it. Well, I agree. When they do disagree, they should oppose, and then you have no bipartisan policy, and then you don't blame the administration for not having it. You blame the Republicans who will not share in the principles on which our policy is. What I do blame very sincerely is that President Truman talks about any Republicans who disagree with him as being unpatriotic and sabotaging the bipartisan policy which he has laid down. Let us be quite open and clear that there should be a Republican foreign policy and a Democratic foreign policy. And as far as possible, insofar, that they both of them work for the security and safety of the United States. Then let us agree on those points of agreement and work for those. But can we agree that the Republicans should support foreign policy which is supported by Republicans? For example, you say that Truman lays down... By responsible Republicans. By responsible senators and members of Congress who vote these things through, who have to vote it through. The administration counts on Republican votes on every one of these foreign policy questions. And when they get the Republican votes, does that mean the Republicans are agreeing? It does not. It means that part of the party is out to sabotage and wreck the program if it can. The best example was this European aid bill last week, where at the last minute Senator Taft decides, because of the wording of a certain clause, that the whole bill must be held up. Now, it's pretty clear to me that he's not really in favor of that bill, although he says he is. I would rather resent the implication of unfairness to Senator Taft. I know him personally, and he is an honorable man. And I've never known of any underhanded thing done by Senator Taft. I think he always acts in good faith. But it seems to me you're striking right at the heart of Democratic government and proposing totalitarianism and fascism by the principles... Not socialism and communism. ...which you're indicating at the present time. We have a Democratic and Republican form of government. And the very basis of such a government is representation of all parties and all peoples and minorities as well as the majority. And it also means, of course, compromise. You've got to have, in government, compromise. And just because Senator Taft, who I think you misquote very badly, is not in favor as much economic aid to Europe as you are... Misquote, I was just citing his vote. I didn't quote him at all. Oh, he is in favor of economic aid to Europe. I cited his vote, not his words. He doesn't want as much as Harry Truman wants. He does want economic aid to Europe, but he wants to make it more moderate than the administration is willing to go at the present time. Now, I think it's well to have Mr. Taft in the picture. It means, of course, compromise. Try and keep him out. Well, I would like to get back to the essentials here, and that is what... The one point in which I do think we can agree, and that is the nation, our country, is more important than any party. I happen to be a Republican, but I feel the welfare of the United States is more important than either Democratic or Republican or any other government. But, on this point, I do feel that for a foreign policy, or our domestic policy, to be effective, firm, and positive, you must have a positive opposition as well as a statement of by the administration. I feel that here, in many cases, that our foreign policy, under the cloak of bipartisanship, has been weak and ineffective, and I think that the Republicans have the right and the duty to attack it. I think the administration, the State Department more especially, has been extremely weak and ineffective, has been full of waste and graft and corruption, and I feel it's the duty of the Republicans to attack it. I agree with all you said, McGovern, but I doubt very much, or I don't know, really, whether you would then support Senator McCarthy, and by supporting Senator McCarthy's attack on the State Department and Dean Acheson, also support Senator Taft, because this honorable senator from Ohio openly encouraged McCarthy, and told the press, after a meeting of the policy committee in the Senate, Republican committee, had refused to support McCarthy. Taft came out and said, if he doesn't hit somebody now, let him go on shooting, he'll hit somebody sooner or later. And that is not a misquote. The McCarthy episode has occurred, largely because of the venality, and the lack of good faith, and the corruption, in the Democratic regime at the present time. There is one truism in political science, and that is public office corrupts. That's why we should have a change in parties every four, six, or eight years. The Democratic Party has been in office for 16 years, and it's become very corrupt, it's become very hidebound, it's become quite autocratic. And when we know that there are subversive elements in the government which haven't been thrown out of the government, when we know the State Department is taking advice from pro-communists, it needs a man who is tough, and almost, you might say, mean, like Senator McCarthy, to draw the attention of the country to this great abuse by a party which has been too long in office. Well, this party that's been too long in office, and I won't argue the point, maybe they have been too long in office, and I am not saying they should continue in office indefinitely, any more than the Republican Party should have continued in office beyond Hoover's regime, which I think marked 12 years and was quite enough. But I would like to say that this dogmatic government you talk about, who is hiding communists in the State Department, went out and found a Republican who served as Attorney General under Herbert Hoover, a man by the name of Seth Richardson, and put him in charge of the whole loyalty campaign. Now, this is not the act of a dogmatic Democratic regime trying to cover up. This was the act of a regime saying, go ahead, if you can find something wrong, let's have some procedures and find it, but not go around shooting your face off and undermining the Secretary of State when he's abroad. Public opinion forced the President to set up the loyalty boards in 1947. Public opinion is quite wrong. I don't know exactly what forces Mr. Truman to do anything. We found the loyalty boards, and many people who have been passed by the loyalty boards have now been proved to be unworthy of public confidence. Don't forget that I won't bring up past scandals, I don't want to go into mudslinging, but many of the people that have been cleared by the loyalty boards, we now found two... Well, that's saying again that Mr. Seth Richardson, a Republican Attorney General in Hoover's administration, doesn't know his business. Now, that may be so, but it is not a Democratic fault, and it is not a fault of a dogmatic administration that refuses to clean house. Yes, it's a Democratic fault for appointing him. I think Seth Richardson is very incompetent in his position. Well, now, as I see it, Flom has been saying here, as he pointed out right at the open of the discussion, that if we're going to have a bipartisan foreign policy, you've got to have certain basic areas of agreement. Apparently, we had that on the... United Nations. United Nations. And we had it during the war. And we do not have it now. We're in another war now, but we don't have it now. The Republicans refuse to admit that we're in a war, that is, some of the Republicans do, and they refuse to admit that they have to go along with certain things because of the war. They did that during the war, but now they've stopped. Well, what I object to... McGovern here would hate to see them go along. I don't think he would. So long as that disagreement persists. Is that what you said? No, I said to a few that this is the time here to clean house. This is the time, I think, that we can definitely overthrow some of the stupidities of the Democratic administration. Who received a majority vote at the last election, don't forget. We want to stay within the Constitution. We want to, yes, exactly. Using the democratic process, we want to throw them out. That's exactly what I'm trying to do, that we can have a Republican policy, clear, efficient, and positive, that will throw out the Democratic administration. That's exactly what I'm... And McCarthy has that policy? Now, McBernie, a bipartisan policy, I think, implies both a common program and a procedure in adopting that program. That procedural element has been your emphasis throughout. That procedure must come first. Now, do you think that we can maintain the elements of a bipartisan foreign policy even in the presence of difference? I think we can, if the President will honestly and loyally and faithfully carry out the policies laid down by Cordell Hall, a reference to consulting the Republican leadership in Congress. As I pointed out, we have the bipartisan policy now really in only two areas. We need it in the other six great areas. We need it in the Far East, where we don't have it. We need it in the Near East and Africa, which may be subject to a revolution very soon. We need it in Latin American affairs. We need it in social and economic affairs. We need it in public information on the international scale. And also we need it, we reference the organization of the State Department itself. And finally, we really need it in military policy, too. Now, you've made that position very clear. Do you think we can achieve such bipartisanship? I don't see how we can... With the kind of differences that now exist. I don't see how it even could get started unless the people who are going to share in it from the Republican side are willing to accept certain basic ideas about the condition of the world and the security of this country. And what do you say? Personally, I feel that it would be very stupid for the Republicans to go blandly along the program laid down for the Democratic administration. I feel they should be perfectly free to attack both policy and the carrying out of policy. And I think that we've plowed in the last few years, and what we need is a firm Republican policy working along Democratic lines to improve the country. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Can we maintain a bipartisan foreign policy? You can secure a copy of today's discussion, which includes a list of books and articles you can use for further study of America's foreign policy. Just send 10 cents in coin for each copy to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. A four-month subscription costs just $1, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Kenneth Colgrove and William McGovern, political scientists on the Northwestern University faculty, and Irving Flom, foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand presents the first of two discussions about one of America's important social problems, the problem of divorce. Our subject, divorce and American tragedy. Our guests will be Julius H. Minor, judge of the circuit court of Cook County, Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, medical director of the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene, and Robert F. Winch, associate professor of sociology at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week when we discuss divorce and American tragedy. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Bill Oliver, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Welcome to the Hippo Port of History conference school and we can't read theowaćpe of government. Thank you. Thanks to the