The Northwestern University reviewing stand. Should children be spanked? Some punishment is inevitable in a child's life. Mild spanking is often the simplest and safest thing. Yes, under certain circumstances. Only if parents aren't smart enough to think of other more effective methods. I think a lot could be done through prevention. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the reviewing stand deals with a question asked by many parents in this nation. Should children be spanked? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the development of the child, his behavior patterns, and the use of discipline during his early years. Now, our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Are you puzzled about disciplining your child? If you are, you have plenty of company. Most parents worry about disciplining their children. Even though they don't like to resort to perpetual spankings and scoldings, they find that some type of discipline is necessary. This situation presents the parents with many complex problems. Here to discuss the most important of these problems are Robert J. Havighurst, professor of education and chairman of the Committee on Human Development from the University of Chicago. Dr. Helen Newman, practicing physician, mother of three school-aged children, and member of the Citizens School Committee of Chicago. Arthur A. Strike, superintendent of schools in Kenilworth, Illinois. And Viola Theiman, professor of education from Northwestern University. Havighurst, you said something about punishment being inevitable. That leads me to ask you this question. Why is it that children misbehave in the first place? Well, Boran, I see four general reasons why young children, or for that matter children of any age up to high school age, misbehave. One reason is that they don't know any better. A child may often do things which adults disapprove just because a child doesn't know that it's supposed to be wrong. The second is that a child may be simply finding out how far he can go. Every child is active enough to want to do as much as he can, and oftentimes he simply tries to find out the limits that the parents will set. The third thing is that the child may simply be angry and hostile, aggressive, and he may misbehave because of that. And the fourth, and this happens very, very seldom, fortunately, the child may unconsciously want to be punished and therefore misbehave. I'd like to add an underscore to what you've just said, I accursed, that misbehavior is not always, in fact seldom, is deliberate. One thing, too, I would add, and that is that some of the methods of control that we use may in turn even become causes. I'm thinking, for example, of the author of the book, My Son Ewald, who writes, Why is it that my child puts beans in his ears when the very thing I tell him not to do is to put beans in his ears? I think sometimes children are just tired and hungry, and that makes them misbehave. Would you say then, Dr. Newman, that children seldom deliberately misbehave? No, I think they do later on, but all these factors should be considered. I should like to amplify the first point that Havithurst made, a child doesn't know any better. We have to remember that children are living pretty much in a world with adult standards, and that these standards are quite often different than our standards which we expect of children, and that causes much of this confusion and the reason for the children's not knowing any better. Yes, after all, a child comes into this world, I think, very much like any other animal, and he simply has to learn the difference between right and wrong. People have to teach him. He has to learn. To a large extent, the process of growing up is a process of learning what is right and what is wrong. May I illustrate in terms of a young child who has no idea of what it means to break until he actually has broken something. To tell him not to do it, to touch something, to feel it, to see it, and to look at it will mean that he can't know why he shouldn't break it or touch it. We've been talking here about real causes and the fact that children seldom deliberately misbehave, but I still think that we're faced with the problem of misbehavior, and therefore we're faced with the problem of what can we do to control the child. How would you answer that question? A-Strike, what would you do to control the child? Well, I think controlling the child at least implies helping the child to move into patterns of behavior which are socially acceptable at all times, mainly by consistent precept and example by parents, both by word and by deed themselves. Maybe, but don't you think also that controlling a child very often simply means giving the child a little swat of some kind? In other words, it often is the simplest and most effective and most logical and I would say most desirable thing simply to give the child a light spanking. A swat or a spanking, is that what we're talking about at the present time? How would we define that, Themen? Well, I was thinking we ought to differentiate it between a walloping or something that involves more parental anger, more continuance, more spanks, more beating. Yes, I think in discussing the question of spanking a child, we should discriminate between just light corporal punishment and severe beating. I don't think any one of us is going to defend severe beating. I picked up a sentence out of the case history of a young man the other day who was seeing a psychiatrist and he was telling about his own parents' child-rearing practices. He said, they would hit us with anything they could grab, a knife, a poker, or a brick. My father would beat me till he got tired and then my mother would start up. I got it especially bad because I was the oldest and was supposed to be the best. Once they tied my hands and feet to the bed and beat me till I thought I was going to die. I stayed in the woods for two nights after that. Well, I say that kind of beating, obviously none of us is defending here. Well, I think there we've gotten right back to the first basic point that if a parent will literally beat a youngster like that, he himself is not under control properly and therefore is not in a position to properly control children. I think that is a fine distinction between spanking and beating. That is, your point is that the strike that the parent should always be so thoroughly in control of himself that he can control what he does to the child. I think I might argue against that slightly. I would say that sometimes a very quick slap while the parent is angry is something that the child can understand and can accept a good deal better than if the parent thinks about it a while then makes up his mind that the child needs to be punished. I think we might as well make up our minds. Parents are going to lose their tempers and mothers especially between 5 and 7 o'clock in the evening. I don't know how they can help it. But the point still remains, he can be slapped in anger but the anger can be a controlled anger rather than the type of thing which we feel when a youngster is actually beaten as your case history suggests with bricks, knives, pokers and what have you. Yes, I would say that the youngster is punished in anger. The anger ought to be a passing event and it ought to be followed very, very quickly by the child being picked up and hugged and kissed or something of that sort so as to prove to everybody that this was just something that the parent couldn't take for the time being. What are you going to do when you're faced with this situation? The parent wants to punish the child as quickly as possible after the act and yet the parent finds that he is angry at that time and doesn't want to do it because he's afraid that his anger would drive him to something that he shouldn't do. How can you resolve that difficulty having hurt? Well, I'm glad you made the point that the parent wants to or should punish the child as quickly as possible after the act. We do know that if punishment is going to be effective in teaching a child not to do something, it must come very close to the time the child commits the act. The younger the child, the closer. That is, a child cannot make a connection between doing something at one moment and being punished 30 minutes later for it. Consequently, it's very important, especially with younger children, that punishment come very close to the actual act. So I would say that the best thing is for the parent to have an enormous amount of love and affection for the child and keep showing that all the time. And then the parent can be excused and perhaps even be praised for punishing the child occasionally in spite of this love that he shows. We define spanking, I think, but A. Strach, you used the word control. What do you mean by control? Well, I think of control in this way, that it is helping the child by means of adult pressures of one kind or another to move into patterns of behavior which are socially acceptable at all times. And that can be done in many ways. And certainly, going back for a moment to the point of the spanking, even if an incident comes which should be punished as immediately as possible, if the parent does not have a consistent idea of what punishment should be, it would be much better, in my opinion, if he did stop and think as to the suitable type of punishment for a suitable type of act. Your phrase, adult pressures, makes me think that you are looking toward preventatives of some kind. Is that what you mean when you say adult pressures? That's right. Prevention in all areas is suggested by Dr. Newman. Dr. Newman, can you tell us something about the preventatives that might be used which will make spanking entirely unnecessary? I didn't say entirely unnecessary, at least I didn't mean to say, but I think that a lot of valuable time is lost at the earliest age at which the child begins to get about, when he begins to creep. Then the parent as well as the child can learn something through direct, simple, consistent acts done in an atmosphere of love. At this time, if the child reaches for a light bulb or the stove, a prompt reaction can come from the parent and yet the parent can signify love in the very next instant. But it's these matters of safety that I think are terribly important because accidents kill more children between the years of one and four than anything else. and 34% of the 5,000 children who were killed by accidents were from motor vehicles, 27% from burns by liquids which the children either pulled over themselves or fell into. So that there's another reason why, aside from the development of the child, that these early measures should not be neglected. Another simple preventative that too frequently skips our mind is the simple idea of having adequate sleep and food. And I'm thinking now, not just of the child, but for the parent. You mentioned, Dr. Newman, the necessity of having a mother have a specially difficult time between five and seven. The mother who has a little nap in the afternoon, if it's at all possible, does help herself in that way. Then too, there's the question of adequate outdoor play and exercise for the child, a variety of activities, space in the home, a place for his own things, his toys and clothes. All of these simple things are quite helpful as preventatives to situations that seemingly we think later on demand discipline spanking. Ms. Theiman, you mentioned ideal physical conditions and play and exercise. Are there any other types of immediate measures available here at A-Strike? Well, I'd suggest another one, and again, that brings me back to my point of consistency. Parents who, in terms of their control measures over children, who make threats which they cannot possibly carry out, are, in my opinion, inconsistent and will bring about behavior problems which are caused by the fact of the youngsters wanting to explore to see how far they can go. For instance, the parent says, well, I will never let you see another movie or I will never let you look at another television program. as a preventative or a control measure have made or implied threats, at least, that there's no possibility of carrying out and the youngsters know that. You're talking about threats now. What about reason? Can reason be used with the child? Reasoning, yes. I think that we can reason with a child depending, again, on the age of development of this child. We can do reasoning but only at the child's level of understanding. In other words, if reasoning is to be used, it must be thought of in terms of the child's experience and in terms of his vocabulary and vocabulary understanding. I think that point about vocabulary is excellent if we can be guided by what the child himself uses. And I think, too, that there's an age factor here but there's more important a developmental factor. Children of different ages have not all reached the same level of development. May I say a word about this matter of reasoning with children? I think we ought to put the word reasoning in quotes because so often when a parent or a teacher, for that matter, says, well, I reasoned with the child, the parent or the teacher means I preached to the child or I told the child what was right or wrong. That isn't, of course, reasoning at all. It seems to me that there is no point at all to simply telling a child what he did that was wrong if he already knows this. Reasoning seems to me to be a two-way process. And I would say let's never claim that we're reasoning with a child unless we're doing just as much listening as we are talking. And may I make another point in this connection going back to Estreich's suggestion that control is necessary. It seems to me that the goal of all child rearing should be self-control, that is, to bring the child up to the point where he controls himself. Obviously, we have to move, start with external control, that is, we have to ourselves control the child, but we have to work to help the child eventually learn to control himself. And I would say that all punishment should be judged in the end by its value in helping the child to learn to control himself. We've been talking about spanking and physical punishments of various types. We've been talking about reasoning and threats. I wonder about the use of the word no. Is that effective in disciplining the child, A-Strike? I would say it is effective only in the consistency with which we attach some definite meaning to the word no. Now, if no, which is quite often done, is used in place of another comment, then the youngster begins to accept it only as a comment rather than a preventative word which it basically is. A parent should certainly think twice before they say no or else they find they're not saying anything else but. Well, most of us, I'm afraid, no comes too readily to the lips and it's too short a word to enable us to think twice about it. So, it seems to me our real problem here is to find some means of putting about three exclamation points behind the word no occasionally. Do you have any method of doing that, Havik Hurst? You're the father of five healthy American children. What would you suggest? Well, that's an unfair advantage you're taking of me, Mr. Boran, but I know what some people do and I think this is a fairly useful procedure. Some people use a method of counting. They say when the situation is such that they feel that they must insist on the child's obeying, they say, I'll give you up to count six to do this and then they start counting slowly and if the child, you see, this is a dramatic situation and if the child knows that there will be severe punishment at the end of six if the child hasn't done this, then this kind of punishment is effective. The one thing, however, is that it should not occur very often. My own judgment is that this kind of controlling method is much better than physical punishment if it is used very seldom. And we would have to bring A-Strike's advice in here and make it a consistent policy. Is that right, Havie Hurst? Yes, of course. That is, the child must learn what to expect. The worst possible thing we can do in bringing up children is to punish them for something one day and then either reward them or at least ignore their doing the same thing at a later time. Doesn't that tie in with the goal of freedom in rearing children? That when limits are definite and parents are consistent, then the children have an area which they understand in which they can be free and develop as free individuals. And in all of this, it seems to me we're making a major assumption that everything that a parent requests is appropriate to the needs and abilities of a child. We've been discussing punishment here, I think, from the child's point of view. It might be well to turn at this point to the adult and discuss punishment or control from his point of view. Are there any situations in which discipline should not be used or should be used with extreme care? Ms. Theman. There's one situation that disturbs me a great deal. The kind of situation in which a youngster is singled out by his parents or another adult when he is in the presence of his playmates and is singled out and his behavior made fun of and ridiculed, thereby making a scapegoat of him as an individual. I think the feelings on the part of a child so disciplined, so punished, are too severe. I think as the family doctor, we go back to this matter of fatigue. I don't think that discipline should be carried out when a child is fatigued or when the parent is fatigued, and I'd also make a plea for not using the physiological functions of eating and sleeping and eliminating as methods of punishment. Dr. Newman, it seems to me, though, that most of the time that a person misbehaves or is punished is when the child is fatigued or the parent is fatigued, and I don't see any way to avoid the carrying out of punishment under these conditions if the punishment is to be closely related to the actual doing of the actual misbehavior. So it seems to me that our real problem here is to, both in ourselves as adults and in children, to develop enough self-control so that we resist these impulses when we're irritable and fatigued. I agree. I think you've scored a point there, but still, the child, as Miss Theiman has said, should be smarter, and the parent should be smarter than the child in these situations. I'm thinking, too, of the fact that so many of the problem situations arise precisely at the eating time and the bedtime, which complicates our problem even further. And there we have to recognize that something must be done. Let's take the eating problem for a moment, and let's take this youngster who seems to be having some sort of a, seems to be going through some sort of socially unacceptable behavior. Well, something has to be done, and there is where I again bring up this point of consistency. The answer, it seems to me, is, all right, if we are not going to eat and eat properly, we may be excused from the table. And I'm convinced that many parents would do well to excuse the child from the table when there are inconsistent patterns of behavior, because I doubt very much whether children will suffer from the loss of one or two meals. Well, that's a social situation involved with the eating. I was thinking more of using the threat of dessert or taking away some favorite food or emphasizing bedtime, whereas if children are let alone, as far as possible, I don't mean that you can get away from it entirely, they will sleep and eat pretty well. All right, so I think I go along with you, Dr. Newman, on that. It seems to me that if there is difficulty with a child at mealtime and at bedtime, this difficulty is probably a symptom. It's a symptom of faulty discipline, faulty control somewhere else, and I would be inclined to treat, to try to look for the causes of this difficulty somewhere else than actually at the table or at the bedtime hour. How should this responsibility of disciplining the children be divided between the parents? A-Strike? Well, I don't think that there's any one answer for that particular question. I'd like to suggest again the key word, and I seem to be repeating myself a good bit, of consistency. In other words, let's put it around this way, that the basic problem of the parents and the punishment which they deal out to children is one in which there is agreement between parents so that neither is maneuvered into the position of being a referee for the child and the other parent. May I say something about that too, Estrike? In our kind of society, it's almost inevitable that the mother will take more responsibility for disciplining the child, children, especially when they're young. I don't see any way out of that. On the other hand, it seems to me that the fathers could do more than they generally do, even during the short times that they are at home. That is, the fathers could take somewhat more responsibility for, let's say, putting the child to bed or something of that sort. And then I would follow this by saying, because you suggested that it was a bad thing to have one parent side with the child against the other parent or to be a referee in an argument. It seems to me that the time comes, but a little after the age at which we're talking about here, but the time comes, say at 16, 17, or 18, when it's very desirable for the child to be admitted part of the time as an adult into discussions, a three-way discussion, and it may well be that one parent will be in the minority and the other parent and the child will be in the majority against the parent. There are two things that occur to me there in the first place where both parents are a part of the situation and can assume equal proportions of responsibility, which is probably not too frequent. There are possibilities there for departments of responsibility so that once the youngster does not necessarily bat the father's opinion against the mother's when the child is young or the reverse, it seems to me that we need to consider the possibility of having father's safe, food, and sleep, or mother's department. Ask mother if she knows best for this. It seems to me that you experts here in the field of child development have offered some significant suggestions in this matter of disciplining the child. In the last few moments of our discussion, I should like to have you make probably the final observation that you think should be made in a radio broadcast of this kind. Having Hurst, what idea would you leave with our perplexed parent, the parent who has trouble with the disciplined child? Well, controlling a child really takes the measure of a person. it is an art to rear children adequately and satisfactorily, and like other arts, each person who does it well does it in his own way. In the art of rearing children, there will surely be some punishment. But love should be so mixed with punishment that the child is never uncertain about his being loved. In general, then, punishment should be reduced and reward increased in the rearing of our children. Dr. Newman? Since people live longer today than they used to, we can expect to be parents longer. We have a chance to do a better job. It is to be hoped that when parents read books about raising children or listen to radio discussions, they will not be discouraged by what they may feel have been shortcomings, but will push ahead with the new courage and perhaps new ideas toward the future. Ms. Thaman? There are many approaches to the modification of behavior in children. Some infinitely better than spanking, some infinitely worse, such as the threat of loss of love. It's a smart parent who knows his child well enough, first, to avoid potential difficulties, second, to be able to manipulate situations, third, the parent who is able to select the appropriate way for disciplining the child at a particular time with an eye to the long-range effects as well as the immediate one, and the parent who assures his child of his love, even though he disapproves of the child's behavior. A. Stry? I think the key lies within this business of consistency of behavior, not only by the children, but by the parents, and if the parents set consistent examples, and if the punishment that they meet out are consistent with the misdeeds, then I agree, tempered with love, as suggested by Dr. Havoghurst, we have a much less difficult problem of control in the first place. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Should Children Be Spanked? If you are one of the anxious parents who has tried to find an answer to this question, you'll want to secure a copy of today's broadcast. Just send 10 cents in coin to the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Your copy with a list of books and articles on the subject of child discipline will be mailed directly to you. Better yet, why not start your subscription to the Reviewing Stand with a copy of today's broadcast? A subscription costs just $1 for the next four months, 16 issues, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Robert J. Havighurst, Professor of Education and Chairman of the Committee on Human Development from the University of Chicago, Dr. Helen Newman, member of the Citizens School Committee of Chicago, Arthur H. Aestreich, Superintendent of Schools in Kenilworth, Illinois, and Viola Theiman, Associate Professor of Education from Northwestern University. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand presents its second in a series of programs dealing with children when we discuss the question, Are We Neglecting the Exceptional Child? Our guests will be Mary E. Courtney, Assistant Superintendent in Charge of Special Education in the Chicago Public Schools. Arthur S. Hill, President of the International Council for Exceptional Children. Jane Schober, Director of the Cerebral Palsy Division of the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults, and Harold Westlake, Director of the Speech and Hearing Clinic at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Are We Neglecting the Exceptional Child? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. So, the National Family is Abraham realizing the Imoji and I cum as a public service as a public service as a public service as a public service.
