Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, do we face a teacher shortage? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the crisis in education caused by the enormous increase in our school population. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Arthur G. Adams, Assistant State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Illinois. Mr. Paul G. Edwards, Vice Chairman of the Board of Examiners of the Chicago Public Schools. Mrs. T. H. Ludlow, President of the Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers. And E.T. McSwain, Dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University. Now, Adams, do we face a teacher shortage? The teacher shortage in the United States has developed rapidly since the Korean conflict. It looked as if we were going to be fairly well-stamped with competent teachers until industry, business, and the war effort started employing the teachers. At the same time, began drafting future teachers. Not only are the male prospects for teaching being taken into the many branches of service, but many of the young women who no doubt would have entered college to train for teaching are entering the service and industry. Today, we face the greatest teacher shortage ever known. Well, we as parents, of course, realize there's a teacher shortage because of the large classes. Our children seem to be all in overcrowded classes and we have so many substitutes. Well, now, Mr. Adams said that we face the greatest teacher shortage this country has ever known. Would you spell that out a bit, Edwards? How serious is it in our great city of Chicago? Well, in Chicago, five years ago, we had a backlog of approximately 2,500 teachers waiting assignment. Today, that backlog has disappeared entirely and we are employing a little over 2,000 substitute teachers, which do not hold regular certificates, in order that the children of Chicago may have a teacher every day. That means that in Chicago, there are approximately 70,000 children being taught by substitute teachers. To understand, Mike, the national picture, it's necessary to recognize the school population. Last year, we had 27 million boys and girls in our public elementary and secondary schools and 4 million in the parochial schools. By 1960, we'll have 40 million boys and girls in our elementary and secondary schools. Looking at it another way, in 1957, we'll have 7.5 million more boys and girls in the elementary schools in this country than we had in 1947. That means that we'll need each year for the next 10 years approximately 100,000 new teachers if we're going to provide the instruction needed in the classroom. Well, now, have you faced that in your work in the state of Illinois? I assume you have. Yes, that's very true. And we can see the demand is going to exceed the supply, both in the elementary and the high school. The greatest shortage, however, in Illinois has been in the elementary field. However... And by that you mean the grammar school, the grade schools. That's right. That's right. And we do have, though, about five fields in the high school where we have a shortage. Music, art, girls' physical education, home economics, and library. Well, now, is this, is the situation that you describe pretty even nationally, McSwain? Yes, I think you, we can say that nationwide, it applies to nearly all communities. Of course, in some communities, due to the shift in our population, it may be more acute than in others. Of course, our parents down in the rural areas are the ones who keep complaining to us about the lack of teachers. They seem to think the rural areas are the ones where the shortage is greatest. Well, the shortage is greatest in the rural areas or in areas where the standard of teacher preparation seems to be the lowest. And where the standard of teacher preparation is the lowest, the salaries are more inadequate. And teachers migrate from those areas into areas where the salaries are more satisfactory. You'd expect, then, the most serious problem in some of the lower population areas, is that correct? Well, I would expect that to be true on a national basis, but, of course, there comes a time when you have to meet the shortage in the elementary schools, even in a larger city with certain practical expedients, because you have to keep the public schools open. Yes, but those expedients are what worry us, because it means you have teachers teaching who are not really top teachers. They're not really qualified teachers, and people aren't always aware of that. So, in some ways, it's almost more dangerous than having a vacancy once in a while, let people know it. I'd like to follow that, Mrs. Ludlow, with the thought that we, even though we have this crucial shortage at the present, we have for years had a shortage of highly qualified teachers in the elementary school and in the high school. It's been more acute in the elementary school than in the high school. I want to bring out, also, that this is not a temporary shortage. As far ahead as we can see for at least the next 15 years, we are going to be faced with this same problem in increasing proportions, and there's something very definite that is done to take steps to recruit more people for the teaching profession. Well, one way I hope we won't move, and that is to reduce the standards or the requirements for teaching by issuing large numbers of temporary emergency certificates. Sometimes I hear some people say, well, I'll go back to the classroom because of this teacher shortage. If they are competent, then let's employ them. If they are not competent, let's protect boys and girls. You're saying exactly the way we feel, Dr. McSwain. Teachers are too important to the welfare of children to have poor teachers. They just can't do that. Well, Dr. McBurney, whenever we issue a certificate, which is a substitute certificate, we also enroll that teacher in an in-service training program. And she must work in that in-service training program toward meeting requirements for permanent certification. So that you have to build not only for the present, but for the future if you're going to solve this problem. Well, now you say this is not a temporary post-war problem we face, that it's something that we are going to have to look ahead to. Something much bigger. Well, I think... Why is that? Are we producing more children, or is it just the overall increase in population? What's the explanation? Well, in fact, if we will take the reports of our population trend, our population is increasing at the rate of three million each year. And all of these are potential clients for the school. And we are told by many reports that for a number of years to come, we can expect an increase of approximately a million each year in the school. Yes, and I think too, these war conditions have made young people so uncertain that they're apparently marrying very much younger, and so are beginning families very much sooner, and there's a span there of more children than we expect. Now many of these young people, 20 years old, already have a child or two, and we didn't used to have that situation. Well, now, is there any possibility, Adams, that we're trying to maintain too high standards for teacher certification, as a result keeping people out of the business who might make reasonably effective teachers? No, I don't think that our standards are too high. I don't think that the standards for teachers can ever be too high. And I believe that we have been negligent in getting young people to enter the field of teaching. I think a lot of our teachers, a lot of our high school principals and superintendents and leaders, have not given the amount of time that they should have in guidance to getting the young men and young women of ability to enter the teaching field. I think the strength of this country rests with the people who are educated. I think that one of the reasons that we have been able to meet the situation in the last three wars is because of our educated populace. They've been willing to follow. They've been capable followers. And I don't think that our standards can be too high. And I think we should work day and night to get a hold of as many good teachers as we can to staff the schools of this nation. But don't you don't you face a pretty difficult problem here? Now, I have a young son who conceivably might make a teacher. I think he's capable of it. But can I in good conscience encourage that boy to go into teaching with the kind of salary situation that he would face as a teacher? Especially when you consider the what it's going to cost me or somebody to get him prepared to teach, to get one of these certificates. Well, the average salary for the teachers in this country last year was $3,360. The average salary of all employed people was $3,390. The average salary of those in the profession of dentistry and law and medicine was $9,120. The economic factor is important. I think there's another reason. Many young people do not, are not motivated by what I would call the public mind, the thinking of adults in the community, as to the importance of teaching and urging them to look upon it as a profession. I think we have to dignify the profession of teaching just as we have dignified the profession of law and medicine and other similar professions such as engineering. And until it is so dignified by the community and until we are able to maintain high teachers' standards, the public will not respond by supporting them with adequate salaries. But if we do dignify the profession and do have a high standard for our teachers, the public will respond and be willing to pay those salaries. That's been our experience in Chicago. I think that's true, but I do think we have to be realistic about it. And this salary business is really something that's really fundamental, I think. Now, it isn't the beginning salary that bothers, I think, so much, but it's the future. Now, if you have a lid on salaries, a man can't, a man especially, can't, knows he'll never get any more than $4,500, which is about what your elementary teachers can go to, what's the use of going into something that's a dead-end street? So it seems to me that what we have to watch out for is to make it worthwhile to keep them in. So let's have the terminal salary, especially, made very high so they'll stay in. Well, I think if we did that, Mrs. Ludlow, we would, may attract more competent young men to prepare for teaching in the elementary school as well as in the secondary school. And it's very important for us to have more men in the elementary school. Only about 10% of all the teachers in the elementary school are men. Now, that's not in any way reflecting on the palker-tudent intelligence of women, but our elementary school is an abnormal sociological environment for these boys. That's right. We need both. Of course, you are. You people are talking about a profession here that requires a lot of specialized preparation. You talk about people finishing high school, spending four years in college, and in a good many situations now they're requiring a master's degree or its equivalent, which means another year in college. Now, that's a lot of money to invest in a job that's going to net you in the low $3,000. It just doesn't make sense. Is there any way that you can help these people, Adams, get an education? Is that a factor of any consequence? Well, there are quite a few scholarships available, but to my way of thinking, I don't think there is nearly enough. And there are a lot of good boys and girls who would make good teachers that don't have the money to attend college today. The cost of a college education is perhaps two to two and a half times as much as it was in 1940. And with the amount of taxes that the average family pays today that the type of people that send their boys and girls away to become teachers, they just don't have that kind of money to put these boys and girls in school. Mike, I think it's necessary for us to, along with what Adams has said, to keep this in mind. It was called to my attention by teaching Chicago yesterday that for many decades teaching was about the only occupational field that women could enter. Now, in recent decades, many other occupational fields and professions have opened up that are more attractive in terms of salary and in terms of working conditions. And many of the young women who, here to fall, by necessity almost, had to go into teaching are now selecting other occupational fields. I do think the cost of education does enter into it, though. We have, and the PTA has, Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers has quite an extensive scholarship program where we offer scholarships. And we find that they're all taken and yet some of them are dropped because even our scholarship is not adequate and they have to get out of school. Well, money is a factor, and salary is a big factor in this thing. I should hate to have the impression left here that it is the only factor that decides whether a person shall enter the teaching profession or not. There are a great many satisfactions that come to people in the teaching profession. There are opportunities for teachers to grow in the profession, and teaching for many people is a very satisfactory and fine professional type of employment. Well, I grant you that, Edwards. At the same time, I think it's necessary for us to be realistic if we want to attract more young men and women of mental promise to enter the teaching profession. The size of the class today is a crucial problem. In many of our classrooms, teachers have to work with 35 or 40 or 45 children. That's not an easy load. Teaching has become much more difficult. Then the demands that the public makes upon teachers in many communities and the fact that they cannot follow the same kind of citizenship activities that are granted, accepted by many people. I'm not saying that teachers should be, should not be expected to meet high standards of citizenship. But I'm saying that a teacher in her private life should be allowed the privileges that any other citizen in the community wants for himself. In other words, we don't want to penalize a person because they happen to want to be a good teacher. And that's what we're doing in a way. The people who really want to stay in and are good teachers, we're making things so difficult for them. Well, I would agree that poor facilities for housing pupils and teachers are one of the factors that has deterred people from entering the teaching profession. And certainly the overcrowded classroom is a very great factor. We have classes of 48 pupils per teacher, which is just out of reason in Chicago. But as to pry into the personal lives of teachers and lack of social status, I feel that that has been overcome in large city communities. And that's one of the reasons that teachers are drifting into the larger communities away from the smaller communities. Well, let's take a minute out here, if we may, to see where we are in this discussion. We're perfectly agreed that we face a serious teacher shortage. And we've been discussing a number of the factors that very apparently contribute to that. Now, I understand Mr. Edwards has entered the objection here that we mustn't overemphasize the importance of salaries and the monetary factor that's involved. And I grant that. I think he has a good point. But it is an argument, nevertheless. Now, we're, if we're as short of teachers as you people say we are, I suggest, too, that we must be short then of classroom facilities. If you're going to hire as many teachers as this shortage would seem to indicate we need, you're going to have to add to the physical plant considerably. Now, all that adds up to an awful lot of money. Are we prepared as a nation to face the kind of bill that you people are discussing here? Michael, this nation is the wealthiest nation of all nations. We can afford to pay what we think to be important for our national survival. We're spending approximately $65 billion now for military preparation, which is expedient. Last year, we spent $5 billion in providing leadership for the boys and girls, our future citizens. And I don't think it's a matter of cost if we want it. We can afford it today. And I think it's a matter of helping the layman by studying his school and studying the problem of education in this country to see what it means if we don't afford the cost that's necessary to provide these teachers. If you're going to spend more on the superficial things of life than you are on the very foundation of American democracy, it's only going to be one generation before you no longer have democracy. In other words, we can't afford not to. But do, do the people really want education in the terms that you people are talking about it here today? As you see them vote down bond issues, I had a recent experience with that. In a high school, it's desperately crowded. There's no question about it. And the bond issue was voted down flat in spite of everything we could do. But they didn't understand. I don't think they understood what they were doing when they voted down that bond issue. Chicago just passed a $50 million bond issue for building school buildings. But incidentally, because of the high cost of construction, that isn't going to be adequate. Well, I feel this way about the buildings. If we had all of the buildings that we needed, at the present time, we'd need thousands and thousands more teachers. Now, I know a school last year that would like to have employed about 38 teachers. And they had the money to employ those teachers. But they only employed 18 because they didn't have the school buildings. Well, here was about 600 students in this particular town that were distributed in other classrooms, which made those classrooms overcrowded. And as Dr. McSwain said, those teachers don't feel that they can do a good job. So then they want to walk out and quit because they're overcrowded. We need the buildings and we need the teachers and we need the support from the laymen. And I think that's what we're going to have to do is to carry this problem to the people and let them know of this teacher shortage and this building shortage. The fact that we're going to, we can reasonably expect one million more children each year in our schools for the next ten years, it means it's going to cost more to support our schools. Now the question is, are we in this country understanding what, from my point of view, the Politburo in Russia is doing in education? They look upon education as a weapon. They are doing everything they can to control the mind of the youth in order that their program may survive. And to me in this country, education is no longer a personal matter. It's now become a national concern. It undergirds our national survival. And I don't think there's anything more important facing the citizens of this country than every effort be made to improve the quality of teaching in the classrooms for our young citizens. Well now, how are we going to lick this problem? What recommendations do you have? Well, I would like to dwell for one more moment on what McSwain has just said. We have to get understanding between the public and the need of education. And the best public relations between the school and the community evolve from the enthusiasm of the children. And you only get an enthusiastic child, a child enthusiastic about a school, when you get an efficient, enthusiastic, well-prepared teacher. And if you break down the standard of teacher preparation and put this thing on an emergency basis and lower the standard of the whole thing through that method, then you're not going to get support of the public schools. That's the beginning of the end. That's the beginning of the end. Well, one suggestion I would give that instead of so many people criticizing their schools and their teachers, that we join together as individuals and groups and study the problem of public education in this country and determine what needs to be done in order to make our schools strong. Yes, I think so too. I think some of this criticism, in fact, is another way of undermining democracy, some of this unwarranted criticism. And I think that we as PTA groups and other civic groups, it's our job to go out and convince the public or to prove to the public that the welfare of democracy and the welfare of the public schools are so closely linked that when one goes, the other goes. And then if we are convinced of that, we'll know that we have to, that the best thing about a school, as Mr. Edwards has said, is the teacher. That's the important thing. And therefore, they will really want competent teachers and pay for them, will want to pay for them. May I say a word about this criticism of the public schools? Yes, you would. I don't object to criticism as such, and I don't think you do. I'm sure I do. But where this, where you are getting an attempt to undermine the schools under the guise of criticism, I object to that very strongly. That's what I had written. And I think we're getting some of that today. People who profess to be friends of the public schools who are far from friends of the public schools. Adams? Well, I think there's a ray of sunshine in this whole picture. I like to think of one of the lay organizations in the state of Illinois that has certainly given a lot of service and spent a lot of time and effort and money on teacher recruitment. And I'm thinking of the Illinois State Chamber of Commerce and the fine work that they have done. And I believe that if all of the other lay organizations had a complete understanding and were circularized and told of the shortage of teachers and the shortage of school buildings, that our problem would soon mold itself into one that we could solve. I really feel that they've done a great service for the schools. Do you share that enthusiasm, Ms. Ludlow? I think you do. That's true as far as it goes. But I think we're going to have to do more than talk about it. I think we have to see to it that these things are done in the way of raising salaries, especially the terminal salaries. I just really feel that's so important that there's a future to teaching and that their conditions are made so that they have at least a satisfaction of accomplishing the job they want to do and having decent class loads and so forth. Well, I agree entirely with what you said, Mrs. Ludlow, but I don't think that people who are interested in the public schools in general realize the size of this problem. I think we have been thinking about it in terms probably of a little local problem and it doesn't give us the conception of what it amounts to on a national basis. And the size of the problem requires me to try to guess as best I can what will be the requirements and duties for citizenship in 1975. We're moving in a more and more complex world and it's important that these boys and girls have every chance to develop the mental and moral power that successful citizenship, national and internationally, is going to require in the years ahead of us. And I come back to the point that if more citizens and civic groups were to study the problem of teacher education and public education in this country and get the facts, that the facts themselves will motivate them to try to do something about it. But don't you confront certain American communities with a very serious problem indeed, where you are relying on a relatively small taxing unit to support the schools. And it's going to place quite a drain on them if they go through the kind of program that you people are talking about. Well that means a broader tax base for public education. That means more state support. You can't put it all on real estate. It has to be based on more than such a narrow tax base as it's on today. In other words, you would derive more of the support of the schools from the Illinois, from the state of Illinois, in California, from the state of California. What do you think about that, Adams? Well, I think that the local states are by and large going to have to meet their own problems. And on this teacher shortage, I think that all of the organizations are going to have to get to become cognizant of the situation. And they're going to have to be willing to pay the price. It's all right to talk about salaries, but we have to get the general public in a mood and in the mind to want to pay this salary. And I think it's a great problem of public relations, and I think that we must all work toward that end. In other words, it's everybody's business, isn't it? And to see that public education in this country is important to our national survival as our military program. And in saying that, I respect everything that is being done by those who are in the military program, yet teach schools today constitute a vital part of our defense program. But the question is, are you going to get this public educated in the way that you hope to? I'm not as sanguine about it as you are. That is, it seems to me that we face a wave of criticism of the public schools at a time when we face a great emergency. The American people have always believed in public education, but now we are going to have to support that belief in action. And it means we've got to get out and study the facts and study our schools and do what we can to encourage more of our young people to look upon it as a profession in which they want to invest their preparation and the lives of the years that they have ahead of. I'm sorry, Mrs. Ludlow and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Do We Face a Teacher Shortage? We want to thank our guests for today. Arthur Adams, Assistant Superintendent of Public Instruction for the State of Illinois. Paul Edwards, Vice Chairman of the Board of Examiners for the Chicago Public Schools. Mrs. T.H. Ludlow, President of the Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers. And D.T. McSwain, Dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may wish to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks. $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. We all know that great social unrest exists in many parts of the world. Communism is competing with democracy to win men's minds. How far can we go in encouraging democracy abroad without meddling in the affairs of other people? And how can we protect these people and ourselves against the threat of communism? I suspect it's the greatest issue the American people face. And it's that issue that we shall explore next week on the Northwestern University reviewing stand. When we ask the question, how should we encourage democracy abroad? Our guests will be Leland Carlson, Professor of History. Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political Science. Both members of the faculty at Northwestern University. Hans Morgenthau, Director of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy at the University of Chicago. And Louise Leonard Wright, Director of the Midwest Office of the Institute of International Education. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of the Mutual Network. John Vai, Professor oficoела, CPR, mommy's business and September. Korean새 finalmenteeri. Excellent. The Northwestern University is arittemed writer Watson by forơi in Spanish and Vietnamese. From haulers, in Arabicram,ën, worldwide offers 100 per cart