Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a discussion program in the 18th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, what should we do for the superior child? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the characteristics of superior children, their social potentialities, and ways of handling them. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Woodward L. Crawford, Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Illinois, and Chairman of the Committee on Maternal and Child Care of the American Medical Association. Dr. Henry R. Veetz, Lecturer in Neurology at Harvard Medical School, and Chairman of the Council on Scientific Assembly of the American Medical Association. And Dr. Paul Witte, Professor of Education at Northwestern University, Director of the Psycho-Educational Clinic, and author of the new book, The Gifted Child. I should say that Dr. Crawford and Dr. Veetz are attending the 101st meeting of the American Medical Association here in Chicago. Some 25,000 doctors and others will attend these meetings. Now, Witte, tell us, who is the superior child we're talking about today? Mr. McBurney, I think we might first refer to the superior child in terms that L. M. Terman and other investigators have. They have been concerned about gifted children whom they have studied for 25 years or more. And these are children whose intelligence quotients are 130 and above. These youngsters have been studied and their whole history outlined throughout a period of 25 years. They are outstanding in abstract intelligence, but there are other kinds of gifted children. Children whose performance is consistently remarkable in worthwhile types of endeavor, such as music and art and political or social leadership. These, too, are gifted children. Dr. Veetz? Of course, the essence of a gifted child may reflect itself in the intelligence quotient, but after all, that's not the only yardstick that we can use to measure children. Just an understanding of a child who has a quick understanding of himself, has curiosity, has a large vocabulary. Those three things are indeed very important in picking out gifted children, and they may not always show up in relation to the intelligence quotient. How about physical superiority, mental stability, emotional balance, Dr. Crawford? The gifted child, by and large, will be a little better from the standpoint of physique than the average child. He will be a little more stable mentally. He will adapt himself to the unusual situation. He has a broad attention span. He can size up abstract situations and other problems of that type. He can have a clear insight into problems. He is not an emotional worrywart, as many people think, or a mental freak. Well, now, is he all these things by definition, or do these attributes correlate? There are studies of gifted children that have been made over the past 25 years. At Northwestern University, we have studied 300 children whose intelligence quotients were 140 and above, and have followed their progress. They're above the average, or the control group, that is, children of intelligence quotients 90 to 110. They're above them in their physical development. On character tests, eight character tests we gave them, they were superior. In social development, in educational attainment, however, as well as in mental ability, they deviate most sharply, so that by the time the gifted child gets in the upper elementary grades, he usually has knowledges of children two or three years above him in his same class. But he is generally superior in his development. Well, are you saying then that a child with a high intelligent quotient, a high IQ, adapted to learning from books, maybe that's one way of putting it, I wouldn't know. But are you saying that such a child is likely to be physically superior, emotionally more stable? Is that what you're saying, Whitty? In fact, he is. In the practice, the studies show that the child whose IQ is very high is not a physical weakling, is not the type of person who is in the stereotype of the gifted, a misfit, a social misfit. On the whole, he is better than children of his own age. But he is not developed in such a way that there's a psychophysical parallelism. Therefore, if he's accelerated so that his mental ability in school is the same as his classmates, he is likely to be a social misfit. Because although he is better than his classmates in social development, he is not so well developed in that respect as our children several years older than he. We must be realistic enough to realize that youth is really the time of the adventures of the body, not the adventures of the mind. And if we think in that term, which it seems to me to be a very important term to think of, we may find the gifted child out in the playing in the sandlot at the baseball field, or the girl in the basketball game. After all, alertness and quickness and curiosity and a great many things that we add up into the score of gifted children may demonstrate themselves in games quite as well as they do in reading books or in vocabulary. After all, these gifted children, the superior child, the child with what we call the high IQ, these are really tests of educability. It does not mean that the child is naturally advanced, but he has the capacity to advance if he is given the opportunity to do so. And that should be our goal, to permit them to develop their full capacity. One comment I would like to make there that is true, Dr. Crawford. I believe we ought to consider then these youngsters of high abstract intelligence. The 1% have been studied extensively. But we ought to expand that number to include 5 or 10%. Perhaps the 10% in the modern high school, in a high school like the Science High School in New York City, where there is an enriched curriculum. The upper 10% are considered. Youngsters whose IQs are 120 and above. We ought then to expand our concept to include a larger number, but also youngsters whose performance is consistently remarkable in art and music and other forms. And these children too are neglected. A comment about play. The studies too, Dr. Veetz, do show that the gifted child, for example in our own studies, our gifted child played exactly the same number of games as did the child in the control group. But he spent much larger amounts of time in reading and other sedentary activities. He was not, however, a social misfit. Is this conception that you're developing here of the gifted child relative to our peculiar culture and civilization, do you think that superiority would be defined the same way in a different civilization, in a primitive culture, for example, would he? Of course it would. And in books like Benedict's Patterns of Culture, we see the things that are revered in other types of culture. We have for years, some of us in the field of psychology, been searching for tests that will be culture-free. There is an effort in Chicago to develop that kind of test at the present time. But in the meantime, I think we ought to be aware of the fact that our tests are sufficiently accurate to enable us to identify much larger numbers of gifted children than we are at the present time. Of course, even in primitive times, I suppose that quick understanding and curiosity were two of the things that made a man stand out from his fellow men. And those are still as valid today as they were in ancient times. They were always of great value, such things as quickness of perception and rapidity of response, particularly in certain kinds of primitive societies. But I suppose the verbal quality is much more important today in all our life, and it is in the verbal quality that these children excel. For example, one little boy of ten said to me, flaunt means to show our display with intent to show. And then when I asked him what Mars meant, he said... What meant? Mars, M-E-R-S. Mars. He said, God of War, a planet, also a verb. You know, he had some difficulty in adjustment for a time, because he was irritated a bit by the perfunctory nature of his assignments. But we found opportunities for him in clubs and play groups and workshops, so that he's a pretty happy little boy at the present time. How successful, Dr. Crawford, are we today in identifying these gifted children? Well, we are doing a better job than we did, but when Terman started out to identify these gifted children, how did he go about it? What were the sources from which he eventually made his test? They largely simmered down to two, the teachers and the parents. And I believe that among a group of some 6,000 or more children that were recommended as exceptional children, the teachers recommended these children as being gifted. And there were only about 15% when they did the psychological test that got into that. But parents can usually spot the gifted children, especially if they have other children. A few times they cannot, because they have no pattern or guide with which to compare them. We ought to help them to develop guides, shouldn't we, Dr. Crawford? Dr. Crawford. But we should recognize, McBurney, that at the present time, we are failing to identify very, very large numbers of gifted children. This is true in the elementary school. It's true in the secondary school. And moreover, we are failing to give them the kinds of guidance that would be most profitable for the full development of their abilities. And this is shown in studies such as one of Dr. Wren, where 1939 high school graduates in one state were followed for nine years. Those of IQs 117 and above were studied. Only about 45% of this group finished college. When the group was divided into those of IQs 125 and above and others, it was found that children, or young people of IQs 125 and above, went on to take advanced degrees during a nine-year period in only 4% of the cases. That is, degrees beyond the baccalaureate, the master and the PhD. This suggests that we are failing to identify and give guidance, proper guidance, throughout secondary schools and college to many able people who would make contributions in science and various other fields. In other words, to put it very plainly, we are missing the boat when it comes to utilizing our greatest resources. We speak of our children as our greatest resource in this country. And these gifted children are obviously the greatest potential for leadership in another generation ahead of us. And how badly we need them, really. If we're taking leadership in the world today, in this country, as we seem to be asked to do, we'll need all of your 10% instead of the 1% that we used to think of as gifted children, and perhaps we'll even need more than that. And we ought to do everything we can to develop this 10% or more so that they have their place in leaders in business and in professions and in every other aspect, in diplomatic work and so forth. We need leaders, of course, of all types. And this is our great source of leadership. We do indeed, and I believe that one reason we have such a lamentable lack of leadership, such a regrettable state in the world today, one reason is that we have failed to utilize fully in the past the great potential that exists, the great resource in these gifted children for leadership of many kinds, and for the kind of endeavor that will lead to better human relationships, better understanding of the world, and all the other things that we recognize as so greatly needed today. Don't you think, for that very reason, that we should do as Dr. Vietz has said in talking about the superior child, not limited strictly to the one or two per million that have an IQ of 180 or above, or the 140 or above, which is a bigger group, but have a broad base, the 10% from which group we will have more leaders emerge, whether it is in education or in engineering or arts or music, as you have suggested, Dr. Whittig. Most certainly, Dr. Crawford. And we should encourage teachers in every classroom throughout America to identify these many gifted children and do something for them. We should recognize the fact that half of our most gifted children are probably in relatively small cities or towns and rural districts. But every teacher could do something in making books available and opportunities for reading and investigation. Every teacher can make an important contribution, just as every parent, too, can and should make his contribution in the recognition, the stimulation, the guidance, and the encouragement for this group. Do you think there's any danger, Dr. Vietz, in recognizing and identifying these so-called superior children? Oh, I should think very little if we have the proper teachers and the proper people to pick them out. After all, you can make a very selfish child if you don't have good encouragement and guidance, but that is just exactly what we're looking forward to having in this country, good encouragement and guidance. And they certainly will not go into developing selfish children if they have the proper ideals. But if these youngsters are as good as you men appear to think they are, why don't they emerge without a lot of help from their and guidance from the adults? In our culture, there are many obstacles at the present time to the emergence of ability. I think we do not agree anymore with Galton to the effect that ability or genius will out, that it is no more likely to be overlooked than as a bird's nest on the playground where a lot of healthy boys are to be found. We find that large classes, for example, concentration of populations, many other factors, make it very difficult for boys and girls to express and realize their abilities. One of the most important things, I think, holding back progress in this respect is the size of class, where many teachers do not have an opportunity to do what they should do for very bright children. But every teacher can do something if he makes up his mind to do it. I believe that very much, Dr. Whitty. I think that a teacher can be alert and let these children develop their capacity. She can encourage them to have initiative, to have originality, to have constructive endeavor. The teacher will not let the child do his lessons and then spend the rest of the other half of an hour in doing monitor work in the schoolroom, in cleaning up the blackboards or things like that, or doing errands. She will let him spend that other half hour in a broadening, not doing more of the same problems, but in a broadening original investigative work of his own, largely through reading. Let me ask you this question, Dr. Crawford. Why are these children superior? Are they superior by virtue of native endowment or home and school environment, or do both those factors enter in? Both factors enter in. First of all, they have the native endowment. And secondly, the homes, the school, their environment permits the full development of this endowment. But the endowment must be there in the first place. All of us cannot be gifted. I think that's a sound interpretation of this heredity environment controversy. Undoubtedly, there must be a fortunate heredity if a child of three, like Jerry, reads, and at six, reads like a ten or twelve year old child. And has the general information and the quickness of perception and reaction that I have seen in this boy. But he also comes from a good home. It wasn't just by accident, I think, that in our studies of a number of gifted children in one city, we found that the average educational attainment of the parents of those children was 13 years, while that of the control group, or the average children, was only around eight or nine years. The incomes of the parents were larger, and many other factors were present, which could contribute to the stimulation of ability. But undoubtedly, these rare abilities are products, too, of hereditary forces and fortunate inheritance. In other words, you're likely to find them on the farms, in the factories, any place in America. And that is very important for probably half of the gifted children of our country are in small towns and small cities and rural districts. And they are to be found in every race and cultural group. I've always liked Tristram Coffin's description of the Maine boy, if I can quote it correctly. Lord of himself, even when he stands on his head and thorny hands. In other words, he was Lord of himself, no matter what position he put himself into. And after all, that's what we're aiming for, to develop gifted children to be Lord of themselves. A very important concept, it seems to me, and the one that Coffin brings out very well in that poem. That is indeed, Dr. Veetz. I'm concerned about the kinds of reading and experiences that these children have. So that they will develop an ideal of self that's consonant with their abilities. That they will recognize their responsibilities for utilizing their abilities. And also, I am concerned that they have an opportunity to learn of their responsibility for service in a democracy, in terms of the values that we hold. Very important. Of course, if you're brought up on a farm, you're in a community of the home life and the farm, in which you have to accept responsibility. That's probably one of the best training centers in the United States, is to be brought up on a farm. Because you have to be part of the integrated whole of the farm life. And many of our leaders in business and in science today were brought up on farm. But in the modern school, there is frequently little of that challenge or opportunity to assume responsibility. For the typical gifted child in the upper elementary grades has knowledge is far above him. And he is not frequently stimulated in the secondary school. He is likely to become, without guidance and stimulation, an intellectual vagabond. And this is shown by a kind of study that I think is interesting at this point. We took our young, gifted adults, divided them into two groups. Those who were successful by a good many criteria. And those who were less successful. And we found there were two differentiating characteristics. In the case of the successful group, there was a better stimulation in the home and an earlier recognition of ability than in the other group. There was also, in the school, more abundant opportunities. And stimulation for recognizing one's abilities and for using them in various desirable outlets. On this study that you made, Witte, of these successful young adults, what professions were they in for the most part? Most of the gifted youngsters, as Terman's studies in California, to which we have referred, show so clearly, have gone into the professions and the highly skilled kinds of endeavor. The upper groups of occupational endeavor. But it is to... Now, just a minute. The upper groups of occupational endeavor. By that you mean lawyers and doctors? Lawyers, doctors, scientists, and so on. But we need good farmers. We need good plumbers. Do you have any objection to gifted children going into agriculture? Not any, but let me say, before we leave that point, that although these children, who have been identified, have been led to go in, in many cases, to science, and into various kinds of occupations of a relatively high level. There are many, many others unidentified, who do not go into these occupations, are types of endeavor, even forming of a modern sort, for which they are so very well qualified. In fact, they drop out of college in very large numbers, when, in the modern college present time. Of course, I, if I may say so, take mild exception to your reference to certain of these occupations as high level occupations. I can't think of a much higher level occupation than a good farmer. You, I, I think we could use a lot of gifted children on the farms. I will agree with that. And yet, many of these children, uh, have no opportunity to try this or try that, to really find themselves. I think parents and, and teachers can help these children to broaden their interests, to cultivate hobbies, whether their hobbies are along the line of biology or, or, uh, photography or chemistry. But give them an opportunity to develop hobbies and, uh, advance their interests beyond what is given them in the regular, uh, curriculum. I think what I'm, what bothers me just a little bit about this discussion is the tendency to identify these superior children, uh, as a, as a group in a rather snooty fashion. And to assume that they are to go into, in quotation marks, the higher level, uh, occupations. I'm a higher level only in terms of occupational status as referred to in the rating scales. I think there are many kinds of occupations that are highly desirable. But, McBurney, if a boy has great scientific aptitude, as one I know, at nine, and high intelligence, he ought to have, as Dr. Crawford, uh, suggests, the world of science open to him so that he will be stimulated and have an opportunity to develop into the kind of person for whom he is so well suited. Let me refer to a girl, however, the brightest in a group I studied some 25 years ago. She was a wonderful youngster who was in my clinic one day, and a lady came in and said, and did the little girl enjoy her school today? And this little girl of eight said, there were some elements of it which I enjoyed, but on the whole, I cannot say I found it very satisfying. She is now, in Boston, Dr. Veetz, a mother of five children, a fine housewife, and I think, by every sound criterion, a successful person. Well, I, and now with that, I agree 100%. I think she's doing an important job well, apparently. You used the word snooty. Uh, I think that, uh, many of these children are thought to be snooty or snobbish or queer, but I think that is because, uh, they have not had the proper guidance to, when they do their work, they're just sitting around, uh, putting in their time, and if they had the proper guidance to go ahead and constructive initiative, then they would not be queer or snooty. Dr. Crawford, we should say that right there, they not only have this danger of developing undesirable personality traits when they are not stimulated, but they have actually a better chance of developing nervous instability and psychotic disposition, as some studies show. Oh, I'm sure that's so. A great many gifted children in the past, without, uh, guidance and encouragement, have become, uh, spineless drifters without direction. And that's, uh, you can see by, uh, history without any question. Well, what should we do for these, uh, gifted children? Do you recommend, uh, acceleration in the schools? That is passing them on rapidly from one grade to another? Do you recommend, uh, a richer educational experience? What is your program for them, Woody? A moderate amount of acceleration, only a small amount, and that in the elementary school primarily seems to have little undesirable effect upon personality traits and other forms of adjustment. But in addition to that, we need enrichment in every class and general recognition and guidance of the youngsters. There are throughout the United States such things as major work classes and special schools and, uh, workshop groups and clubs and all, and many other kinds of activities which we should encourage on a larger scale. At present, we're trying to evaluate, but also to stimulate the development of such activities. What you men are saying here today is that we have a tremendous potential resource in these, uh, in these gifted children. And it's a matter of considerable importance that they be, uh, identified carefully and be given the kind of opportunity they, they deserve in the homes and in the public schools. And I take it that these gifted children will find their way into all sorts of occupations. Uh, including farming. Including farming. Uh, and that as a, as a result of that kind of, of, of utilization of our, of our greatest resource. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. What are we doing for the superior child? We want to thank our guests, Dr. Woodward, Woodford, Woodruff Crawford, pediatrician. Dr. Henry Veetz, psychiatrist and former president of the American Psychiatric Association. And Paul Woody, professor of education in the School of Education at Northwestern University. Friends, we invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or, you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next 12 weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. With the approach of summer, many of us will be planning vacations. Happy thought. Some of us will return to our offices thoroughly rested. Others will require a second vacation to recuperate from the first. One might well ask what kind of vacation should we take? And that is precisely the question we'll raise on the reviewing stand next week. What kind of vacation should we take? Our guests will be Miss Elizabeth Hatch, personnel director of Carson Peary Scott & Company. Dr. Jules Masserman, president of the Illinois Psychiatric Society. And Bruno Travalletti, president of the Drake Travel Service here in Chicago. And regional vice president of the American Society of Travel Agents. You may get some new ideas for your vacation when we ask next week, what kind of vacation should you take? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is George Bauer speaking. And this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. This is the Mutual TR Chandler's report here at Office of University of Western χunstueria. In several weeks, the empire is a report and that move through your vacation. And this there will bepward to ask you exactly how you start looking at the Pacific searchingPro. And so we're going to take You'll see the next time.