This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. The Charter of the United Nations obligates the nations to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. That's what we want to talk about. I have as my guest today one of the world's most distinguished people. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt has been a member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights since its creation and was for the first five years its chairman. The Commission on Human Rights adjourned its 1952 session a few days ago. Mrs. Roosevelt has generously agreed to answer questions about the work of the Commission and the status of the human rights documents. And we are very proud that she is a member of the board of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Roosevelt, I wonder if we could start at the very beginning to review this subject for our listeners and for myself. What was the purpose of the United Nations in establishing the Human Rights Commission? Well, the Human Rights Commission, Mr. Eichelberger, was the first commission established after the Economic and Social Council came into being in London. And they did that because they felt the Charter had emphasized the human rights and fundamental freedoms without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. And that those should be amplified and made clear to all human beings in the countries which were members of the United Nations. And so that was the original purpose in the naming of the Human Rights Commission. Well, am I right in assuming that the Human Rights Commission as a permanent institution will continue after the present phase of drafting covenants is completed? Well, I think that will depend very largely, sir, on whether it is evident that there is work still for the Human Rights Commission. We did not. I served, appointed by the Economic and Social Council then, as a member of the Nuclear Commission. And we considered the work, first of all, how the commission would be set up, and then the work it should first do. And we decided that the first step was the writing of a Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. And later it was decided by the Commission itself that that charter should be in two parts. It should be a declaration and then a covenant or covenants. Now, that really was set down by the Nuclear Commission as the first piece of work. Now, it remains to be seen when the present piece of work is done whether there is an area still, and then, I suppose, the commission will go on. If they feel that other machinery has been set up to accomplish the ends in view, I suppose it will be dissolved. At least we know that human rights is an endless problem. An endless problem! In some form, or rather, I'm afraid that I'm jumping ahead of myself and talking about covenants. I'm quite surprised at how easily people confuse a declaration of human rights with a covenant of human rights. I wonder if you'd explain the difference. Well, you see, when I think it's partly probably that we did not sufficiently emphasize that what was being done by the Human Rights Commission was to write a complete charter, and that in the very first meeting of the commission, they decided that that charter should be written in two parts, that it should have a declaration modeled somewhat on our own declaration of independence. I mean, that was to be the stating of the hopes and aspirations of people in the area of human rights for the world as a whole. And then we realized that back of all real progress would have to be law. And so it was said that we would write a covenant or covenants of human rights. And first of all, we wrote the first 18 articles which dealt largely with the well-known rights, political and civil rights. But in the declaration, which while it was just a statement of hopes and aspirations, still has had great influence in the world, we had also mentioned other rights. And so certain members kept insisting that those other rights were more important and that they also must come with a background of law. So eventually, many of these rights were written down. And that is how people get confused. They forget that it was only the first part of the work, and the easiest by far, to write a declaration of hopes and aspirations. Then I gather that the declaration was not to be ratified and so didn't have the effect of law. But still, it's had an influence throughout the world, like our own declaration of independence. All you had to do with the declaration was, for the governments represented in the United Nations, simply accepted it as voicing hopes and aspirations. Then they passed a resolution at that same time, asking the countries and obligating themselves to inform their people about the declaration and to strive to live up to the standard set in the declaration. Now, has the declaration had an international influence? Oh, I think it's had a great international influence. I think people began for the first time to really seriously consider the conditions of human rights and freedoms throughout the world and what the varying standards were and what they meant. And as we know, even in legal documents, the declaration, because it was a document accepted under the United Nations Charter, has had some legal weight. But as a matter of fact, it did not have to be ratified. But the covenants, which are legal documents, which can be appealed to once they are ratified by a country, will come before each country to be ratified through their constitutional processes as they would ratify a treaty. And therefore, those covenants will be legally binding. Well, you know, of course, of the argument that's been ranging in this country, raging, I should say, around the United Nations Human Rights Program. Of course, I've always felt that to advance human rights throughout the world was the best protection of our own. Would you say, what is the reason for this misunderstanding about the Human Rights Program? Well, I have felt at times that it was largely political. I cannot believe that the American Bar Association is really afraid that our own human rights are going to be injured by joining with the other nations in the world in trying to get a mutual understanding of what human rights means. But even if there is a genuine fear, I think we should acquaint ourselves with the fact that in the covenants there are limitations which make it entirely impossible to injure any of the rights and freedoms. Now, we're concerned with our own. Now, to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the people of the United States under our Constitution and laws and to prevent these limitations from ever permitting any dilution or diminution of our rights and freedoms, the United States has pressed for the inclusion in the covenants of three special provisions. Two of these have already been adopted by the Commission. The third, which is a federal state article, has not as yet been adopted. But the first provides that the fundamental human rights recognized or existing in any contracting state pursuant to law, conventions, regulations, or custom shall not be curtailed on the pretext of any provision of the covenant. Now, if that doesn't safeguard what we have, I don't know how you could say it more clearly and in more legal form. I wish you'd been with me in Chicago when I was asked that question at the Republican Resolutions Committee yesterday morning, and I presume I'll be asked exactly the same question with the Democratic Resolutions Committee three weeks from now because it's a conservative... Well, I hope you will answer it. I hope you will answer it. I did, not as effectively as you did, however. You recently returned from a trip in a major part of the world, particularly the more underprivileged part of the world, we call it. Do they feel that we're living up to our own human rights professions that we're urging upon other people? Well, of course, we are under constant watch. The communists point out every failure in the observance of human rights so that I never had a press conference where I was not asked how we treated our minorities. And that, of course, is one of the important things that we must see to because that treatment of minorities is a basic human right. I've been telling audiences that we have nothing to fear from the covenants of human rights in impinging on our own liberties. But we do and should fear the force of world public opinion when we're violating our own liberties. I think we have something to do setting our own house in order. I think that is true. I think we have nothing to fear. There may be things in the covenants when they're finally written that we won't be able to ratify. But I think we have nothing to fear because I'm quite sure that no Senate of the United States will ratify anything which is unconstitutional. Of course. One last final question or two. What could all of us do to help make this subject better understood? I think that we should talk about it and write about it and try to dramatize it in everyday occurrences as much as we possibly can so that people will realize that this is something that is happening every day and touches everyday life. You see, what I had hoped at the beginning when the human rights program of the UN was started was that people would be enthusiastic about its effort as a great crusade. Now, what has disturbed me that suddenly the whole movement for human rights is on the defensive in the eyes of a number of people? I sometimes worry for fear that the passion of liberty that this people, that the American people feel isn't being expressed by the people at the moment or they would be so enthusiastic for the human rights program instead of questioning. Well, I think it's all a part and parcel of the fear we're undergoing at present. Unfortunately, for the time being, we are so afraid that anything we do will be called communistic, that we don't dare advocate anything passionately anymore. We hedge on everything. That's right. Exactly. May I ask one concluding question in the three quarters of the minute we have left? What is the workload of your commission now? Well, we have written the articles of two covenants but no implementation. We've asked for another session and I think it would be better if before it went to the General Assembly we had another session. And you think the General Assembly will decide that way? I can't tell, but that is what we've asked for. Asked through the Economic and Social Council, of course. And then, as you say, the whole question of enforcement remains... Yes, it remains not done, not considered. Mrs. Roosevelt, it's been very generous for you to go on our program today. You've cleared up for many people the United Nations program on human rights. You've been very generous in appearing on the program several times and thank you very much. Thank you.