The nations who believe in peace and who support the United Nations system of collective security have now been forced to reverse their post-war programs of demobilization. Not to threaten their naples, but to protect the peace of the world. They are laying a foundation for the strength that will protect the world against a renewal of aggression. The structure is not complete. The world is not yet secure from the danger of a third world war. But we have made a beginning. The peaceful nations of the world are more united and better equipped to prevent aggression than would have seemed possible only a few years ago. Centers of defensive power have been and are being built up, not only within individual states, but to an increasing degree in mutual defense arrangements and in the United Nations. This progress will in time bring us to the threshold of a new period in the affairs of the world. Then the forces of aggression and tyranny will no longer be in a position to attack free nations and find them helpless to resist. The tasks presented by this stage in our efforts are as difficult as any that statesmen have ever been called upon to fulfill. They are difficult because we must at the same time build strength and work for peace. These are not contradictory. They are two sides of the same coin. We are building strength for one reason and one reason only. This is because there will be no peace so long as the peaceful nations are weak and vulnerable. There is no way of escaping this requirement. The last six years have shown that. But building arms is not enough by itself. We must use our strength with moderation and restraint. We must work for peace, for understanding, for a reduction of tensions and differences. We must neglect no opportunity to reduce the danger of war in any way that is open to us. And to get on with our main job, which is to work toward the kind of a world we want to build. While we have worked to build up the strength of the free nations, we have also been deeply concerned with the economic and social needs of the peoples of the world. Much has been done in this year in international cooperation for economic and social well-being. Some $2 billion of new capital have been made available for economic and social development by private investors, by the international bank, and by governmental institutions. Under the expanded program of technical assistance, experts are at work in 43 countries. This is merely a beginning. They point the way in which we must work. As President Truman has already stated, our rate of advance has been impeded by the necessity of building up the defenses of the free nations. If we can be relieved of some of this burden, the possibilities of improving the lot of mankind should be limitless. As for the future, we recognize that there can be no lasting peace, no real security, while hunger, disease, and despair hold millions in their grip. Every people must have a stake in peace worth defending. By the energetic application of known techniques, and without any great increase in expenditure of funds or resources, we can make substantial inroads against poverty and famine. The great constructive accomplishments in the past five years, and those which lie before us, are the sort of international cooperative effort in which my countrymen, and those of most of you here, join wholeheartedly. This is the work we like to develop, to build, to expand opportunity for the pursuit of happiness. Our country and its history and institutions, as you know, are dedicated to this object. But actually, actually, what has been done, and apparently what lies before us to do, must be done in the face of obstacles, made by man, and undoubtedly made to impede progress toward peace and human welfare. And again, we have a symbol. And again, we have a symbol. The symbol is Korea. Korea is the place chosen by those who plan aggression on a worldwide scale, as the scene for an imperialist blitzkrieg. The Russian state has repeatedly, in modern times, tried to make Korea a province. When Korea was liberated from Japanese rule, and the Republic of Korea was established under the auspices of the United Nations, the Soviet Union withheld from the Republic all that part of Korea which was under communist control. And the Iron Patent clanked down on the 38th parallel. And suddenly, on June 25th, 1950, the Iron Patent was raised to allow Soviet armed and Soviet trained armies to pour across the border in their brutal assault upon the free people of Korea. With courage and determination, the Koreans resisted the alien aggression, resisted the familiar imperialist expansion. But as the aggressors knew, the young Republic was not strong enough to stand alone against an aggression so carefully planned and so thoroughly equipped. But the aggressor did not know that the young international organization, the United Nations, could also act with unity, speed, and eventually with military superiority. But that is just how it did act. The United States is proud to have been able to play a leading part in this great practical demonstration of collective security. Until there is peace in Korea, the United Nations will urgently need the maximum contribution in armed forces and in other means from every loyal member of this organization. And when peace has been restored to Korea, the United Nations must be able to marshal the material aid of all its members in the great task of reconstruction and rehabilitation. And when will there be peace? We all know that it depends upon the will of those who support, maintain, and defend the communist armies. At a word from them, the fighting could end in Korea. And some months ago, it seemed that the word had been spoken. But has it been spoken? The United Nations command has been negotiating since July to try to bring about an armistice, and so far without success. It is only now that the aggressors have agreed to negotiate on the basis of a military and not a political line, taking into account the current military situation. We are hopeful that the achievement of an armistice in Korea might make it possible for this assembly to bring about a final settlement for Korea. A settlement which will be in accord with the established United Nations objectives in Korea. A settlement such as this, if reached in good faith, could open the door to broader consultations on other aspects of the Far Eastern situation. The Soviet Union has talked a great deal about peace. But when it comes to achieving peace through deeds, or to uniting for peace, they obstruct. They call for a new Five Power Peace Pact. But we're kings to carry out our 60 Power Peace Pact, the Charter of the United Nations. One of the most urgent of international problems is the level of armaments among nations. Soviet policies have obliged the free nations to begin building up their armaments to levels necessary for their defense. But we do not want an arms race. We are determined to do all within our power to ensure our safety. But we are no less determined to continue to explore, as we have for many years, every possible way of bringing about a safe reduction of armaments. This effort is too important to the world to leave a single stone unturned. A year ago, before this body, the President of the United States proposed the merging of the two United Nations commissions dealing with the problem of armaments. We have before us the report of the Committee of Twelve, recommending that this be done. I hope that this Assembly will approve this recommendation. At the same time, the President expressed the determination of the United States to find ways of bringing about control and reduction of armaments as a means of moving forward toward the ultimate goal which the United Nations has set for itself. The goal of a peaceful world in which disagreements are settled by peaceful means. He outlined the basic principles for a real workable system for reducing armaments. And the General Assembly endorsed those principles. The principles are three in number. First, such a system must include all types of weapons. Two, it must be accepted by all nations having substantial armed forces. Three, it must be based on safeguards that will ensure the compliance of all nations. In other words, it must be foolproof. The United States government, together with the governments of France and the United Kingdom, has been studying earnestly the real problems that must be dealt with if we are to make genuine headway toward the reduction of armaments. The world doesn't want catch words and tricks. It doesn't want propaganda gestures. It wants an honest program which will protect the safety of free men and not be a poke for aggressive designs. After a long period of study, we have arrived at a series of proposals for the regulation, limitation, and balanced production of armaments and armed forces, which meets the test of reasonableness and feasibility. Last night, the three governments announced their intention to submit such proposals to this sixth session of the General Assembly. We are therefore asking that a discussion of these proposals be added to the agenda as a matter of urgency and importance. I firmly believe that these proposals can lead to an agreed program here in the United Nations, if all nations approach them with good will and a sincere desire for peace. And we believe that discussion of the program should begin now. No general program can be put into effect while United Nations forces are resisting aggression in Korea. Moreover, concurrently with the coming into effect of the program, the major political issues which have divided the world can be settled and must be settled. We pledge ourselves to do everything in our power to bring this about. If such a program could be put into effect, the immense military expenditures which now press on nearly all peoples of the world could be largely lifted. The charter of the United Nations speaks of promoting the establishment and maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion for armaments of the world's human and economic resources. At the present time, the demands of security requiring the use of treasure and resources for military purposes have necessitated in all countries the postponement of great positive programs of reconstruction and development, which had been planned nationally and internationally. If the world could use its resources, its skills and energies for non-military projects, as the United States most earnestly desires, then vast new opportunities would open up for the better and happier conditions of life which all men seek. We could then get ahead, as President Truman said last night, with the only kind of war we seek, the war against want and human misery. Within developed countries, new resources for peaceful production could be put to work, not only for their own benefit, but to the advantage of all. And in other parts of the world, where, as I said earlier, millions upon millions of people are struggling with poverty, with hunger, with disease, the great constructive efforts of the United Nations could go forward without hindrance. This is what could be done if all nations here were willing to serve the cause of peace by their actions. But so long will some nations talk of peace while their actions make for war. The free people of the world still continue with determination and steadiness to build the full programs of defensive strength which their security requires. But we must never cease trying to change this state of affairs. That is why we are submitting these proposals now. We are proceeding with the regulation, limitation, and balanced production of all armed forces and all armed armaments, including atomic. The United States is prepared to begin negotiations on these proposals in the United Nations at once. We firmly believe that a will to Barhaman is within our reach if all nations will approach this task with good faith and with a will to peace. We simply look at you now on stage wish really good faith. See you around in 2020.
