This is John Carradine. Shakespeare's tragedies are the greatest classics of the theatre. They've entertained audiences for centuries because of the manner in which life's problems are portrayed. But the real tragedy of seven and a half million Americans, crippled and pain-ridden by rheumatic disease, is not an entertaining thought. Scientists have recently discovered cortisone and ACTH. These drugs reverse arthritis for the first time in history. But they're not a complete cure. More research is needed. To continue its research program, the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars. Give all you can. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Cornell Wilde. When do you get your best ideas? After dinner? When you've finished the evening paper? Or after a good night's rest? Well, if you haven't a good thought for today, I'd like to suggest one that can't be improved upon. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue its research attack on rheumatic disease. Your help may make possible more advances like the two great hormone drugs, cortisone and ACTH. Seven and a half million Americans, victims of arthritis and rheumatism, need your help. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of local postmaster. The address again, Arthritis, care of local postmaster. This is Celeste Holmes. Every American mother appreciates the value of education. We know that things don't get done by wishful thinking. Children with good educations are equipped to meet the problems of later life. Right now we're confronted by a problem we must all meet. Seven and a half million men, women and children are victims of rheumatic disease. That's a major threat to the health of our families and our nation. Here's how we can help meet that problem. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue its research fight against pain and crippling. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Hello, this is Arthur Godfrey, whom somebody once called the old ladies Van Johnson. Well, that's the way it is with we Americans. We have a lot in common. One of the things is our ability to enjoy a good laugh. But you know, seven and a half million Americans suffering from rheumatic disease is no laughing matter at all. Have you made out your contribution to fight arthritis and rheumatism? Well, that's fine. Now put it in an envelope and mail it to Arthritis, care of the local postmaster. With the help of the good Lord, we'll help those scientists beat this scourge. This is Geraldine Fitzgerald. Two drugs, cortisone and ACTH, have recently been found effective for the treatment of rheumatic fever and arthritis. This is wonderful news for seven and a half million victims of rheumatic disease. But much remains to be done before science can learn to control these twin crippling diseases. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue the fight against rheumatic disorders. Your generosity may help lick this national health problem. Here's how you can help. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of local postmaster. It's just that simple to protect those you love. Do it now. This is Dennis James. Thanks to medical research, the new hormone drugs cortisone and ACTH promise to help control rheumatic disease. Support the research program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. Let me repeat. It's Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is Mel Allen. Cortisone and ACTH are fighting rheumatic fever, the greatest killer of children from 5 to 19 years of age. Scientific teamwork made that possible. Join the team of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Give to their research program. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is Frank Gallop. Rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease are the chief causes of death among children aged 5 to 19 years. Here's your chance to help these unfortunate kids. Support the research program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Remember, Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Red Barber. It takes scientific teams to produce the winning hormone extracts Cortisone and ACTH. These drugs hold much hope for arthritis victims. Let's keep these scientific teams pitching until they get the disease under control. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is Bob Trout. Here's the hottest news since the atom bomb. Scientists have discovered two new drugs that may aid 7.5 million victims of arthritis. But they're not cures. More research is necessary. And that's why we've got to support the program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Send your gift to arthritis in care of your local postmaster. and that's why Iziękuję you for this program of the Arthritis情況. Therefore, you'll start with heaven without taking a listen of elite skills. You've been able to find the amount of experience, honey 친구들, and I will do that as well! So again, I'm trying to kind of give a good time. Have fun. Have you prepared? Like thisкрid's benefits. Take a go. And now like that。 Comences for valorating the power of the Roman visit, I will go around with it. We'll just let people in charge you upon a time. Okay? Ok. But here's notica a six hour results . And as quick thing is about committing statistics, will damage your body or body language as slight and how add hyperribal?
