Radio's microphones are now at the foot of the National Shrine of the Eternal Light in Madison Square Park between 23rd and 24th Streets and Broadway in New York City. The occasion is the 175th anniversary observance of the Declaration of Independence and the foundation of the greatest nation in the world, founded indeed on that document, and man's inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The program here today is under the auspices of the Minutemen of America, and the Director General of that organization, Mr. Francis A. Adams, will preside as chairman in a few moments. At the present time, Mr. Post is giving an address of welcome, and he will turn the chair over to Mr. Adams at the conclusion of his welcome. Mr. Post. Mr. Post, real or imaginary, we do not truckle to bullies. We are not too proud to fight for a just cause. We know that a war is abroad in the world, and we want to know who are against us. This very day we celebrate gives us our map. Our Declaration of Independence states that the world, to the world, we are enemies in war, in peace, we are friends. We seek world peace. That is our objective. That will be our ultimate achievement. Have no fear that America is going down to defeat against communism. We bring you messages from our defenders who will tell you how our manpower is ready to defend our freedom and uphold our flag. Our defenders are, and always have been, of the people. They are for the people. And they are us, indeed, our very selves. It is my privilege to turn this meeting of the Minutemen of America over to the chairman, Captain Francis A. Adams, a native of the city of New York and a kinsman of the Adams family of Massachusetts, a tenth generation representative of his family in America. He is a volunteer of the Spanish-American War of 1898 and World War I. He is an editor by profession and is director general of the Minutemen of America, Captain Adams. Thank you. That opening address was by Colonel Augustus Post, who was secretary of the Minutemen of America. And now we are going to hear the national anthem played by the Army Band. My name is Victor grazing by the American Band. He is a four And now we are standing in favor as the cough. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, of them bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. The The The Those boys you heard going through the air was by the police double quartet. And now this is America, a land that was created to keep men's souls free, To appeal to the soul, you must have some religion, whatever that religion may be, But you must have some religion in your heart. And this meeting is opened by an invocation by Honorable Lambert Fairchild, Honorary Legion, honorary chaplain of the American Legion. Dear God, eight score and fifteen years have passed since under thy almighty hand our great forebears declared the independence of these states, And led the way to freedom, union and happiness. Although we find ourselves involved with all the world, In efforts to ameliorate the sad and hard conditions under which so many others strive, We ask that thou will answer this, our earnest prayer. Preserve that independence, Lord, for every soul, and for our own United States, forever free. Preserve that independence, Lord. Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are still the goal we would attain. Help us to answer this, our prayer. And let the declaration made so long ago shine forth a guiding beacon light to all the world. Achieve a future measured by our glorious past. We know that thou didst well direct our fathers, Lord. For to this great republic still they all would come, And from these shores no emigration ever was. For us, and for the generations yet unborn, in every land, Father of all, We come again in prayer for peace, Attained through fervent faith in thee, And not through fear and compromise, But evermore through courage and high hearts, Faith, hope, and love. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain Fairchild. This country finds itself on this 4th of July in a condition of war. And we have in this assembly wounded veterans from Korea who constituted members of the 65th United States Army Infantry Who were recruited from Puerto Rico. All honor. All honor goes to those men who from that island is as close to the mainland of the United States, And has been under the tutelage and protection of the United States for 52 years. They know that liberty dwells under the stars and stripes. It is by presidential order from Washington, D.C. That this message comes to the city of New York at this assemblage on this 4th of July. The president, through the president's commission for commemoration of the 175th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, has sent this address from his commissioner in the state of New York, Alfred N. Steele. This message has been broadcast into 31,000 assemblies of this character today. Only once before in the history of this country has there been such a need for individual patriotism and unselfish devotion to the great idea set forth in the Declaration of Independence. The first time the need arose, American patriots pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to the principles set forth in that Declaration. Today, as on that day 175 years ago, when the document was signed, there is a vital need for a reaffirmation of the principles of freedom, liberty, and the dignity of man. We face two dangers, the active threat of the American way of life, and our predilection to take it for granted that we will always be free. The commemoration of the 175th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration gives all Americans the opportunity to rededicate themselves to the active realization of the value of the rights we enjoy, and the power to resist all attempts to take these privileges from us. In concert, in all star-class sections of this country, this pledge is made today that, as the only sure God of our liberties, and an example to the world of the validity and the vitality of free people under free government. The mayor of this wonderful city has asked that particular emphasis be placed upon the activities of men who were not born on this soil, but who have felt the urge to respond to a call for duty, and he has asked that at this particular time in this program, we bring to this microphone the Honorable Raymond M. Hilliard, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Puerto Rican Affairs. Commissioner Hilliard. First of all, Mr. Chairman, I think it would be very nice if the police would let those who are standing come in and fill up those seats that are vacant. All right? Mr. Chairman, today, with deep gratitude, we acknowledge the magnificent achievements of our gallant fellow Americans of the 65th Infantry Regiment of Puerto Rican recruits, and we all honor also the notable contributions of our gallant Puerto Ricans who were recruited here in New York and who are serving with other units of the armed forces. Most especially, we pay homage to the brave young Americans of those groups who have given their lives for America in its fight against communism in Korea. These courageous men have given us a noble example in citizenship. Is it not fitting that we, in return, should dedicate ourselves to the task of recognizing communism for what it is, an evil system of government that brings evil wherever it is? It seeks to live by lies, by oppression of its own people, by a denial of all human rights, by a callous indifference to human welfare, and by a denial of God. Communism, in its deceit, has posed as the champion of the masses, the friend of labor. But today, my friends, it stands exposed to all of the world as the arch enemy of the masses, an oppressor of labor. Our Puerto Rican fellow citizens have covered themselves with distinction and with glory. And now, in order that you may all see a few of the representatives of the 65th from Puerto Rico, I'm going to ask four of the young fellows who were wounded in your service to step forward so they may be seen. Thank you. We will hear the playing of the Puerto Rican hymn, La Buarantania. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, boys. I think I speak for all of us here when I say, may we be worthy of what you have done for us. Now may I present to you a most distinguished American, the Honorable Antonio Farnosi Cern, Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico. My friends, on this anniversary commemorating the birth of freedom in the new world, it is fitting that we honor those who are helping to perpetuate freedom to be enjoyed by all mankind. In this particular instance, we are honoring a group of heroes who traveled more than halfway around the world to take up the fight to uphold the ideals of freedom and destroy the enemies of freedom regardless of suffering, hardship, death, or even worse. There has been a sacrifice supreme and a glory on excel. We are especially honoring the 65th Regiment of the United States Army because of its exploits and accomplishments in action against the enemy. We honor them also because of the special significance of this regiment. The 65th was organized in Puerto Rico many years ago. Its home ground is Majestic El Morro, a stalwart fort which has guarded the entrance to historic San Juan Harbor for centuries. The 61st is composed of Puerto Ricans almost in its entirety. American citizens who were born in the beautiful island of the Caribbean. American citizens who were born in the Caribbean. They are as zealous of the American ideals of life as any other community within the shores of the nation. They are a pure expression of Americanism. Neither race nor language has made any difference. Democratic ideals are not identified exclusively with any race nor are they limited to any one language for their expression. They are the tendencies of men who have a common loyalty, a common devotion, a common creed of equality, freedom, and respect for God-given dignity. In the name of the people of Puerto Rico whom I represent and for whom I speak in the Congress of the United States, may I express sincere thanks for the organization of this action. By exalting the 65th Infantry, you are honoring the 65th Infantry and you are honoring Puerto Rico. You are consecrating our common citizenship, the badge and declaration of free men. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. One hundred and seventy-five years ago in this land, the idea of freedom was born and it survived. We have the honor now to have on this platform, and I ask him to come forward and take a bow to the American people on our holiday, the honorable Ramos Cuentano, Speaker of the House of Representatives of Puerto Rico. . Cameramen are demanding a few pictures of the Speaker of the House of Puerto Rico. Friends, here you see what happens in America. Colonies are not kept colonies. Colonies are given representation. And taxation without representation is tyranny. We now ask you in your minds and in your hearts to go backwards. Twenty, fifty, a hundred, a hundred and fifty, a hundred and seventy-five years ago. And picture what George Washington looked like when he was the commander-in-chief of a small but not a faltering army. We have on this platform, Henry Du Bois, known to millions of who have been hospitalized and their friends as Dr. Sunshine, dressed in the continental uniform worn by George Washington, and who will bring to this meeting the prayer that God Almighty will ever stay on our side. It is June 8th, 1783, a day long to be remembered in the annals of our national life. It now becomes my solemn duty to disband the Continental Army. We now return to the building of that Republic for which, under God, we have become responsible. Shall we pray? Almighty God, we make our earnest prayer that Thou wilt keep the United States in Thy holy protection. That Thou wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience to government. And entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another and for the citizens of these United States at large. And finally, that Thou wilt most graciously be pleased to dispose us all to do justice, to love mercy, and to demean ourselves with that charity, humility, and the pacific temper of mind, which were the characteristics of the divine author of our blessed religion, without an humble imitation of whose example in these things we can never hope to be a happy nation. Grant our supplications, we beseech thee, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. It is quite appropriate that the next speaker on this program, following the invocation and prayer of George Washington, who was commander in chief of the Orange Continental Army, should be an Army officer. And the next speaker will be Colonel J. F. Fisk, representing General Rilas D. Krittenberger, commander of the placed Army from Governor's Island. Colonel Fisk. Captain Adams and fellow citizens, I am here to bring you the greetings of Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger, the commander of the First Army, whose headquarters, as you know, is on Governor's Island in your own New York Harbor. The pressure of business has prevented General Krittenberger from coming in person, and he wishes me to pay a tribute to the gallant record of the 65th Infantry, which went to Korea last fall as a part of the 3rd Infantry Division, and has since then fought magnificently, and particularly to the wounded members whom we honor here today. 175 years ago, our ancestors signed the Declaration of our Independence. At intervals since then, we have had to defend that independence. Much as we love peace, we must be armed if we are to preserve our freedom. And now, for the third time in a generation, our headquarters at Governor's Island is recalling reservists and training selectees. For the third time in a generation, our troops are fighting. We hope that this fighting may soon be over. But, if the fighting in Korea ends, we have still not made ourselves safe. We must continue to arm. We must continue to be prepared to meet the attacks of the aggressor. If we do that, we have nothing to fear. The United States is the most powerful nation in the world. All we need is the will to be strong and the will to arm, and we need fear no enemy. Thank you, Colonel Fisk. New York City is so large that it's almost impossible to conceive that everybody could come to this eternal light. A nice audience is here. You've got the spirit on the Fourth of July of coming to hear something about your own country and participate in it. The Mayor has asked that a representative of his staff, the Honorable James J. O'Brien, bring you a warm-hearted greeting from the Mayor of this great city, Commissioner O'Brien. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, wounded veterans of the 65th, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great privilege for me to bring you all the most sincere congratulations and heartfelt greetings of Mayor Vincent Aram Pelletieri of New York for your attendance at these magnificent ceremonies here today. I am most happy to see out in that audience as well so many friends of Puerto Rican extraction, and I suppose I get to more Puerto Rican affairs in the city of New York than anybody else representing the city of New York. It is grand to see you here, and it's grand to see you honoring the men you are honoring whom we all had a chance to cheer on this memorable occasion. I don't think we need to dwell very much today on the significance of this hour, but the fact that we are all to some extent numerologists, and that we do have a certain feeling about centennials, and one and three-quarter centennials, the 175th anniversary of our independence, which we are celebrating today. I sometimes think, as I go among a great many people in various sections of New York, that it is not always well known the tremendous part New York paid in that frightful struggle. Downtown, around the City Hall area, and around the old church below us there, St. Paul's, which is the only building now standing since revolutionary times, the war took on a very severe aspect. The city was occupied from 1776 right up to 1783 by the enemy forces. 10,000 young lads from around the city and up the Hudson Valley and over in Newburgh were beaten to death or starved to death in prison ships between the Battery and Brooklyn, and their bones lie under the monument over there in Fort Green Park collected after the war. What sufferings, what endurance, what trials, those 10,000 youngsters who came from the farms, who came from the clear open air of the American wilderness at that time, had to suffer in the holes of those ships. Are we going to forget them so readily and the sacrifices that they made as youngsters, never mind the thousands who died up and down the Hudson Valley during the entire war? Remember, too, that from the retreat from where Prospect Park is now in Brooklyn, the retreat across the river here, the remarkable strategic retreat of Washington into Kips Bay at the west side, and the fight up through, right up through Murray Hill, and then the battle up in McGowan's Pass. Don't forget that all happened in New York. Don't forget that where Barnard College now stands. The Wheatfield, the Battle of the Wheatfield occurred there, and that Wheatfield was soaked with American blood and was the first reverse of the enemy in this area during that war. Don't forget when you go up someplace around 50th Street and 3rd Avenue, in and around that area, historians disagree on the exact spot. That's where the bright star of the young men of the Revolution, Nathan Hale, was hanged. Don't forget we have a very, very historic city. Come down to the City Hall and see there all the furniture of the first government of the United States. Washington was inaugurated in Wall Street, as you know, in 1789 at the end of April and came up right to St. Paul's to worship the day of his inauguration. So the whole battlefield, he spent more time in New York State than any other state during the Revolution. And he spent a great deal of time right here in New York City, not only as general, but also with his cabinet, with Mr. Hamilton, with Mr. Jefferson, and with the rest of his cabinet right downtown here, when New York was a very, very small city. So we're living on historic ground, far more historic than Concord and Lexington, although you might think Massachusetts sometimes had a monopoly in the whole war. But we here had more, that is, the citizens of that time suffered more, were decimated more, than probably citizens at large anywhere else in the country to say nothing about the armies in the field. I am very proud to be with you today. I am very proud to greet you, and you have several representatives from the city as well as myself. And I'm sure Commissioner Henry McCarthy represents the mayor as much as I do on the stand here. And you all know Ray Hilliard, who has been representing the mayor for so long. We have other distinguished guests. I cannot extend a word of greeting to them all. But thank you for this historic remembrance on behalf of the mayor of New York. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. We are now going to have a selection by the Army Band. Light –urally I am. – Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Navy Band. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. Friends, that song must give you some idea of what that word happiness means when we talk about the pursuit of happiness in America, a song in your heart. And now we're going to have a musical selection by the Navy band. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Navy band. New York is a great city. It's not only a popular city, but it's the heart of America's defense. We have the Navy. We have the Marines. We have the Army, all represented here in New York. This is a fighting center. And we bring to this microphone now a representative of Rear Admiral Walter S. Delaney, commander of the 3rd Naval District, who has sent as his representative on this occasion, Captain David D. Hawkins of the United States Navy. Captain Hawkins. Minutemen of America, honored guests, particularly those of the 65th Infantry. Ladies and gentlemen, we've gathered here today to pay particular tribute to those men in Korea who pledged and gave their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to the belief that this nation is and ought to be free and independent, just as those great men who signed our Declaration of Independence 175 years ago. This 175th anniversary of the birth of the United States of America finds our people once again engaged in the struggle for independence and freedom, which those who fought before us gave their blood and treasure to obtain and preserve. Today's struggles are over a broader field, but they are much the same as those of the 13 colonies which founded on these shores a shrine for freedom and a home for destiny. In the 175 years which have passed since the founders of our country signed that immortal paper, beginning when in the course of human events, this nation has taken the lead in guiding human events towards a greater freedom and a greater dignity for the individual man and woman. Our country is constantly striving to ensure the blessings of peace and prosperity, not only to our own people, but to all others throughout the world. In the forefront of our every endeavor has been the Navy of the United States. In all the wars, in all the struggles in which this nation has taken part, your Navy has played an important role. The deeds of John Paul Jones and his naval contemporaries in the Revolution paved the road to freedom and founded our proud traditions of service and victory. The deeds of our infant Navy in the War of 1812 helped make this country a united force for freedom and progress. It was our Navy during the period between the War of 1812 and the Civil War and after it, which carried the American flag and the proof of America's growing strength to all the corners of the world so that the Indians living in Calcutta, the Russians in Sitka, Alaska, and the natives of the South Pacific Islands learned to know and respect those stars and stripes which today more than ever represent the hopes and faith of all mankind. It was the work of the Navy in the Civil War which kept the unfortunate South from receiving the lifeblood of commerce. It was our Navy of 1898 against the fleets of the King of Spain which first showed the world that the United States could win battles in any ocean in the world. In 1917, while the first of the Great World Wars shook the foundations of civilization, it was the Navy which safely carried overseas the might and strength of these United States so that our weight could be thrown on the side of justice and right on that continent from which our people came. During the Second World struggle, our Navy helped conquer the forces of the enemy in the Pacific while it transported and defended American troops and supplies, pouring over the Atlantic to strengthen the courage and raise the hearts of our allies in Europe who so nobly withstood the might of the enemy until we could make our full strength felt. A little over a year ago, when communist aggression attempted by a lightning stroke to subdue the liberties and destroy the independence of the South Koreans, it was our Navy which transported our forces and filled the sea lanes and the Korean coast with our strength and again proved that these United States are one with the free world, that wherever freedom is threatened, we will join forces with those other nations which love freedom and beat back the tide of barbarism and blood which communism wishes to use to destroy all that makes life worth living. It is your Navy which today stands guard on every ocean and over every sea to hold and contain these forces of hatred and godlessness. It is your Navy which will always stand ready, prepared and sturdy to defend you and your liberties from any force which may threaten our country. These United States of ours are a pillar of strength around which rally all the world's forces of honor, truth and freedom. Your Navy is a strong and ready part of the Department of Defense of these United States, eager to keep this country ever free under that star-spangled banner which throughout this last century and three quarters has meant peace, hope, faith, honor and dignity to all mankind. With God's help, let us fight to keep it so for always. The Army, the Navy and the Marines. We bring to this microphone Colonel Robert S. Fairweather, United States Marine Corps who comes representing the commander of the 3rd Naval District. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. With the prospects of a peaceful settlement of the tragic struggle in Korea in the offing, it is fitting that we give pause here to honor those whose lives have been sacrificed in man's eternal struggle for freedom. Since the beginning of time, men have died that others may enjoy that God-given right of freedom to which all humans are entitled. These heroes have not asked for high honors or renown, but merely that we, the living, carry on the struggle and perpetuate that measure of freedom for which they so nobly gave their lives. Their monument is a freedom-loving country whose peoples are pledged to further the principles for which they died. Freedom is not a commodity reserved for the privileged individuals or for the strong alone. It is the heritage of all mankind, and we must be eternally vigilant to protect and preserve it whenever and wherever its existence is threatened. This nation of ours, founded deeply in the traditions of freedom, has always championed this cause, and prospering has had the necessary strength to combat those forces which sought to enslave mankind. Our purpose is not to preserve the benefits of freedom for ourselves alone, but to enable others less fortunate to enjoy in some measure those benefits which have been so generously bestowed upon us. In Korea, a captured Korean officer complained that the Marines never slept and never ate, but spent all their time fighting. I have news for him. All true Americans can and do fight continuously against the forces of tyranny and oppression. In this fear-ridden world of today, our strength and righteousness of purpose stand like a beacon of hope for those whose lives are overshadowed by the terrors of bondage. We must not fail this trust by relaxing our vigilance or by dissipating our strength in less worthy causes. More than ever, we must show ourselves worthy of leadership in the struggle for freedom and must be steadfast in our purpose. This has been the tradition of our country since those bitter days when the Minutemen set aside their plows and poorly equipped and against tremendous odds, courageously struck their blow for freedom. This is the spirit which has enabled succeeding generations to build a great and powerful nation. It is the spirit which in these crucial times we must continue to hold dear in order that our honored dead shall not have died in vain. Thank you. And now, friends, America has been great in its army, in its navy, in its marines, and in the years just behind us, and in all the years before us, is invincible in the air. We bring to this microphone now Major General James P. Hodges, Commander and General of the First Air Force from Mitchell Field. General Mitchell, General Mitchell, General Mitchell. General Mitchell, General Mitchell. General Mitchell, General Mitchell. Eight minutes. Eight minutes. Eight minutes. We're on the air. I'm only gonna talk about it. Captain Adams, the Minutemen of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I come here today as the representative of the United States Air Force to join you in commemorating the greatest of American holidays, Independence Day. The speakers before me have told you the significance of this day, what it stands for. I want to repeat just one point. That for 175 years, the people of this country have been living under the principles and under the protection of the Declaration of Independence. This is a document which for us herald freedom. Personal, individual freedom. It came in a world that was disillusioned and bitter. And it was a document that proclaimed a new way of life to oppressed and suffering multitudes. This was the document which stated in emphatic terms that governments derive their power from the pleasure of the governed. That government cannot lay taxes upon a people without representation. And that all men, all men are created free and equal. These were strange doctrines to European nations still stifled by ages of tyranny and serfdom, by oppression and autocracy. But John Hancock, Benjamin Franklin, Charles Carroll, and all those other courageous pioneers of liberty. They courageously wrote these freedoms into this Declaration, this heritage which we treasure. And yet, after these 175 years of freedom under this Declaration, we are today in critical danger that we may lose those freedoms. Lose them to a ruthless, a determined, a powerful autocratic force that has as its creed the subjugation of these individual rights. These rights of man to those over an all-powerful state. We can lose these priceless freedoms. We can lose these freedoms if we retreat from our determination to be strong. If we retreat from the stout defense of the ideals upon which our Constitution is based. To retrain these freedoms, we must remain strong. The moral, military, and industrial factors by which the world measures national vitality, we must be strong. It is up to each of us to do his part in his own way to preserve our liberty. And I suggest that we are here today to pay tribute to the patriots of the past who have made our freedoms of today possible. And I suggest that the most effective way for each of us to contribute our part is to pledge here today to take a more active interest in the principle of unity which has made our nation strong. And to see it, see to it, that our elected representatives demonstrate to the nations of the world that we have unity of purpose. That we are completely united in support of our government. We owe that pledge to the men who 175 years ago made it possible for us to remain until today a free and independent nation. We owe it to them. We owe it to ourselves. And we owe it to our children. Thank you, General Hodges. Friends, at this time... With the broadcast by General Hodges, we bring to a conclusion the 175th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. And the scene is the foot of the National Monument of the Eternal Light in Madison Square Park at 24th and 25th Street. In this broadcast today, we've brought you the regular order of program presided over by its Director General, Francis A. Adams, of the Minutemen of America, under whose auspices this program went forward. And now that is all from the Eternal Light. We return you to the studios. WNYC, The Voice of New York City, and WNYC-FM. Thank you, I apresent to the Pacific Ocean at SCode. Before I with the reunion learnt to the planeтив, weии an escape Going trip, between the秒 and the leader and one of the malls at the solo-century b and theycheefm. But am I nodding or at the closest at駆s, so I have a study here with said so?
