Across the street, across the nation, Dick Hames Club 15 salutes our American Red Cross. Fifteen minutes of the best in popular music. Starring the Andrews Sisters with Jerry Gray and his orchestra. Transcribed specially for our American Red Cross. Mmm good, mmm good. American Red Cross work is mmm good. And here's the head man of Club 15, Dick Hames. Well, this is Dick Hames, the Oak Club 15. Friends, we're Maxine Laverne, Patty Andrews and I are doing a special show for our American Red Cross. First, the Andrews Sisters and their newest record hit, Wedding Samba. Senorita. Sisters and your brrrr. Way down in the land of the Rio Grande Where people are married, they always have a dance. The music is grand with a samba band The people are carried away with such romance Ole, ole, the wedding samba Will bring a timid senorita to her feet And when they play the wedding samba She'll say I do and sing it with a samba beat So that's how it goes, it's Fiesta time The beat of a samba is always on the air And everyone knows it's Fiesta time And joins in the samba around the happy fair Say it, Willie Ah, black, black We're down in the land of the Rio Grande When people are married they always have a dance The music is grand with a samba band The people are carried away with such romance Ole, ole, ole, the wedding samba Will bring a timid senorita to her feet And when they play the wedding samba I'm gonna say I do and sing it with a samba beat So that's how it goes, it's Fiesta time The beat of a samba is always in the air And everyone knows it's Fiesta time And joins in the samba around the happy fair Around the happy fair Around the happy fair We'll dance around the happy fair Thank you, gal, thank you Say, Patty Patty Andrews Yes, Dick? Did you read they expect to have jet plane travel For passengers between L.A. and New York within a few years? Well, how long will it take? Oh, maybe two or three hours You can have breakfast in Hollywood and lunch in New York Oh, gosh You know, it sure changed since the first time Maxine Laverne and I crossed the country by train Well, was it steam train or diesel train? No, mule train Well, train travel from coast to coast is a lot easier than it used to be, too Oh, you're not kidding, Richard You know, you don't even have to change in Chicago anymore Oh, that change in Chicago was a lot of bother, wasn't it? Listen, you think changing in Chicago was bad Yeah, pretty bad You know something, Rich? The first trip we made from New York to Hollywood We made over 65 changes 65 changes? Mm-hmm Why? We had a baby with us Well, I'll accept that answer Now, if you'd excuse me, Patty There's a tune here from our Club 15 album I've had a lot of requests for And it's called You'd Be So Nice to Come Home To Oh, what a wonderful idea You'd be so nice to come home to You'd be so nice by the fire While the breeze on high Sang a lullaby You'd be so nice to come home to And it's called You'd be so nice to come home to Chilled by the winter Under an August moon Burning above You'd be so nice You'd be paradise To come home to And love You'd be so nice You'd be paradise To come home to And love Bob was an ex-G.I. and pretty handy with tools. He built himself a sturdy little house, an auto repair shop right next door and stocked the place with parts and equipment. It was all going okay until the hurricane blew in from the sea. When the wind came up strong, the only thing to do was get to a Red Cross shelter as quickly as possible. That's exactly where Bob took his wife and two kids. Two days later, they came back. The house had been torn apart. The shop had been wrecked. How to get lumber to rebuild, replace furniture. Where to stay in the meantime, and what about food and clothing? Those were the questions Bob and his wife asked each other. And those were the questions you answered through the Red Cross. The machine shop was reestablished. The house was rebuilt. The furniture repaired and replaced. In the meantime, temporary housing was found for the family. Clothing provided for the youngsters. Two months after the hurricane struck, Bob and his family were back in their own home. That's what you do when you give through the Red Cross. Patty Andrews joins me now in a tune we made a deck of record of for our Club 15 album. It's about a gal who is willing and a guy who is reluctant. Why won't you? One I want to thrill you. One I whisper with you. Why won't you? I don't know. Are we really ready? Ready to go steady? Yes, why won't you? Oh, tell me something. Hmm. I don't think it's right to let you court me. But life's too short to leave it all up to you. Well, listen. How do I know you can support me? Just call me moneybags. I'm lonely. If I say I do. It's exasperating. Tyrant. How do you keep me waiting? Why do you? Oh, I'm too weak to struggle. If you want to snuggle. So why don't you? Well, I'm not getting any younger, you know. People have been doing it for ages. Yeah, so they tell me. We won't be inventing something new. So tell me why, won't you? Tell me why, don't you? Tell me I love you. If my education needs some osculation, why won't you? Oh, Richard, if you want a teacher. Yeah, yeah. Well, boy, go out and get the preacher. Why don't you? You know what, chimes? Yeah, wedding chimes. People have been doing it for ages. That's what I've been telling. Say we won't be inventing nothing new. How did he get in here? Then tell me why, won't you? Tell me why, don't you? Tell me I love you. Won't you tell me I love you? Oh, thanks, Patty. You're welcome, Richard. Well, getting back to transcontinental travel, how do you prefer to go between L.A. and New York? On an expense account. It's a way to travel. Say, Adele, Adele Schabbert, what's your favorite way of traveling? Well, Dick, I'm from Texas. You know, Texas is where men travel by horse. I'm telling you. There just ain't anything as beautiful as a fine palomino mare racing across the prairie. I see. There just ain't nothing so exhilarating as the pounding hoofbeats of a proud pinto. I see. Yes, sir. When it comes to travel, now and forever, there's only one thing I crave. A cow pony? A Cadillac convertible. I'm telling you. Well, thanks, Tex. Now we're all going to travel to that mythical kingdom created by Cole Porter for a tune we all recorded together for our Club 15 album, Wunderbar. Wunderbar, Wunderbar, what a perfect night for love. Here am I, here you are, why it's truly Wunderbar. Wunderbar, Wunderbar, we're alone in hand and glove, not a cloud near or far, why it's more than Wunderbar. Oh, I care dear for you madly, and I long dear for your kiss. I would die dear for you gladly, you're divine dear, and you're mine dear. Wunderbar, Wunderbar, there's our favorite star above. What a bright shining star, like our love, it's Wunderbar. Its Wunderbar. And you're my dear. Wunderbar, wunderbar, there's our favorite star above. What a bright shining star. Like our love, it's wunderbar. Like our love, it's wunderbar. Your hand held out to your neighbor when he needs help. That's your American Red Cross. Bringing help wherever and whenever it's needed. Across the street, across the nation, across the world. Give generously. Give now. Time has come to drop a hint or two. Our Red Cross brings help where help is due. So help them as they help you. Give generously. Yes, friends, give generously to our American Red Cross. We can't urge you too much or too often. This is Dick Hames thanking you on behalf of the Andrews Sisters and myself for all you're going to do this year for our Red Cross. And that closes our Club 15 show for the Red Cross. Till we meet again, the best of ever. Today's Club 15 show, a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross, starred the Andrews Sisters with Jerry Gray and his orchestra and the head man of Club 15, Dick Hames. This is Adele Sherbet speaking. This program, written and produced by Carol Carroll and Ace Oaks, was made possible through the cooperation of the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, and the Radio Writers Guild. Someone waits for me. Across the street, across the nation, here's a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross, starring Bing Crosby with John Scott Trotter and his orchestra, Judd Collins with the mayors, and yours truly, Ken Carpenter. Hi, Bing. Hi, Ken. Say, Bing, I heard a recording of yours the other day that I like very much. Dear hearts and gentle people. Oh, yes, it's a nice little tune. I see the rhythm airs are gathering around. Maybe we sing it for you, huh? Fine. Let's go, kids. I love those dear hearts and gentle people Who live in my hometown Because those dear hearts and gentle people Will never ever let you down They read the good book from Friday to Monday That's how the weekend goes I've got a dream house I've got a dream house I'll fill there one day With picket fence and rambling roads I feel so welcome each time that I return That my happy heart keeps laughing like a clown I love the dear hearts and gentle people Who live in my hometown Who live in love in my hometown There's a place I'd like to go And it's back in Idaho Where your friendly neighbors smile and say hello It's a pleasure and a treat To meander down the street That's why I want the whole wide world to know I love those dear hearts and gentle people I love the dear hearts and gentle people Who live in my hometown Because those dear hearts and gentle people Will never ever let you down They read the good book from Friday till Monday That's how the weekend goes I've got a dream house I've got a dream house I've built there one day With picket fence and rambling roads I feel so welcome each time that I return That my happy heart keeps laughing like a clown I love the dear hearts and gentle people Who live in love in my hometown Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Home, home sweet home Thank you, Mr. Joe. Come in. Thank you, Luke. Thank you, Luke. Here's a new song. Recent recording for Decca. Decca. Sorry Can't you see that I'm sorry All my life I'll be sorry I was mean to you You're so near to me When you're dear to me When you're dear to me The whole world seems fine I need you so How I long to know You'll always be mine I'm sorry Will you ever forgive me Heaven knows I'll be sorry If you say we're through So have a heart Say we'll never part again Darling, I love you Darling, I love you Won't you tell me You're sorry too Sorry Can't you see that I'm sorry All my life All my life I'll be sorry I was mean to you You're so dear to me When you're near to me The whole world seems fine I need you so I need you so How I long to know You'll always be mine I'm sorry Will you ever forgive me Heaven knows I'll be sorry If you say we're through If you say we're through So have a heart Say we'll never part again Darling, I love you Won't you tell me You're sorry too Sorry, so sorry Won't you tell me You're sorry too Thank you, Buddy That's Buddy Cole on the piano Always very nimble Very agile Always pleasant Excellent taste In just about dead center Of the USA Lives a young boy Named Bobby Four years ago When he was 12 It was nip and tuck Whether he'd live at all He'd suffered from a rare disease And he needed transfusions Two pints a day To keep him alive Well the family was frantic Their blood didn't match And it wasn't easy Trying to find donors There were times in fact When Bobby's life Hung in the balance That was four years ago Today, Bobby is having another attack And as he himself puts it Once again, he's living on borrowed blood Over 250 transfusions so far But this time, every day, twice a day The blood is there Blood of the right type To keep Bobby alive The Red Cross is seen to that You're the people who have made it possible Through the dollars and the blood that you contribute These contributions help support the National Blood Program Which already has made blood available to the medical profession For use in 1,600 hospitals across this nation Across this nation Here's a song which Miss Patty Andrews has boosted into hit classification Almost entirely by her recording thereof The Red Cross I can see No matter how near you'll be You'll never belong to me But I can dream Can't I Can't I Can't I Can't I pretend I'm locked in the bend Of your embrace For dreams For dreams are just like wine And I am drunk with mine I'm aware My heart is a sad affair There's much disillusion there There's much disillusion there There's much disillusion there But I can dream Can't I Can't I Can't I adore you Although we are oceans apart I can't make you open your heart But I can dream Can't I Can't I Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Do you Hello Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Can't I adore you Mr. Tubby Garron, prominent oil man and song consultant to the stars, recommends I sing You're Wonderful from the Paramount Picture, Bitter Victory. That's some exceptional lyrics by Livingston and Evans and some compelling music by Victor Young. You're wonderful, you're all that I've yearned for, the flame that I've burned for, you're by my side to stay. Wonderful to be on a crest with this love we've been blessed with, it warms our every day. You complete the glow that was missing in casual kissing, the glow that comes with love. Now, my sweet, we're whirling, we're reeling, found a new feeling. It's wonderful, so wonderful, you're wonderful to love. Now, my sweet, we're whirling, we're reeling, we're not alone. It's wonderful, you're wonderful to love. You're wonderful, you're wonderful to love. Now, my sweet, we're whirling, we're reeling, found a new feeling. It's wonderful, so wonderful. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. Now, my sweet, we're whirling, we're reeling, found a new feeling. We're whirling, we're whirling, we're whirling, we're whirling, found a new feeling. It's wonderful, so wonderful. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. You're wonderful to love. Thanks, folks. And don't forget now, you are the ones who make the great work the Red Cross is doing. possible. So give generously, won't you? Your hand held out to your neighbor when he needs help. That's your American Red Cross bringing help wherever and whenever it's needed, across the street, across the nation, across the world. Give generously. Give now. Today's Bing Crosby Show, a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross, starred Bing Crosby with John Scott Trotter's orchestra, Judd Collins with the mayors, and yours truly, Ken Carpenter. This program was made possible through the cooperation of the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, and the Radio Writers Guild. Where'd you come from all the different starbots, you'd like to hear from your chosen lake on the river, even in the river, as of thehthalania, as of the needy home. By the way and before today's bi viendo, blue看板 is one of the young one Hippti's Thank you.