Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, how should we encourage democracy abroad? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the conflicts we meet in trying to contain Russian imperialism with one hand and promote democracy with the other. Can this be done? How should it be done? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Louise Leonard Wright, Director of the Midwest Office of the Institute of International Education, Hans Morgenthau, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy at the University of Chicago, Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political Science and Leland H. Carlson, Professor of History, both of Northwestern University. Now let's come directly to our question. Should we encourage democracy abroad? Why should we undertake anything like that, Morgenthau? What's the rationale behind our attempt to encourage democracy abroad? In my opinion, there's only one reason why we should encourage democracy abroad and that is the promotion of the objective of American foreign foreign policy. I would not believe for one moment that it is any of our business to embark upon an ideological crusade for the purpose of bringing democracy to the rest of the world. But there are regions on the face of the earth where it is vital in view of our political interests to strengthen or even to create a democratic government. Take for instance Western Europe. If we would not support democracy, let me say in France or Italy, France and Italy in all probability would be communist. And communism in those countries would mean an enormous and threatening expansion of Russian power. Take on the other hand, in all probability, the alternative to communism in those countries is some kind of democratic government. If let me say in Indonesia what they have got by way of democracy would fall, communism would be the alternative. And again, communism would mean a threatening expansion of Russian power. It is for this and no other reason, my goodness, that I believe we must support democracy and promote democracy in foreign countries. Well, now, Morgenthau wants no ideological crusade. He's made his position very clear. If we're going to promote democracy abroad, it should be done purely on the grounds of expediency. Do you go along with that, Carlson? I would like to take issue with that idea. The essence of democracy as a true idea is that it applies to all men, at all places, at all times. We must realize that the world cannot indefinitely remain half free and half slave. A house divided against itself cannot stand. And the world in which one nation after another is picked off by revolutionary undemocratic gentiles is not the world that we want. Well, now, Mrs. Wright, you have something to say on that. Well, I think it depends upon what kind of democracy you have in mind. Mr. Morgenthau, I assume, is thinking of political democracy, the imposing of institutions with which we are familiar in other countries, or in the cases of France and Italy, bolstering up institutions, democratic ones, which they already had. But I think that there are other kinds of democracy. And that is a kind of social democracy or economic democracy, which we are trying to promote through technical assistance, point for cultural exchange of persons programs. That, I think, serves quite a different purpose. And I believe, as far as our foreign policy is concerned, that we are only trying to promote democracy in the political, institutional sense in Germany and Japan, countries for which we have some responsibility. Well, McBurney, I believe that the kind of democracy that we are trying to encourage, I would stem both from a certain idealism within our own breasts and also the need for protecting our own foreign policy abroad. There are two great sources there. With regard to the kind of democracy, I would say that democracy, to our mind, is ruled by the majority of the people with safeguards for the minority. That is, constitutional safeguards of right of free speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, together with the right of opposition parties to oppose the government. And also, more than that, something that we call the American way of life, something that means that all people should share in the economic benefits of the country. That is, we should have a high standard of living. Now, I would stand with John Stuart Mill in his remarkable essay on representative government, in which he says that democracy or representative government is the highest kind of government in the world. But John Stuart Mill recognizes that not all peoples are ready for the kind of democracy Great Britain has or the United States has. He says that the criterion should be, for any given people, as to the government that they should have, what form of government best develops or brings out the good qualities of the governed. And so, it may well be that Yugoslavia or Spain are not ready for American democracy. That is very evident. Yet, that doesn't mean that we should not associate ourselves with them and use them as allies in the great effort to combat communism. And I would also add that the American way of life traditionally calls for, of course, examples. We should set a good example to the rest of the world with the kind of government we have. Our American way of life is called for good faith to our allies. It is called for honesty in government and self-determination of peoples. For a long time, the Arab world was very sympathetic to the United States because we supported self-determination of peoples. But when Mr. Truman's administration sold out the Arabs in Israel, we lost the Arab world because we behaved in a very undemocratic manner. And then when we deserted our ally, Chiang Kai-shek, and helped his enemies, Mao Tse Tung and the Chinese Reds, to capture China, we set a very bad example to the rest of the world. And right today, our government is dishonest, is full of corruption from beginning to end, 20 years of corruption under Roosevelt and Truman. This is a very bad example of democracy to set to the world. I'm very much impressed with what Kolkow has said, even though I have my doubts as to the examples he has mentioned. If I remember correctly, the Arabs were overwhelmingly in favor of the Axis during the Second World War, long before Mr. Truman recognized Israel. Furthermore, in so far as Chiang Kai-shek is concerned, I would say that no country has an obligation, and Hamilton already recognized that in 1793, the country has an obligation to commit suicide in order to support its allies. I doubt, however, very much that example by itself is a very potent weapon in foreign affairs. After all, what good did it do to the Danes or the Norwegians or the Dutch in the Second World War, that they set a wonderful example for democracy? They say military power was the only thing that counted. And in comparison with Nazism, it was so slim that it could not save them. So I think we ought to put those different elements of the problem into the right perspective. And we ought to realize that setting an example is important, but it is by no means the most important aspect of the problem which confronts us. I'm afraid Mr. Martin thought isn't putting this in the right perspective when he speaks of democracy in Denmark. You have to be big and strong to make an impression upon other countries. Denmark was small and weak. We, because of our greatness and our strength, of course, will set an impressive example, on the one hand because we are large and strong, on the other hand because we are upright, honest, and back policies which are eternally good. Well, I think there's no question that we would concede the importance, some importance at least, to the power of example in encouraging democracy abroad. And what constitutes a good example is a matter we might discuss at considerable length here. But I would like to explore specifically the issue that Morgenthau raised earlier here. Whether we are not involved in two contradictory policies in our attempt to contain Russia, Russian imperialism on the one hand, and our attempt to promote democracy abroad in the other. Now we, we get ourselves into some pretty strange inconsistencies, at least they strike me as such. Nobody's ever improved on the statement that politics makes strange bedfellows. And I think that that applies to our present situation. If we are going to contain Russia in a military sense, using our power, as Mr. Morgenthau suggests, then you have to use people and countries who have military power, strategic positions, and that of course includes countries with whose ideology we do not agree. But that they serve a very definite purpose. If, and that I would say is the short range and the immediate and crucial question perhaps. But there is an awful lot of the world that is still in a state of flux and is forming its political ideas and developing its political institutions. And it seems to me it's that other part of the world. I speak of the Middle East and India, Pakistan, Southeast Asia, to a lesser extent Latin America, all parts of the world where there is an opportunity, I think, by setting an example of what democracy can mean for people. That democracy may be the pattern which will be evolved. And I, the danger lies in the fact that in making friends for immediate military purposes, we alienate those whose minds we are trying to influence by our own democratic ideas. Carlson? Mr. McBurney, one policy I think is negative and the other is positive. Frequently we have to follow policies that seem to be close to expediency and others that are close to pure principle. Also, I think nations frequently must follow both policies at the same time. Of course, I take it if I follow Morgenthau, he repudiates the whole notion of trying to export American democracy abroad. Well, I don't, I wouldn't go so far, but if you put it this way, I certainly oppose the export of democracy for its own sake. I would indeed say that it is none of the business of any nation to export its way of life, its political institutions, its political philosophy to other nations. We have a plurality of nations, of ways of life, and of political philosophies in the world. And each ought to be, ought to be, ought to be saved, uh, on its own fashion. So, uh, the idea of a crusade, it doesn't appeal to me at all. But we must stand there, Mr. McBurney, for the kind of government and political philosophy where the people are truly sovereign, where the possibility of free expression and public opinion exists, and where the rights of a minority are respected. Now, whether you call that exporting the idea or standing for it, we must, I think, stand behind that kind of doctrine. Mr. McBurney, I, I agree though, Mr. Morgenthau, that different countries, different cultures, different civilizations have their own way of looking at this. The, uh, Arab, um, groups in, in the Near East will tell you that they have a higher degree of democracy than we have. In Liberia, they have, um, places called the palaver tents. Of course, the Russians say that too. And so, I think that you, you can't, um, talk about democracy as an entity. I think you have to break it down into the practices and, uh, the opportunities which, um, our particular form of government gives to people. But you have to remember, when you talk, Mr. Carlson, about people being allowed to express themselves and have their rights, you're talking about rights which more than half the people in the world can't even read about. That's the sad fact in the world today. You're talking about a world that is... Therefore, we must seek to, uh, spread the right, as it were, to express themselves. I don't think you spread a right to, uh, spread the, uh, facilities with which you learn to read. And that's exactly what the United States is trying to do through its technical assistance program. And it's, uh, democracy is based on education. And we are trying to, uh, expedite the educational processes of the world. And, uh, McGranny, it seems to me that, uh, uh, countries should, of course, uh, export their best products. Uh, whether these are commercial goods or whether they're ideas. And democracy, of course, is a great idea, a great ideal at the same time. And we think a practical and helpful way of life. The only question is, uh, how to export it. And it seems to me, uh, that the most effective way, uh, to, uh, export, uh, this, uh, idealism, is through private enterprise, uh, through private institutions, rather than by the government. Uh, nations, uh, who, uh, are propagandized by other nations, by other foreign governments, are, of course, very suspicious, uh, of them. And I think American democracy through, uh, our government has not been very effective abroad. But I think, uh, our private American citizens have been very successful, uh, in, uh, bringing the, uh, American way of life to foreign countries all over the world. Uh, our missionaries, both Catholic missionaries and Protestant missionaries, in the Orient particularly, in Japan, in Korea, uh, in China, uh, have, uh, spread a democratic way of life, uh, that is truly remarkable. Their medical missionaries have brought, uh, health and comfort to a large number of people. They've taught these foreign, uh, uh, countries, uh, these peoples to read and to write. And thus, uh, lifted the educational standard. Then my American colleges abroad, uh, Robert College in Constantinople, American College in Beirut, American College in Cairo, have, uh, uh, promoted American thinking and American democracy in a way that is very effective and in a way that doesn't cause these people to be suspicious because it's governmental propaganda. I'd like to point out that Mr. Colgrove has really described the present American government program under technical assistance. Point four, the, uh, medical, uh, medical work, agricultural work, the educational work, is just what the government is financing. The only difference is... No, I haven't described it that way, Mrs. Wright. Well, I'm sorry, but I... Because I'm talking about the missionaries and the American colleges, not connected with the government whatsoever. So don't get me wrong on that point. I, I understand that, but the type of work which the missionaries did do, and are still doing, uh, is also now being done by the government, in the sense that the government is providing the funds, but the, the actual work has to be done by private individuals, in many cases by private institutions, but it is greatly expedited because there is more money and more talent available. It's simply speeding up the process which you so admire. Uh, I fully agree with the objectives of point four. The pities only, uh, that, uh, the noble formulation of that principle in, uh, Mr. Truman's, uh, message, uh, to the Union of January 1950, has, uh, remained almost a dead letter. Very little is being done, uh, in, uh, that field. May I question that? Why, why do you say that? Well, look at the, uh, amount of money which has been appropriated for point four, and compare it with the amount of money which has been appropriated for, uh, military and economic assistance in Europe, and with, uh, the, uh, with the money spent for rearmament? That's, that's quite true, but there's several answers to that. I think one is that, uh, you and others think that the money should go into the military establishment. Another is that point four, insofar as it is a technical assistance program, does not involve large expenditures of money. It's great bottleneck is personnel getting the people who are trained to do it. And as you must have noticed this week, in the, President Truman's last message for foreign aid, he jumped his request for point four funds from the original thirty five million to six hundred and fifty million, which is still a very small sum compared to the military expenditures, but it shows that the experience of the last two or three years must justify what is a terrific expansion and the amount of money being spent for this purpose. There are, uh, the numbers of countries that have applied for assistance and the projects that are underway, I think, uh, would, uh, belie your statement that it is not being effective. Well, now, is the purpose of this point four program through which we give, uh, economic and technical assistance to some of the, quote, underprivileged areas of the world, unquote, is the purpose of that to encourage democracy abroad? Well, I would say that it is, uh, certainly, uh, its purpose is certainly to encourage opposition to, uh, communism. Uh, as far as democracy itself is concerned, I doubt that you can say that the direct effect of those programs will necessarily be as a strengthening of whatever roots democracy has, uh, in those countries. Um, I don't believe at all that you can put point four under the heading of export of democracy. Uh, after all, we tried to export, uh, democracy, uh, in two world wars, and the end result was that after those wars fought for democracy, we had less democracy than we had before. So I don't believe that you can really say, uh, point four is an attempt, uh, to spread democracy and to bring the, uh, ideas of American democracy to the rest of the world. It is rather an attempt to improve the social and economic health of certain nations, which, if their health is not improved, will fall prey to communism. Before we leave this point, perhaps, uh, I ought to call attention to one thing that Mrs. Wright has said, uh, with which I would very much, uh, disagree. And that is that the government can do a better job, uh, in teaching democracy to, uh, foreign people. I'm sorry, I simply said the government could provide money, which is, uh, in larger amounts than private people are willing to do at the moment. All right. And that means, of course, that they will be more effective because they get over more, uh, uh, spend more money. Now, uh, what I was trying to say was this, that foreign peoples are always suspicious that anything that the government does. And it could be that, uh, private people, private institutions, uh, uh, could spend just as much money in this respect as the government is. If, uh, the present administration didn't tax the American people beyond, uh, all reason, as they're doing at the present time, they'd have more money, uh, to spend for, uh, education of, uh, uh, foreigners for reference to democracy. Again, I might suggest that we could have national legislation, uh, which would, uh, give us a little larger deduction from our income tax, as 15% now for charitable and educational institutions might add an extra 5% or 10% deduction from income tax, uh, to those persons, uh, who gave money, uh, to private institutions, uh, for, uh, education, uh, uh, abroad. Uh, that system, uh, would undoubtedly allow, uh, private institutions, private, uh, organizations, uh, churches, and, uh, private individuals to carry on this more effective, uh, this less governmental, this less propaganda, uh, method, uh, trying to, uh, teach democracy to our fellow beings in all parts of the world. Mr. Chairman, I should like to make two observations there. One is that if people were given a greater allowance in their income taxes, the chances are they would spend the surplus more for automobiles and pleasures than they would for aiding educational institutions over the world. The other has to do with a point that Mr. Morgenthau made. I wonder if it's true that there was less democracy after World War I. I would recall there that because of that conflict, the Austrian Empire, the Russian Empire, the German Empire, and the Turkish Empire all collapsed. And with their collapse, I think, went at least the possibility of the building of a future democracy. But I would not, uh, agree with that, uh, simply on the basis of historic evidence. Uh, where, uh, on the basis of the collapse of the Russia, of the Turkish Empire, uh, did there arise a viable democracy? Where, on the basis of the collapse of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, did there arise a viable democracy? And after all, if you regard Germany, uh, it was a very weak democracy which prepared the way, uh, for the most ruthless totalitarian, uh, system, uh, the world, the modern world, uh, has seen. Uh, so I would certainly stick to my original proposition. And with regard to the effects of the Second World War, uh, upon democracy, I think the evidence is obvious. It is also a strange fact which we are not to lose sight of, that today, when the United States is the most powerful nation on Earth, its ideals are less popular in the rest of the world, than it has ever been before. Do you think that's... Excuse me. I was going to ask you, Mrs. Wright, and perhaps it's what you wanted to say anyway. Uh, what are you trying to do? What is, what is our government trying to do? Mr. Colgrove thinks it ought to be in private hands to make our, uh, our way of life more popular. Well, Ms. Uh, I was going to comment on Mr. Morgenthau's statement. Our government is making a very definite effort to make our, our way of life more popular by taking, uh, what some people would think is a, uh, large risk, inviting leaders from countries literally all over the world to come to the United States and see democracy. I agree that you cannot export democracy. After all, it's a way of life and it has to be demonstrated. And so we are inviting people to come and see a demonstration. The government spends several million, again, a very small number, amount, compared to, uh, military expenditures, but, uh, a substantial amount when you think in terms of, um, travel and, uh, for various leaders and specialists. We have, um, agricultural people, we have educational people, we have press people, radio people, movie people, uh, uh, musicians. Every profession, I believe, uh, has been represented in the leaders and specialists who were brought to this country to see the way we do things like that. And I like to, and it's called the Exchange of Persons Program. We send some Americans abroad with this amount of money, but we bring many more here. And I think that the, um, one of the great, um, results of it is to combat Soviet propaganda in a field which most Americans don't think about too much, and that is in the cultural field. When you say people don't like our, our, our ideals, I think it's because of their ignorance. I, uh, sometimes blush at the, uh, conception which these visitors have of Chicago, as a, a city made up entirely of stockyards and gangsters. And when I, uh, show them the Art Institute and the medieval manuscripts and the scientific developments and the largest medical center in the world and so on, they realize that the United States has a cultural aspect with which they were not familiar before they came. Uh, I would not doubt for a moment the value of this Exchange of Persons Program. I would, however, again say that a foreigner, however, uh, impressed he may be through his visit, uh, of, uh, by the, uh, results of American democracy, if he comes back to his own country into an environment which is essentially anti-democratic, where all these social and economic conditions militate against a viable democracy, his visit will have had no great effect, if any effect at all, upon the promotion of democracy abroad. But what can you promote? But how do you promote education? I think anybody who's in an educational field should be in sympathy with this program. Well, as I said, I am a single- Because you train leaders, you, you start ideas going, and you take a chance. Our, the great difficulty, of course, is that we may not have time for this program to develop. Well, McBurney, it seems to me that, uh, the, uh, uh, whole question of, uh, education abroad, uh, so far as the United States is concerned, uh, should be in the hands of private institutions and not in the hands of the government. I think, uh, such a thing as, uh, uh, the, uh, uh, moral rearmament movement, uh, let's say, uh, of, uh, the Buckmanites is doing much more than our State Department is doing at the present time in promoting, uh, democracy abroad. At least it's reaching, at least it's reaching the communists. I certainly don't- And again, I would say this, that every, uh, person abroad who has to deal with the State Department and the United States government is suspicious of persons transported to this country for the purpose, they think, of indoctrination. But I don't- They would not be suspicious of individuals who invited them to come here on their own. I don't agree with this at all, of course. I think the main task of our government ought to be to promote in countries such as Italy and France, uh, I see preconditions for democracy by pressing for land reform in Italy, for tax reform in- in France and Italy, and so forth. I'm sorry, Mr. Morgenthau, Mrs. Wright and gentlemen, but our time is up. You have been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Should We Encourage Democracy Abroad? We want to thank our guests for today, Leland Carlson, Associate Professor of History, Northwestern University, Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political Science, Northwestern University, Hans Morgenthau, Director of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy, University of Chicago, and Louise Leonard Wright, Director of the Midwest Office of the Institute of International Education. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents and coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next twelve weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Some people say that our country's economy cannot stand up under the strain of combined civilian and defense production. With taxes and living costs going higher, there may be good reason to evaluate the health of our economy. Next week the reviewing stand proposes to do exactly that, as we ask the question, Can we have guns and butter? Our guests will be Swan Bergstrom, Chief of the Metal Working Equipment Division of the National Production Authority. Gail Brosen, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. John S. Coleman, President of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. And A.M. Sargent, President and General Manager of the Pioneer Engineering and Manufacturing Company. We hope you will join us next week when we discuss the question, Can we have guns and butter? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service of the Mutual Network. Your announcer on this occasion has been Don Sims. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The Northeast Swan toикаITE is at a last week when results will continue to came up on the удrillbench of theислoc gird 호. Now movie is C! This assistant is produced by two of thewasn district's