Ladies, I hope that breaking in in the middle of your luncheon like this will not interfere with the service, and I hope the waiters keep on working and serving you. It's my fault if I couldn't arrange it at a later time. I have great honor to welcome you officially to our city. We welcome all conventions, but here is one that is of unusual importance, and this part of the program where the ladies have taken over, especially in the line of business that is being considered here. It makes it a very important one for me to come and talk to you. I see that platform there, ladies. You're going to have a fashion show. I'm almost sure of that. I've seen enough people around here since I came in to know that you're going to have a fashion show. That I do. I would ask nothing better where we have conventions, especially where the ladies are along, than to have for each convention, if possible, a fashion show. The reason for that is very simple. Number one, we believe that here in New York, we have a fountainhead established in the fashion field. I believe that here is something that we have taken away from the world and held for the United States of America. I feel that if we had these fashion shows with our conventions, that that would do just that much more for the industry and all the allied parts of the industry of which you are such a great part. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there is this. We get down to a simple problem of what you're doing right now, the problem of food on the table of our workers here in the city. We have such a huge volume of that business, and our people are depending so largely upon it that you'll be surprised what would happen to New York if we lost the fashion industry and industry and lost the allied businesses that go with it. Consequently, when you come again, I hope it'll be next year. We mightn't have a convention hall for you next year, but two years from now, we'll be well on our way of having one of the best, I hope, convention halls in the whole world, where large conventions and small ones alike can be served. Until that time, we'll do the best we can with what we can give you, and I hope you'll enjoy the fashion show. More than that, I hope you'll enjoy your visit to New York and that you'll think well of us when you leave, well enough to come back again soon. Thank you very much. You've just heard the mayor of the city of New York speaking to you direct from the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, 12 hours after he spoke here last night on another occasion when he was the host to the United Nations in the Fourth Assembly here in New York City. The occasion was the 51st convention of the Retail National Association of Retail Druggists in the organization by Cody Incorporated for this festivity here at the Waldorf. You've just heard the mayor introduced by Grover Ray Whalen, and that concludes our broadcast. We return you to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.