The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. Yes, it's the Police Safety Program, brought to you with the cooperation that is on of the Mayor and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful. You cross a corner when the light is green. Be a little bit careful. You cross a corner, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful makes me safer and safer. You're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful. And take it easy, don't be in a rush. Say, that's true. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, boys and girls. Say, didn't we have a fine time last week on our trip to Careful Sound? You know, we're going to go again real soon. But today, you know, we're going to have a debate. Mm-hmm. Yes, you know what, a debate. It's sort of a round table talk about the safe way to play ball. And today, we have a special guest. But I'll tell you all about him later. Say, Mr. Narrator, could I say something? Why, of course, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. What is it? Well, the other day, I received a letter from Mopey Careless. Mm-hmm. And I'd like to read it to you. Well, now, you go right ahead. We all want to hear what Mopey has to say. Well, it says, uh, dear Mr. Singing Policeman, for a long time, you and Mr. Narrator have been very helpful to me. Every week, you've told me how to do things the safe way. And even when I was careless, you still were very kind to me. My mother and teacher said yesterday that they think I've become very careful. So now that I don't have to be Mopey Careless anymore, I'm going to spend Saturday mornings helping other careless boys and girls. I'm going to teach them what I've learned from you. And, uh, thank you very much. And he signed the letter, Mopey Careless. Mopey Careless, who used to be careless. Oh, I see. Say, isn't that wonderful? You see, boys and girls, Mopey isn't going to be careless anymore. He's going to be careful from now on. You know, I never would believe that, how he changed so much. My goodness. You know, when he first came to us, he couldn't do anything safely. No, he wouldn't even look to the left, or he wouldn't look to the right when he crossed at the corner. That is, if he ever did cross at the corner at all. And you know what he used to do? He used to walk out into the open roadway from behind our car. He did everything wrong. But now, mm-hmm, now he seems to have become safety-wise, and I'm very glad. Well, it's about time that we start our debate. But first, since I'm going to be on the subject of play ball, I think that Mr. Singing Safety Police should sing the song, Play Ball. Play ball, play ball, everyone likes to play ball. Sometimes you catch it, and sometimes you miss. But when you misremember this, Let the ball roll, let the ball roll, No matter where it may go, Let the ball roll, let the ball roll, It has to stop sometime, you know. Oh, thank you very much, Mr. Singing Safety Police, and that was fine. Well, now let us pull our chairs up to the table. Everybody pull around. Now you sit right there, and I'll sit here. And I'm going to introduce our special guest this morning. Everybody takes a seat. You know, my first job now is to introduce the speakers. And sitting here on my left side is Jim Alert. How do you do? How do you do, Jim? You know, Jim is a little boy, but he obeys all the safety rules. Yes, Jim does everything that other boys do. He goes to school. He helps his mother, and he plays games, just like you and I do. He does everything the safe way. Say, Jim, tell us, how did you become so careful? I'll be glad to, Mr. Narrator. You see, I've been listening to this program for a long time. I listen every Saturday. And a few months ago, I decided to see if I could do everything the safe way and still have fun. And I found out I could. Isn't that wonderful? As a matter of fact, I have more fun now. I don't get hurt and have to stay in the house while the other boys and girls are out playing outside. Now, since I've been careful, my mother lets me go out almost any place by myself because she knows I'll be careful. Some of my friends used to tease me. They used to say I was a goody-goody. But when they saw I was having so much fun, they stopped kidding me. I wanted to learn all about the safety rules. And do you know something else? Yes. I've always wanted to be on the radio. And now I am because I was so careful. Well, that's a very interesting story, Jim. You know, you're a smart boy. And I wish other boys and girls could find out that they also can be careful and they also can have just as much fun. Well, now, everybody's seated and let us start our debate about playing ball. You know, our speakers will be Jim Alert and Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. Say, what was that? What was that? Who laughed? Who laughed? Did you even laugh there, Jim? I did. I'm laughing at you. Oh, old man accident. How did you get in here? And where did you come from? Well, I heard you were going to talk about playing ball. And I always catch so many of the boys and girls at that game. Jim, I came up to laugh at you because I don't think you'll be able to make the ball play as careful. Well, we can make you stop laughing, old man accident. And by the time we get through with our debate this morning, you'll be out of a job. You think so, maybe. Oh, you be quiet, old man accident. You know, we're too polite to throw you out on your ear. So we'll have to let you sit over in the corner and you just leave us alone. Oh, just a minute, Mr. Narrator. What is it, Jim? We're not afraid of old man accidents. Suppose you'll let him sit with us and everything he tells us about certain troubles, we'll tell the boys and girls how to avoid them. See, that's a good idea, Jim. All right. Come on, you sit down here, you old rascal. We'll watch you. Now, Jim, Jim Alert. You tell us all about the ball games that you play. Well, we play regular baseball. And then there's stickball. Stickball? What's stickball? Well, that's something like baseball. But you see, we use a broomstick for a bat. Oh, I'd love to see the boys play stickball. Oh, I would that. Why do you like to see the boys play stickball? I can answer that, Mr. Narrator. Yes? You see, the stick is much longer than a baseball bat and thinner. And it's harder to hit the ball with it. So the boys concentrate so hard on batting, they get careless and swing without looking to see if someone may be behind them. Oh, yes, and I know another reason. You see, it's hard to control a broomstick. And I've seen plenty of boys who are good with a regular baseball bat. But they hit wild in stickball. And you know something? Yes. Sometimes they break windows. Well, now, Jim, do you think that the boys and girls should stop playing stickball? Do you think so, Mr. Safety Police? No. Well, we understand that everyone can't afford to buy a baseball bat. And we do want the children to have fun. But we also want them to be careful. Stickball or baseball should be played only in an empty lot or in a park. Oh, no. I wouldn't like that. Nope, nope. Of course you wouldn't, old man accident. You know that if the boys and girls play on a play street or in a park, and if they play out in the street, of course, they could be run over by cars. And then, of course, if they play in stickball in the street, they could also hit a baby in a baby carriage with the ball. Or they could even hurt somebody else who was walking by. And then you would have a fine time, huh? Oh, yes, yes. I really catch a lot of people when the boys and girls play ball in the streets or on the sidewalks. Oh, we know you, old man accident. Don't forget, boys and girls aren't dumb. It's just that they get excited and forget to think about safety rules. Well, there must be something that we can do about that. Oh, no. There's nothing you can do. I'll always catch somebody. Oh, is that so? Yes, that's right. And what are you going to say about the thing to do when the ball rolls out into the street? Why, that's easy. We tell the boys and girls to ask some grown-up person to pick up the ball for them. Yes, yes, I know that. But suppose no grown-up is around. You don't think the boys are just going to stand by and let their ball get lost? Well, who's going to get them a new one? In other words, old man accident, you want to know how a boy or a girl and what they should do if the ball should roll out into the roadway where the cars are and they can't find a grown-up person around to get it for them? Well, I'm going to let one of my friends here this morning answer that. Jimmy Alert, can you answer that question? I'd like to answer that, Mr. Narrator. Well, you go right ahead, Jimmy Alert. Well, thank you very much. Now, you listen to me, old man accident. I'll admit you asked a hard question, but I've got the answer. The boys don't have to lose their ball if it rolls out into the street. All they have to do is to wait until it stops rolling. Then one of the fellas, after he looks very careful to the left and then to the right to see that no cars are coming, can walk out into the street and pick up the ball. If he obeys those safety rules, he won't get hurt when he goes after his ball. Well, Jimmy Alert, you're getting too smart for me. I can see that I won't be able to catch you. I'm going out into the street and find some boys and girls who aren't as careful as you are. And I'm sure old man accident will catch someone yet. You get out of here. You know, I'm glad that that old fella is gone. He worries me. After all, there are so many careless boys and girls and old man accident just walks up and down the street looking for someone who is careless. Someone who could have an accident. Oh, if only boys and girls would be careful. Old man accident would be out of business. Excuse me, but there's one thing I want to ask about ball playing. You know, a lot of boys and girls wouldn't play on the sidewalks or in the street if they knew where to play. Wait a minute now, wait a minute. I'll answer that question. But first, don't you think that we should wind up that other discussion about balls rolling into the street? What do you say if I sing that play ball again? Oh, yes, Mr. Singer, safe replacement. Would you please sing that song again? Very good. Play ball, play ball. Everyone likes to play ball. Sometimes you catch it And sometimes you miss But when you miss Remember this Let the ball roll Let the ball roll No matter where it may go Let the ball roll Let the ball roll It has to stop Sometime You know That's true. The ball really has to stop sometime And then you'll be safe if you go after it. That's a very good song, Mr. Singer, Safety Police. Thank you, Mr. Narrator. Now, I want to answer Jimmy's question about where to play. First, there are plenty of parks in our wonderful city with special ball fields and if they're occupied, then, of course, the safe thing to do would be to look for an empty lot. Well, we've done that but sometimes a man comes along and tells us we're trespassing. Have you ever thought of asking the policeman in your neighborhood to find out where you can play ball? Now, he probably knows an empty lot on which the owner wouldn't mind you having a game. Instead of going ahead and doing something that may be wrong, it's always smart and safe to ask first. Well, that's very true and thank you very much, Mr. Singer Policeman. You've helped a lot. You know, this has been a very interesting talk this morning and I want to thank you, Jimmy Alert and I want to thank you, Mr. Singer Safety Policeman. And I think everybody has learned a lot this morning. Of course, we must always remember that you don't have to be foolish to have fun because when you're out playing ball this spring, we want you to be careful and play in a safe place. Oh, say, listen. After all, you will be crossing streets so let's get our safety thinking for a minute, huh? A little safety thinking. Here we go. Think. Concentrate. First corner. Then look. Traffic light. Green. Then look. Left. Then look. Right. And here is something else we want each boy and girl to remember. To walk safely. Remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner. Don't run in the street. Because that's where trouble and accidents meet. Walk safely. You look left and right. The roadway is no place to play. Be cautious in bad weather. Be glad we're safe together as you walk safely each day. Yes, we want everybody, boys and girls and everybody, to learn that they can play safely and have just as much fun doing so. And remember, everybody, we'll be back again next Saturday at the same time with another police safety program and we'll have Mr. Piano and Mr. Singing Safety Policeman and perhaps we'll have a surprise guest. Will you listen in? Remember, be careful until next Saturday. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.