Of course it is, up to that point of how was it defined clear and present danger. There can come a point where you don't want discussion if you're going to have to make a bayonet attack. But short of that and behind that, if the bayonet attack is to have any meaning, there must be, all the time, steady discussion and steady clarification of what it's supposed to accomplish. Of course, Maurer, there's one other aspect to this thing. I think you're on sound ground in this, as is Corey. We spend millions of dollars in this country every year on an educational system. Public schools, private schools, colleges, universities, and so on. Now the assumption of that whole educational system is that people can be educated. And by that you mean that they are able to make judgments themselves. It's a strange sort of an anachronism that some of the people who stand for an educational system should at the same time be proposing now that we put a muzzle on authors because the people aren't qualified to make the judgments. Well, isn't it perhaps the fault, perhaps, of the libraries and of that educational system that they have brought people up to believe that you can ignore ideas, you can even ignore the task of reading, of thinking? That's a challenging idea, certainly, Mr. Maurer, which I hope we'll also get to later on. I think that probably few people realize that the real impact of libraries is limited by their lack of availability in many parts of the country, with more than a fourth of the people in this country not even having access to a public library. Two questions occur to me. What are some of the implied qualities of this author that you gentlemen have in mind when you say he should define a faith and speak out? Secondly, how? How can he do it? What about his technique? Should he dramatize this problem? What would you say, Maurer? On the first, what about the implied attributes of this author? Thomas Jefferson did it first by writing a public declaration. Tom Payne did it by writing pamphlets. I suppose, in a funny way, George Bernard Shaw at least pruned away a lot of negative things by writing plays. I don't think it makes much difference what medium he uses, as long as he uses it skillfully and gets enough attention. We've talked about the role of the author. I think we should underline the fact that we're not just talking about the role of the contemporary author or the future author, but that the writings of Thomas Jefferson and Tom Payne and Mark Twain, if you will, have a very definite role to play in an understanding of the present crisis as well as contemporary writing. But isn't in this whole thing, Mr. Hans, the central question that we hold to the principle, which is underlying the entire American society, that you have a free society? I don't think it's for us to say how an author shall write or what he shall write about. What I'm concerned about is that if somebody who wants to write gets a chance to print it, and having gotten a chance to print it, he has a chance to get it out where other people can read it, and that you judge ideas from authors in terms of a philosophy of free enterprise of ideas, which to me is even more important than free enterprise in business. But the author, as we see it, important though he is, certainly isn't alone in this problem. What about the reader? What is his role in this time of crisis? It's much the same way, it's much the same role as the author's. I want him to read more than he does. I come back to my taxi cab driver. I'm a little ashamed of that fellow for answering me as he did. It's his job, really, to find out what the American way of life is, what the values are that he ought to believe in. Ninety percent, at least, of the America that we live in is inherited. The ideas that we have, the roads that we travel upon, the kind of clothes that we wear, the institutions under which we live. It seems to me that part of the job of authors today, and certainly of readers, is to set forth in a way that people can understand some of the great traditions that have made us what we are. People will read better books when they are under emotional tensions and in time of crisis than they will ordinarily, and they will try to think. And they are compelled to think. But this also gives libraries, which are the repositories of the great books of the past, an opportunity to bring more readers into the libraries and let them know what is happening. One word more. It is true your taxi cab driver has a responsibility to know what he stands for, but I would suggest that in all likelihood, he went through a school and nobody ever taught him. That his first responsibility was to try to find out what he is, or what he thinks he is, and what he thinks the country ought to do. Of course, I think there's another aspect to this. It's all very well and good to quote the taxi cab driver and to feel concerned about him. I won't ask Mr. Pargellis whether he helped the poor fellow see what the answer to the question perhaps should have been. It seems to me that there are a lot of people in this country who believe in the kind of society we have and who do understand the crisis and they do know what America means to them, who are not speaking up and not saying so. And they're leaving the field too much to those who would like to run the system down. Now, I think we've got to keep a little historical perspective on this problem. Bear in mind who America is, what America is. It's an awfully young country. I compare, for instance, coming across from Washington here to Chicago on the train looking out over the plains of Ohio with riding across on a train, if you like, from Le Havre in France down to Marseille. Well, in our country, everything looks as though it was still built sort of yesterday and it might blow down tomorrow. And the people are coming and going fast. They're moving on to other jobs. They're going out to the West Coast and then from there they come back. The Frenchman who looks out on his countryside has his history, his heritage impressed upon him at every turn. That's one of his weaknesses. He's always looking backward. But we're looking forward so much sometimes that I think you're not giving the fellow a chance. What a good debate we could have, Mr. Laverne. This is the oldest country in the world as far as an established constitution is concerned. Every other people has passed through a revolution and not we. I'm not talking about the constitution. I'm talking about the houses, the buildings, the roads, the trees. The literature, the whole cultural heritage. I was going to say that if we want to, if we say the first responsibility of the reader or even the non-reader is to do more reading, we also have to recognize his right to have access to more reading material and more qualified reading material. Your publishers, Mr. Maher and McGraw-Hill, would probably like to see more copies of Challenge and Decision available. We'd like to see more books of that kind and related materials available to the people for purchase and for home use and particularly through the publicly supported agencies of education, including the public libraries. Mr. Maher-Hillis could have invited his taxi cab man to come to the library. Mr. Maher, I took his name and we're going to, we hope we're going to have some discussions. Thank you. There's a big question in my mind, gentlemen. You say that the reader has a responsibility to read more, to get his mind straight. What can the author do, perhaps, in a sense of interrelationship to help him do that? Well, in the presence of a distinguished author like Mr. Maher, let me answer that. It seems to me the author has a great responsibility as citizen. We classify people altogether too much here. One person's supposed to be just doing the reading and another one's supposed to be doing the writing. We're all citizens in this thing. We're all going to make decisions when we go to the ballot box and vote. We're in favor of this policy. We're opposed to that policy. And the author, as well as the reader, are in the same boat so far as that goes. I'm vitally concerned with a right of the reader, as well as these responsibilities that we've talked about. And that is that he shall have full access to conflicting ideas, to controversial points of view, to minority opinions, if you will, so that the conflict can be resolved through his own thinking and exploration. I think we all agree on that. And I think I agree certainly with Mr. Lavas that the primary duty of authors and readers, taxi cab drivers, senators, and the president of the United States particularly in times of crisis, is to be a good citizen. Could I build on that, Mr. Maurer? I was really very much shocked when somebody told me yesterday, and bear in mind I haven't had a chance to check it whether the facts are true. I can't believe they're true. But somebody told me that out in the state of Oklahoma there's been an attack upon the freedom of the library. Someone says, again, I haven't looked into it, that some self-appointed group of pseudo-patriots have decided that certain books should not be on the library shelves. In fact, they've been trying to keep the librarian from freely buying books which will help people make up their minds. I say I'm shocked. I'm scared to tell the truth. Because if we are already, before the war has begun, resorting to tactics which are so typical of a communist society, then I think we really are in a bad way. I must say that I'm sorry to report that those examples are not really isolated at the moment. The American Library Association has felt it desirable and necessary to adopt a principle of statement, a library bill of rights, which states that in no case should any book be excluded from libraries because of the race or nationality or the political or religious views of the writer. Gentlemen, as we bring this discussion to a close, I'd like to ask each of you if you would state briefly what point you'd like to emphasize. Pargillis, what thought would you like to leave with us? It seems to me that out of this discussion has grown the renewed necessity of libraries doing perhaps more than they have done in the past in stimulating people to read not merely books like Mr. Maurer's but books which were written in the past as well. You mean better books? And getting them not better books, just older books. And in getting them together to discuss them. Maurer? In 1933, I stood with a crowd of people before the University of Berlin and watched a horde of hoodlum students throwing books into a huge bonfire. And it seemed to me that the decadence of Germany began right at that moment and that all their other horrors resulted somehow from it. We have got somehow or other to come through this crisis without imitating that horrible example. Larvis? Well, I would say it very simply this way that freedom has to be exercised if you're going to maintain it. You have to keep exercising the muscles of freedom. I'd say secondly that our entire national way of life in the United States as that of all other free peoples depends today on the maintenance of the United Nations approach represented by the United Nations Agency. And thirdly, I'd say that the best way of achieving the kind of a society we want is to fight for it vigorously in every individual community whether it's on a library issue or whether it's on a vote for a member of Congress. My point of emphasis is best reflected by the anniversary theme which the American Library Association has adopted in connection with its current 75th anniversary. We expect to devote our anniversary year to a restatement of the American heritage in terms of present-day crises to fostering a recognition of this heritage as ideas and to stimulate general thinking on the problem of how to defend our freedom by understanding its origin and its application to the great problems of today. As librarians, we're competent in acting through the book and the idea. These then will be our implements in seeking to reach our objective in our 75th anniversary year. We're going to assist in the publication of several books. We hope to promote nationwide community discussion of these problems, of the relationship of our heritage to current crises. And we're going to continue to fight on behalf of the reader for his freedom of access to ideas and on behalf of the author for his freedom to express his opinions in order to stimulate thinking on the conflict and if possible to resolve it. Thank you, gentlemen, for this very stimulating discussion. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, the author and reader in time of crisis. A copy of this broadcast may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the Reviewing Stand costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were John McKenzie Corey, Walter Lavas, Edgar Ansel Maurer, and Stanley Pargelis. Next week, The Reviewing Stand will discuss the alternatives in American foreign policy. Our guests will be James A. Eldridge, Midwest Director of the American Association for the United Nations, Frank L. Hughes, reporter and staff writer for the Chicago Tribune, and Franklin Scott, Professor of History at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the alternatives in American foreign policy. Remember, a subscription to the Reviewing Stand costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jerry Koffer. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast-to-coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Here's music from the theater. For your enjoyment, The Voice of New York City offers 55 minutes of the sparkling songs of the stage or the memorable melodies of the movies. This is your program, recorded and transcribed, music from the theater. Your narrator is Marty Bush, who, in connection with this station's American Music Festival, has booked some choice seats on the aisle for American film music. Music A great deal of the American music produced these days is heard neither in concert hall, private and public chamber recitals, or on the musical comedy, operetta, or opera stages. The scores I'm referring to are heard primarily in movie houses. They're the soundtrack backgrounds to films. The primary purpose of this music is to heighten or lend emphasis to the dramatic proceedings taking place on the screen. You're supposed to feel the impact of film music without knowing it. The music, supposedly, is subordinate to the movie itself. At least, that's the way I've heard it explained at times. Let's make no bones about it. This type of music, most of it anyway, does not approach greatness. But it is pleasant to listen to, and this afternoon, music from the theater presents the movie scores of two Hollywood composers, two men who've had more than a measure of success, Alfred Newman and Max Steiner. First, the music of Alfred Newman and the memorable theme which described Kathy, played by Merle Oberon in that splendid film Wuthering Heights, a picture which brought fame also to Laurence Olivier. know about the film. The End The End The End When the voice of New York City will present on records and transcriptions the highlights from the Hollywood soundtracks or the Broadway stage. Music This has been music from the theater. Music
