If you are an average American, you have more than three cavities in your teeth. Approximately 140 million people in the United States have half a billion decayed molars. The average school child has five decayed teeth, and decay in the permanent teeth of school children is developing six times as fast as they are being filled. The fact is, American mouths, from the decay standpoint, are on the decline. Soft living and rich food have evolved dental cavities as a disease of civilization, with the result that today at least 95% and possibly 97% of Americans, from kindergartners to octogenarians, are or have been afflicted with tooth decay. However, through the work of the University of Illinois College of Dentistry, a great forward step toward solving the problem of dental cavities has been taken, and a tooth powder has been developed that holds promise for reducing tooth decay. This discovery, and its importance to you, is our story today. In the public interest, we present one in the series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Nine years ago, a doctor of dentistry, Dr. Robert G. Kiesel, sat at his desk, a pile of papers and figures before him. As he scanned the columns of figures, these are some of the statements he saw. Today, between 25 and 30 million youngsters suffer from untreated cavities. Nine children out of every ten have one or more decayed teeth by the time they enter school. And at 18, most of them have already lost some permanent teeth. Based on our wartime experience, it's been estimated that the nation currently needs no less than 238,500,000 extractions and 632 million fillings, merely to overcome the backlog of neglect. Plus more than 100 million fillings annually, just to keep pace with the new cavities that are developing. Come in. Dr. Kiesel, could I bother you a moment? Sure, come in, Ed. I brought these reports in for you to look at. Thanks. Just put them there on the corner of my desk. And sit down a moment, will you? Sure. I've just been looking through some of these figures. Right here is evidence that there's some $5 billion worth of dental work to be done. And that would be only for immediate care in this country. Why, it'd take another billion dollars annually here in the United States for current dental maintenance. Sounds like a pretty impossible job, doesn't it? The figures are unbelievable. The job is impossible. I know. The country could easily use 300,000 dentists. And we have something like 70,000. Yes, but what can you do about it? There should be something. People just don't take proper care of their teeth, that's all. But what is proper care? Oh, I don't know. But I examined a patient yesterday who didn't have any cavities at all. Never has had. He didn't? Not a cavity or a filling. Well, for that matter, neither do I. Well, there you are. I wonder... Wonder what? Well, I wonder if we couldn't learn something about tooth decay if we made some studies on such people. People who have never had any cavities. Possibly. All the other studies that we've made have been on people who had decay. Exactly. Let's see if we can find another person or two with perfect teeth, and then let's find out why no cavities have developed in our teeth. Dr. Kiesel did find others who, like himself, had never had a cavity. Two senior dental students who had perfect teeth, Frank Orland and Everett Berry, volunteered to help the investigators in their research study. Dr. Kiesel and Dr. Edwin C. Wach enlisted the aid of two of their associates, Dr. Joseph F. O'Donnell and Dr. Ernst R. Kirsch, to go into a field where comparatively little work had been done. For every $10 spent in this country for dental treatment, less than one penny is spent on research. In the meantime, the amount of American money spent on toothbrushes, dentifuses, and mouthwashes mounts to astronomical figures. I don't believe that our immediate problem is with the methods of cleaning teeth, though that is important. I believe instead that it may have something to do with bacteria in our mouths. Maybe we can find some common denominator that will tell us what certain mouths contain, which others do not, that results in freedom from cavities in one, but not in the other. First, let's make a culture of bacteria from patients who have cavities, several cavities. And so they did, and found the type of bacteria usually associated with decaying teeth. They inoculated these bacteria into sterile milk. The milk then was incubated for three days, causing a heavy growth of these decay-producing bacteria. Kiesel and the two students then rinsed their mouths for one minute each morning for three days with this milk in order to plant these bacteria in their own mouths. In every test so far, the bacteria has disappeared from our mouths within eight to twelve hours. Evidently, then, for some reason, the bacteria can't live in your mouth. Therefore, no cavities. Well, then, it's something else. Possibly in our saliva. There must be something in our saliva that either kills or restrains the growth of these bacteria. Possibly an antibiotic. You mean penicillin? Or streptomycin. Something of that nature which kills organisms. Well, there are enough known tests we could run to find out. Yes, and I think that's our next step. The investigators proceeded to conduct tests to learn if there were antibiotics, such as penicillin, present in their saliva. But the results were negative. Here was their first disappointment. However, they were not easily discouraged. There is something. We know certainly that there's some factor which restrains these bacteria. We know it's present in our saliva and not in others. And we know that it has an important effect on tooth decay. The next thing, then, is to analyze our saliva and find what properties it has that other samples do not. The results of this work did bring gratifying results. The four investigators found that decay-resistant saliva produced ammonia and that this ammonia had a restraining effect on the acid-producing bacteria. They found further that other agents with the same degree of alkalinity as ammonia did not have the same effect on the bacteria. In other words, it was ammonia and not some other factor which protected the teeth of Kiesel and the two dental students from cavities. The presence of ammonia was the common denominator. It might be that the use of ammonia or ammonia salts in a dentifrice or mouthwash would reduce this bacteria. Here's where we begin our work with actual case studies. We'll use the hundreds of patients who visit the university's dental clinic every week as subjects. Subject number 17, white male grade school student, age 14, used dentifrice and mouthwash with ammonia salts for a nine-month period. Before using the ammonia preparation, he had a bacilli count of 1,400,000. Before treatment, he had 12 cavities in a period of one year. At the end of a nine-month period of treatment, the bacilli count had been reduced to 58,500, and in that time he had only two cavities. Subject number 19, a Negro female high school student, age 17. Before medication, bacilli count was 1,500,000. Nine-month medication reduced this count to 19,000. The patient had 17 cavities in the year immediately preceding treatment, only one during the nine-month course of treatment. Subject number 15, a white male grade school student, age 12. Count before treatment, 561,000. After treatment, none. The patient had eight cavities in the year before treatment, none during treatment. Subject number 28, white male college student, age 19. Count before treatment, 1,450,000. After treatment, 160,000. The patient had 10 cavities in the preceding year, three during treatment. It appears that ammonia salts do have a decided effect on the number of cavities a person will have. Dr. Kiesel, I have a question. Yes, what is it? Is it these bacteria which cause cavities? Not exactly. Lactic acid is also important. You see, lactic acid will dissolve the hard enamel of the tooth, causing a cavity. Now, this acid is formed by a bacterial cation or carbohydrate substances such as sugar. Everyone has the potentiality of developing lactic acid by taking sugar in the mouth. I see. Well, now, how about this case right here? Well, which one is that? This one. Subject number seven. The count before treatment is 200,000, and after treatment, 412,000. The patient had four cavities during the year before treatment and eight during treatment. Now, I wouldn't call that good results. Well, you see, that's one of the cases in our control group. A number of subjects used identical dentifrices and mouth rinses without ammonia over a period of nine months. Well, in some cases, the bacteria count and the cavities increased. We also had a control group of people who had perfect teeth, a negative bacteria count, and no cavities. Then your work is conclusive. Yes, but only to a certain extent. We're satisfied that dentifrices containing ammonia salts can reduce the bacteria count, and we have evidence that the number of cavities is reduced. But we must conduct large-scale experiments. May I ask of what nature? Well, yes. For one, we plan a comprehensive study of the effects of correct brushing of the teeth using some 1,900 Illinois school children. We'll provide the brushes in the tooth powder, and the children will brush their teeth at the beginning of classroom study each morning and afternoon. They'll also be asked to brush their teeth after each evening meal at home. How long will this take? Two years. Results should show two things. The relative merits of various dentifrices, and secondly, the value of supervised brushing of the teeth right after meal. And you'll use this ammonia dentifrice in these tests? Well, two dentifrices will be of that type. In other cases, we plan to use a common dentifrice containing soap and chalk as cleaning agents. Soap and chalk? Yes. It's prepared according to a formula provided by the Council on Dental Therapeutics of the American Dental Association. Then we'll have a fourth group, members of which will follow their usual habits of oral hygiene with no supervised brushing and no ammoniated dentifrice. There will be an additional control group. Sounds like a very comprehensive test. The most comprehensive ever attempted as a test of proper oral hygiene. Naturally, until the test is completed, we cannot make definite claims. Of course, I understand that. Well, however, leading toothpaste manufacturers have become interested in our theories. Is that so? Yes. The University of Illinois Foundation has already licensed several manufacturers to produce it. Oh, that's fine. And undoubtedly, there'll be others. The American Dental Association which has been reluctant to endorse other commercial powders and pastes before has given the university's work approval for a clinical trial as an aid in preventing cavities. I understand that so far you've only produced a powder. Yes, that's right. Up to the present time, no one's been able to figure out a way to keep ammonium stable in the paste form. But we've got several groups working on it now since market trends definitely show that pastes are more popular than the powders. Dr. Kiesel, I'm definitely interested in your formula. When will your study with the schoolchildren be complete? In June of next year. And how many did you say you were using? We're using 1,900 pupils in 42 elementary schools in Peoria and Aurora in our tests. Well, I'll keep in touch with you and learn more about the results. I think you've got a good thing here. Well, the ultimate hope of scientists is that the ammonia nitrogen content of saliva may be controlled, probably by diet. We think the ideal situation is to have nature supply the ammonia to the mouth through the saliva because saliva is the greatest single agent affecting the teeth. Now, if you'd like to see some more of our tests, you come along. But dentists such as Dr. Kiesel and his assistants are engaged in this research for other reasons. While they see the desirability of nice-appearing teeth and healthy ones with elimination of tooth infections and pains, they also have in mind the prevention of widespread effects from decayed teeth in diseases of the heart, liver, kidneys, bones, and nerves. In fact, they seek to make a definite contribution to the general health of the land. According to the American Dental Association, dentists as well as patients welcome the idea of perpetually caring for good teeth rather than doctoring sick ones. And so the University of Illinois has made another important contribution to the health of the nation, an important achievement which could not have been accomplished without research work, research which goes beyond teaching. Sicах fasst a function. And E.U.S. to Kiesel activity among musicians in American Dental Chiem and qui twice sang Bend, score одну揺 and shared your fist in the words of the nation going forward city and making great the truth to demonstrate the truth and insisting of the Pod of the northern quantity of the year around your temple
