Good evening, New Yorkers. This is Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Programs for your Municipal Broadcasting System, welcoming you to your city stations, Operation Election 1946. A few seconds ago, the chimes in New York's historic city hall sounded 7 o'clock. Throughout the city and the state and many parts of the nation, the polling places are closing. Your municipal broadcasting system has mobilized all of its resources and is prepared to bring you the most complete and up-to-the-minute coverage of election results. At many points throughout the city and the state, your city station has set up remote pickup points. And from time to time throughout the evening and later into the night, we shall make periodic radio swings throughout the city and the state to bring you the developments in this election as they become available. Here in the Municipal Building, we have a corps of expert analysts from one of the city colleges, Queens College. Dr. Herbert Shuler, Dr. Pisani, Professor Hugh Bone, and Professor John Meng, assisted by many students majoring in political science, will analyze the election figures from time to time as the night progresses. Mr. Harry Comer, chief analyst for Payne, Weber, Jackson, and Curtis, is here to make his mathematical predictions of the trend from time to time. We have a corps of calculating and tabulating machine operators who will keep us up to the minute on election trends. Let's remind you also that during the evening, we'll bring you capsule versions of WNYC's outstanding musical and cultural programs, a veritable parade of top-notch radio programs on the adult level. You'll hear selections from WNYC's oldest recorded musical feature, The Masterwork Hour, and some of your other favorite classical recorded programs, such as the Sunrise Symphony, and the Midday Symphony, and the Symphonic Matinee, and the Opera Matinee. You'll hear capsule versions of Gilbert and Sullivan, and extracts from the Municipal Concert Hall. Later on, you'll hear some of your favorite jazz classics and musical comedy hits. But back to the election returns. Here in the studio with me is Mr. Michael Hayward, whose voice should remind you of WNYC's outstanding coverage of the United Nations sessions. But let's go on with this election coverage. Up at police headquarters, Joe Fishler and Kevin Kennedy are waiting to give us the opening description in tonight's election roundup. We take you now to police headquarters. Good evening, everyone. We are speaking to you from police headquarters in New York City, at which point we will bring you the latest election returns. Just now, there are no election returns as yet. But briefly, we will describe the scene here at police headquarters. In front of our WNYC microphones, we find the various tables set up and the various calculating machines and tabulating machines to record these election returns. We'd like to briefly remind you what happens when the election day is over. That is to say, 7 p.m. this evening, the election polls are closed down, at which point a policeman and two watches, that is to say a representative of both parties, watches the delegate, count the returns. After the returns are counted and the watchers ascertain the vote for both sides, the policeman phones them into headquarters or the precinct headquarters, at which point they are returned here to police headquarters. They are put through the machines and tabulated and given to the AP, the UP and the international press. And from that point, they are sent out all over the country. And now I'd like to turn the microphone over to Joe Fishler, who might be able to describe the scene a little more aptly. Joe Fishler. There isn't very much that one can add to what Kevin has just told you, ladies and gentlemen. The scene here at police headquarters is, as it has been in years past, a somewhat exciting one. Or rather, it will be in a few minutes, as soon as the returns begin piling in to the various sections of the floor. The scene here on the gymnasium floor of police headquarters, which is actually the lineup room, is somewhat difficult to describe unless you know the shape of a gymnasium floor. It's rectangular, longer than it is wide. On both long sides of the room are the stand-up desks with the various hooks on which the tabulations, as they're formed in from the various precincts, are stuck. There are cards in front of each of these tabs, which indicate what that particular office is for. These, in turn, are turned into the various sections in the center of the floor, where calculations are made. Figures are then turned over to the AP dispatcher, who routes them through to the distribution point, which is up on 42nd Street. And from that point, then radio stations and newspapers throughout the country get the figures. So WNYC is very fortunate, indeed, in having its microphones here and having this exclusive feature for the simple reason that we actually are paralleled. We have three tickers up on the balcony floor with us, connected in parallel with the transmitting tickers on the gymnasium floor, so that we receive these figures simultaneously with the distribution point up on 42nd Street, before they are re-perforated into the sending tapes for distribution to the various news services, to the newspapers throughout the country, and to other radio stations. I believe I'm quite safe in saying that we have at least a 15-minute advantage over any other service because of this. Now, we'll have some returns for you probably within the next 15 or 20 minutes, but down at headquarters, they probably have something more to tell you about out-of-state returns. So back to GHQ in the municipal building. And we're back in the municipal building. We should tell you that we have here the tickers, the wire services of the Associated Press, the International News Service, and the United Press. And now let's call in one of our other remote points. We take you now to the Republican state headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt. Come in, please. This is Republican headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York. Real activity has not as yet shown itself. These headquarters are completely manned by your city station to bring you whatever news and color we find here on Madison Avenue in midtown Manhattan. All the metropolitan papers, the many radio services of New York, and the major newsreel companies are on hand and set up to operate. Operate so that you may read in your favorite paper, see in your favorite motion picture theater, and, leading the rest, hear the latest results brought to you by your city station's radio reporters. The present governor of the state of New York, the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, and running now, of course, for re-election, is here at the Hotel Roosevelt. And later in the evening, we expect to have the governor on the air over your own WNYC and WNYC-FM microphones. How soon Governor Dewey will speak to you depends, of course, on the returns. Until we have some results, we take leave of Republican headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt and return you now to our own headquarters in the municipal building. We're back in the municipal building. That was a report you heard from George Ward. And now we take you to the Democratic state headquarters at the Hotel Biltmore with Thomas Cowan. Come in, please. We're at the Hotel Biltmore, and, of course, it's a little early in the evening to bring you any actual color because returns have not started coming into any volume yet. And as soon as anything transpires at the hotel here, we'll be very glad, indeed, to bring you any of the color and highlights of the situation. As personalities arrive and they're available for microphones, if it's possible to broadcast them, we'll naturally place them before our microphones and do everything possible to keep the Democratic side of the picture before the general public through the facilities of your municipal station. In the meantime, until there's some more activity here at the Hotel Biltmore, we return you now to general headquarters in the municipal building. We're back in the municipal building, and now let's find out what's going on in the heart of New York. We take you now to Hal Lebow in Times Square. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, from 43rd Street and Broadway, the heart of New York, Times Square. We're located in the information booth of the police department just opposite the Times building. Incidentally, two Times bulletins that have just come across indicate that the vote in New York State has been called normal to heavy, while the vote in New York City itself has been definitely quite heavy. The most sweeping victory of any gubernatorial candidate in the history of New York State occurred in 1932 when Herbert H. Lehman, Democrat, defeated William J. Donovan, Republican, by a plurality of 847,439 votes. Lehman's statewide vote was 2,659,519. Tonight, perhaps we'll have a story to change this record. However, no returns as yet have been received here at Times Square, and things in general are quiet in the heart of New York. We have quite a police detail down here to handle any eventuality, but so far there has been no excitement of any sort, and the situation is placid. We return you now to our headquarters. We're back in the municipal building again. By the way, we ought to tell you before we start that so far as the national picture is concerned, these candidates have already been elected. Georgia for Governor Talmadge. In Alabama, Senator Sparkman has been reelected. In Alabama also, Representative Boykin, Representative Grant, Representative Andrews, Representative Raines, Representative Jarman, all Democrats have already been declared elected in the state of Alabama. And now, to continue our roundup, let's take you to the capital of the state of New York, where Kenneth Joseph is about to talk to us from Albany. Come in, please. We're having a little bit of difficulty in reaching Albany at the moment. Let's see whether we can get them again. Albany, the vote today here on the state capital and surrounding upstate areas was very heavy. As yet, returns have not begun to come in. We expect them momentarily. The only thing we have to report at this time is the exceptionally heavy gubernatorial vote. As most of our listeners probably know, Albany County is traditionally Democratic. From this point, we expect to bring you returns from Schenectady County and also from Rensselaer County, each of which are traditionally Republican. Later on in the program, towards perhaps about 10 o'clock, we expect to have the present mayor of Albany and Democratic American Labor Party and liberal candidate for Lieutenant Governor Erastus Corning appear on our city station microphone from the state capital here in Albany. We'll be back with you later on with some up-to-the-minute returns. We'll bring them to you as soon as we get them. And now we return you to New York. All right, we're back in the municipal building in New York. We'll take you from time to time to different points throughout the state and throughout the city. But in the meantime, we have here with us Professor Hugh Bone of the Queens College Political Science Faculty, who will give us a brief roundup of what the election polls indicate in the state and local picture. Professor Bone. Mr. Sekel, looking at the two major polls, we see that the Gallup poll yesterday gave Mr. Dewey 61 percent and Meade 39 percent. The news poll, on the other hand, gave Dewey 66 percent and Mr. Meade 33 percent, 34 percent. As far as the statistics are concerned, it's interesting to notice some of the other predictions of unofficial polls, as it were. The Republicans are more cautious. They predicted a victory for Dewey of 400,000 to 100 to 1 million. The Democrats predict a Meade victory of 225,000. According to the Daily News poll, if it follows these percentages, the margin for Dewey will be 1,127,000 to 1,610,000. It's interesting to notice the development of the polls here. The news on October 21st gave Dewey 70.4 percent, and this dropped November 3rd to 66 percent. As it stands, as of today, the governor was given upstate 73 percent and Mr. Meade 26 percent. And in New York City, the governor was given 58 percent to about 42 percent for Mr. Meade. The news poll also predicts that the governor will carry 58 out of 60 cities, only Lackawanna and Watervalete being for Mr. Meade. Now, in New York City, the news poll gives only the Bronx to Mr. Meade, and it is said that he will carry about 55 percent of the Bronx. In Queens, Mr. Dewey has 72 percent, in Richmond, 77, in Manhattan, 60, and in Brooklyn, 56 percent. It's interesting to notice that in 1942, Governor Dewey carried Richmond and Queens only in the New York City picture, and lost the city as a whole by 86,000. This year's news poll predicts that he will carry New York City by a margin of 416,000, meaning that he will have gained 500,000 votes since 1942, if it follows from this prediction. Thank you.