Due to a 30-inch water main breaking in the vicinity of Canal Street and Broadway early this morning, the subway was flooded with water to a depth of 3 feet in some places. It necessitated cutting off the power on all tracks, both local and express, until the water department closed off the broken water main when we were able to resume service on the local tracks, which was around 2.45. The trouble originally occurred at 12.45. At the present time, there is still water on the express tracks at Canal Street. And during the morning rush, our service will be operated through Montague Street Tunnel. All Times Square bound trains will be operated through Montague Street Tunnel and via express tracks north of Canal Street. The Nassau Street Loop Service will go over the south tracks of the Manhattan Bridge. The interval on our lines will have to be extended a little beyond normal due to the concentration through Montague Street Tunnel. Track capacity would not accommodate all the trains that we normally run on the Manhattan Bridge and through Montague Street Tunnel. There were several trains caught between stations where, when we had to take the power off due to the water, the passengers were taken off without any injury or slight inconvenience. We expect the normal operation sometime shortly after 9 o'clock. We are speaking to you from Montague Street in Brooklyn at this five-alarm fire, which started, I believe, about an hour ago. It's apparent that two of the piers are completely demolished. And I believe they were owned by the New York Dock Company. Also, there are two barges, which were tied up to the docks, that are completely destroyed. As far as we can determine, there are no injuries so far. The Kings County Hospital and the Cumberland Street Hospital disaster units are on the scene. Immediately adjacent to these piers, we have the Lafayette Lightridge Warehouse Company, which is completely destroyed. But according to Chief Loftus, who is directing this fire, why, the fire is now under control. It is a five-alarm fire, and also we see four fireboats spraying water as fast as they can onto these piers. The roofs of the piers have collapsed. What the piers contain, we cannot determine due to the dense smoke and the darkness. It's very, very dark along this waterfront. Over. We have some further information here from the police department that general cargo and chemicals are burning. We also have the names of several firms involved. One of them is the Universal Stevedoring Company. The other is... Let's see. That's about the only thing we have at the present time. We also have a report that Tugs had been requested to move the Ho Silber Star. That's a ship from a pier near the fire scene. Three tugboats were dispatched, and a Moran spokesman said the fire was at pier 9 or 10, and that the vessel was at pier 6. No other details. Over. That is true, Bernie. I say vessel out in the river, but I cannot determine which one that was. I know there were Tugs in the vicinity towing a ship out. Now, whether the ship was a fire or not, I don't know. I don't think so. However, I am located right now about three blocks from the scene of the fire because we couldn't get closer to it due to the hose and the fire apparatus. However, I will get in there again and see if I can get Chief Loftus and get some further information as to this fire. Over. Fine, John. We hope you get in touch with us as soon as you possibly have anything, and we'll try to put at least the first portion up until the time I interrupt of your on-the-spot newscast right on the air at the 9.55 newscast. Over. All right, I'll go back, and I'll be able to maybe 15 to 20 minutes, as I say, to walk through water and hose here, and I'll try and get some further information and get back to you. Over. Check. Over and out. Think of it. America's performance from the scene of the scene of the fire. Remember, I also would've taken out the air Że St Direction or the ozone bubble if you flow through water . That, that'll be right, we'll try and draw about it. Amen. Like it, or yeah. That's great. You can see that squjering. Shark taking here. I'm not as I am doing it again now. Just sat down there. Thanks and like that. I'll show you what I want. What I want to do today is to talk about. Love, and I'll stick around in during the Dybb of C-19 night cab. How about are we going to visit? Now, remember you?