Good afternoon. From the steps of New York City Hall, your city station brings you Mayor Vincent R. M. Pelletieri's reception for Abba Houshi, Mayor of Haifa, Israel. A number of city officials are here to greet Mayor Houshi, and passing right in front of our microphone at the moment is the armed guard, the color guard, with the American flags on the right side of the steps of City Hall, where your announcer is speaking from, and directly to our left, the very beautiful flags of Israel, which make a very striking contrast to the red, white, and blue of the stars and stripes, with the blue and white of the Israeli flag, with the Star of David in the middle. In just a very few moments, we'll turn the microphone and the proceedings over to Mr. Grover Whalen. There are many, many people here, hundreds of people, who have come to City Hall Park, perhaps on their way to lunch or from lunch, to watch this reception. The officials of the party are now mounting the platform, which is directly beneath us, here in City Hall Park, and are taking their seats for the reception this afternoon. The Mayor, Abu Houshi, will speak, and also will be presented a scroll by New York City's Mayor, Vincent R. Impeletere. People are here from just about every walk of life, I think. Mayor Houshi has just come onto the platform and is taking his seat. Now, Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere has come onto the platform. Mr. Grover Whalen, following. And in just a few moments now, the official reception of the Mayor of Haifa will begin. Mayor Houshi is an alert man of about 53, with a trim muscular body, deeply sunburned face, probably attesting to the years he spent as a road builder and dock worker in Israel before entering politics by way of the trade union movement. He is a member of Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion's MAPI. And now, Grover A. Whalen. GERDAP Aires, Qizeoffs, bao. END For the name is God, the demand, I am the Sion, Sophia. For the name is God, the name is God, I am the Sion, Sophia. The name is God, the name is God, I am the Sion, Sophia. The name is God, the name is God, I am the Sion, Sophia. Can you sing? Why the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare Of us bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there O'er the ramparts of the free And the homes of the brave O'er the ramparts of the brave O'er the ramparts of the brave Number A. Whalen You have just heard the national anthem Of Israel, HaTikva and The American national anthem It's a great privilege to present to you an old friend whom you met on your travels abroad and who honored you in his home city. He told me as we came around the park just a moment ago that this reminded him of the reception that you got in Haifa. The mayor is no stranger to New York, having been here in 1947, but he's noticed a sufficient number of changes to warrant the description of New York that we are still building here. It's a great privilege for me to present to you the mayor of Haifa of the State of Israel, Mayor Ivan Hushchev. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, our distinguished guest today, the mayor of the city of Haifa, our controller, Lazarus Josephson. The mayor of the City of Haifa is the mayor of the city of Haifa. Mr. Whelan, our distinguished guest today, the mayor of the city of Haifa, our controller, Lazarus Joseph, Deputy Mayor Charlie Horowitz, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. New York City today is proud to welcome the dynamic leader of the great industrial center of Israel, the day and nightmare of Haifa, Israel's principal seaport and democracy's strong bastion in the Middle East. It is a privilege for me, as chief executive of our city, that has so many ties with the homeland of our distinguished guests, to extend the warm hand of friendship to him on behalf of our eight million people. Recently, I visited in his country and saw with my own eyes the great strides that have been made in the upbuilding of the new Jewish state. The warm reception given to me by Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion, by the mayor of Haifa, and by many other public officials of the state and cities of Israel, and by the people of this new democracy, attested to the bonds of friendship that exist between our two countries. One of the nicest things that happened to me during my visit in Israel was the fact that the mayor of Haifa made me an honorary mayor of Haifa. And at the close of my remarks today, I shall bestow upon him our city's highest honors. Present-day chroniclers of Israel say that whenever and wherever man's genius is linked to world accomplishments, the name of Abahushi will stand out for his efforts in turning the ancient city of Haifa into a modern, vibrant gateway to the Middle East. He is known as the day and the nightmare because it is said of him that the phenomenal expansion of Haifa goes forward under his very watchful eye from early dawn until late into the night. Abahushi envisions everlasting greatness for the state of Israel and for the throbbing, thriving city which he governs. His administrative genius is leavened with a humanity so characteristic of his people, and his major goal is that there be fashioned in his homeland the dream of his people for a happy, progressive, free state. It is not strange, therefore, that the mayor of Haifa has arrived in our country for a six-week coast-to-coast tour of the United States under the auspices of the Israel bond drive which, since its short existence, has done so much for strengthening and expanding the economy of the new Jewish state of Israel. For instance, a program of expansion being financed by Israel bonds will increase the capacity of Haifa harbor from 1,300,000 to 4 million tons a year. The progress already made since inception of the $500 million bond campaign a year ago is remarkable. Indeed, Haifa today is an excellent show window of what is being done and what will be accomplished with funds of the bond issue. Since my own visit to Israel last fall, I have let no occasion go by in urging the purchase of State of Israel bonds for the continued development of democracy's bulwark in the Middle East. And I believed in it so much after what I saw in Haifa and what I saw in Israel that I personally have made an investment in the State of Israel bond issue. From conferences with the Prime Minister of Israel and with its ministers of labor and finance, one major factor emerged. Israel needs capital today to become completely self-efficient and economically independent tomorrow. capital is needed for more irrigation projects and for the agricultural and industrial programs which are transforming Israel into the most progressive democracy in the Middle East. Purchase of an Israel bond is not a gift, but a loan which will be paid back with interest to a young, strong nation that is building for the future. The indomitable spirit and the determination of Israel's million and a half citizens stand as a guarantee for every Israel bond purchased. Your Honor, New Yorkers are supporting the Israel bond drive because they recognize it to be a sound investment in democracy, world progress, and in world peace. Your Honor, New Yorkers welcome you today because you typify for them the kind of leadership of a nation which in four short years has earned the admiration of the world as a freedom-loving people whose national existence, like our very own, is based on principles of liberty, justice, and peace. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, may I ask you to step alongside of me, please? Thank you. In behalf of the people of the City of New York, who I represent on this case, I'm privileged to present to you this scroll which reads as follows. For distinguished and exceptional public service, Office of the Mayor, City of New York, know all men by these presents that I, Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Honorable Abahoshi, Mayor of Haifa, Israel, whose dynamic leadership in the growth of his city and in the effort of the new democracy of Israel to achieve independence and to develop as a bulwark of freedom and in advancing the growing friendship between the United States of America and the State of Israel, has enlisted the admiration and deep appreciation of the people of the City of New York and witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and cause the seal of the city to be affixed this seventh day of May, 1952. Vincent R. Impeletere. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You have just heard the address of welcome and the presentation of the scroll by the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. And here once again is the Chairman, the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee. Mayor, would you tilt it down a little bit? That's a great honor. That's a great honor. That's a great honor. Tilt the top floor. That's a good one. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. All right. Thank you. Shuttle. I'll begin. All right. For the benefit of the radio audience, the mayor is now presenting for the benefit of the press and the press photographers the scroll which he has just presented to Mer Hershey. Mayor of Hyfer, Aber Hershey. Thank you. Thank you.ije course. steve for the Honorable Miya weiteres on the As izquierdi's Honorable Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy for many reasons to be in New York City. To begin with, it is a privilege to return the visit to Haifa made not long ago by Honorable Mayor Impalitari. I feel very much at home here, for my own city of Haifa has many things in common with New York City. Haifa is the most cosmopolitan city in Israel. New York is the most cosmopolitan city in the United States. Haifa has the largest harbor in Israel. New York has the largest harbor in this country. New York has been famous in all corners of the world as a great immigration center and the melting pot of the United States. Haifa is Israel's foremost immigration gateway, a melting pot for newcomers from every corner of the globe. Haifa has the largest country in the United States. I hope that Haifa will go as far in its development, growth and reputation as has New York City. Haifa has the largest country in the United States. You are 7 million and more, and we are only 200,000. But our people are linked by the spirit of freedom and democracy, which transcends distance and space. New York City is a symbol of metropolitan achievement to which our people aspire. Through the 500 million State of Israel bond issue, we hope to reach the goal of economic independence and growth. I understand that many thousands of New York citizens have purchased Israel independence bonds. I hope during my short stay in this wonderful city to convince more and more New Yorkers to make an investment in a sister republic. The people of Haifa have asked me, Honourable Mr. Mayor, to present you and the people of New York a token gift of all esteem and affection and gratitude for all the aid you have extended to us in recent years. It is a great privilege, Mayor Impeletari, to present you with the engraved shield of the city of Haifa. Thank you for your warm hospitality and cordial reception. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Once again, Mayor Impeletari and our visiting mayor from Haifa, Israel are posing for cameramen and photographers after the response to the address of welcome and presentation of the scroll by the Honourable Vincent R. Impeletari, Mayor of the City of New York. Here once again at the speaker stand is the presiding chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, the Honourable Grover A. Whelan. That concludes the official reception to the distinguished mayor of Haifa. Will the municipal band play the processional march? We are GO hast I conclude. They're gonna do that? They're gonna do that? They're gonna do that. They're gonna do that. They're gonna do that. They're gonna do that. They're gonna do that. The police guard has come forward once again. The color guard is waiting to precede him to the luncheon in his honor. The sanitation department band is playing the recessional now. We return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Within the next ten minutes, at least ten American families will be threatened by fire. Don't let your family be a part of these tragic statistics. Check your home for fire hazards and eliminate them. Fight fire with fire prevention. This is WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM. Now, welcome to Chamber Music Time. For your late evening listening, WNYC-FM brings you music performed by the world's finest instrumentalists and ensemble. Tonight's recorded Chamber Music Time brings you the works of Beethoven, Schumann, and Tarkovsky. Our opening performance will be that of Beethoven's Trio in C minor, Op. 9 No. 3. You shall hear this performance by the Pasquier Trio. You've just heard Beethoven's Trio in C minor, Op. 9 No. 3, as performed by the Pasquier Trio. You are listening to Chamber Music Time, a recorded recital of the world's finest music, a nightly feature of WNYC-FM, New York City's own high fidelity station. Our program continues, turning to the piano artist Ray Lenn. He performs Schumann's Chrysleriana, Op. 16. Schumann's Chrysleriana, Op. 16, has been performed by Ray Lenn. Chamber Music Time continues, once again Ray Lenn performing the Waltz in F minor and Chumourette by Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky. With this performance of Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky's Waltz in F minor and Chumourette, the pianist Ray Lenn, will conclude tonight's offering of Chamber Music Time. Chamber Music Time will come your way again tomorrow at 11 o'clock. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Closed windows in homes or apartments where there is a gas flame, mean heavy risk of gas poisoning. Fresh air must circulate in a room where a gas appliance is in use. Special care should be taken with open flame gas heaters and gas flame refrigerators which run 24 hours a day. Remember, an open window assures best ventilation and your safety. This is WNYC-FM, New York City's high fidelity station. Cooperate with your Department of Sanitation. Help keep your city clean by using the trash cans which are placed on street corners for the disposal of newspapers, candy wrappers and other refuges. New York is your city. Keep it clean. This is WNYC-FM, the high fidelity voice of New York City.