Only red because it is under red control and remains taxless daily. Even more dangerous than the rise in retail prices is the sharp rise in wholesale prices since 1945. Here are examples. Textures, up 39%. Farm products, up 40%. German materials, up 51%. Coating up 53%. Expected wholesale prices are translated inevitably into high retail prices. With higher and higher retail prices, families can buy less and less. But, expected wholesale prices are hitting at the foundation of our prosperity. For we can be prosperous only when business activity is at its maximum. There are some who say that prices are not too high, so long as buying stays at high level. From the human standpoint, I reject this argument. It provides no answer to those living on fixed income, such as people, civil servants, and widows. It provides no answer to those veterans who must pay substantially more for houses than they are able to afford. It provides no answer to many millions of American families in every city, town, and rural area. Because of high taxes, too many of these families are spending their media savings and cashing their war bonds. They are postponing necessary medical care. They have gone into debt in the Mount 56% of the San Bernard, 20 years ago. They are doing this, not through choice, but in order to make both ends meet. And most of these men and minions have no one except their government to speak for them. In addition to this human aspect, it is a danger seeking on the policy, policy, policy, to say that prices are too high. Because of people are still buying. The brick, designed to carry 10 tons, is not saved with 15 tons, even though it has not yet begun to cave in. The excess weight must be taken off the brick in time. When it begins to track, it is too late. There is one pure formula for bringing over something on the brick. the политically, that is to maintain excessively high prices. Buying shots? Production drops? Unemployment in? Trousest collapse? Profits donate? Businessmen fail? That formula was tried after the First World War, and relocated for it. From 1920 and 1921, annual national income fell by $18 billion. Industrial production dropped 23%. Unemployment increased by more than $4 million. Business failures more than doubled. Farm losses were appalling. We must not see that formula again. If we are to avoid a recession, we will back before it comes. Prices must be dropped down. I speak first to those businessmen who have it within their power to reduce their prices. Price reductions will bring more prosperity and profits in the long run. More prices will sustain further increase in the present high volume of sales and stimulate greater production. This nation will grow only through increased productivity and more and more production. Higher prices for the same amount of goods will lead only to an artificially inflated economy, not a sound economy. Presence business conditions permits, in fact, they require, lower prices in many important fields. Profits in the aggregate are breaking all records, although profit margins vary greatly in individual cases. In 1946, corporate profits, and taxes were 33% higher than in 1945. In the first quarter of 1947, they ran even higher. These figures are total figures, and do not, of course, apply to every industry or every business. I do not have to name the particular industry or the particular businesses. The men who run them know exactly which are included and which are not. Our private enterprise system now has the responsibility for a price system. During the war, the government shared that responsibility through the mechanism of price control. In the spring of 1946, I strongly recommended the continuation of price control, so that we could attain an orderly withdrawal from control of prices as supply opposed demand. The group saw fix to sabotage price control, and represented to the public that prices would come down in a free market. This has not taken place. On the contrary, prices rose sharply after controls were taken off, and they have continued to rise. Private enterprise must display the leadership to make our free economy work by arresting this trend. Some price reductions have already shown that this leadership does exist. I commend what has been accomplished. I asked other business leaders to step forward in the same direction. In the present economic situation, labor also has this possibility. I said in January of this year that excessive wage demand would set another inflationary waste price parallel. I said also that some moderate wage increases were justified by economic or equitable considerations. Since then, this council of moderation has generally been followed by wage earners and their leaders. Some moderate wage adjustments have already been made this year peacefully. Some others may be expected. Price adjustments and wage adjustments have been the traditional method of sustaining mass buying power and sharing the benefits of our increasing wealth. In our immensely productive economy, fair prices and good wages are the earmarks of American prosperity. To wage earners and cheating makes their leaders. I receive my counsel of moderation. It does not require much foresight to see that the cost of living does not come down. The size of wage demands might be magnified. Peaceful, manuscript, labor relations would be jeopardized. Bitterness and strife would become harder to avert. This is another reason, and the most compelling one, for bringing prices and the cost of living down. This will help wage negotiations to proceed towards peaceful adjustments, beneficial to all. Another important contribution in bringing about lower prices is increased productivity on the part of labor. Higher productivity results in greater production, which in turn leads to lower prices to the public. After the war and post-war inflation, it is difficult to find solutions fair to the consumer, fair to the workers, and fair to business. Employers and workers must slowly give to this task all their energy, good will, and understanding of their country's best interests. In considering the high cost of living, we must also examine prevailing food prices. The phenomenal world demand for farm products is maintaining farm prices at present levels. The unprecedented purchasing power of our own people and the needs of the war-devastated countries abroad have combined to force farm products upwards. The government policy of supporting farm prices at 90% of parity is not the cause. Of the major food commodities, potatoes are the only crops currently being given government support. The support price for wheat, for example, is $1.82 a bushel, while wheat is currently selling at about $2.50 per bushel. The support price for wheat is $1.50 per hundred pounds. The region's price has been around $25. Let me repeat, the government policy of supporting farm prices is not the cause of prevailing high food prices. Without the support program, farmers mindful of the disaster farm collapse shortly after World War I would not have planted their tremendous, recent crops. The consequence would have been smaller acres, greater excessive demand over supply, and prices much higher than they are now. Because of the support program, the consumer is better off, and the world's food situation is more manageable. With this downed bullwrap against the repetition of the agricultural presence that started in 1920, farmers should continue their efforts to bring about maximum production. The government has been speaking. I've been speaking about the role of businessmen, workers, and farmers in maintaining our present prosperity. The government also has responsibilities. It is an axiom of good economics and good business that in times of great inflationary pressures, taxes could not be reduced. Any surplus that the Treasury can secure should be applied to the reduction of the federal debt. Reduction of the debt reduces the annual interest obligations of the government, and also tends to check inflationary forces. When we are over the hump of inflation, tax reduction will be feasible and proper. It should then be extended first for those who need relief most. A visual reference that the government's progressives in the Friday's election cycle are rent control, export control, and credit control. Rent control is vitally necessary until construction costs are lower and the present acute housing shortage has been eased. Export controls must be maintained to avoid price increases arising from uncontrolled foreign purchases in this country. Credit control cannot be relaxed so long as prices are so high that many consumers must go into debt to make both ends meet. Making more money available on easier credit terms would only enable people to go into debt at a faster rate. Overextensive credit to support overextensive prices is fuel on inflationary fires. It would help no one in the long run. It is in the position of boom and bust. The government should retain and use its measures for wide credit control. Economic policies here discussed have not been devised hastily to meet a situation which has just appeared. I have been urging them for many months. The reiteration of these policies is made necessary by the acute situation of just in today. The responsibility of preserving our free and applied systems will continue to rest upon the joint efforts of business, labor, the farmer, and the government. There must be moderation on the part of business, forbearance on the part of labor, all-out effort on the part of the farmer, and wide guidance of action on the part of the government. There must be unity of effort and a willingness to cooperate in the achievement of our goal of a strong, stable economy. The men and women here today, and the rest of the press of the nation, have a great opportunity for service at this time. Not only must the facts be presented, but there must be brought home to our people the seriousness of the issue and the need for united efforts, for the good of all, rather than separate efforts for the benefit of any single group. I take comfort in the knowledge. I am very happy to join with the mayor and other city officials in urging the fullest support of the public for the current drive to raise $2 million for Catholic Charities through the Archdiocese of New York. As police commissioner of the city of New York, I fully recognize and appreciate the close relationship existing between public and private welfare agencies in caring for the needy and neglected in our community. In this respect, I wish to compliment Catholic Charities for the splendid job it is doing to help piece together the shattered lives of some of our less fortunate citizens. The work of the juvenile aid juror, that unit of the police department which comes close in contact with wayward and delinquent youngsters, many of them victims of broken homes, is supplemented by many youth agencies in the city. And among them is the Youth Counseling Service Division of the New York Catholic Charities. It is through the combined efforts of such groups and organizations that many of our youngsters are assisted in leading normal, wholesome lives, and are set on the right track toward good, loyal citizenship. All of us fully realize that family life is the foundation, the cornerstone upon which is built the character of the men and women of tomorrow. Out of family life come the lessons which teach the values of morality and set the standards of conduct which will help youth build a better world for tomorrow. Therefore, it is our sacred duty to concentrate our efforts on rebuilding this family life among those of our people who need that help. During the past few months, the police department and other agencies have been cooperating closely with the courts in an effort to halt a rise in juvenile delinquency by means of a more severe attitude toward the parents of delinquent children. And I dare say that these efforts have already begun to produce results. No one takes pleasure in punishing parents for the delinquent acts of their children, particularly where the parent is a victim of unfortunate circumstances. No one wishes either to punish the delinquent child, particularly the child of a neglected parent, a neglectful parent. We cannot, however, evade our responsibilities and permit a critical condition such as juvenile delinquency to continue unchecked. If the admonishing of neglected parents, neglectful parents I should say, the parents who permit their children to run loose on the crowded streets of our city without caring a wit for the very lives of these youngsters brings home to them a realization of their God-given responsibilities, then I sincerely believe we have made a good step forward in the campaign against juvenile delinquency. It has never been of more importance than it is now to produce youthful citizens who are morally, mentally, and physically equipped to help in building our country's future. Our responsibility does not end with the apprehension and punishment of young criminals. By the time punishment is necessary, it is sometimes too late to lead these youngsters into a richer, more purposeful way of life. Common sense will tell you, as it has told us, that it is easier to keep them out of trouble. We know that no child is born bad. American youth is generally wholesome and decent, and therefore presents a guidance problem rather than a police problem. And the biggest part of that problem must be taken care of in the home. It is an acknowledged fact that the home is responsible for the basic teaching, the most important of all, religion, belief, faith, trust, and fear in God. Through religious training, children are made aware of an all-powerful being to whom they can direct their worship. This need to worship is an innate human characteristic which can be traced back to the very beginnings of life. When children are deprived of direction in this need, they proceed to find some idea or figure upon which to shower their worship. If they know nothing of the teachings of God, and therefore cannot set their feet in the path of his way of life, they may turn to a figure who has been built up in the newspapers or magazines or even on the radio, and try to follow in his footsteps. I refer to the well-dressed hoodlum and self-styled gangster. It is the responsibility of the parents when children do not receive the proper religious training, and it is, and it is, thus the fault of the parents, when children lose respect for their admonitions and the warnings of proper authority. The results of parental neglect and incompetence are the most frequent causes to be found in the delinquency of children who are now being referred to our institutions. These youngsters are unruly, easily excited, and lack proper regard for the rights of others. It is then up to the juvenile aid bureau and life agencies to give them a new start in life. At this point, it looks to us more like a problem of parental delinquency than youth delinquency. The parent must set a shining example for his children, must gain and hold their confidence. He must show them through actual doing on his part, not simply tell them how they must live. I am happy to report that juvenile delinquency in New York City during the past year has shown a trend toward decrease. Much of this decrease can be attributed to the results and the concentrated efforts of the police in this campaign against juvenile delinquency. Of course, we have been aided by organizations like the Youth Counseling Service Division of the New York Catholic Charities. They have cooperated to the utmost with the juvenile aid bureau and the police athletic league. And we hope to have even greater results next year with the concentration which has been fought into these efforts with the ending of the war. The problem is still with us, primarily in our slum areas. Many of these areas are fast disappearing under the wise and far-sighted leadership of our present public officials. But as long as they remain, we shall have a fertile breeding ground for juvenile delinquents. Therefore, permit me once again to appeal to you for support of the Catholic Charities Drive for Fun. I strongly urge those of you who are listening to dig down into your pockets and give as much as you can to this worthy cause. Thank you. Thank you.