Your city station now presents an important transcribed documentary drama on New York City, 1950. This is my block. Your city station now presents an important transcribed documentary drama on New York City, 1950. This is my block. You know, that truck, when I think of it now, that's the way it all started. Yeah, when I try to pin down just when the darn thing all began and I first got hipped on this subject, I figure it all started with that truck. A big gazebo of a two-tonner that come rolling down my block and revved up my lazy bones so much I... Uh-oh, I see my wife Marie is giving me the eye. I know what that means. I'm lousing up the story like she claims I always do. Get on with it. My wife don't understand. You can't serve up a story like a sandwich at the automat. It needs color, background. It needs... Oh, okay, okay, Marie. Now, here I go then. Nice and neat and simple. Right from the beginning. Oh, uh, my wife also says I should be polite and introduce myself, which is all right with me, as I've got nothing to hide. Uh, Joel Henricks is my name. H-E-N-R-I-C-H-S. You know, I like the baseball player, except with an S. I work for the subway system. I'm one of those guys who sits in the station booth doling out the change. You know, just a stationary march of dimes. And, uh, okay, I promise you that's my last gag for this evening. Anyway, I work a night shift, 8 to 4 a.m., which means I usually sleep most of the day. But this particular day, about which I'm speaking, it was going to be different. My wife wakes me up in the middle of the morning, and she insists I go up on the roof for a sunbat. I look that crummy, she says. She come up to the roof with me and was sewing up some holes in my socks. Well, that's a picture, then, just, uh, before this truck come barreling into it. You better put some of this on your face, Joe. Huh? Now, what's this junk? Some tan oil. I don't want you to get a burn. Oh, that's kind of you. Dragging me out of bed. Well, you've been looking so white and pale, I've been worrying about you lately. Look, I work nights, remember? You shouldn't expect me to look like a lifeguard. Well, a little sun can't hurt you. Oh, stop worrying. Now, where's Phil? He's playing with the other kids in front of the house. Well, on the street? How many times have I told that kid not to... Oh, where else can he go? Be reasonable. Okay, okay. I, uh, I'm too tired to argue. For once in your life. Look, Cranky, if you're still tired, why don't you take a nap right here? Yeah, that's a good idea. But, uh, all this, this light makes it very hard. How about a lullaby to put me to sleep? Oh, don't be silly. I mean it. Well, somebody will see us. They'll think we're crazy. Nah, go on, Marie. Ah, silly. Ah, go ahead. All right. Rock-a-bye, baby, on the treetop. When the wind blows, the cradle will rock. Now, do you get the dream picture? You're lying on your back, and the sun's just pouring over you like heavy cream over coffee. And your wife is singing you to sleep in the bargain. Not a care in the world. When suddenly, right then, somewhere in the back of your mind, you think you hear a truck. Ah, it was a kind of a sound anybody in the city hears often enough. Just a big throbbing noise of an engine coming up the hill. It was strange. But somehow I had a feeling my son's name was written on the front bumper of that truck. I can't explain it, but I just felt my gut tighten up. What's the matter, Joe? Uh, nothing. I just think I'll get up and admire the view a while. Can't you sit still even a minute? From the roof edge, I could see the truck was still half a block away and rolling fast, very fast now. Ah, but I was crazy to get excited. Real loco. My kid was okay. He was playing stoop ball on the sidewalk. But then I saw the ball go through him, and Phil dashed after him. Phil! Phil, look out! Joe, what's happened? Uh, nothing, Marie. It's just an accident. There's a crowd. I can't see Phil. I didn't see what happened. I was just standing over... Tell me the truth. Was it Phil? Was it? Well, yeah. Oh, Joe. Will you stop balling? Oh, no. Ah, I'm sorry, Marie. Come on, let's go down. Oh, that's the way it was. A kid lying down there on the street below. We just stood there on the roof, looking at each other, afraid to move. Finally, we got started down the stairs, and then we began to run. But it still seemed like hours to make those four flights. Marie was right behind me as I came out the front door. All right, stop. There was a knot of people around the front of the truck. I can see the driver talking to a cop as I hacked my way through the crowd. Let's get out of the way there. Hey! Hey, let me through, please. Please, come on through now. All right, take it easy there, mister. Officer, officer, that's my boy there. Is he okay? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll have to get some information from you for the accident report. Are you sure he's all right? Phil! Phil! Oh, don't tell me. This is the boy's mother. All right, take it easy, lady. He's all right. Just give him some air. All right. Well, let's take him upstairs. He'll do nothing of the sort until the doctor comes to see if he can be moved. Meanwhile, suppose we get started with this accident report, huh? Oh, he's badly hurt. I know he is. Oh, come on. Pull yourself together, honey. The cop says he's okay. Sure he's okay. He's not the first lad to be knocked cold by a car? Now, what do you say, folks? I have to fill out this accident report. So let's get moving. So I gave the cop the information he wanted, and he filled out his darn report. By that time, the doctor came. Phil was trying to sit up. The doc checked him and said we could take him home, which we did. And brother, did my wife make a fuss over him? Phil, now lie down on the couch, dear. I'll take off your shoes and you can rest. I'll fix your supper in a tray so you won't even have to get out. I almost think my boy had swum the English Channel the way my wife catered to him. It kind of got on my nerves. Of course, I didn't realize then it was a reaction from the nervous strain of the accident. There, now. I'll take the dishes away. And how about some lemonade? How about some lemonade, Phil? Oh, okay, I guess. Look, I don't see why you're papering the kid, Marie. You act as always a hero instead of a crazy kid who played touch tag with a truck. I slipped, Dad. So help me. I slipped on a banana peel. Now, what kind of a corny excuse is that? So help me. This banana peel was lying there in the street. And my foot just went flush. Oh, Joe, the least you could do is be thankful he wasn't killed. I am thankful, but I'd be even more thankful if I had a son who had enough brains to play in a playground instead of where cars are whipping by every minute. The playground's eight blocks away. Besides, did you ever see how crowded it is? Okay. Then what about that empty lot on this block? Why can't you kids play there? Ha! What's this, huh, stuff? Like I said, ha! Now, Phil, if you're getting fresh, I'm gonna... No, Phil doesn't mean anything. Did you ever take a look at that lot on this block? Of course. I go by it on the way to work. Yes, at night, when you can't see the things like the... like the broken glass and the tin cans and the garbage. Ah, wait a minute. It's not that bad. Oh, no? Trouble is, you work nights, sleep during the day. Well, you don't even know the score. Well, you don't even believe Phil slipped on a banana peel. You probably think our streets are too clean for that sort of thing. Okay, okay. None of this okay, okay. You don't believe what I'm saying? Go on, take a look. Look, don't... don't tell anybody, but this just happens to be my day off, Marie. You don't expect me to go down a straight... No, Mr. Big Talk. I don't expect you to do anything. I just expect you to shoot your mouth off. All right, all right. If it'll make you any happier, I'll take a look at those lots and I'll take a look at the streets. Anything to make my dear wife happy. So there I was. My day off, mind you, and I go out into the hot sun, down the street to the vacant lot on my block. And I'm sure it's no surprise to you when I say it didn't take me long to see that the streets and sidewalks were in pretty bad shape. Your only surprise might be, uh, how come I didn't notice it before? Well, like I said, I'm a night worker, and the city looks cool and clean the nighttime, but now, in the bright light of the day, I could see the old newspapers, the dirty rags, the oil slick, the apple cores of cigarette butts, a hunks of wood. And it was just then I realized how crummy and down at the heels my block looked. And when I come to the lot, I knew right away it'd be impossible for anybody to play here, except maybe a bog load of pigs. I walked out through the mounds and mounds of junk. And what was it? I was hard to tell. It was almost impossible to classify, but, uh, not to smell, of course. There was a lot of garbage stinking in the sun and broken glass and rusted pieces of iron. Wrecked baby carriages, old newspapers. It all sort of made me mad. And I walked through the stuff, kicking out at it. And speaking of newspaper, there must have been enough papers lying around in that lot to print an issue of the Daily News. I found a splurry baseball bat, a Bill Terry model, which gives you an idea how long it must have been lying there. Lots of broken crates, rotten fruit. It looked like everybody in a block had used this place for a garbage dump. I even found some old inner tubes on the insides of an old piano, which worked. And I found jagged-edged bottles and hole bottles and more cans in a supermarket patronized by working wives. Mountains of empty cans. And I kind of went crazy kicking away at them, too. Cans! More cans! Cans! Cans! Cans! Cans! Well, I decided I'd seen enough. I was mad, and at the same time, I was crushed. I'd never realized things were this bad, and I... I started walking home now. But the memory of what Phil had said jabbed out at me just... just one way. Ha! What was I supposed to do about dainty streets and lots piled high with filth and litter? Marie's words were no back numbers, either. They bobbed up at me like corks thrown out of water. No, Mr. Big Talk. I don't expect you to do anything. I just expect you to shoot your mouth off. Well, the words of my sweet wife, bless her, went yadda, yadda, and my head, who do I see working down the street but a sanitation man? Well, here was my chance, I figured, for a first-hand look-see into the situation. Maybe he was a little nosy of me, but after all, I am a taxpayer. I walked over to him. Hi. Say, uh, hello. What's up, bud? Would you mind answering a few questions? You see, uh, I've got a little... Don't give me no stories. It's too hot. What's the address you're looking for? No, no, no, no. I don't want directions. I live around here. This, uh, this is my block. Yeah? I wouldn't be proud of it. No, no, I'm not. Uh, that's what I want to talk to you about. Tell me, bud, that, uh, that, uh, lot over there, just, uh, why is it so dirty? You're asking me? I'm asking you. The lot. How come it's so filthy? Well, uh, there's a lot of ways I can answer that. Ha, ha, ha. Excuse the joke. You were saying. Yeah, yeah. Well, we put pressure on the owners to do a cleanup job, but more often than not, these lots are tax-lain property, and as the owners have fallen behind in their tax payments and thrown in the towel. They don't want anything to do with the property anymore. Many of these vacant lots in the city? Well, don't quote me. I'm no walking encyclopedia, mind you, but I'm told there are about, well, over 188,000 vacant lots in the five boroughs, and most of them could be cleaned up to make some sort of playground or a small park. Well? Why isn't it done? I'll tell you. Because it's nobody's job. The sanitation department can't do anything about it except send a team in once in a while to clean a mess up. But if those lots that'll be really used for something worthwhile, it's up to the people of the neighborhood to do something about it. Yeah, well, look, look, I can't disagree with you, Mac, but you guys don't come off so good, you know. Take these streets. This one here, look how filthy it is. Whose fault is that? Well, what's the point of blaming anybody? I know I work hard. Every guy in the department does an honest job. Oh, I suppose they could point out how the cars are lined up along the curb, bumper to bumper, so we can't get at them. But I don't have to talk. I can just stand here on the corner and show you what's really the matter. And now look, you see that boy walking along the sidewalk? What, this one, the kid eating the candy bar? Yeah, yeah. Now watch him. He's just crumpling up the wrapper. There's a trash basket right here, but watch, watch what he does with the wrapper. On a sidewalk. Yeah, I see what you mean. Like some comedian used to say, got a million of them. Hey, look at this. Here's a woman coming down the street. Ah, nice looker, if you like brunettes. Not me. Of course, I'm married, but it seems to me that brunettes have a certain... Ah, you were saying. Yeah, yeah. Hey, this gal. Well, you see what she's carrying in her hand? It's a letter. She must have just gotten her mail. Of course, she's in a hurry to get to work and meet her boyfriend for lunch. So she reads it on the run. She tears the envelope open. Shh. Pardon me while I pick the envelope off the sidewalk. Dumb dame. Ah, it's not only the dumb dames or the young kids. Hey, look at that guy there. He looks like a big wheel, doesn't he? The jet with a cigar? That's right. Picture success. Pillar of the community. Probably a nice guy, too. Gives to charities, votes every election. Very conscientious about his civic duties. Yeah, but watch. He's trying to get a cab. He's in luck. He's got one. And now look. He takes a few last drags on a cigar. And there it goes. Right on the sidewalk. You catch on fast. Oh, brother, do I? Why, you could work 24 hours a day and still not make any headway here. No, you're talking. But why can't you do anything about it? I don't mean you particularly. I mean the big shots. Don't ask me. Ask them. I got a good mind, too. You know, you look like you mean business. Okay, then. Go down to City Hall. Well, it wasn't City Hall I went to exactly, but a tall building on Worth Street, not very far from it. That's where the Department of Sanitation has its offices. I was directed to a receptionist and a secretary, and before I knew it, I was sitting in front of a big kind of earnest-looking man who looked like a sort of a guy who maybe worked his way up to the ranks, like they say. His name's Mul Rain, the Sanitation Commissioner, Andrew W. Mul Rain. And although I knew he was very busy, he seemed pleased I had the interest to come to see him. I'm glad you've taken the trouble to come up here, Mr. Hendricks. What can I do for you? Well, Commissioner, this has been kind of a funny day. I guess there's no point to me describing just why I suddenly got interested in this whole darn problem of keeping the city clean, but, well, I wish you'd give me a quick fill on just how your department handles the problem. I'll try to, but you must understand it's a bit hard to be brief about a problem that is so complicated. In the first place, suppose I give you an idea of the size of the job the New York City Sanitation Department has to do. In effect, we are the municipal housekeepers to eight million New Yorkers and two and a half million others who commute into or visit the city daily. Each year, we pick up four and a half million tons of refuse. Four and a half million? To give you a better idea, that would cram every inch of space in the Empire State Building 15 times or fill the Yankee Stadium nearly a mile high. Now, to do this job, we have over 12,000 Department of Sanitation employees organized into an army that is constantly combating the health menace that unattended garbage and refuse represents. I could give you statistics, plenty of them, and they are available to every citizen. But what I'd like to do now is describe a few of the ways we're making an extra effort these days to meet the problem. Well, I wish you a ward, Commissioner. That's why I came down here for. Well, first of all, we're really going to town on this parking of cars problem. That's been one of our biggest bottlenecks to efficient street cleaning. Oh, yeah, yeah. I've heard about these parking restrictions on the Lower East Side. You know, parking on the other side of the street, just one side. But, uh, how does that help you out? You see, Mr. Hendricks, the old-time street cleaner, the single fellow with his broom is on the way out. There will always be some need for him, but more and more the department is being mechanized, and the work is being done by mechanical broom equipment. If these mechanical brooms are unhindered by parked cars, they can cover far more curb miles than the old-time hand sweeper, and do a much better job, too. Oh, I can see why the sanitation department man I talked to complained about those parked cars. Yes, it's a devil of a job to get all the refuse out when a car has been parked in the same spot for days, and many of them are. Frankly, I think this parking on one side of the street innovation is the most helpful idea in my 30 years with the department, mainly because, to repeat, it allows us to use the mechanical equipment which can do the job best. Yeah. Yeah, no, I imagine that you're always experimenting with new equipment, too, huh? I'll say we are. We have an engineering department that is constantly testing new machines and adapting them for city use. It's quite a problem, you know. Each sector of the city requires a different approach. A semi-rural residential area, for example, where leaf droppage is a factor, is considerably different in its refuse pickup problem from a busy river market area, or a crowded tenement section. We adopt our operations the best we can. Yeah, I've noticed those new litter baskets everywhere I go these days. Yes, we've undertaken a saturation campaign of placing over 21,000 litter baskets throughout the city. We want to have litter baskets at frequent intervals along every main traveled street and avenue, so there should be absolutely no need for anyone to toss papers or litter onto the streets. And that's the core of the problem, Mr. Hendricks. Public cooperation, and that's all there is to it. Now I understand that you're particularly concerned about the cleanup of lots, so that some of them can be used as much-needed playgrounds and recreational areas. Right there is a good example of how public cooperation, when combined with our sanitation department, can do a fine job. We are getting this cooperation from many people and organizations, too. Settlement houses, real estate groups, women's clubs, newspapers. As a matter of fact, one of the newspapers in this city, the Herald Tribune, is sponsoring a contest awarding prizes to the PAL clubs who do the best job of cleaning up vacant lots on their block. Oh, yeah? Sounds like the kids on my block are being arrested. Look, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll set up an appointment for you with Luke Carroll, assistant to the editor of the Tribune. Since you're so interested in cleaning up the empty lots in your neighborhood, he's the man for you to talk to. Okay, then he's the man I'll see. Oh, that commissioner moves fast. An hour later, I was sitting across the desk from Luke Carroll, assistant to the editor of the Herald Tribune. Here's what he told me the Herald Tribune is doing about encouraging the cleanup of vacant lots, just like the one on my block. Mr. Henricks, eh? Well, Mr. Mulrane told me you were on your way and why you were coming. I know he gave you enough figures to make your head spin. You see, I've talked to him about this many times in the past. As a matter of fact, Commissioner Mulrane is a member of the panel of judges named to pick the winners in the Herald Tribune cleanup competition, which is now underway. The reasons behind this contest are rather simple. The Herald Tribune believes that a newspaper is a part of a community and, as such, has an obligation over and above carrying news reports. It must take the lead in supporting and sometimes inaugurating worthwhile campaigns that are designed to benefit the entire city and make it a better place for all of us to live. Now, we've looked into this cleanup problem and we found that the sanitation department was doing a pretty good job. But the people, by and large, were not doing such a good job. And we here at the Herald Tribune, and you too, I suppose, Mr. Hendricks, we think that New Yorkers really want to do a good job in everything. So we printed some stories about dirty streets and lots, and then to create even more interest in this civic problem, because that's what it is, we decided to offer $1,000 to the two groups that could be most helpful. We are giving $500 to reward those members of the sanitation department who do the best job day in and day out. The second group of prizes to be distributed by the Herald Tribune, another $500 that makes the $1,000 total, will go to youngsters who belong to police athletic league clubs. We all know that one of the best ways to get long-range benefits is to enlist the help of youngsters and to instill in them the proper habits. These PAL awards will be given to the clubs that do the best job of cleaning up vacant lots, such as the one you saw in your block that started all of this, Mr. Hendricks, and promoting cleanliness generally in our streets and vacant lots. Now that, in brief, is what the Herald Tribune is doing and why we are doing it. Now, the whole ticket to this problem, I gather, after talking to these two gentlemen who know a heck of a lot more about it than I do, is it's to get folks whooped up enough so that they be more careful and drop junk into the ash can instead of on the ground. Now, no matter how you slice it, that's the story right there. Well, nothing can rouse folks up like some good hard-hitting publicity. And I'd heard that the city station, WNYC, has been spearheading a block-by-block cleanup at a city drive. Something about a block-of-the-week idea or something. It sounded pretty good. So I went back downtown to the municipal building, 25th floor. There I spoke to Seymour N. Siegel. He's the director of the station. It was getting pretty late, so I was pretty direct about things. Well, Mr. Siegel, what is all this I've been reading in the papers about WNYC's Block of the Week? Mr. Hendricks, our Block of the Week series represents our honoring the blocks in New York City whose dwellers have shown the most cooperative attitude in maintaining clean streets, sidewalks, and lots. Yeah, but, I mean, how does it work? Well, around the city there are many people who realize that the sanitation department cannot do the cleanup job unaided. These people are determined to help, and we have reports of many settlement house groups and PAL clubs, stimulated a great deal, I might say, by the Herald Tribune contest, who have pitched together in cleaning up vacant lots on their blocks, in making their neighborhoods clean to live in and neat to look at. We want to pay tribute to these civic-minded people, boys and girls and adults, and that's why every Saturday morning at 1030, we're going to honor the one block among the five boroughs whose inhabitants have best shown the American tradition of working together toward a cleaner, better life. And that, Mr. Hendricks, is the story of WNYC's Block of the Week. WNYC's WNYC's WNYC's WNYC's WNYC's WNYC's WNYC's Well, my day off was shot, but you know, something good came out of it. I left the municipal building feeling just a little better about this thing as I headed for the subway station to go home. The sanitation department was doing the best job conceivable. That, that was certain. What was also clear was that the whole problem, just like about every other problem you could think of, was in the hands of the people. Some might say it's a little thing, and I'm not saying it even compares with some of the big league worries around, but I feel this way. If we can't pitch together on a simple deal like cleaning up our city, how are places can we expect to pull together on the bigger problems it faces? And this, this, this block project, it's, it's a way to start. If just everybody, I mean, you, me, everybody, is a, a bit more careful, goes out of his way to make the block he lives on and works on a cleaner, neater place to live, you'll be surprised how we'll all feel better. You know, the way I see it, it's a matter of pride. I want to be able to meet somebody on the street and say, not hang in my head, this is my block, but, look here, Johnny. Go on, look around you. This is where I live. Yeah, this is my block. You have just heard, this is my block. Participating in this evening's transcribed drama documentary were Andrew W. Mulrane, commissioner of the Department of Sanitation of New York City, Luke P. Carroll, assistant to the editor of the New York Herald Tribune, and Seymour N. Siegel, director of the municipal broadcasting system. Our cast included Jack Curtis as Joe Henricks, Helen McHugh as Marie, Bobby Golley as Phil, and Jack Tureen as the sanitation worker. Arthur Lee was sound and music technician, and the production assistant was Virginia Layton. This is my block was written by Alvin Yudkoff and directed by Alan Carter. Tune in this Saturday morning at 10.30 for The Block of the Week when your city station in the first of an important series honors the inhabitants of the block which has shown the most improvement in the city's current self-help cleanup campaign. That's Saturday morning at 10.30 for New York's Block of the Week. Your announcer is Dean Truby. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you. and chat. Well, what about this morning