The Municipal Broadcasting System presents Freedom's Ladder Freedom's Ladder with radio star Monica Lewis, piano favorite Melba Pope, and your genial master of ceremonies, the Amsterdam news columnist Bill Chase. How do you do? Greetings, salutations, a fun cheerio, and welcome once more to Freedom's Ladder, which is just an intimate program of music, a bit of chit-chat, and this and that, just to remind you that freedom is more than a mere word. The curtain rises now, and our cheerful little earful, and here is our own little teeny-weeny, lovable Melba Pope, of whom there is no humor on the 88, and the number is Embraceable You.ong mask looking at the The End The End The End Wonderful as usual. Thank you so much, Melwood. Well, the studio is just teeming with radiance and good cheer and happy faces today. I wonder why. Oh, of course, I see. No wonder. It's that lovely young star from W.R. Mutual, Monica Lewis. And Monica's going to sing for you now. Give me five minutes more. Give me five minutes more. Give me five minutes more. Only five minutes more. Let me stay. Let me stay in your arms. Here am I begging for only five minutes more. Only five minutes more of your charms. All week long I dreamed about our Saturday date. Don't you know that Sunday morning you can't sleep late. Give me five minutes more. Only five minutes more. Let me stay. Let me stay. Let me stay. In your arms. Oh, Monica, now that you've mentioned it, I think we could use more than five minutes more of your singing. But now that we're here, that's all right. Monica, we'd like to talk about some nice things, and I can't think of a nicer person to talk about. Well, thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. Well, this is sort of like a bus mentality for you, isn't it? Mm-hmm. You leave one station and you come down to another one. Well, I don't mind that. Tell me, just what is your program like on W.R. Well, I have a weekly program. It's a 15-minute show. It's Saturday night at 5.30, and we have Ray Block's orchestra accompanying me, and we have guest stars. Yes, I say, mm, too, to Ray Block. And we have guest stars. We've had Stan Kenton and Lionel Hampton, the Golden Gate. Oh, Bobby Dillon. Yes, we've had wonderful guests, really. Well, now tell me, are they going to change that schedule soon, or do you keep on those schedules? Well, the only change might possibly be a three-time-a-week show. Great. Which would be great. Now, have you always been in radio, or is there something new to you? Well, my entire singing career dates back to about four years ago, and most of the time was spent singing on the radio, although I did have a fling at a Broadway show that flopped. What a shame. And what show was that? Johnny Two by Four. Oh, yeah. The only claim to fame that has is that Lauren Bacall was an extra in it. Was she? Yeah. And besides that, I've done a few personal appearances. The most recent is my appearance at the Blue Angel. Oh, that one you know about. I just completed, yeah, about ten weeks then. You had a wonderful long run there. Well, do you like nightclub work as compared to radio? Well, I like nightclub work, but for a short period of time. I don't like extended engagements. It's pretty tough when you have to do three and four. Yeah, I do like extended engagements in radio. I don't blame you. Well, of course, now you've got a wonderful show. I don't know just how much dough you get as compared to the dough we get here, which is practically nil. Well, I don't know. Well, I've done fairly well, I should say, as far as radio is concerned. I hope to do much better. I was on the Chesterfield show for 39 weeks, and that was a nice run. Now, tell me, in your formula, do you have any set practice of big names, or do you use talent, if it's unusual talent? Well, my program's only been on six or seven weeks, and for the first few weeks we have tried to stick to names, if possible. I don't say just the biggest names. I mean, we've used up-and-coming artists like Bobby Doyle. That's right, I remember. And Bobby is a signature artist. He records on Signature. I record for Signature 2. Good, why not put in a plug? It's free. So, we use Bobby, and of course, he did have his own show for a while for Evershot. But, I mean, compared to names like Lionel Hampton, Stan Kenton, Bobby's a newcomer. He's a youngster. Wonderful. Why don't you have this new guy on, Mel Tomei? I've heard an awful lot about him. Yes, well, yes, he's a very good singer. As a matter of fact, I was at a celebrity party thrown for him by Art Ford on the Milkman's matinee. Oh, great. Yes, I heard about that one. Yes, it was a lot of fun. Well, I think you've got a wonderful future in radio, and not only that, but I think you could do very well on the stage, in a musical comedy, perhaps. Well, thank you. I hope to do something on Broadway. Well, I've been hoping for a long time, but I haven't had the time or the energy to get around to really doing much about it. Well, you will. And the movies, how about that? You'd be wonderful in the movies. Why, thank you. You should see her. She's very cute, very petite, very blonde, very charming. Gee, you've got everything that's going to stop you. Well, I like to do movies, too, but, I mean, it takes a long time, unless you just want to be a flash-in-the-pan artist. I mean, I'd rather establish myself first as a good singer, and that takes a long time. Yes, but you don't want to wait too long before you get too old. Well, really, I don't have that to worry about yet, Jack. Let's face it. Well, would you like to tell us how old you are? Is it a secret? Well, the truth of the matter is I'm 21, but we say I'm 20. Wonderful. A mere babe in the woods. Yes. Well, do you think we might have another number now, because we've got lots of time, and I think the people would like to hear you sometime. Fine. Okay, sure. What will it be this time? This one's a sort of a sultry ballad, I'm in the mood for love. Oh, well, now that's, you've got something there. I'm in the mood for love. Thank you very much. I'm in the mood for love. Oh, well, now that's what I'm doing. Oh, well, now that's what I'm doing. Simply because you're near me. Funny, funny, funny, but when you're near me, I'm in the mood for love. Heaven is in your eyes. Bright as the stars were under. So is it any wonder? I'm in the mood for love. I'm in the mood for love. Why stop to think of weather? Our little dream might fade. We'll put our hearts together. We'll put our hearts together. If there's a cloud up above. If it should rain, we'll let it. But for tonight, forget it. I'm in the mood for love. Oh, thank you very much, Monica. And the way you sang that, I really believe that. That's right. You didn't tell us anything about your husband. And I have heard that you're married, right? That's right. Tell us something about him. Well, I'm married a little over a year to a young chap named Bob Thiel. Everybody's young these days but me. Why? Aren't you young? You look young. No more. Well, Bob is the youngest president, I would say, of a record company in the country. He's 24. 24 and president of a record company. Yeah. Not signature records. Yes, signature. Thank you for getting me a job. Well, I don't know. I don't have much pull around there. I really don't. All I do is work. Well, that's wonderful. You look so radiant today. Do you perhaps have one little reason for that gleam in your eye and whatnot? Well, yes, I really have. After a year of living from pillar to post and in and out of every hotel in town, we finally found an apartment. And it's such a pleasure to walk from one room to another. That is swell. I know exactly how you feel. Because the only apartment I've had in the last three years was in the army. And I had to share it with something like 59 other guys. Well, Monica, it's been awfully nice having you down today. Well, thank you, Joe. And if you're not too busy, we'd like to have you back again very soon. Well, I certainly hope to come back soon. Thank you an awful lot. Well, back to Melba Pope now, who is willing and ready and able again. I think I've used that expression before, that old cliche. Well, anywho, Melba's going to play for us now these foolish things, and I'm sure she doesn't have me in mind. You can't even touch on. That old cliche is a very nice little guy. There's no way to live in the old cliche. No, I'm sure you're not going to play. But, no, I'm sure you're going to play for that. Well, let's see. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Well, time is fast running out, and so we must say goodnight to you one and all. You've been listening to Freedom's Ladder with radio star Monica Lewis, piano favorite Melba Pope, and of course your master of ceremonies was, as usual, the Amsterdam News columnist Bill Chase. Freedom's Ladder is presented every Monday evening at 6.15, so make a date to be with us next week, same time, same station, for Freedom's Ladder, produced and directed by Clifford Burdett. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.