On this very historic site at Bowling Green in front of the Custom House, we're celebrating Maritime Day today and a very interesting observation of that date is being arranged and has been arranged by the committee under the auspice of the American Merchant Marine Institute in cooperation with the War Shipping Administration. Mr. Harry M. Durning, collector of customs, will be the first voice you hear. Mr. Durning. Miss Helen Jensen of the Metropolitan Opera House will now sing The Star-Spangled Banner. Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proddy we hail At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight All rampant we watched Were so gallantly streaming And rocket's red glare From a fancy in air In the twilight's last gleaming In the twilight's last gleaming Oh, say does that the twilight's last gleaming The perilous fight O land of the brave And the home of the brave We'll now have the invocation by Dr. Harold H. Kelly of the Seaman State Institute. O God, would us show thy wonders to those who go down to the sea in ships and occupy their business in great waters. We implore for the merchant marine which we honor on this National Maritime Day, thy benediction and guidance. Deepen in all maritime leaders a sense of responsibility and inspire harmonious cooperation between capital, management and labor, enabling all to prosper as they render proper service to our citizenry and to the world. As the ships traverse the oceans with which thou hast bound the continents and the isles together, may they continue as envoys of enduring peace. We ask this in the name of thy Son, our Master, Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Mr. Taylor, Admiral Leary, Admiral Kincaid, and friends here to gather today. Mr. Taylor, Admiral Kincaid, and the President of the Seaman State Institute, as collector of customs at the Port of New York, it is again my privilege to welcome you here today and to extend to you the facilities of the Custom House in honor of National Maritime Day. Mr. Taylor, Admiral Kincaid, and the President of the United States, the President of the United States, in honor of the American merchant marine and its officers and seamen. Mr. Taylor, Admiral Kincaid, and the President of the United States, this year, more than ever, with the secession of hostilities, we have cause to be thankful and to pay homage to the officers and men of our merchant marine, whose courage and fortitude have contributed so much to our victory. While I stand here and look back over the years, it started with the war abroad in September of 1939 and ended with the victory over Japan in August of last year, I cannot but recognize the foresightness of our late President Roosevelt that brought about the team weight which made this victory possible. It is a sad commentary, however, that today we are fritting away the fruits of this hard-won goal. Today we have nothing but discord, not alone amongst ourselves, but between nations. The shooting is over, but there is no peace in the world, nor is there unity amongst ourselves. Instead of pulling as a team, as we did in war, we are pulling in opposite directions. Let us ask ourselves why this is. To what end? What can be accomplished by such discord? If this gathering here today serves any purpose, let it be that each of us examine ourselves and find out what we can contribute to the cause of unity and peace, so that the peoples of this great country may once more enjoy the fundamental privileges which our founding fathers entrusted to us. To all of you who have contributed to the struggle that is behind us, our deep appreciation and abiding thanks. To all of you who are participating in the struggle for peace and unity, I ask that you give to your government the same loyalty and untiring efforts which you so willingly gave in the stress of war. It is now my pleasure to introduce to you the Honorable Frank J. Taylor, President of the American Merchant Marine Institute, under whose offices the ceremonies today are being conducted. Mr. Taylor. Collector Dining, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, with every year since 1933, when it was first set aside by President's proclamation, the significance of Maritime Day has grown in national importance. Through record-rating transportation achievements carried out despite every peril of war in the sea, the American Merchant Marine was dramatically brought to the attention of millions throughout the country. The Merchant Marine's war duties are virtually complete, but there remains tasks of youth proportion. Vast amounts of relief and rehabilitation cargo must be transported abroad to the starving and destitute people in the war-torn nations. Virtually every American ship sailing from this country carries total or partial relief cargo. In addition, there is an increasing flow to this country of raw materials that are essential to American industries if they are to attain normal production. President Truman, in proclaiming Naritime Day, stated that the American Merchant Marine is no vitally less in peace than it is in war. One of the greatest tasks that frequents us in our peacetime ahead is as well been stated by Collector Dining, that there must be unity of purpose, that there must be teamwork, that everyone must work towards the same goal. We have had, during the Great War period, a great deal of unison between industry and labor and the government. That must continue. You must have the finest that is in the country to sail our American ships. That is best evidenced by this group of young and virile young men that stand out here before us. But in addition to that also, there must be continued of those men who load these vessels to carry these relief cargoes to the war-torn countries of Europe. And they must have leadership. And in that direction, we have been fortunate during the war period in having this kind of leadership. We are looking forward to that kind of leadership into the future. And no one other symbolizes that more than the gentleman that I am about to introduce to you has given his greatest effort and that of his organization, as far as the shore workers of this coast is concerned. And it is my great pleasure to present to you a real man from the rank, who was a longshoreman in his own right, and rose to the head of one of the greatest organizations throughout the country. And it is my extreme pleasure to present to you Mr. Joseph Ryan, President of the International Longshoremen Association. Chairman Taylor, Admiral Leahy, Mayor O'Dwyer, Collector Durning, I have been privileged to speak on maritime celebrations on many occasions. I have listened with attention to the words of Collector Durning, and just briefly hinted at by Frank Taylor, head of the American Steamship Owners Association, as I love to call them, and may I, on behalf of the longshoremen, pay tribute to the merchant marine. The lads I see gathered in front of me, who were drawn from various units of industry, where they may have made their mark and contributed to the wonderful success of our two wars. It's regrettable that the whole country, as represented in the city of New York, does not overflow this thoroughfare to pay tribute to men, who with the rest of the units that make up America, brought to a successful conclusion to war. I pay my humble tribute to you. I pay my humble tribute to you. Of course, I am limited by Chairman Taylor, knowing that this is the greatest port in the world, that the hour that is given to luncheon, every minute of as important, I am limited to three minutes. But I think it took an extra minute, Frank, to pay that tribute. I am a human being. This year, in 1946, everyone connected with the maritime industry, in common with the rest of the citizens of our great country, have occasion to rejoice at the successful termination of two of the most horrible wars in the history of this world. And while we are rejoicing, we in the marine industry must make arrangements to continue our contribution to the representatives of our government who are cooperating with the representatives of the other humane governments in an effort to do everything that is humanly possible to see to it that there will be no more wars in the future. We must realize that future wars will be more devastating and brutal than the one we have just gone through. The best contribution we can make is unity in its entirety. Management and labor must work side by side, as we have done during the war, the success of which has been vouched for by many prominent officials and organizations in our city, state, and nation, director in California? And I believe that the former deputy month was a bit different from us, FloridaESE PEEM, B Austrian Bi comfyborstine in athletics. This was what we have encountered under the notification in the military district, which has now included, house companies that mouth the globe and authorized, said, ì laughed at that, ì really well- Bucketford, &ir-L organization to be. I am not concerned with the differences of labor in the other industries because that is their problem. But labor in the marine industry must solidly unite and work out all of their differences and problems so that we should be in absolute accord as to our policies which means only whatever is best for America. I was very happy to appear yesterday before the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor in Washington with representatives of the Seafarers International Union, the mastermates and pilots, representatives of our organization from the four districts to impress upon the Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor the necessity of setting up a marine department within the American Federation of Labor. I believe we were successful in proving our plan. I believe the Executive Council will endorse the resolutions we induced their hymn. And with the added cooperation of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, we will enjoy the unity that I have described. So I think that I can pledge to President Truman through Admiral Leahy, and his very able representative in this port's collective learning, that as far as our organizations are concerned that Maritime Day of 1947 will seek complete unity on all American waterfronts. Thank you very much, Mr. Ryan. No branch of the uniformed militia has closer ties and contact with the Merchant Marine than the United States Coast Guard. Not only in war, but in peace. The Coast Guard serves and protects the Merchant Fleet. It is now ready to make available to peaceful shipping, some of the marvelous navigation aids developed during the war. It is with pleasure that I present the District Coast Guard Officer of the Third District, Rear Admiral Edward H. Smith. Mr. Chairman, friends of the American Merchant Marine, for all the magnificent work and accomplishments of the American Merchant Marine during World War II. For all the magnificent work and accomplishments of the American Merchant Marine during World War II. And for all the necessary fundamentals that are so essential for the prosperity of our great nation in the foreseeable future. The United States Coast Guard wishes to take this opportunity on this Maritime Anniversary Day, to pay its best wishes, to pay its best wishes, deep tribules, and to extend many happy returns. A strong Merchant Marine for the economic health of our country in time of peace, and an essential auxiliary in time of war, is a doctrine that has been staunchly supported by the United States Coast Guard. And today, all sections of our land, from the Rockies to the sea, should unite in recognition of this important Maritime Day. As Mr. Taylor has just mentioned, the development of marine and navigational equipment, coordinating and testing its practicality, encouraging the manufacture and safety of manufacturing of this equipment, is one of the aims and the jobs of the Coast Guard, in which we plan to assist and encourage the implements of war to the needs of peace. Particular attention is being devoted to modernizing our intricate and vast system of aids to navigation, which spread along the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf Coast of our country, and throughout the inland waterways. The development of this program over the next few years should be reflected in fewer accidents and subsequent less losses to maritime investments. Another activity of our oceanic weather stations in the Atlantic and Pacific, which proved so valuable during the war, are now soon to be turned to the furtherance in peace times of the American Merchant Marines. The International Ice Patrol has been resumed this spring to make safer North Atlantic crossing. I think many of you have heard of the great loss years ago of the Titanic on our maiden voyage to this country. At that time, icebergs were a serious menace to merchant vessels. The Coast Guard took hold of that job. It was my personal privilege to have been a large part of my career closely identified with making life and property that much safer through the iceberg regions of the North Atlantic. Our inspection and assistance services are another service which we are assisting and encouraging through the furtherance and promotion of our American Merchant Marines. Now this was a very important day, just 127 years ago, when the little ship Savannah sailed from Savannah on the first steam propulsion crossing of the North Atlantic. She was captained by a man by the name of Moses Rogers, a Yankee. And now that Yankee spirit of ingenuity and resourcefulness, which paved and pioneered the way of a steam propelled American vessel across the North Atlantic, was no greater problem in those days than those that we are facing today. It is true that our problems, the merchant marine problems, the merchant marine industry facing, are vastly more complex than they were in the days of Moses Rogers. But we have in our America, thank God, the character and the personality and the rugged individualism, the originality and resourcefulness, which will meet and surmount the vast and intricate problems which we have today. It was only yesterday that one of the young and energetic shipping officials called attention with very careful analysis and sound advice, looking forward to the problems of the American merchant marine ahead. And I would like to add now that please count upon the United States Coast Guard in the solution of those problems. And today we salute you, our merchant marine, this great organization on its 127th official birthday. The close interdependence that has always existed between the United States Navy and the merchant marine was never better illustrated than during the recent war. Navy gun crews aboard merchant ships and convoy protection helped deliver the goods while a never-ending fuel line maintained by merchant tankers kept the Navy supplied at sea. It was cooperation of the highest order and gave full meaning to the term sea power. Our next speaker has had first-hand knowledge of this in many areas throughout the world. It is my honor and privilege to present Admiral Thomas C. Kincaid, Commander of the Eastern and Gulf Sea Frontiers. Admiral Kincaid. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the opportunity of addressing the group gathered here today. First, to express my congratulations to the sponsors for this National Maritime Day and for the great purpose for which it stands. Secondly, to repeat, to reiterate, to say again the things which I always say when I speak of the merchant marine. Most of you think of the merchant marine in terms of the part it plays in trade and commerce in the economy of our country. That, of course, is extremely important. My own direct interest in the merchant marine concerns the part it plays in sea power in the sea power of today. It is not possible to think or talk of in terms of terms of the sea power in terms of the sea power of 20, 30 or 40 years ago. Sea power today is something quite different. You cannot think of sea power without that new element, air power. Nor can you think of sea power in the present day without the old element of the merchant marine. But that element has so greatly enhanced in importance, so greatly changed in its position relative to the overall word sea power, that it too is new. There was a time when the merchant marine very much needed the Navy for protection. The Navy's job was to open the sea lane to permit the merchant marine to go where it was necessary to go to carry out its normal business. Today, the picture is not one sided. Today, not only does the merchant marine need the Navy, but today the Navy very much needs the merchant marine. Without the merchant marine, the Navy could not give that protection, of which I have just spoken. The merchant marine today is not only important, but not only absolutely necessary from the point of view of trade and commerce, from the point of view of our economic welfare, but it is of vital importance in producing that sea power which will give this country its protection, expanding the world affairs which it is entitled to. Again, I offer my congratulations to the sponsors for this National Maritime Day and express my best wishes and that of the Navy for success in the things they are trying to do. Thank you. Thank you very much, Admiral Kincaid. When the war came, the steamship lines were mobilized to manage and operate the vast merchant fleet as agents of the War Shipping Administration. The overall direction supplied by the War Shipping Administration has been suburbished, and today we had hoped to have with us a man responsible for much of the planning, Captain Granville Conway, now Administrator of the War Shipping Administration. However, developments arising out of the Railroad Strike have made it imperative that Captain Conway remain at his post in Washington. In his place he has delegated his very able assistant, Captain Hewlett Bishop, Atlantic Coast Director of the War Shipping Administration. It is my pleasure to present Captain Bishop. Thank you. Mayor O'Guard, Mr. Taylor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. We have today the world's largest merchant marine. This merchant marine was built on the pressure of war. It was sailed by American seamen and operated by American steamship companies acting as agents for the War Shipping Administration. There are a good many heroes that sailed these ships. Some received medals, many did not. No medals were given to employees or officials of the steamship industry, nor to the employees of the War Shipping Administration or Maritime Commission, nor did these people expect to receive them. They have had the pride of achievement of a job well done. This job was done by people who had the know-how and by a no-strike pledge of labor, afloat and ashore, that made an unbeatable combination. I believe a peacetime successful merchant marine must be built on the same kind of cooperation. Without it, cargoes will move in foreign bottoms and our vessels will rust in laid-up fleets. This we must not permit. There is no need for me to say the present labor situation confronting us is not good. A good many people blame it on the war. We must not just shrug our shoulders and say it will clear up. But each should try in his own way to do something about it. There are reasons behind most labor disputes. Let's try to get at the bottom of things and clear them up. I believe that if management plays square with labor and convince labor that it is doing so, that labor will play square with management. Unfair labor practices should be avoided. And so should unfair to management practices. A good many disputes start by misunderstanding. There are grievance clauses in machinery in most labor agreements. But in many recent cases in the shipping industry, they haven't been used. They should be and must be to avoid chaos and keep cargoes and passengers moving in and on American ships. The backbone of a successful merchant marine is cargo. That is the sole purpose of a merchant marine. National defense? Yes. But merchant ships' primary job during war is moving cargo. The supplies that equipped our fighting men and our allies' fighting men moved into the war. The ships of the American merchant service manned. Moved in great proportion in ships of the American merchant service manned by American merchant crew. Congress and the public will not stand for sailing empty ships. There is no port for empty ships. Their course can lead only to a laid up fleet. We must spread the word and make the public conscious of our merchant fleet. An American merchant marine means jobs afloat and ashore. Not only in seaport cities, but in every town and village in the entire nation. We've carried the nation's war supplies. Let's carry the nation's peacetime cargoes. Mr. Taylor, this model of one of the fast new passenger liners that will serve in our merchant marine in the not too distant future appears to be nothing more than a toy. Yet it is symbolic of two great events in the history of American shipping. The reconversion of our merchant marine to global trade after its glorious achievement in global war. And the bold and daring plan initiated by our late President Roosevelt and reaffirmed by President Truman, which will ensure America's rightful place as a leading maritime power. In presenting this model to you as a representative of the maritime industry, I am confident you will guard it well, knowing as you do that it represents a vital contribution to the maritime industry. To our national welfare, a strong and active merchant fleet. A strong and active merchant fleet. A strong and active merchant fleet. A strong and active merchant fleet. Dr. Dr. Richard, while we realize that this is the most important part of the maritime industry, and as a representative of the maritime industry, I am confident you will guard it well, knowing as you do that it represents a vital contribution to our national welfare, a strong and active merchant fleet. Dr. Richard, while we realize that this is merely a symbol of what to look forward in the future, of what is planned for the American merchant marine, I want to assure you to bring the message back to the maritime commission and the war shipping administration that we do take symbols of this kind in a serious manner. And that in all the planning of the maritime industry, it is looking forward to have the finest vessels that are built throughout the world. To have the finest safety devices aboard such vessels, and to carry a greater number of the American travelers aboard ship. Our whole symbol will be to ship and sail America. It is now my pleasure to present to you Miss Pearl Basuna, Metropolitan Opera Soprano, who will now sing Roses of Picardy. Miss Basuna. Miss Pearl Basuna.integrated the littleola. Miss Pearl Nasir She is watching by the poplars All in net with the sea blue eyes. She is watching and longing and waiting Where the long white roadway lies. And the song stirs in the silence And the wind in the bosom above. She listens and starts and travels With the first little song of love. There's never a rose like you And the roses will die With the sun the time And our roots may be fall apart. But the sun the moon the stars Not in paper deep In the rose of my tea In my home Thank you very much. That was beautiful. The greatness New York City has known for so long Rest heavily upon the flow of commerce Which passes through the port of New York Having met every test during the busy war period The port now looks ahead To the demands of peacetime trade The maritime industry Is fortunate to have As its chief executive Of this city A man who keenly appreciates The importance of the port And its many facilities To the economic life Of our city Our state And our country And it is my privilege To present to you To present to you His honor the mayor William O'Dwyer Mayor O'Dwyer Mayor O'Dwyer Mayor O'Dwyer Mayor O'Dwyer Mayor O'Dwyer Admiral Kincaid Admiral Smith Admiral O'Leary Captain Bishop Attorney Ladies and gentlemen, this is a most important day for the maritime industry and particularly for the Port of New York. We are gathered here to observe National Maritime Day, the first such peacetime observance since 1941. Despite our loss of more than 600 merchant ships during the war, we still have the largest and best equipped merchant marine in the world. We all vividly recall the heroic wartime accomplishments of the men and ships of our merchant marine. They maintained the lifeline of men and supplies to all our battlefronts. They, together with the Army and Navy, government agencies and industry, performed an achievement unequaled in the history of the world. They participated in every landing of our forces, from Casablanca, Anzio, Normandy, to Okinawa. The miracle of production, however, would have been to no avail if we had been unable to transport the vital supplies to the battlefronts. Their contribution to victory was recognized by General Eisenhower and MacArthur and the admirals of the fleet. But now, the merchant marine has turned to the peacetime transportation of supplies, food for the hungry in Europe and Asia, transportation of fugitives from persecution and oppression. As the world readjust itself to a peacetime economy, our maritime industry once more will assume its major role. The international transportation of passengers and supplies to and from our ports and the ports of the seven seas. Here in New York, we recognize our port as the greatest in the world. Its capacity was never surpassed during the war years, and its facilities were at all times capable of handling wartime traffic. More than three million men sailed from this port during the war years, while army cargo alone shipped out of the port of New York exceeded 37 million tons. However, the port of New York cannot rest on past achievements, nor can we assume that it will continue as the leading port of the world. Unless we are prepared to further develop it, and to rehabilitate its tiers and docks, and construct new facilities to handle the future increasing traffic. I have always been sensitive to the part the maritime industry plays in American life. I know that the maritime and related industries, represented here by Mr. Ryan, provide employment for thousands of men and women living in the metropolitan area. An industry of such magnitude and of such importance to our economic life must receive all possible official assistance and cooperation. With this in mind, I intend in the near future to establish a port planning commission for the city of New York. This commission will have as its members public-spirited representatives from maritime industry and labor. This commission will make a survey and recommend the improvement and rehabilitation of our port facilities. And make suggestions for the construction of new piers and terminals where necessary. And in keeping with the overall planning of the port. The members of this commission will serve without pain. Through their experience and vision, and their desire to give public service, they will undoubtedly be able to make recommendations that will ensure our port supremacy. Other coastal cities have already entered into competitive planning. Gulf ports are eyeing the great future of Latin American traffic. Southeastern coastal ports, improved and developed during the war years, are grimly determined to maintain the shipping and industrial advantages they received as a result of wartime exploitation. We can retain our supremacy as a port. But to do so, we must have vision and courage to go ahead. And the sensitive realization that the main artery of our industrial and economic existence flows past our front door. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, thank you very much for your message. I'm sure that you give courage to everyone who is in the maritime industry and its related industries. Our program will now close with the singing of America by Warrant Officer William J. Farrell of the Coast Guard. WilliamJ. Farrell. William D. Farrell. After the boule launched the wall. Will of the seaandra oblige the koalas Powerền Mrans置 incapable. Welcome to the seaOWN as the captain of oil. Our Father's died, land of the pilgrims' pride. From every mountainside, let freedom bring. Our Father's God to thee, O her of liberty, of thee I sing. Lord, may our land be bright, with freedom's holy light. Who pegged us by thy might, great Lord of kings. From the tip end of the island of Manhattan, on the exact spot where the State House or first City Hall of the early Dutch settlers in the colony New Amsterdam first served this city with the government, we brought to the National Maritime Day ceremonies under the auspices of the American Merchant Marine Institute in cooperation with the War Shipping Administration. The Honorable Harry M. Durning, Collector of Customs, introduced the permanent chairman of today's ceremony, Mr. Frank Day Taylor, president of the American Merchant Marine Institute. You heard the address of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. The anthem was sung with Miss Helen Jepsen of the Metropolitan Opera Association, with the band of the Coast Guard accompanying. And so we take leave of you from the tip end of Manhattan, on the steps of the Customs House, and return you to our studios. By the way, Ray Patriot S供 Ice Bvid watching this, anybody would share with you from the TOEFL in Anchorage your państwo kept the opportunity topel the South Library, the North, this is a Dr. Frank Fedor, in an amazing community of the Ucza 마음에 Palace Valley' Heehi and a Dynasty Cわか 즐ichtiging counterparts, my Ted Deid They weren'tToP jumps on as he came to a island of conscientious of the United Heartellschaft, every history of the United States of the Teachers, and anesthesia of the En canvi, and being centered today offers him reference the order of science for the international Meterỷ, a Periodized process, and showing up in the Midwest Western Bar Lieutenant