Hello, everybody. This is Gloria Swanson. I want to ask you to help with something close to all of us. It's the Young Women's Christian Association in Manhattan and Harlem. For 80 years, the YWCA has helped improve the health and outlook of young people with limited funds. In the true spirit of democracy and love of man, it has taught people, without thought, to race or creed, to live together and given them the tools for self-development. We all have, at one time or another, benefited from the YWCA, and our community at large has been made better for it. Today, for the first time in 37 years, the Young Women's Christian Association is conducting a public drive for urgent building and program needs. Help this great institution. Give what you can. Send a contribution today, any amount, to the YWCA of the City of New York at 129 East 52nd Street. This is Fanny Hurst speaking. Has it ever occurred to you as you pass your neighborhood YWCA that its schools actually have more students than five of the largest women's colleges combined? Isn't that an eye-opener for you, especially when you start to think that education is but one aspect of the YWCA's program for American youth? Now, here are some of the YWCA's methods as a means to that end. Low-cost residences for young women, classes, recreation and social activities, after-school programs, counseling services, vocational guidance employment bureaus. Don't you agree with me that the YW deserves your support? And a contribution from you to the YWCA's building and program fund will make incalculable difference in the lives of hundreds of thousands. Please send one today to the YWCA of the City of New York, 129 East 52nd Street. And thank you. Hello, everybody. This is Jinx Falkenberg-McCarrie. Eighty years is a long time to contribute importantly to the community. A fraction of that would be with the kind of services the YWCA of the City of New York has given our great city, consistently serving our interests with unselfish, untiring and constantly expanding services. For 80 years, its program has been geared to the ever-changing community needs and to the development of youth through health, education and welfare. With increasing numbers of people and activities, through two wars and a depression, its facilities have become worn and inadequate. For the first time in 37 years, the YWCA is conducting a campaign of urgent building, rehabilitation and program needs. Help this vital institution which helps all, regardless of race or creed. Send your contribution today, any amount, to the Building and Program Fund, 129 East 52nd Street. This is Ralph Bellamy. What does YW mean to you? Letters in the alphabet? A building? Perhaps a swimming pool? An employment service? It's all these things and more. It's friendly, warm counseling services to some, a way of life to others. It's a building, a place, a name. But most of all, a great institution which has served us long and unselfishly. For the first time in 37 years, the YWCA, the City of New York, is asking our help in its drive to raise $6 million for urgently needed building, program and rehabilitation needs. Through two wars and a depression, facilities have become limited and antiquated. Support this great institution. Help the YW build in sorely needed areas. Repair and expand. Give what you can. Send your contribution today to the YWCA Building and Program Fund at 129 East 52nd Street. Hello, everybody. This is Imogene Koka. From all parts of the country and all corners of the world, single girls and women have found a friendly home at the YWCA of the City of New York since its beginning, 80 long years ago and at needed low cost. For 80 years, many girls and boys have found fun, constructive activity and help in practical, concrete ways. Should it be a needed room, advice or counsel, a job, a course, a skill, civilian defense and education? The YWCA is there to serve, to guide, to teach and help. Today, the YW needs our help. Facilities have become limited against growing needs of increasing numbers of people. Buildings are worn and antiquated. Give to the YWCA's campaign for urgent building and repair needs. Send your contribution today to the YWCA at 129 East 52nd Street, New York. That's 129 East 52nd Street, New York. Hello. This is Arlene Francis. Ever hear of a door key kid? He's the child who wears a key around his neck. A key to an empty home where there's nobody waiting. You see, his parents are too poor to keep him supervised while they work. What happens to him after school and his loneliness? Many turn to roaming streets and joining gangs. The Young Women's Christian Association of the City of New York has instituted experimental programs for such children to help them occupy their time constructively. With trained personnel, they learn new ways, new life and comfort. Help them stay off the streets. Give to the first capital fund drive of the YWCA in 37 years. With your money, new buildings will go up in sorely needed areas. Repairs will be made. And the success of this after school program will be assured. Please send your contribution today to the Building and Program Fund, 129 East 52nd Street. This is Burt Parks. I like kids. We all do. And I know you'll want to hear about the numerous lonely children whose parents lack means for their supervision during working hours. Between schools ending and parents return, they wander aimlessly about for hours feeling friendless and alone. The YWCA of the City of New York has instituted after school programs centered around the needs of such children. In areas where other recreational facilities are lacking, trained personnel teach them to spend their time usefully, learn fun, companionship and comfort. Help these kids on their way to a healthy, constructive life. Help the YWCA extend this vital service to other sorely needed places. Give to the YW's campaign for urgent building and program needs. Send your contribution, any amount, to the YWCA of the City of New York at 129 East 52nd Street. That's 129 East 52nd Street. This is Edward R. Murrow. Do you like facts? Here's one. The YWCA's low-cost residences spell security, comfort and haven to hundreds of thousands of young women living alone in New York. Here's another. For millions, the YW is the only place to turn for help and advice. Specific figures? Well, multiply 80 years of service against a minimum of hundreds of thousands of people yearly and what do you get? Millions of people reached, helped and made to enjoy life constructively through the interracial program of the YWCA. Facilities have become limited with swelling numbers of people and activities. And the buildings are worn and antiquated. Give to the YWCA's campaign for urgent building and repair. It's a fact that if you do, the YW will operate its program more effectively than ever. Send your contribution today to the YWCA of the City of New York. 129 East 52nd Street. That's 129 East 52nd Street. Hello, folks. This is Vaughn Monroe. I've just discovered a wonderful thing. I always thought of the YWCA as a great institution, but I didn't know how great it really is. I've just discovered all its services. I didn't know, for instance, that the YWCA of the City of New York engages in welfare activities in neighborhoods other agencies don't reach, and cooperates with welfare agencies in other areas. That its low-cost residences are the only place a young girl can have everything she needs under one roof. A pleasant room, nourishing meals, recreation, companionship, vocational counsel, and guidance. Without the YW, these services, which mean so much to so many, and you too, our whole community would suffer. And now the YW's facilities have become antiquated and limited. Help them build and repair for even more effective service. You can send a contribution today to the YWCA building and program fund at 129 East 52nd Street. That's 129 East 52nd Street.
