A golden anniversary and the news of an amazing new automotive development. Detroit commentator Jack White tells about it. At lunch the other day a man said, sometimes we take a great deal for granted. That wasn't original of course, I'd heard other people make the same comment a dozen times before, but this time the thought stuck in my mind. I left the restaurant and walked through the heavy noon traffic to my car. I suppose that's why I found myself thinking about this question. Do I take a great deal for granted about automobiles? Well I had to admit my answer was yes, and I decided to learn something more about them. Within the next few minutes you'll hear the highlights of what I spent several days finding out. I not only uncovered some history, but some important news of interest to the 34 million of us who own automobiles in America. I'm not going to do much of the talking myself. I want you to hear first-hand from three people who really know the subject. Before they take over this microphone, let me tell you what I learned about the meaning of transportation. Without transportation there would be little point in the farmer growing more than he could consume himself, or the cobbler making more shoes than his family and neighbors needed. America, unlike many other countries, grew swiftly out of the home workshop era because transportation kept pace with industrial genius. First there were canals and riverboats, then the railroads. But the railroads didn't go everywhere. Lack of transportation stifled large areas which the railroads couldn't reach. Then came the highway age, the missing link in the transportation chain. Today there are 54,000 villages and towns in the United States served only by cars and trucks. This is almost half of all the communities in the nation. We just get into our cars, step on the starter, and go anywhere, anytime we please. We're so used to it that just as the man in the restaurant said, sometimes we take a great deal for granted. With that, let's move quickly now to the first of our guests, Eddie Jones, who helped to put together the first Packard ever built, Old Model A. Let's see, that was 50 years ago when William McKinley was president of the United States and the Boer War started. Isn't that right, Mr. Jones? Yes, but 50 years don't seem like a long time to me. You'll understand when you're as young as I am. We finished Old Model A on November the 6th, 1899. She really caused a sensation running under her own power on the streets of Warren, Ohio. Model A still caused a sensation even in her golden anniversary year because she still runs under her own power. Oh, wait a minute, Mr. Jones. You're going a little too fast for me. Let's back up to 50 years ago. You mentioned Warren, Ohio. I thought Packards always had been built in Detroit. Oh, no. The two Packard brothers had an electrical plant in Warren, Ohio. And that's where we put Old Model A together. We didn't move to Detroit until 1903. Tell us something about old Model A, Eddie. I'll bet you didn't have many conveniences. Well, no, not in the modern sense. But she was better than anything else on the road 50 years ago. Model A was a single seater with wire wheels, the buggy type, you know. She steered with a tiller. The power came by chain drive from a single cylinder engine which developed 12 horsepower. The driver had a choice of three speeds, forward and one in reverse. Model A had an automatic spark advance and many other features which didn't appear in other cars until years later. No, Model A didn't have conveniences as we think of them today. But she ran, climbed hills, and pulled through sand and mud and still does it today. Model A certainly shows we take a lot for granted in the conveniences of our automobiles, Eddie. Now, do you recall how many different makes of cars were produced back at the turn of the century? More than you might think. In 1900, at the first automobile show in Madison Square Garden, 42 different American automobiles were exhibited. But get this, all except three have vanished along with the companies that made them. The autocar is now a truck, the descendant of the peerlesses, a beer company. Of the 42, only Packard remains today an independent carmaker. Well, that's really survival of the fittest, Mr. Jones. And speaking of survival in the present, perhaps we'd better get on to our other two guests. As I mentioned at the beginning of this interview, I uncovered some important news of interest to the 34 million of us who own automobiles in America. Before revealing that news, let me tell you a little about our second guest, Colonel J.G. Vincent, a director and the vice president of engineering of the Packard Motor Car Company. Briefly, he's internationally known as an engineer. His patents, developed in 37 years with Packard, fill two fat volumes. During World War I, Colonel Vincent was instrumental in the creation of the Liberty Airplane Motor. He won the 1922 Gold Cup race in a boat powered by an adaptation of his airplane engine. Throughout World War II, he played a key role in Packard's improvement and production of 55,000 Rolls-Royce aircraft engines and 13,000 Packard Marine engines, which powered all of the PT boats. During the past 50 years, Packard has contributed a yard-long list of firsts to the advancement of automobiles. Colonel Vincent is responsible for many of them. But now, I'll ask him to tell us about his latest first, an automatic transmission, which one Detroit technical writer describes as the closest approach to the engineering ideal of no transmission at all. Colonel Vincent, suppose you start out by telling us when you began to develop your latest first. We started working on this 16 years ago. We developed several types and made thousands of tests before we were satisfied. Then we selected the name, Ultramatic Drive, because we believe it means the last word in automatic no-shift control. I've heard so many complicated and technical answers to questions I've asked others about automatic transmissions that I'm almost afraid to ask you about the Ultramatic, but I'd like to know just what makes your Ultramatic Drive different. I know what you mean by technical answers, so I'll try and make my answers as clear as possible. Let's first of all take a look at a conventional gear shift. You know it's necessary to shift into first, then second, then third, nobody knows how many times, on a simple trip downtown. With the Ultramatic Drive, you don't shift at all. Well, Colonel, you don't shift with certain other transmissions either. I want to find out just what is different about it, but let's start at the beginning. Suppose I'm a Packard owner. I've just entered the driver's seat, the engine's purring smoothly, I want to go someplace. What happens? Take a look at the steering post, first of all. You'll see these settings, high range, low range, reverse, park, and neutral. Okay, so I want to drive in high range, right? That would be the normal case, and we'll assume that everything is normal. Your steering post lever is at neutral. Flip it into high range, step on the gas, and you're on your way. Smoothly, quickly, powerfully. All right, my toe's on the accelerator, my speedometer needle's going up, 10, 15, 20 miles an hour. You could, if you wanted to, ride on up to 55 miles an hour without automatic shift, but that would be needless ordinarily. When you reach any desired speed above 15 miles an hour, let up on the accelerator momentarily, then step on it again, and you're just rolling along. If at any time you need a sudden burst of speed, just kick the accelerator down at the floor again. When you take your foot off the accelerator for a second, you can feel the engine breaking your speed, slowing down the engine as the engine slows down. Here's what happened. When you first raised your foot from the accelerator the first time, the automatic changed automatically into direct or positive drive. Well, you're a little ahead of me there, Colonel. Positive drive? Positive drive is a direct connection between the engine and the rear wheels, which gives you complete control of the car. Now then, we'll assume that you're ready to stop for a cross street. The automatic transmission is still in positive drive. It'll stay there until your speed goes down below 15 miles an hour. Then, automatically, you're using a torque converter. I've just put on the brakes. Let's stop right here for an explanation of that technical expression, torque converter. The torque converter is the basis of the automatic drive. It multiplies the twisting effort of the engine through an oil medium. But, Colonel Vincent, what's different? Wasn't there a shift of gears during our imaginary little trip? No, there was no shift of gears at any time. Let me put it this way. Pre-war automatic drives were step type, and the shift of gears from low to high speeds was accomplished either automatically or by the driver. Ultramatic drive gives you a curved type of acceleration. No actual shifting of gears takes place. The torque converter gets you rolling smoothly and powerfully as fast as you want to go. But when the mechanism changes to a direct drive, giving you a drive that's more positive and more flexible. I'm satisfied. Now, how about these other positions of the steering post lever? How about low range? Merely what it says. It's a lower ratio of transmission, more power for hills, getting out of ruts or snowdrifts. Using the other position, reverse, it's actually easier to roll the car back and forth to get out of a mud hole or a snowdrift than it was the manual type of gear shift that automobiles have had for so long. Is there anything new about maintenance on the Ultramatic? Yes, there is. The Ultramatic torque converter is simpler. It has fewer parts. Routine maintenance is confined to checking the oil level at periodic intervals and adding some oil if needed. I remember when Packard first introduced the constant windshield wiper by employing a vacuum pump. At that time, it was a great step in automotive accomplishment, but people took it for granted in a short time. Now, I expect it won't be long before Ultramatic transmission is taken for granted, too. You're probably right. Even after 16 years of development, this automatic transmission, we engineers won't be discouraged if people take it for granted. You see, that's what happens to every development. But we don't complain, that is, as long as people keep on buying our products. We're making people lazier and lazier, and they're not complaining either. I know what you mean. That includes me, too. Well, our third guest hasn't had a chance to speak up yet. I started to say our most important guest, but I know he'd object to that because he believes in a team operation. He's a down-to-earth realist. He went from the shop to the top in the automobile industry. He started out as a roby mechanic 38 years ago. At one time, he worked 12 hours a day for 17 and a half cents an hour. He's a director and the president and general manager of the Packard Motor Car Company. His name, George T. Christopher. Mr. Christopher, you stood by very patiently and quietly while Eddie Jones, your oldest employee in point of service, and Colonel Vincent, your vice president of engineering, told us about the early days of the automobile industry and your new automatic transmission. Now, I want to ask you some questions, but first, you may want to comment on some of the things we've been talking about. Yes, I'd like to bring out just two points. As I listened to Eddie Jones talking about the early days, I recalled that in 1899, only $600 were required to make a job for one man. Today, the investment for each job at Packard is $6,000. Fifty years ago, our company had 17 employees, including Eddie. Today, there are nearly 12,000, still including Eddie. The average hourly wage rates have climbed from 20 cents in 1899 to $1.65 today, not including various employee benefits. In 1899, Packard was owned by five people. Today, it is owned by over 116,000. No single shareholder has more than 2% of the 15 million shares outstanding. That's a pretty good testimonial to free enterprise, I'd say. Colonel Vincent has told you about the new automatic transmission. The second point I want to make is that automatic drive tops a list of 77 major improvements which we've made in our golden anniversary line of cars. These cars soon will appear in showrooms throughout the country. How many of the golden anniversary cars do you expect to build, Mr. Christopher? I'm glad you put the question that way. Actually, I don't know how many we will build. But in 1948, we produced 98,897 cars, and we hope to do 30% better this year. We view 1949 not only as Packard's golden anniversary, but also its golden opportunity. In other words, you're an optimist, despite the recently changed complexion of the automobile market generally. I think I'm a realist rather than an optimist. The year just closed was one of the most successful from every standpoint in Packard history. We foresee strong computation in the period ahead. Make no mistake about that. But we are convinced that the Packard organization has the ability to meet this competition adequately. I don't know, and neither does anybody else, just how many cars the industry will sell this year. But I do know that if we all work at it, 1949 can be just as good a year as 1948. Well, that, I would say, is good news for all of us, Mr. Christopher. Thank you very much. I don't know about you listeners, but I'm sure that hereafter, I won't take so much for granted about automobiles. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to Detroit commentator Jack White interview Eddie Jones, Packard employee for 50 years, Colonel J.G. Vincent, Vice President of Engineering, and George T. Christopher, President and General Manager, on the occasion of the Packard Motor Car Company's golden anniversary of building fine cars.
