New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce, a new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, Tontine House and Insurance on New York, Queen of Commerce. The fight for survival, man's first and strongest instinct since the early dawn of history, has shaped the destiny of the world in which we live. Man learned to seek and give friendship with his neighbors. In the course of centuries, stronger groups, clans and tribes formed. As man learned to journey afar and sail the seven seas, nations and empires were formed. If man is to grow and prosper, he must have some reasonable assurance of survival and success. So he learned that by pooling resources with others, based on an overall frequency of accidents, he could venture further and face greater risks with comparative impunity. This was the basis of insurance, the business that protects other businesses. In the 1790s, one of the most important buildings in New York was a tavern known as the Tontine Coffee House. Within its walls, much American commercial history was made. Here, for a number of years, the stock exchange carried on its business and the Chamber of Commerce met. This building was the headquarters for the merchants and shippers of that day. Here, the first marine insurance underwriters did business. And the first fire and marine insurance company was organized after the Revolutionary War. Robert Gilmore, a visiting merchant from Baltimore, said, Everyone assembles here noon and night to hear the news and to see each other. One day, early in 1797, a group of men gathered at the tavern. Come in, Mr. Gilmore, come in. Do join us. Gentlemen, permit me to present Mr. Robert Gilmore, our distinguished visitor from Baltimore. Mr. Gilmore, this is Mr. Barker, Mr. Kruger and Mr. Murray. Delighted. It's a pleasure. How do you do, sir? Mr. Gilmore, as you know, is a leading merchant and shipper of Baltimore. Mr. Avery, will you please serve fresh coffee all around? Mr. Barker here was just reading aloud some interesting items from this morning's Gazette. Well, don't let me interrupt. Pray continue. Yes, go ahead, Mr. Barker. Well, here's an item. A riot in Top Sale Town. That's a rather salty neighborhood near Wall Street. That is, we don't speak about it very often, Mr. Gilmore. The story says a fair fleet of about 20 sail tacking and yawing under a groggy gale got underway. And with the help of civil officers arrived safely at port. There, the sailors were stowed under lock and key. Those sailors would be better off if they had ships. Idleness brings mischief. Well, now, here's an account from Boston. Much ceremony surrounded the launching of the .44-gun frigate Constitution. Ah, yes. The frigate Constitution left the ways, well, the day I left Baltimore. We're gathering much naval strength. From all reports, we'll need it. Continue, Mr. Barker. Well, now, a signal from Sandy Hook indicates the British ship Thetis is anchored offshore. Did you know, Mr. Gilmore, that her sister ship, Thespis, has been trying to impress American seamen right here in the city? Well, they didn't get very far. The crowd chased that British captain right back on board. Frankly, I don't like the situation. Now, wait a minute. This story here is more cheerful. A complete set of eight bells arrived here Thursday on the brig Crown from London. And that's for Trinity Church. The bells, together with an elegant new clock that has just arrived also, will be installed in Trinity Tower without delay. I hope they'll be ready to greet President John Adams when he arrives in the city on his first official visit. Well, is he due soon? Yes, in a matter of a few weeks. Uh, let's see now. Here's an item from Philadelphia. Temporary truce called with Algerian pirates. It is expected latest agreements will bring about a secession of raids on American shipping. When I tell you, gentlemen, it's getting so it's too much of a risk to send a ship to sea. And, well, that is, at least without insurance. I've got a half million dollars tied up in merchandise that's standing on the walls. Well, and down on the Patapsco River, I have 2,000 casks and spirits. And without protection, I can't risk shipping. That's why I came here. Well, I'd rather profit less and pay the underwriters if they'll back us. I'm with you on that. Come, the underwriters' room is below. Murray, you and Barker have an interest? Lend us your support. We'll see what can be done. Gentlemen, we must work together. We must work together. The End Various bankers and prosperous merchants added their financial forces to the fire and marine underwriters of the old Tontine Coffeehouse. Rates based on risk were high, but the stakes were worth the ventures. Ships began to move. John Watts sent many ships to sea. It was in the middle of October in 1797 that the Watts family were relaxing at their country home, Rose Hill, on the Gramercy Creek. Oh, listen to our daughter playing. It's quite relaxing. I'm content to remain at home this day. Yesterday's welcome to President Adams almost got out of hand. The only pleasant ringing in my ears this morning was the sound of the beautiful new chimes of Trinity. Even the President was impressed. Don't you think, dear, that your daughter shows excellent progress with her music? My dear, when I first heard your funny little professor giving lessons to our Anne at his salon in the Tontine, I had grave misgivings. But now I admit it's amazing. Oh, Daddy, dear, did you really think I've done well? I've tried ever so hard. And, and Daddy, I don't bite my fingernails anymore. Don't you think... Now, Anne, when you sugar up to me like that, I know you want something. Father, how could you ever... Now, Anne, what is it? Well, did, did you see the playmen and the clowns parading through town all day yesterday and the day before? Down at Ricketts on Greenwich Street, they're having the most wonderful circus. There's horses and dogs and acrobats. I must admit the circus is attracting lots of attention. They say seats there are already reserved for President Adams. And, Daddy, a comic opera called Robin Hood is going to play at the Pantheon across Rector Street from Ricketts. Oh, now, slow up, one thing at a time. I guess we'll have to compromise and all go to both. Oh, Daddy, you're wonderful. And the very handsomest man in the town as well. No, no, no, no, enough of that. Get back to your spinet. John, dear, I hope you rest and enjoy yourself. It seems to me during these past two years you've had little time to relax. News from your ships is more often bad than good. Dear me, I spoke too soon. I'll see you at the door. Good day, ma'am. I have a dispatch here for Mr. John Watts. Thank you, young man. He's here. Do you require an answer? Oh, no, ma'am. Good day, ma'am. Oh, John, the boy brought this. Well, what is it? Is it bad news? It says the sloop target delayed by high seas limped into Murray's Wharf this morning. A captain report sighting your ship, Freedom State in distress, probably lost off the Jersey coast. await confirmation. Regrets and in haste, Paulding Marine office. This is awful. I knew something was going to happen. Oh, the captain and all those men. Yeah. That's what may be so terrible. The finest crew I've ever had. Most of them have been with me for years. I've got to go down to the office. I'll get it, Daddy. Yes? Miss, a letter for Mr. John Watts, Esquire. Oh, thank you. I'll give it to him immediately. Thank you. Here, Daddy. Here's another message for you. Hmm? Let's see now. Hmm. Well, I declare. Listen to this. The 17th of October, 1797. John Watts, et cetera, et cetera. This is to advise that a sudden storm of unusual severity overtook your ship, Freedom State, en route to New York from Baltimore with your cargo. Your purchase from one Robert Gilmour of the latter city. Oh, no. How hard. No, wait, wait, wait a minute. There's more. The stoutness of this new ship and the resolute conduct of her captain, however, made it possible to bring her in over the sandbar to Little Egg Harbor on the Jersey coast. All hands are reported safe. Wagons and carts were obtained from Philadelphia and are hauling this cargo to that port at our expense. There it will be transferred to your Brig Eagle now standing by. Your weekly sloop, King Cole, can take the remainder. Appraisers are now at work on the Freedom State. An estimate of loss will be tendered to you for approval. Upon agreement, you will be reimbursed in full for all losses sustained, including that part of the cargo which was spirited away. Signed underwriters committee, Tontine Hotel. Very good. Very good. Well, my dear, I don't know what all this means, but it doesn't sound like circuses or operas or frivolity. I know how such things grieve you. On the contrary, Mrs. W. The men are safe and that's the only thing that matters, and thank God. Come. Come, Anne, into your prettiest dress and you too, my dear. I don't understand. Oh, you will. You've just witnessed the magic working of insurance. A defensive weapon more powerful than a whole fleet of warships. Where are we going? To Mr. Rickett's circus to be sure. And tell Myra we shall dine out. We shall see President Adams at the opera this night. Oh, Daddy, you're wonderful. And if it makes you feel that way, I guess insurance must be wonderful too. Oh, Daddy, we'll have a marvelous time at the circus. The circus. The circus. The circus. The circus. occur began on a large scale in the old beautiful Tontine Coffee House. And the part that insurance has played in the development of our city is beyond estimation. Insurance has helped make New York truly the queen of commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce, Tontine House, and Insurance. In today's cast were Alfred Israel as John Watts, Sylvia Reuter as Ann Watts, Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alan Feinstein as Mr. Barker, and Odin Wilson as Robert Gilmore. Helen Milstead was production assistant. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche. The next voice you will hear will be that of Mr. T. Morgan Williams, chairman of the New York Board of Fire Underwriters and the vice president and secretary of the Home Insurance Company. Mr. Williams. The first fire and marine insurance operations in New York, which originated in the old Tontine Coffee House, were to undergo many severe tests before insurance companies were able to provide the kind of insurance that would remain secure and dependable through all sorts of adversity. The forthcoming centennial of the Home Insurance Company, for example, brings to mind the introduction by that organization of nationwide underwriting operations in order to spread the risks over a wide area and thus provide greater security. Subsequent events in the history of our great city have shown that insurance has gone hand in hand with business and industry in helping to make New York the Queen of Commerce. Thank you, Mr. Williams. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. Be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Host 초 course lés The End The End