Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand discusses how to eat and stay slim. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around obesity as a health problem, why people are fat, and sound nutritional rules in controlling weight. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Ms. Zoe Anderson, Director of Research and Nutrition Service with the National Dairy Council, Dr. Arthur R. Caldwell, Chairman of the Department of Medicine in the Medical School of Northwestern University and of Passmont Memorial Hospital, and Frank G. Dickinson, Director of the Bureau of Medical Economic Research of the American Medical Association. Now, Ms. Anderson and gentlemen, to what extent is overweight, obesity, a health problem? Would you speak to that, Dickinson? I have here a copy of Today's Health for September 1952, which is published by the American Medical Association. Here is an article by Lewis I. Dublin entitled, Overweight, America's Number One Health Problem. As you may know, Lewis I. Dublin has been for many years the statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, and has been very prolific in his writings on this question of overweight. Now, I find I would not quarrel. In fact, I should like to believe that everyone believes that overweight is America's number one health problem. I say that because it would be wonderful if we could believe it. Why would it be wonderful, Dickinson? Well, it would be wonderful in this sense that here we are in the middle of the 20th century, and no less a person than Lewis I. Dublin is telling the American people that the number one health problem is overweight. I can remember as a boy ravages of diphtheria. I can remember the days when we thought the fevers were our number one health problem. I can also remember, and of course I followed all the statistics, in which maternal mortality rates were high. And Lewis I. Dublin and others were more or less apologizing to the world for the high rates in the United States. And now the rate of maternal mortality is so low that I'm going to recommend very soon that the rate no longer be published. The same thing is true of infant mortality. It's rather wonderful to think that we've reached the stage where it's just the fact that we have too many fat bellies in the United States is our number one health problem. Oscar Ewing, the Federal Security Administrator, has said that our number one problem is to prevent 325,000 deaths a year. And so it's rather reassuring to find that the health problem is just one of trying to get our nutritionists and our physicians to gradually starve, fat men like myself. Do you go along with that, Dr. Caldwell? Well, to a certain extent, but I'd like to ask Dr. Dickinson whether he means mortality or morbidity when he speaks of a health problem. Now what do you mean by morbidity? By mortality is death. Mortality is death. Morbidity is sickness or illness. All right. Well, I have in mind principally the death problem as the health problem. The morbidity problem is, of course, more realistic to physicians. It isn't the statisticians because our records of morbidity are atrocious. If we could increase the amount of sickness in America just by employers giving more sick leave to their employees, and then we have more sickness. Also, the record of sickness is very poor and you can't speak of it definitively, but you can of death. When a person dies, it's a fact. When he's ill, it may or may not be a fact, and the records are poor, in other words. Ms. Anderson wants to say something. I believe that mortality figures are not the only thing which are important to this problem of overweight. While none of us anticipate that we shall be given immortality, at least in this particular state that we're in at the present time, we can ask for a right to have a full and abundant life, to be able to produce at a maximum capacity, to be able to enjoy life at a maximum capacity. And I think our problem of excess body weight is one which is in conflict to an abundant life, rather than in conflict to, rather than as a problem of mortality. You mean, Ms. Anderson, that we who are accused of being fat don't get as much out of life as those who are near the average figures? Yes. How would you judge an abundant life? Well, I would say an abundant life would not only be one of maximum production, but also one of freedom from illness. And I believe you, Dr. Caldwell, will support me in the idea that excess body weight is associated with the incidence of a number of diseases. Yes, of course. I'd like to point out that Dr. Dickinson is concerned with figures, and he's quite right in saying that mortality figures are clean-cut data that one can deal with. However, every physician is conscious of the fact that overweight is a cause of illness, and control of overweight corrects and helps illness. And so, Ms. Anderson is quite correct when she says that morbidity is a factor which must be taken into account, as well as mortality, I believe. Well, now, how do you people determine whether or not a person is overweight? One, very recently, I have heard the expression that the height-weight tables, approximately at the age of 25, would be a very fair evaluation of an individual's desirable weight. You mean desirable because he'll live longer? Desirable because he will live longer and because he will be able to participate more abundantly in the things that life reports. That's the point at which I make my objection. I do want to make it very clear. If a physician says that a person is overweight or underweight, and as a result of examining that person, I'm quite willing to accept that, and I think we should abide by it and believe in it. If a physician says that a person is overweight or underweight, in the absence of any evidence that he can find in that body, but solely because we have these tables, which are just averages. You have bulldogs and you have greyhounds, to use one of Dr. Caldwell's favorite expressions, in the American population. And when we try to average out bulldogs and greyhounds and get averages, your averages are not significant. They're not important. And we have no studies. There are no studies in existence which show that the remainder of the people who are overweight, I say the remainder, excluding those whom physicians have said are overweight or underweight. I'm excluding those. There are no studies that have ever been made to show that if those, the remainder of those people who are grossly underweight or grossly overweight, should, under the direction of a physician, gradually and carefully, come within the normal rate range, will live one day longer. There are no such studies that have ever been made. What we have in our data on shorter life for people who are grossly overweight and grossly underweight, is a lot of cases which destroy the validity of the figures, because they are cases of people whom physicians would say were greatly overweight. All I want to say is that in your definition of overweight, you have to have some higher scientific standard than tables derived from life insurance company experience, if you're talking about an individual, because the average is often insignificant. And this is one of the splendid illustrations of the insignificance of an average. What do you say to that, Ms. Anderson? Well, may I put it this way, that an individual who is 20 has a very healthy appetite and a very healthy and active life. And as age increases, food needs actually decrease. And if the 40-year-old person has a 20-year-old appetite, he's not going to have a 20-year-old shake. But if he has a 40-year-old appetite, that is in line with his needs, he will perhaps be able to maintain a 20-year-old figure. I would like to point out the efforts to which the girls in Hollywood go to maintain their figures. It's a professional necessity with them. They guard their food intake very carefully, because if they do not, they will not be able to function as actresses in the same way that they can if they do control their weight. I would just like to point out their youthful appearance at the ages of 50 and 60 as an indication that control of body weight might be a good thing. I agree with Dr. Dickinson that height-weight tables, which represent averages, are not very reliable indications of whether a person is overweight or not. The sitting height is often used. The circumference of the wrist is often used. Some of us get a good guide in finding out what the individual weighed at the age of 20 or 22 when his weight is most often ideal. Dr. Dickinson is certainly correct when he says you can't average out the weight of a bulldog and a greyhound and get anything that either one of them should weigh. Making the bulldog weigh less to meet the average would do that animal harm. Making the greyhound weigh more to meet the average would do him harm. And as Dean McBurney said a little while ago, I believe what we're anxious to do is to avoid having fat greyhounds. Well, now, let me speak to that. I imagine the obese people, the fat people listening to this discussion, will greatly enjoy the distinction that's been made between bulldogs and greyhounds. Being a little overweight myself, I like to think of myself from here on out as the bulldog type, don't you see? So, Dr. Dickinson, isn't there some danger from your advice that all fat people will immediately think of themselves as sleek bulldogs? Well, I suppose we do have a lot of fat greyhounds around that should be reduced. I'm sure there is. But the point that I want to insist upon is that there should be evidence in that one body that that person is overweight or underweight before any definite attempt should be made by the individual under the guidance of a physician to come within the normal weight range. I do not believe that these stables of average height and weight, however valid, I do not question their validity for life insurance purposes. I've seen it proven over and over again that the life insurance company is entitled and should charge extra payments for people that are outside the normal weight range. That is beside the point. I think you have a very clear point. There is a very simple way of determining, of course, and that is to pick up a roll of blanket that lies over the abdomen and feel how thick it is. Now, what causes this excessive thickness in that roll? What are the causes of obesity, Dr. Dickinson? I think I would agree that in most instances it is due to eating too much. And by too much I mean more than the nutritional needs and activities of the body require. That tends to happen with increasing age and decreasing activity in the course of time. But certainly the most common cause of overweight is eating more than is needed. Do glandular disturbances ever enter in? Yes, occasionally. However, not nearly so frequently as the public is led to believe hypothyroidism, that is a deficient secretion from the thyroid gland, is probably the most common and best known cause for overweight and accumulation of excess fat and incidentally storage of fluid also. In a condition known as myxedema. Now that is the best known glandular condition in which excess weight is accumulated and in that condition the use of thyroid extract in treatment is useful. However, that should be determined only by a physician after adequate testing. Now these glandular disturbances may not be a factor in many cases, but it does appear to the lay observer, Ms. Anderson, that some people seem to be able to eat enormous quantities of food and stay slim. And others, unfortunately, seem to get fat if they get a good whiff of a delightful dish of beans, let's say. Well, perhaps the person who seems to be eating a great deal of food is choosing his food more wisely than the individual who apparently is eating less and yet is gaining weight or is holding excess body. Now I think I have among my friends some tall, lean, spare individuals who eat like horses, forgive me, who seem to eat anything they want to and they stay thin. Now I'm not so blessed. I get fat on the slightest provocation. I think that an examination of the individual's activities would be very revealing. For instance, we are having a row of houses being constructed across the street from our own home at the present time. And there are workmen of various types who are engaged in the construction. I have yet to see an overweight manual laborer or bricklayer or carpenter on the job. However, in my business, I come in contact with many individuals whose primary activities are sitting behind a desk and pushing a pencil or dictating into a dictaphone, attending dinners and banquets and so forth. In other words, they're leading a very sedentary life. And among those people with whom I am in contact, I find quite a number of individuals who are definitely overweight. Of course, when you say a lot of food, when anyone thinks of a lot of food, it's also a relative, always a relative matter, isn't it? A lot of food to one person is very little to another. I sometimes think I can determine what my neighbors in a restaurant are going to order for dessert just by looking at their shapes. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could just have everybody in the United States, that is, by age and sex, not deviate very much from the average? Wouldn't that be a wonderful world to live in? I don't know. But you can't convince me that they live longer. I don't think that... You're being a little cynical there. I don't think that... Dr. Dickinson is rationalizing here. Dr. Dickinson is rationalizing here. I don't believe that it would be possible for us to say at this time whether the individual would live longer or would not live longer. And I pointed out earlier that we can at least try to help make him healthier and happier while he is living, even though we may not extend his life. Dr. Dickinson just felt starved all the time. It is not. Dr. Dickinson is a great fallacy in many people's thinking. It is not necessary for any individual to experience hunger in order to control weight. If one seriously studies his eating habits and revises them in accord with the fundamental rules of good nutrition and limits his food intake so that he never overeats, he can control his weight from the time he is a young person through old age. In fact, if I were an individual and found myself all of a sudden gaining weight very rapidly, and that often happens, I would stop right then and there and examine my eating habits and revise them immediately. Dr. Dickinson in the process of stopping, wouldn't you be involved in something that most people call hunger and a little unhappiness? Dr. Dickinson is attached there too. No, rather to the contrary. No, I agree that that's true. I agree that a person can diet, reduce excess weight, and still not be hungry if his diet is planned properly. And number one in the planning, I believe, is protein. I would agree with Dr. Caldwell that number one in the plan is protein. Our bodies are made up primarily of protein. What do you mean by protein? What names and foods? Well, protein is the meat and fish and poultry and eggs and cheese and milk all contain high-quality protein. Now, there is protein in vegetables and cereals and so forth, but the high-quality protein foods are those animal food products which we have just named. And the largest amounts of them too, as well as the best quality, I may say, meat particularly. That's right. Those products contribute about 80% of our protein in our national food supply. Well, most of these reducing diets seem to contain large quantities of green leafy vegetables. Well, they do contain quantities of green leafy vegetables, and it is important that an individual have green leafy vegetables and other vegetables and fruits in the diet, because there are certain minerals and vitamins that go along with those products which they should have. Also, those foods supply a certain amount, a certain limited amount of carbohydrate. About five or two. However, the average reducing diet, the one you most frequently encounter, and the conventional one, shall I say, contains a preponderance of those products. And it is that which is so frightening to the average reducer, because those foods are very quickly digested and very quickly absorbed, and hunger sets in at a very early time. Now, if a combination of protein and fat are consumed with the meal, along with a moderate amount of fruits and vegetables and milk and so on... Not too large a quantity of fat, however, would you agree? Not too large a quantity of fat, but on the other hand, sufficient fat, so that digestion is delayed, absorption of nutrients is extended over a longer period of time. The individual does not experience hunger prior to the next meal. Most protein foods actually contain as much fat, or almost as much fat, as protein. Therefore, eating a high-protein diet carries with it a certain amount of fat. And if more fat is eaten, for example, ordinary cream cheeses, rich cheeses, as distinct from dry cottage cheese, a good deal of fat will go with the protein. Enough to accomplish the physiological purposes that Ms. Anderson has been talking about. In other words, Dr. Caldwell, you are suggesting that we take our fat, along with the good foods that we have available to us, and not introduce excess amounts of fat by French frying and so forth. Yes, I believe that a reducing diet cannot obtain fatty foods as such, or else the caloric value will run too high. I believe that the amount of fat that goes with the milk, goes with the, let's say, cottage cheese, goes with the meat in a diet, and when you have a dry, protein food like shrimp or lobster, there's always some sort of a fatty sauce or gravy goes with it. I believe that amount of fat is all that can be included in a reducing diet, or else it will not reduce. Well, I would like to point out there that an individual can take his fat in the manner in which he most desires to have it. In other words, if an individual would prefer to drink skim milk, and would like to have bread with some butter on it, then I would say that perhaps he might avoid great amounts of whole milk. But if he prefers whole milk to skim milk, and we'll be able to... If you don't like milk at all, Ms. Anderson, what are you going to do? Well, it's possible to get the nutrients which milk contains in foods other than fluid milk, for instance, in cheese, in ice cream. And I would like to... I feel a challenge coming on from these gentlemen for a mention of ice cream. I think it's with you. Go ahead. Well, in a reducing diet, there is no reason why any food should be completely eliminated from that diet. In other words, it would be better to construct a positive diet rather than a negative diet. A diet which is not based on avoid, avoid, avoid, but rather to moderately use those foods which are a little higher in calorie content than some other foods might be. You nutritionists are always wanting to take the joy out of life. Oh, but that's why I'm permitting you, I scream, Dr. Dickinson. It's fortunate for Jane McMurdy and me that this isn't on television. Yes, I think you have something there, Doctor. But I want to get back to the original point. Why? If you have some concept of everybody you meet along the street just barely deviating from this average height and weight person, why would you want to bring that about? I don't see that you will create a great increase in human happiness, but I always want to say that the exception in this case is the individual whom the physician has advised to lose weight or gain weight and has done it on the basis of evidence he finds in that light. Now, those people I'm not talking about, they should follow diets that are prescribed for them by physicians. I'm talking about the rest of the people who apparently are healthy and don't have anything wrong with them. Why do you want to make them form, make the deviation from this grand old average, this meaningless average? Why do you want to reduce that deviation? The process, the process of developing a disease as a result of excess body weight is not something which happens overnight. It's a slow process over a long period of time. And I think it is unfortunate for an individual to wait until he faces his physician and is told that he has a very sad condition which is going to be remedied only if he reduces his body weight. I think it's much wiser for the individual to learn to control his weight at an early age after maturity. Whether it can be proved statistically or not, I don't know. But it is a fact that most physicians believe that there is a certain amount of prevention to be done, to be accomplished in reducing excess weight before illness occurs. And by excess weight I mean too large a blanket of fat, too thick a blanket of fat, more stored fat than is usually true in a person of that build and size and inheritance and habit. Now you people are making this matter of controlling weight a function of eating almost altogether. To what extent is it a function of exercise? Earlier Miss Anderson referred to the men who are doing physical work across from her home. Does that, does it follow then that people who are likely to lead a relatively sedentary life should get out and play golf and chop a little wood at night and so on? Although there seems to be a tendency among physicians to advise people not to go in for heavy activities, I think that heavy activities aren't necessary. But definitely the individual who keeps themselves busy, who keeps themselves active, can eat more food. So if you enjoy eating more food, then I guess you'd better balance it with a greater activity. Of course the more you exercise, the more you want to eat. That's true, don't forget that exercise stimulates the appetite too. I think perhaps it could be expressed most simply by saying that when a person is sound asleep, he requires a certain amount of food. When he's lying in bed, he requires about 10% more. When he is exercising very vigorously, such as heavy manual labor all day, he'll require about twice as much as he does when he's asleep. And there are all variations in between. So that exercise is an important factor. And as in the case of a bank account, it's what goes in, in relation to what comes out, what goes out, that determines what the balance is. And those things can be measured. Aren't there some drugs or medical compounds of one kind or another, doctor, that would help with this problem? Yes, I spoke of thyroid extract a little earlier. There are several other things. But you see all these things advertised. Take this pill and eat all you want. Several other things that have been used, and by and large they are harmful and should not be used. Certainly no medication should be used without the advice of a doctor after a careful study. Would you agree with me, Dr. Caldwell, that if an individual followed the guide to good eating or the seven basic foods, consumed those foods in moderation, all of those foods in moderation, that they would be able to control their body weight? Yes, I think so. But as Dr. Dickinson says, they may not want to. Well, personal desire, of course, is a very vital and important thing. However, I think if individuals could view the potentials of gaining a great deal of excess body weight, that they would then want to eat less. And once having learned how to eat, I think they would be quite happy and quite satisfied on the diet which they would be permitted. Well, now how would you people sum up your views on this question? State your position, Dr. Dickinson. I suppose you might say I've been defending the fatties. I've defended them because I don't believe these averages have any validity or any meaning, because they're averages of a population which itself varies a great deal, and that we shouldn't try to recommend the American people on the basis of these averages, what weights they ought to have. We should do it on the basis of medical evidence. Dr. Caldwell? I can say what I think in two words. Eat less will take care of the majority of harmful overweight. I would like to agree with Dr. Caldwell, but add to that, in eating less, be sure that the foods which are chosen are those which are good for you. I'm sorry, Ms. Anderson and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How to Eat and Stay Slim. We'd like to thank our guests for today, Ms. Zoe Anderson, Director of the Research and Nutrition Service of the National Dairy Council, Dr. Arthur R. Caldwell, Chairman of the Department of Medicine, the Medical School, Northwestern University, and Frank G. Dickinson, Director of the Bureau of Medical Economic Research, American Medical Association. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, Do we face more inflation? Our guests will be Daniel D. Carmel, General Counsel to the Illinois State Federation of Labor and the Chicago Federation of Labor. Thomas W. Rogers, Executive Vice President of the American Finance Conference and formerly Professor of Economics at Indiana University. And Robert H. Strohz, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for what we think is an important discussion of an important question. Do we face more inflation? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.