New York City's Welfare Commissioner, William Hodson, will be heard in a special feature of your city station's broadcast schedule at 8 o'clock this evening. Commissioner Hodson speaks on the topic, No More Hungry Children. Every New Yorker will want to hear this message, so remember the broadcast time, 8 o'clock this evening. This is New York City's own station, WNYC. At this time, your city station joins the National Broadcasting Company to bring you a message from President Roosevelt, the highlight of a ceremony about to get underway in a suburb of the nation's capital. We take you now to Bethesda, Maryland. Good afternoon. NBC brings you a special broadcast saluting the United States Navy upon the occasion of the 100th anniversary of its Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. Principal speaker of the afternoon will be the President of the United States. Representatives of the Navy introduced by Rear Admiral Ross T. McIntyre, Surgeon General of the Navy, will be heard as they speak from their stations in Ireland, Hawaii, Iceland, and Panama. Admiral McIntyre is the 23rd in the line of Navy Surgeons General. This line was started in 1842 with the appointment of Dr. William P.C. Barton. Through its century-long span, the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery has been responsible for the medical care of the Marine Corps and the Coast Guard, as well as that of the Navy. In the words of its motto, it has kept as many men, at as many guns, as many days as possible. All seems to be just about in readiness now for the ceremonies to begin this afternoon. Chaplain R.J. White, Senior Chaplain of the Navy Medical Center, will pronounce the invocation, following which you will hear the voice of Admiral McIntyre. Heavenly Father, we give thee thanks for the tradition of our Navy's noble service to the sick and wounded, and for this tender, a living symbol of the generous care of a grateful people, to those warriors who by scars and suffering preserve our heritage of American freedom. Bless and strengthen our commander-in-chief, the President of these United States, in his spiritual vision and valiant determination to defeat tyranny, and to restore the supremacy of liberty under thy law of individual dignity and human freedom. For only thus can the peace of thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. We ask these blessings in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. I'm glad to have been given the privilege of talking to you on this, the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. Its widely extended activities are even more pronounced today in this time of an all-ocean war. And wherever the Navy goes, medical department units go with it. It is this worldwide distribution of medical activities of the Navy that I want especially to show to you today. All over the world are the medical departments of our ships. Within the continental limits of the United States and beyond the seas are naval hospitals and dispensaries. Nor is this all. It is not only on the sea and the fighting lines ashore, but also in great research centers that the medical department carries on work of vital importance, researching the fields of naval medicine and the teaching of this important specialty. All branches of the medical department of the Navy, the medical corps, the dental corps, the hospital corps, and the women of the nurse corps, are playing their important part in rendering medical service to the men and officers of the Navy and Marine Corps. Now I wish to bring you the voices of some of those who are far and near, playing the far near corners of the earth, who are carrying on this work in the best positions of the Navy. First, we shall hear Captain Bison T. Davis, commanding Officer Destroyer Base Hostile No. 1, North Ireland, who speaks to you from Ireland. We of the Naval Forces in Northern Ireland want to congratulate the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery on its planning and foresight in making it possible for us to have a modern, efficient hospital, which was operating full force for six months before. There was only a bargy cow pasture. With the type of terrain we found here and the urgency for speed and construction, the Quonset hut offered the most satisfactory solution. As a result, we have large, comfortable wards with practically all the privacy and conveniences of a hospital at home, besides operating rooms, laboratories, and so forth. Thanks to the foresight of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, the hospital is equipped with up-to-the-minute equipment, which was ordered nearly 18 months ago, and we are prepared to do practically anything that contains the medical man in times such as these. The planning of the Bureau has definitely proven its value in the caliber of the staff supplied me. Its members are all outstanding men in their various specialties in civil life, and for a considerable time before the outbreak of war, were commissioned in the Reserve Corps and were formed into a hospital unit. As it happens, the majority of the members of this unit came from Roanoke, Virginia, and had I had the opportunity of picking them myself, I could not have chosen men who would have pleased me more. The general health of our men has been excellent, and as a result, we are able to tender our services to the members of the other navies of the United Nations. In our wards, you will find members of the Royal and Canadian navies side by side with our men. We have almost accomplished the impossible without half-firing. In that we have sold a British sailor, the idea that coffee is a much better drink than tea. We return you now to Admiral McIntyre in Washington. Thank you. We have confirmed our faith in some things that we previously knew. The officers and men of the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard can not only take it, but can hand it out. And those who are hospitalized here are most eager to get well and return to duty on the battle lines, on sea, and on land. We have learned the wisdom of the dispersion of hospital facilities, equipment, supplies, and personnel. The worth of blood plasma in the treatment of burns and shock has been established. The value of ferric cleansing of wounds with soap and water and the replacement of antiseptics by the sulfonyme drugs has permitted primary closure of wounds and rapid recovery in many instances where the loss of life or limb might have been expected. During and after an engagement, the use of prepared sterile morphine and surrex saves valuable time and minimizes suffering. Those surfaces of the body covered by clothing are protected from flash burns caused by exploded bombs or gunfire. There is evidence to show that aviators suffer less from crash wounds and injuries when securely strapped in their planes. Members of our staff have conducted animal experiments on the prevention, the effects, and the treatment of water blast injuries. Important deductions have been made which should reduce the morbidity and mortality of this type of injury. The Bureau of Medicine and Surgery has provided an abundance of hospital facilities, supplies, and modern equipment. And our staffs of highly trained and efficient medical officers, nurses, and hospital corpsmen enable us to supply the type of hospitalization with medical and surgical care that is second to none anywhere in the world. I now return you to Washington. In Russia, during the intense cold of last winter, the mistake of underestimating the effects of cold weather is the kind of a mistake the United States will never make. We are fully aware of and prepared for the rigors of any kind of weather anywhere. Our fighting men in Iceland are protected against the Arctic winds with every kind of precaution known to medical science. The senior naval medical officer in Iceland, Captain Lewis W. Johnson, now speaks to you from Iceland. Captain Sir. Captain Sir. Go ahead, Iceland. We are unable to present Captain Johnson from Iceland. We return you now to Admiral McIntyre in Washington. It is unfortunate that we cannot hear our people in Iceland, for it was one of the first things that we did in this war. And the medical department has been playing its very definite part there since our Marines went forward to that spot. Now, from the frigid zone to a torrid zone, military services and military surgeons have been working in tropical diseases and their cause and their treatment. Today, medical science is taking every precaution against malaria, yellow fever, and similar diseases. In the Panama Canal Zone is Captain Howard F. Lawrence, Medical Corps of the Navy, and district medical officer who speaks to you from Panama. This worldwide war, with many Americans fighting in tropical climates, causes the fight against tropical diseases to be of a special significance at this time. The fight against tropical diseases is that against malaria, yellow fever, cholera, dysentery, sleep and sickness, and others. Malaria stands out preeminent. From the standpoint of prevalence, malaria appears to be the most important disease in the world today. Malaria is caused by a blood parasite, transmitted to man by the bite of 30 different species of the North Lease mosquitoes, found in most tropical and subtropical lands. Three methods in the fight against malaria are, one, the destruction of the North Lease mosquitoes and their breeding places, two, the protection of the individual from the bites of mosquitoes, and three, chemical prophylaxis and treatment. Mosquito breeding may be prevented by suitable drainage, by larvicides as Paris Green and petroleum oil, and by raising and lowering the water level. All methods of control should be supervised by those having special experience in these subjects. Drawing on its sensory and more of experience, the Naval Medical Corps is today exerted every effort to protect the health of the naval and marine forces wherever they may be engaged. This is the Columbia Broadcasting System at Panama. We return you now to Washington. You have heard four medical officers of the United States Navy from four parts of the world. Tell their story of the fight to preserve and protect the health of the men who are fighting for a free and healthy world. Fighting against an unhealthy evil, and an unhealthy world that would make us a slave world. Fighting to make a reality of the promises of the four freedoms. The freedoms that men will mean health and happiness to everyone in every part of the four corners of the earth. You will now hear their commandment chief. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Admiral McIntyre, members of the Medical Corps of the Navy, in this hospital that we are dedicating today in this green and peaceful Maryland countryside, our Navy battles against disease and disability and death. Those who fight this vital battle are anonymous heroes of this war. The officers, the men, and the women of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, which today celebrates its 100th anniversary. They are surgeons and nurses, scientists and technicians, who are part of a service extending throughout the world on land and sea and in air. They have carried on their unending fight to make good their promise to keep as many men and as many guns as many days as possible. The cornerstone of this hospital was laid by me on armistice day, 1940, less than two years ago. And since then, I think we can look at it and say it's a job well done. We were then at peace, but even then we could see the designs of our foes. We'd already begun to arm on a vast scale to meet their attacks. Less than a year later, men of our Navy were killed in action in the North Atlantic Sea. They were men of the destroyers Connie and Ruben James patrolling the sea lanes of the Atlantic. These American ships were attacked by Nazi submarines, let us remember that, many weeks before their partners in crime, the Japanese launched their attack on Pearl Harbor. That day of Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941, contained the darkest hour in our Navy's history. Infamously attacked, seriously damaged, ships of our fleet were put out of commission, and more than 3,000 of our men were killed or wounded. In the months that followed, months without victories, our enemies taunted us with a question, where is the United States Navy? Today, those enemies know the beginning of the answer to that question. They learned in the Atlantic, they learned in the Coral Sea, they learned off Midway, they're learning now in their attempts to recapture that which was taken from them in the Solomon Islands. where is the United States Navy? It's there where it's always been. It's in there fighting. It's carrying out the command to hit our enemy, to hit him again, wherever and whenever we can find him. Battles cannot be fought and won without cost, we know that, and the cost may be heavy in ships and in men. The brave and skillful men and women of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery are dedicated to the task of reducing the cost in men, saving lives on deck, in the engine room, in the gun turrets, alleviating suffering, restoring the wounded to their duties as fighters for the cause of freedom. in the sick bays of all the ships of our Navy, on all the seas, they're risking their own lives that other lives may be saved. Today, in distant places, we are fighting battles the like of which have never been known before. in the southwest Pacific, the ships and the planes of our fleet and of the Marine Corps, the long-range bombers of our army are striking at the enemy from widely separated bases, and they're striking together. To carry on such battles to successful conclusions, men who fight on land and in the air must work in perfect unison with men who fight above the sea and on the sea and under the sea. Warfare like that requires men of extraordinary physical alertness as well as exceptional daring. A split second lost in timing by one individual may cost innumerable lives. therefore, it's not enough for the doctor to work out new methods of healing and cure. He must work out entirely new methods of preparing men for unprecedented combat conditions in submarines and planes and tanks. Without this work of conditioning, flesh and blood couldn't possibly meet the demands of this modern war. men must be perfectly attuned in their bodies as they are perfectly prepared in their minds and hearts for the fierce test of battle. That remarkable progress has been achieved in this science. Yes, it can be attested by those of our enemies who have faced our men in battle. war. But this progress in prevention and cure must not and cannot be limited to the armed forces of the United States because of the simple fact that our whole population is involved in winning this war. For example, there are today far too many casualties among our civilian population. why the number of fatalities from automobile accidents alone last year was 40,000 killed. How many of those deaths were preventable? And the number of people that were injured in such accidents was almost a million and a half of Americans. Take industry. in industry last year the number of fatalities from accidents was 19,200. How many of those deaths were preventable? And the number of people injured in industrial accidents was considerably in excess of two million people including over 100,000 people that were permanently disabled. Those are very startling figures and ought to be remembered by every man, woman, and child in this crisis that we're going through. Among those who've been killed or disabled were men and women who could have helped to build planes and tanks and ships and guns who could have served in civilian defense or in many other essential services. As a result of industrial accidents alone, quite apart from those which were fatal, the time lost last year reached the almost incredible total of 42 million man days. people It's not only our enemies who kill valuable Americans. Carelessness in driving on the highways and the operation of machines in factories cost us many lives that were needed by our country in using every resource most effectively. And we must remember, too, as all of you know so well, that there is a national shortage of doctors and nurses. every preventable civilian accident diverts sorely needed medical, surgical, and nursing care from the imperative requirements of our own Army and Navy. No, it is not going too far to say that any civilian in the United States who, through reckless driving or through failure to take proper safety measures in industrial plants, kill or maim their fellow citizens, those civilians are definitely doing injury to our sons and brothers who are fighting this war in uniform. And similar injury to our armed forces is done by pedestrians or workers who, through thoughtlessness or carelessness, put themselves in harm's way. Not all of us can participate in direct action against our enemies, but all of us can participate in the saving of our national manpower. Three years ago, tomorrow morning, September 1, 1939, Hitler's legions launched their first blitzkrieg against the people of Poland. In these three years, men and women and children have died. Nations have been tortured and enslaved to satisfy the brutal lust for power of a few inhuman tyrants, German, Italian, and Japanese. To the defeat of such tyrants, the removal from this earth of the injustices and inequalities that create such tyrants and breed new wars, this nation is fully dedicated. Let this hospital then stand for all men to see throughout all the years as a monument, a monument to our determination to work and to fight until the time comes when the human race shall have that true health in body and mind and spirit which can be realized only in a climate of equity and faith. , a telling to meet to join in emabilir το The End The End The End