Hanover Square comes into its own today after 70 years of shadow under the L structures that fed into the great downtown business district in New York, an essential traffic artery at the time, but now through the means and the genius of the engineer, a thing of the past. And the lower end of Manhattan, which comprised the early Dutch settlement, has gone through many unique changes that are leading us back to the true beauty and wonder of this city without in any way affecting its utility. The great underpass under South Ferry now completely takes away the terrific traffic there and submerges it so that New York Bay remains a magnificent view from the battery. Hanover Square has been in existence since the early Dutch colony in the 17th century. It was named after the first Hanover king, George I of England, when the act of the succession was settled on the house of Hanover through the Electra Sophia, who was the only steward princess of the particular line that would fit into the plans then of the British succession. George I of England, of course, was having no difficulty with the colonies. That came along later with George III of England. But in spite of our difficulties with the third George and some of the difficulties he had with himself, Hanover Square has maintained its integrity. And today, the Greater New York Civic Center Association has taken over, through Park Commissioner Moses, the coordinator of projects in our great and wonder city, the beautification of this section. And anyone who has not been downtown in the last year or two will never recognize the marvelous changes that have taken place through the activities of this committee in New York City. As we said, the beauty and the quality of the city itself is being completely restored and the utility of it is, in fact, increased by the arrangements that have been made. Now, a very distinguished company has turned out here today of citizens in the downtown athletic club at 18 West Street in the borough of Manhattan, right on the, in the very center, in fact, and not far from the famous old Dutch Fort. To celebrate the occasion that the Hanover Square is to be parked and completely turned over as a unique part of the city's interesting points of interest. Captain Kidd, that great traditional character, who seemed to have traits of elegance and honesty as well as, well, a little bit of the buccaneer about him as well. His, his, his house based on Hanover Square, an India house, which is still there, is one of the interesting factors of Hanover Square, even to this day, on the south side of the square. This restoration of Hanover Square is a tribute to the men, particularly the shippers of the clipper period, and the foreign trade business that was carried on, particularly from this part of New York at the time. A hundred years or so ago, the clipper ships were the marvels of the ocean, the American clipper ships. It was Archibald Gracie, whose mansion, the Gracie Mansion, is now the assigned home of the mayor of the city of New York. It was he who first established the supremacy of New York as a great shipping center and a harbor, and he was able to bring about the change from the great ports of Philadelphia and Baltimore, which, believe it or not, in the 18th century were greater ports than the port of New York. And this, we have seen all this happen, and in our time, of course, we have seen, to some extent, of course, the shipping facilities. That is the oceanic travel, the waterways taken over a little bit by the air, but not entirely as yet, because New York City has over 550 miles of bulkhead lines and one of the biggest shipping industries anywhere in the world. Mr. Moses has asked us now to hold back a few moments in order that the waiters could get off the floor, although the businessmen here at this luncheon have been pressing him to get the luncheon going, because they, of course, have businesses of their own, and they want to get back to it, but they also want to participate in this event here today at the Downtown Athletic Club. If you would treat yourself to one of the most interesting experiences in New York City, it's to take your subway anywhere as far as Fulton Street at night, particularly on a spring or a summer evening, and just walk down through the lower end of Manhattan here and try to recapture to some extent the developments that have taken place in the last few years in this wonder city. It's very, very quiet down here, even though in the business day it is teeming with people. It would absolutely impress you as amazing as to how the entire population seems to melt away from this district after 8 o'clock at night, and it seems almost like a haunted or ghost town. And yet the ghosts of yesteryear are everywhere in evidence. These improvements that take place when we turn now into Hanover Square and view all the changes that are taking place there, as we said before, India House, the removal of the South Ferry extensions of the elevated railroads, first the west side, and now finally the 2nd and 3rd Avenue extensions. No elevators now come below the Municipal Building and Brooklyn Bridge, which is the present terminus of the 3rd Avenue Railway. That, of course, will have to endure until such time as an arty of traffic is completed up 2nd Avenue, which was one of the potential factors of the last election, as to getting a necessary action from the debt limit to carry out those vast improvements. Now, we're just waiting a few minutes, and Mr. Porter Moore is waiting. Are you ready? Mr. Porter Moore and Mr. Moses, President of the Downtown Civic Center Association, is about to take over as chairman. We're a little late now in starting, so please get your seat. And Mr. Moses, President of the Downtown Civic Center Association, is about to take over as chairman. We wanted to give the waiters a little time. We tried to rush them off, but it didn't rush so fast. The gymnasium here is crowded, and every businessman in New York worthy of the name is here to participate in this rejuvenation of Hanover Square. And now Mr. Percival Robert Moses. You all right? Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Admiral Cochran, our distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for coming here. The Greater New York Civic Center Association has as its purposes the completion of the development of the Civic Center and its approaches and the development of downtown New York. I can't see any of them. Under the chairmanship of our great citizen, Robert Dowling, who I'm sorry is not here, and the extraordinarily capable direction of our executive director, Porter Moore, who is here, the association has been able to accomplish a considerable improvement in our section and is now representative of downtown New York. We therefore welcome the opportunity to join Mr. Robert Patchen, former president of India House, and retired vice president of William R. Grayson Company, and Mr. Ian Chilson, president of India House, and vice president of J. G. White Engineering, to promote the substitution of a tiny tree-lined triangle of a park in place of an ugly concrete triangle with an uglier concrete station and a still uglier third avenue elevated railroad pillow. This park is to serve as a setting for a tribute to the heritage of American shipping and foreign trade. This luncheon is a dedication luncheon. This park is a dedication to the heritage of the city of India House, and our association has three purposes in cooperating with India House and others. Our first object is to signalize the completion of the tiny park, and to express the appreciation of all of us with the extraordinary cooperation shown by the mayor, the city coordinator, the borough president, and the commissioner of the commissioner of parks in expediting and carrying through this project. Our second purpose is to주는 your own, and to all those interested in American shipping and foreign trade, or in the development of downtown New York, a model, perhaps not the final model, of a monumental tribute to the heritage of American shipping and foreign trade. Mr. Ian Chilson, president of India House, will tell you about this model and the proposed tribute later. I will only say it is not only to be a tribute to American shipping and foreign trade, but it will be a tribute to the American spirit, which combines audacity, ability to think things through, and to carry them through by a combination of individual initiative, ingenuity, plus a mixture of hard-headedness and idealism. Our third purpose. I'm going to leave to your imagination. I'm going to stimulate the imagination by offering prizes to all successful guestsers. The prize is to be the right to become a subscribing member of the Greater New York Civic Center Association and to join in its activities. Last year, when this association had its Medal of Award luncheon, I had the honor of presenting Mayor Vincent Impelle-Teres. The mayor intended to be here today. I know that person, but an emergency arose last night which made it impossible for him to be carrying out his intention. However, to represent him and his office, Deputy Mayor the Honorable Charles Horowitz on my right is here on the dais to bring a personal message from him. Before I introduce Mr. Horowitz, however, I wish to pay tribute to the mayor for the interest of the mayor's commanding officer in World War I. Rear Admiral Harry L. Baudridge, who still serves the Navy in this country as a curator of the U.S. Naval Academy Museum in Annapolis, Maryland. The Admiral Mrs. Baudridge would be here today were it not for his slight but confining indisposition that keeps him in the sick bay in the hospital. The Admiral is a member of our Greater New York Civic Center Association's Committee for Restoration of Hanover Square, and the letter was written to me on the subject of the dedication of the square. This is the letter, or the quotation from it. The present mayor of New York, Vincent Ion Pelletere, was an Italian-American lad on board my destroyer, USS Stockton, at Queenstown, Ireland during World War I. The mayor was, at that time, was in those days a radio man, second class. He recently sent me an inscribed photograph of himself shaking hands of my elder son. I am glad to see him after all these years, a self-made and educated gentleman, as were Charles M. Schwab, Daniel Willard, and other old cronies of mine. The mayor is said to love the sea, and he has served upon it. Perhaps that is one reason why he is so interested in Hanover Square and its restoration as a national maritime park. And I will take pleasure in introducing Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz, who brings you a message from Mayor Impelle Teri. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. As the official representative of Mayor Vincent R. Impelle Teri, I deem it a privilege and pleasure to gather with the members and friends of the Greater New York Civic Center Association at this delightful luncheon commemorating the rededication of a restored Hanover Square. I bring you the warm greetings of Mayor Impelle Teri and his keen regret that other pressing official business prevents his attendance here today. I want to take this opportunity of expressing to the Toastmaster the appreciation of the mayor for the very kind and generous tribute that he paid to him in his opening remarks. And I know that the mayor has a sincere and a warm feeling for this association and its membership and the activities in which you are engaged. And if it were possible at all for him to have been here, he certainly would have made such an appearance. Our city records indicate, undisputedly, that Bowling Green, at the foot of Broadway and the Battery, on the southernmost tip of Manhattan Island, was the first of New York City's public parks. As early as 1637, it formed a part of the Dutch settlements parade grounds and was used for park purposes. Hanover Square, unquestionably, is the second oldest of the many parks now in existence throughout our five boroughs. The exact year when it was declared a common or lands for public use is not a matter of existing historic record. But it was so set aside by the Dutch burghers very shortly after the Bowling Green's designation. I am sure that the mayor is very proud to have played a part in the restoration of Hanover Square to its original park purposes. Since 1878, the square ceased to exist as a park. The Third Avenue elevated station, with its curving tracks, were erected above it. And the small old park was replaced by a bleak concrete platform and steps. Hanover Square saw little sunlight. Now it is once more restored as a place of beauty, greenery, and sunshine. The old L is gone. The park spot is back again. In behalf of the mayor and the people of the city of New York, I want to congratulate and felicitate the Greater New York Civic Center Association, which has taken the leadership in successfully carrying out this restoration project. I want to particularly congratulate its president, Mr. Percival Robert Moses, for the work his association is doing toward the improvement and preservation of downtown Old New York. And I think it fitting and proper also to mention the fact that India House, as a downtown Manhattan businessman's club, has played an important cooperative part. To its president, Mr. Edward N. Chilson, and the entire club membership, our thanks is due. The downtown athletic club and other civic groups have likewise given full cooperation. And to all who in any way contributed to this worthy civic project, the city is deeply grateful and it's been a real privilege to bring to you this message. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Horowitz. It was very pleasant to hear. A luncheon was given recently, at which I was present, to Harvey Wiley Corbett, who sits down here, our vice president and the designer of the tribute to American shipping and foreign trade. This luncheon was given for his distinguished services, both as architect and as head of the Avenue of the Americas Association. He said he had had many honors given him. And he felt like a general. When he was asked by a sweet young thing how he'd obtained all the ribbons, I'm speaking of generals, which he was wearing, and would he mind telling her about it? He replied, certainly, my dear, certainly. The first ribbon was given me by mistake. All the others followed. This certainly cannot be said of the next speaker. Every honor he has won has been won through sheer merit, extraordinary intelligence and intensive effort. From the day when he was a worker in the Bureau of Municipal Research, and that was when I first knew him, honor after honor and load after load has been heaped upon him. To change the metaphor, like a juggler, he's kept all the balls in the air at once and has never let one fall, as far as I know. This association awarded him a gold medal last April, and our Hearst medals were awarded luncheon for the completion of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. And then he proceeded to slang us for having advocated the tunnel against the bridge. In his functions, Commissioner of Parks, he, together with our next speaker, working with the architect Herbert Wheeler of India House and J.G. White Engineering, jointly perfected a plan for the park, expedited the passage of the necessary resolution with the aid of the mayor and others through the Board of Estimates, and thereafter carried on the work of his usual expeditions, so that today the park is practically finished and ready for the reception of a symbol for the heritage of American shipping and foreign trade. In private, one might call him Battling Bob. But before such an assembly as this, I have the honor to introduce him to the honorable Robert Moses, City Coordinator, Commissioner of Parks, and the right bower of the present and preceding city governors. Thank you, Mr. Toastmaster, ladies and gentlemen. The significance of this particular occasion seems to me lies in the fact, or the moral rather, that here we have again been able, after a long lapse of time, to rescue a small piece of park land out of what once was a substantial area. The common, like many other commons here in town lands on Long Island and elsewhere, represented in its day the forethought and intelligence and courage of people who seemed for a considerable period after that to have had no successors, at least so far as brains and courage were concerned. These common lands, these town lands were given up, cut up, alienated, sold, mostly under conditions that wouldn't bear any very careful investigation. In this particular case, we have a very small corner of what should have been and should have remained, a large public park. In any event, that much of it is salvaged. Third Avenue Railroad removal had something to do with it. The small thing represented the cooperation of the organization which is giving this luncheon, Borough President Wagner, Mr. Sherry representing the Park Department, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state ofpez. And we did what we could in the absence of any authorization at the time. Perhaps what we did was not even tainted with legality, but anyway we did it. So we're here to celebrate that fact. I want to refer briefly to some things that I've marked on the program of this organization. There's a reference here to the completion of the southern portion of City Hall Park. That, I assume, includes also the next item which is the restoration of the stonework at City Hall and I suppose all of the City Hall Park improvements including the removal of the Tweed Courthouse. Those things are planned. They'll have to wait their turn. The repairs at City Hall, of course, will be taken care of. The other things will come along as we get priorities and as federal conditions permit. And I, for one, I'm sure that the Borough President shares this opinion, will be very glad to have the support of an organization such as this in carrying out the program. At the moment, we're moving a little faster on the Brooklyn Civic Center than we are in Manhattan. There seem to have been more difficulties in the way of the Manhattan work. One of them involves another thing which is not specifically referred to but hinted at, implied in this program, the Brooklyn Bridge, the East River Drive. And there, as the Borough President can tell you, we've run into some difficulties. On this so-called New Street, we've got as far as the Bowery. We got that far because nobody could have stopped that due to the fact that we closed so many streets in the Alfred E. Smith housing development. From there on, we've run into difficulties. And without being invidious about it or naming any names, I may say that it's been a constant source of amazement and amusement to me to see very often the names of people advocating these things who in other capacities are opposing them. That's one of those things that you run into in, I suppose, in all old established communities. Where there are vested interests. Where the vested interests clash with what we as public officials regard as the public interest. And where there are some aging and arthritic toes that have to be stepped on. That's what's the trouble in the lower part of Manhattan Island with all of these things that are on your program. And to the extent that you can bring into your ranks and make articulate the people who have influence and have standing and who have been in many cases opposed to these things, we'll get them done a whole lot faster. There's a reference here to subway walkways and bomb shelters. I may say in passing that the plan for these walkways, which are sort of underground, subsurface rabbit warrens, prepared by this organization for downtown Manhattan, have been very valuable to us. We have similar plans at 42nd Street and in Brooklyn. The story there is that we were encouraged to believe that there would be a very substantial program of civilian defense, initiated, guided, and inevitably largely financed by the federal government because it's a federal problem. And we went ahead in good faith, some of us with more esteem and enthusiasm than others. I confess to have been one of the skeptics about it from the beginning. And that program has come to absolutely nothing. There's literally no money available from Washington for the construction end of that program. There's some for stockpiling of supplies, medical supplies and that kind of thing. But the construction work, including this thing here, this subway underground shelter, which incidentally would be of enormous value as just as an ordinary everyday facility. We never had a war. There never were any bombing. That seems to have gone by the board because the city can't finance it alone. Only $15 million involved in the whole thing in the three areas that are most affected. The state has been willing to put up one-fourth and will not increase its appropriation from one-fourth to three-fourths. So it looks as though that's a long way off. Here again, if organizations like this got after problems of this kind in Washington and in the absence of funds in Washington and Albany, we'd be a little closer to realizing what we're driving at. And here again, I must add that I often find that the same people who advocate these things are the ones who howl the loudest and make the most dismal noises about the increases in the city capital and expense budgets. Can't do these things without spending some money. Can't advocate on Monday doing all these things and Tuesday join the Citizens Budget Commission and be against all of them. If you do, we're not going to get any place. The old tomb site park, well, that'll be reached in time also as part of the Civic Center. And so it is with the rest of your program. We welcome your support. We want it to be realistic support. We want you to be sure that when you ask us to do something that you're prepared to pay the bill for it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I don't know why I call him Batley Ball. I'm going to make this a short. We're very much honored this assembly is and I want everybody really I'd like everybody to hear it. By having as a godfather of our little part, Vice Admiral Edward L. Cochran, Chairman of the Federal Maritime Board of the Department of Commerce. Admiral Cochran is on leave from his position as head of the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering at MIT. During World War II, he was chief of the Bureau of Ships. He was recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal and the David W. Taylor Medal for outstanding achievement in his field. He is an honorary Knight Commander of the Military Division of the Order of the British Empire, besides being an honorary Doctor of Laws and Doctor of Engineering. He is performing most important service for his country and his presence here is a sign of his interest in our purposes. Admiral Cochran. Mr. Chairman, President Wagner, members of the Greater New York Civic Center Association and distinguished guests, Manifestly, with time pressing and with important things to do, it would be unwise this afternoon for me to dwell on the history of Hanover Square, for many of you have far greater knowledge on that subject than I. Manifestly, too, it would be unwise to dwell on the heritage of American shipping and of our foreign trade, for in this audience there are many on whom this heritage has descended directly and who are expert in the complexities of international commerce and shipping. I've been asked to speak on the subject of our national maritime and foreign trade supremacy and the need for keeping them strong. That's a large order to be covered by one of several speakers at this memorable luncheon. Surely, however, no single spot could have been selected which is more symbolic of the growth and of the vicissitudes of American maritime effort and of its foreign trade than Hanover Square here in New York. One does not have to have supernatural powers of a mystic to feel the spiritual presence of seafaring men, of men of commerce who have strode across the grass of Hanover Square, leaving firm imprints of their work upon the pages of our national history. The Dutchman, who in the 1630s first laid out the square while New York was still New Amsterdam, must be here with us in spirit. Surely, at our elbows one can almost feel the unseen presence of the merchants and the shipmasters of the days of the Hanoverian King George I of England, the British monarch in whose honour the square was named. The ghost of Captain Kidd, whose home once faced the square, may be here too. And I am afraid there are some landsmen who would like to think they see his somewhat free and easy methods in the industry even to this day. The growth of American commerce through the golden clipper ship era centered around the square. It's interesting to contemplate the fact that the overshadowing of Hanover Square itself in 1878 with the steel structure of the Third Avenue L occurred almost simultaneously with the overshadowing of the American fleet of clipper ships by the growing fleets of iron and steel steamships of other maritime nations. It's a strange anomaly of history that American merchantmen all but disappeared before this rapid foreign development of steam and steel in shipbuilding. This was naturally a field in which this country might have been expected to excel and to have gained greater supremacy rather than to have been driven from the seas. This strange occurrence was due to the very simple fact that the ingenuity and energies of this nation during that period were completely absorbed in developments within our own borders. It was necessary for us to venture overseas for very little if anything of importance. This country was during that period substantially self-sufficient. Some furtive efforts were made to stem this ebb tide, this decadence of our shipping. The need for an American naval fleet was recognized in 1890 when the first steps were taken to build the old white squadron. Incidentally, to build it largely from foreign designs. The building of merchant ships sufficient to reestablish the American flag on the seas was not undertaken, however, until the sad experiences of World War I. The first step of the American naval fleet was established so painfully the fact that a great nation which depends solely upon foreign flag ships for its essential imports and exports is in a precarious situation indeed. The partial decadence of the merchant fleet following World War I and its revival again in the bare nick of time through the passage of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 are still clear in the recollection of all of us here assembled. The tremendous shipbuilding efforts imposed upon us by the events of World War II were accomplished at heavy cost, but with equally tremendous returns in the successful Allied victory in that struggle. The six short years which have transpired since 1945 have been of great significance. That the memory of men is short-lived has been demonstrated again with shocking clarity. Fortunately, however, there have been some wise heads that have stood valiantly to the conviction that an American flag merchant marine is just as vital to our needs today as it has ever been. There are others, however, who just as foolishly have stood to the doctrine of transportation at the cheapest immediate cost and who have publicly acclaimed the theory that their sole need is for this cheap transportation regardless of the overall result. There are others who, with magnanimity, which I believe is sincere although ill-advised, expound the desirability of our surrendering our shipping business to other nations which have traditionally furnished marine transportation for the world in order that those nations may improve the dollar balances of their international accounts. I have great sympathy for those nations. They have been stalwart allies of this country and suffered heavily in the recent wars. I am equally convinced, however, that their future security, as well as ours, requires that this country shall be not only willing but ready and able to rise to our mutual support and the future. We will support in the years ahead. Fortunately, Vice Admiral Emery S. Lann, who served as chairman of the United States MaritimeÖ consomm, from 1938 to 1946 foresaw the problems of the Second World War and provided a nucleus of able ships for the postwar period. He likewise wisely provided for the preservation of a large reserve fleet of merchant ships against a future rainy day. I am sure, however, that no more than any of us did he have any idea that by November of 1951, over one-third of that reserve fleet would have been returned to active service. And yet, just that has occurred in the last 15 months. And the demand for breaking out additional ships from the mothball fleets still continues. Had there not been a sturdy American shipping industry with wise management and with competent seafaring men in reserve, this could not have been done. Had there not been modern harbors with modern loading facilities, it would not today be possible for us to be shipping millions of tons of coal and wheat and hundreds of millions of dollars worth of military defense aid items to the other democratic countries of the world, quite aside from all the millions of tons of petroleum products which are being handled. Because of the expenditures of our own mineral wealth during the period of these recent wars, we are today importing millions of tons of ores to this country. This flow of our industrial life's blood has become an essential service which must continue and for which in my judgment we cannot rely safely and solely upon the ships of other nations. It is idle for one to stand here in lower New York to discuss the extent the importance of our foreign trade. It is everywhere about us that this trade has not been moving recently due to labor difficulties, has of course been trying, not only to our pocketbooks but to our sense of the fitness of things. Suffice it to say that the rights of individuals are also important to us and it is gratifying to learn from the morning papers that the longshoremen are back at work. And so, through the traditions of Hanover Square and to the prophetic emergence of that historic spot the shadow of the outmoded elevated railway. For in that event I find the prediction that the American merchant marine and American foreign trade are similarly emerging from a troubled era into one of more clearly recognized importance in the future of this country. We have had world responsibilities thrust upon us, and in turn we find ourselves no longer self-sufficient within our own borders. The American merchant marine and foreign trade are the strong and vital links supporting our position in a troubled world. If the tide of world affairs has been turned in this year of 1951, and God grant that it has, American ships have held the balance of power which has made this possible. What a stronger evidence, what more overwhelming proof of their value could be asked? Gentlemen and ladies, the spirit and traditions of Hanover Square must be preserved. Thank you. Thank you. When time goes short, I'm going to cut my introductions very short. I'm simply going to say that the next speaker, Borough President Wagner, has been a great source of help to us in all our style for civic improvements. President Wagner. Mr. Moses, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an auspicious moment in the history of our great city. Mr. Moses, we are dedicating today, so to speak, a new park and setting in motion plans for erecting a monument to the maritime industry. It is entirely fitting, of course, that this day should also mark, as the Admiral stated, the end of one of the most serious labor disputes along our waterfront. The greatest asset of this city is its port facilities. Our port plays a major role in the economic welfare of every family living, working, or doing business in this city. It is estimated that approximately one out of every six persons employed in the city of New York owe their employment either directly or indirectly to port facilities. The site for this monument to the maritime industry is in the heart of the shipping industry. It is an area which is rich in historical tradition and with the tradition of the seas. It is here that the Dutch settlers, more than three centuries ago, established the first trading post in the Western Hemisphere. When Commissioner Charles Hand, who was really a shipping man at heart, first discussed with me and with the officials of India House at a luncheon there, the plans for developing this park at Hanover Square as a shipping memorial, I thought it worthy of serious consideration by the city. Our task was simplified by the fact that we own the property and the bathhouse, to which there has been some reference before this morning. The park commissioner Moses, as always, was most highly cooperative. The plan won the wholehearted endorsement of your civic organization, association, and of the maritime industry. Those of you who have already seen the new park know that fruition of our plans completely justified the efforts made. I think too that this is a fitting moment for us to look to the future and dedicate our efforts to improvement of our port facilities. I know that Commissioner Kavanaugh has vigorously pushed for modernization and rehabilitation of many of our rundown piers. And this program must be advanced as rapidly as possible. Again, I think we can reiterate what Commissioner Moses said, all these things cost money. We must improve storage facilities, trucking and loading facilities, and provide other needs to reduce shipping costs to the minimum. The Port of New York has made the city the center of world trade and commerce. If we are to retain our international leadership, we must dedicate our efforts to maintaining our port in the most modern and up-to-date manner. I know that all of us here will do all we can to promote the shipping interests of our city, and in that way promote the living and business of the city as a whole. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Our next speaker has served this city in the Department of Marine and Aviation for four years under two mayors, two years as deputy commissioner, two years as commissioner. He's supervised and directed the vast rehabilitation, modernization, and fireproofing construction program of the department. He's been operating on a schedule of about a million dollars a month. Last 21 months, I present the Honorable Edward F. Kavanaugh, Commissioner of the Department of Marine and Aviation of New York. Mr. Chairman, Commissioner Moses, Admiral Cochran, President Wagner, and ladies and gentlemen, I know how you must all feel, and I assure you I'll be brief. As a matter of fact, we improved between the last speaker and this moment. We only lost three of our audience. So, it may be that those who remain expect me to announce a rent reduction, and I don't expect to do that. There's still time to leave. It's an inspiring privilege, though, for me to be able to participate in this great effort that is being launched today by the Greater New York Civic Center and India House. And I use the word inspiring advisedly because when you honor a tradition or recognize a tradition such as the tradition of the sea and men who go to the sea, their trials and their tribulations and their happiness and their joys and above all the great and courageous achievements they've brought to the world from the days of the Phoenicians right up to the present, you can't feel but be inspired. I think the thought of launching this effort in Hanover Square is particularly appropriate. Although at the moment that area of the city is not as close to some of the major maritime centers as it has been in the past, it is deeply related in history and tradition to our maritime centers. For almost 300 years, Hanover Square has been the common to which Commissioner Moses referred a moment ago, the common on which men of the sea and the towboats and the men who worked the wharves have gathered at lunchtime and in their moments of leisure. It's important that in the history of that common, many great deals on which the success of our merchant marine has been launched were completed and negotiated. The East River itself for more than 200 years has been an important tie-up spot for the shipping of this city. In 1813, more than 100 years ago, the common council of this city passed a resolution which it passed on to the masters of the vessels that came to these waters that the North River was hazardous for tie-ups during the winter and fall and early spring months. And that brought shipping to the area just a few hundred feet from Hanover Square. And so I say the idea of launching this tribute to the heritage of American shipping and foreign commerce is a grand one in itself. The selection of the site could not be more appropriate. And I assure all of those who are interested in its success that we in our department will get behind it completely. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm going to be still short. Thank you very much, Commissioner. I'm going to be still short. And I'm simply going to say that the next speaker is Mr. Howard Coleman. I don't think I need to say anything about him. I think everybody knows about him. Mr. Moses, distinguished guests, I have really nothing to say except thank you to Mr. Moses, Mr. Wagner, your association. You've brought back a vital historical spot. You're brought back in a district where I've spent my life, where there are the nice clean odors of tobacco and tea and coffee and spices. Clean air and a nice park. And confidentially, I cheated yesterday. Like Bernard Baruch, I sat on a bench and there the similarity ended. I feel very strongly that it's a great landmark. We at the Port Authority obviously are interested. I didn't know till I sat next to the distinguished president of India House where they got the money to refurbish India House, doll it up, and do all that they're doing. Confidentially told me during lunch that they had taken over years ago both the Hanover Bank and W.R. Grayson Company. And the only suggestion that I have to make is that the city's done a beautiful job horizontally. You have a lovely park. I think it behooves us as good neighbors to see if we can get some of the local merchants to tear down these garish signs and neon lights and maybe give an exhibit A of a nostalgic old New York that you people quite properly deserve the credit of. Thank you. I think you can see why I didn't introduce him. You don't have to. Now President Hoover at a dinner to open the campaign for the new engineering center said that he crossed the Atlantic in his early days. An English woman asked him what he did. When he told him he was an engineer, she replied, I'm sorry, I thought you were a gentleman. Mr. Chilson insists that he's not a gentleman. Not an engineer, I think of. But Mr. Chilson is not satisfied with being an engineer. He's president of India House and a most active one. That capacity is carrying forward to improve the interior and the face lifting of the exterior of India House. And so I'm going to stop there and introduce Mr. Edward N. Chilson, president of India House. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, my message is a short one. I want to congratulate the administrative officials of the city for the good taste and speed with which Hannover Square has been restored. As president of India House, I follow the development of the new square from its inception. The splendid cooperation given to the project by our honorable Mayor Impeletelli, Borough President Wagner, Park Commissioner Robert Moses and their staffs. Also, the officers of the Greater New York Civic Center Association is most praiseworthy. I believe that the story of how this project started with India House thinking will interest you. It was not October 23rd of last year that we officers of India House first met to discuss the future of the square after the removal of the elevated railroad structure. Discussions by our members revealed the need to coordinate their thinking toward the development of the square. Early in November, the club's architect prepared a sketch to show the square as a green spot with benches, walks, and planting. The sketch aroused interest and brought forth many ideas. It seems to us that someone should coordinate these, and to this end I appointed Mr. Robert H. Patchen, our past president, to advance our thoughts to the proper civil authorities and to the civic improvement organizations. Service on the south ferry branch of the Third Avenue Elevated Railroad ceased a few days before Christmas 1950. And shortly thereafter, Mr. Patchen and Mr. Wheeler, the club's architect, met with Commissioner Hand and Engineer Levy of the Department of Public Works, Borough of Manhattan, to discuss the possibility of removing the concrete mat structure that overlaid the square. Mr. Edgar I. Williams, president of the Municipal Arts Society, was invited to discuss the project with us. Mr. L. Porter Moore, executive director of the Greater New York Civic Center Association, learned of our efforts and informed the project of the deep interest of his association in preserving historic sites in downtown New York. Several interesting items appeared in city newspapers during March and April of this year and then later months. The project aroused weight interest. On June 6th, the Greater New York Civic Center Association held its first luncheon to discuss the restoration and the installation of a marine symbol in the square. At that meeting, the association's president, Mr. Percival Robert Moses, appointed a committee on restoration, headed by Mr. Patchen, and a subcommittee on design, to discuss ways and means to design and erect a suitable marine symbol in the square. The Park Department prepared a plan for the square. In August, surveyors appeared at the site, and a few days later, pneumatic hammers were breaking up the concrete mat. Hannover Square has a long history. One early painting shows the triangular square as a rutted, dirty road, dirt road. I guess it was dirty too. On the waterfront, and on one side of the triangle is Captain Kidd's house, which stood in 1691 on property now occupied by the coffee and sugar exchange building. On the south side of the square, Nicholas Byard built a mansion in 1686 on the present site of India House. Following the destruction of this mansion in the Great Fire of 1835, a three-story office building was erected in 1837 by Richard Carman, a merchant from nearby Broadway. In 1851, the same building was occupied by the Hanover Bank, later by the Cotton Exchange and W.R. Grayson Company. In 1914, that India House acquired—it was in 1914 that India House acquired the building for its clubhouse. At a time when the greater possibilities of overseas commerce stirred the nation's imagination, India House was, on November the 16th, 1914, established for the encouragement of foreign commerce of the United States and the cultivation and perpetuation of American foreign trading traditions. We know that the first plant of the New York Edison Company was located on the square. That Thomas A. Edison had an office in that plant. And the first newspaper in New York City, the New York Gazette, was published on the square. John D. Rockefeller had his first New York office there. We of India House are particularly pleased with the manner in which the square has been restored by the city. We are not stopping with the beautiful square with its trees and benches, nor will we stop when a suitable marine symbol has been erected and presented to the city. But we plan to strive for the improvement of the properties of budding the square and will lend our support and efforts to the Greater New York Civic Center Association and forming a neighborhood improvement association, which will help and coordinate property owners and give the square character and dignity commensurate with its notable history. Improvements to properties on the square are well underway. The facade of India House is being restored to its original brownstone. The two fine grace buildings and the coffee and sugar exchange building have already undergone improvements. Hanover Square again has its place in the sun. The members of India House welcome the erection of a symbol in Hanover Square as a tribute to the heritage of American shipping and foreign trading, with which the square has been so long identified. Speaking for the members of India House, we will exert our very best efforts toward the realization of this marine symbol. I thank you. Thank you. I think that I have only one thing to say. I want to pay a tribute to Robert Patchen, who is ill, for the work he did. He really gave his whole life and energy to trying to bring this project about and to carry through the plan for the erection of a symbol. He's ill and I want to pay this tribute to him. Thank you all for coming. Sorry it has been so long. It was unavoidable. The radio's microphones have been in the gymnasium, the downtown club, transferred at the present time in a beautifully decorated dining room in order that the project might receive impetus for the rejuvenation of Hanover Square, which is practically completed this time, to carry on further rejuvenation of the period or the location here in New York City and of other locations as well that come under the inspiration and guidance of the work of the Greater New York Civic Center Association. Mr. Percival Robert Moses, that's two Robert Moses, remember. Percival Robert Moses is chairman of the Greater New York Civic Center Association. And of course, our own Robert Moses, coordinator of construction for the City of New York, was one of the distinguished speakers today, along with the Borough President of Manhattan, Borough President Wagner, Mr. Charles Hand, and other distinguished guests who participated in this great enterprise. We'd like to say, particularly young couples who'd like to be confidential and like a nice quiet place to be so, instead of going into the garish lighted districts of your city, take the subway downtown, come into the ghost-like atmosphere of downtown Manhattan with its amazing facades and its poetic shadows in the dim evening light and the moonlight as well. Discover your city for its real value and beauty. See how the business houses, too, are doing their part to improve the facades of their buildings and bring back to this quarter of the city some of the beauty and poetry which it so firmly possesses in the history and continuity of our great and wonder city. Just take a ride downtown. Don't read those pointed and pointless articles sometimes. the Traducere City get around and see how the thinking people and the doers are making it an even greater and a more wonderful city than it has ever been as yet. And all... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
