The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand presents on transcription, the first in a series of three rebroadcasts of interesting and provocative discussions which have brought special response from our listeners. Today, we hear, Why Read the Bible? The first speaker is Edgar J. Goodspeed, translator of the Bible and author of How to Read the Bible. Dr. Goodspeed. No book in the world has been or is being more printed, circulated, translated, and illustrated than the Bible. And no book is more reflected in literature. It is the basis of at least two world religions. It is in every home, almost in every room in the land. It is the bearer of a great message of peace, hope, faith, and goodwill to mankind. Yet no book is in more danger of being misunderstood. For while some readers take it all for history, some regard it as law, some dismiss it as fiction, and others understand it all as poetry. It is true it contains history, law, fiction, and poetry. For the fact is, it is not so much a book as a library. It follows that it must be read as a library. The history as history, the fiction as fiction, the poetry as poetry. We must learn to distinguish these types, and approach each of them as that special type must be approached. How to read it is no trifling matter. Only last year in this country, some poor wretches horrified us all by thinking Mark 16, 18, they shall take up serpents, was a divine command, a test of faith. An educated man in Nashville declares that he cannot accept the presence of either fable or eloquence in the Bible. Oblivious of Jotham's famous fable in Judges 9 on the one hand, and of the whole book of Job on the other. A young literary man in Philadelphia thinks the Bible is all poetry. Though as Thomas Hardy wrote in his journal, the English Bible was not nearly as poetical when it was first made as it now seems to be. Certainly the makers of it saw very little poetry in it. They treated it all as prose. How much of it was poetry was not known until Robert Loth, professor of poetry at Oxford, in his lectures there 200 years ago, explored the matter of Hebrew poetry. So that we now know that one third of the Old Testament is poetry, and that most of the Hebrew prophets were poets, and great poets too. Many moderns look upon the writers of the Bible as pious, unsophisticated old men, totally unacquainted with the techniques of literature. This is as far as possible from the fact that the Bible is an extraordinary collection of different literary types, history, law, oratory, fiction, poetry, drama, philosophy, letters, visions, written by experts, and devoted to the up-building of character and the teaching of the mercy and the fear of God. From a purely literary point of view, the New Testament is far less varied and elaborate than the Old. Greek papyrus documents found in Egypt in the past 60 years have revealed the fact that the New Testament, unlike the Old, was written in the familiar spoken language of common life. This discovery has led to the modern speech translation, which seek to put the New Testament into language as natural and familiar as the Greek original. This is of great importance for the understanding of Paul, so difficult and obscure in the Old Standard Version. There is nowadays a renewed effort to assemble a preferred list of the hundred or so best books in the world. Is the Bible such a book? It is much more than that. It is itself such a list. The Bible assembles what men, 1700 years ago, thought the 80 best books in the world, for they included the Apocrypha. The problem of the modern list makers is, can they make a better list? Not only for itself, but for its contribution to literature, to history, and to enlightened human thought, must we read the Bible. It is an immensely broad book, as well as a deep one. It was written on two continents, in three languages, by a hundred writers, over a thousand years. Widely different intelligences and attitudes are reflected in it. It may be thought of as a great debate on the basic matters of ethics and religion, and no thinking man or woman can escape its challenge. And does not the new atomic age, of which we hear so much, demand a new birth of humanity, and mutual tolerance, and goodwill among men everywhere. The modern man must have moral virtues to match his scientific techniques. I know scientists who, since Hiroshima, are turning back to the Bible. For with all its diversity of literary types, the Bible remains the world's great book of religion, with a challenge and a gospel, for men and women, too, of every land and every station. Thank you, Dr. Goodspeed. Joining Dr. Goodspeed on the reviewing stand are Joseph Haratunian, Professor of Systematic Theology at the McCormick Theological Seminary, Wayne Lees, Dean of Faculties at Roosevelt College, and Albert E. Barnett, Professor of New Testament at Candler's School of Theology. Now we present our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University. As Dr. Goodspeed has just said, we are talking about the most printed, most circulated, most translated, and most illustrated book in the world, the Bible. And he adds, the book most in danger of being misunderstood. Our question is, why read it? Why read the Bible? Are the reasons for reading the Bible, Haratunian, the same as those for reading other great books, would you say, such as Plato's Dialogues or Aristotle's Ethics? My answer to that would be no. God's, the Bible speaks of God, the Creator. It speaks of God, the Lord of history, and of God, the Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ. The Bible is a unique book, and the reasons for reading it are radically different from the reasons for which we read other books. Furthermore, I should say that the Bible occupies a unique position among us because it is the fountain of actually whatever is characteristic of our Western culture. and I do not believe the Western culture can survive without drawing continuously from the Bible. Do you accept that, Lee? I agree that the Bible is a unique book or collection of books, but I do not believe that the reasons for reading the Bible are unique. The Bible is unique because it is part of the ritual of the Christian and Jewish religions. Therefore, it is full and rich with emotional meanings. It is easy to read emotionally, like listening to music. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. We all respond to that. The 23rd Psalm, yet exactly what clear and distinct idea do we have in mind? It's true that the Bible is difficult to read thoughtfully and for the purpose of securing clear and distinct ideas, but I believe that the reasons for reading the Bible are the same as for reading other books despite this difficulty. Where do you stand on this, Barnett? I would like to illustrate my own point of view with this incident. Several years ago, an eye specialist said to me, your eyes rebel at being constantly focused on black print. For five minutes in every hour, either close them or better lift them to the horizon and look as far away as possible. People read the Bible because the specialists who wrote it and those of whom it was written knew that the spirits of men need frequently to be lifted into God's presence. Reading the Bible does actually help men keep their lives oriented with reference to God and men read it because it is a book of religion. Well now, Haratunian and Barnett at least here seem to think that the Bible has a certain uniqueness. I think Lee concurs in that for somewhat different reasons. I'd like to get at the question this way, Haratunian. Would you say that the Bible as classical sacred literature is any different from modern sacred literature? That is, that is, Dr. Goodspeed referred to the Bible as a library. Now, if we are to view it as a library, why don't we make additions to it now and then? Well, I don't see any ultimate reason why we shouldn't. We believe that the Spirit of God speaks today as it's felt in the days of the writing of the Bible. But the fact still is that the Bible does not have its equal in contemporary sacred literature. They are on two different planes. And it seems to me that, that a priori reasons cannot be given why there should not be an extension of biblical literature. Well, Mr. Haratunian, wouldn't you agree that there is some production of sacred literature in modern times which has the same literature, which has the same effects and same qualities as the biblical literature, but we have no great collection of books such as the Bible. For instance, I'm thinking of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address or Cardinal Newman's Lead Kindly Light or Holmes's Chambered Nautilus. I believe that these orations, poems, have the same qualities as the biblical literature. What do you think about that, Haratunian? Well, I think that, that the man like, man like Lincoln and especially John Henry Newman was, were deeply steeped in the letter and the spirit of the Bible. And it is not surprising to me that they produced the kind of literature they did produce. But I do not think that they themselves would put their writings on the same level as that of the Bible. And I think it is not possible to produce such literature with constant reference, without constant reference to the Bible itself. Now, what we're trying to get at here is the unique character of the Bible. Does it follow from what you men have been saying that the Bible should be read as the word of God? Is that essentially what you're saying, Barnett? What is the authority for the Bible? I would certainly say that the Bible is the word of God in the sense that the Bible is written by inspired men. That is, men to whom God has really spoken, who have really heard him, though within the limitations imposed by culture and individuality. Are we to assume that the Bible is infallible, that it should be taken literally? Is that what you read into what Mr. Barnett has said here, Haratunian? No, that isn't what I read into it. May I first say at one point to his. That is, the Bible is not only the word of God because it is inspired, but also because it speaks the word of God to me. The Bible addresses me at the core of my personality, in my conscience, and calls upon me to make a decision between right and wrong and good and evil. And this responsibility being placed on me, I accept it as the word of God. The value of the Bible as a soul-searching book, though, is frequently lost because, unfortunately, magic has become confused with reverence. One may revere the Bible without expecting it to give infallible answers to every conceivable question. I think it would be absurd to try to use the Bible as a telephone directory. Similarly, it's absurd to try to use the Bible as a scientific treatise on medicine or biology. if we expect the Bible to answer all our questions, then we are expecting the impossible. Similarly, I would say that there's not much profit in reading the Bible just to expose its supposed errors and contradictions. The thing Mr. Lees says is essentially the point of departure in this discussion that the Bible is a book of religion and is to be consulted for guidance in the field of its specialization. It is the classical literature of the human soul in its quest for God and the classical account of his experience in finding and being found by... God. But, uh, I would not agree that, uh, the Bible is of value only with reference to theological doctrines. I regard it as a book of wisdom also. Which, uh, which raises this question, I think. Do you have to, Lees, predicate a profound and vital religious faith in order to make sense out of the Bible that someone has said the words of Jesus are either nonsense or a divine sense? I take it that you don't, do not go along with that point of view. I think that, uh, the parables of Jesus in many instances do not require any particular theological orientation, just as the story of Joseph, one of the most inspiring stories in the, uh, Hebrew scriptures do not require a particularly theological interpretation. uh, it seems to me that anyone can read the Bible with profit as a book of wisdom. By that, I don't mean that he should, uh, just start memorizing verse by verse or acting out the precepts. A great moral treatise is great because it puts before us our moral choices, because it, uh, sharpens our conscience, because it stimulates us to legislate for ourselves, as Kant would say. And I believe that, uh, the Bible has this effect when it is properly approached. Now, that's a clear statement of Lee's position. I take it that you gentlemen don't quite, uh, share that. Uh, Barnett? Seems to me that you must bear in mind the conception of morality which the Bible, uh, puts forth in connection with this view of it. Morality, according to the biblical account of it, brings out of the relationship in which men stand to God. God embodies and upholds righteousness, and only the righteous man may expect his approval. Trust in God and obedience to his will constitute the active principle of goodness as the Bible presents. Which is another way of saying, I assume, that the words of the Bible are either nonsense or divine sense? Yes. Well, I would like to add to that that the, the, if the Bible were merely a, a, uh, book of wisdom, it would be one of the books of wisdom in the world, and in some points at least, it wouldn't be quite as good as some of them are. I think it is to construe the whole meaning of the Bible to take it as a book of wisdom and, let's say, hardly more. The Bible not only reveals wisdom and morality as the will of God, but Bible, the Bible also teaches us that there is a God who gives us the power to live according to that wisdom. Man's problem throughout the ages has not been primarily to know the, the wise way to act. It has been the problem of having the will and the power to follow the light that it is. And it seems to me unless we take that problem seriously and recognize how impossible it is often for us to do that which we ought to do, we do not really get to the heart of the message of the Bible. I have not said that the Bible is merely a book of wisdom. All I have been arguing for is the propriety of persons seeking wisdom to go to the Bible. It seems to me that the Bible has much to offer in the way of wisdom. Not that it is possible always to agree with the precepts of the Bible because there is variation from book to book in the point of view. But the... Now, are you, are you suggesting that we accept the moral teaching of the Bible with some qualification then, Lee? Well, I'm saying, yes, I'm saying that the Bible puts to us the questions, some of the questions that we have to face today if we are to live wisely. For instance, it raises the question of our own guilt and shortcomings. Now, many of the books of the Bible, it seems to me, exaggerate the sense of guilt, but we all need to be reminded of our shortcomings. As Abe Martin once said, to err is human and to admit it ain't. That mention of guilt precisely brings me to my point. The Bible reveals us guilty and the Bible at the same time provides us with the faith and the hope that there is forgiveness in God. The Bible is the book in which we receive forgiveness through Jesus Christ, our Lord. I mean, it seems to me that there is a historical, factual, there is a kind of a real background to biblical teaching of events that occurred. And in the light of the history and the events which are narrated in the Bible, that we have to understand not only the duty of man, but the way in which man can obey the will of God. and this idea of Bible as a book of teachings it seems to me certainly is lopsided. It seems to me that especially with Jesus, we must take into account his attitude of trusting in God and of obedience to the will of God if his moral teaching is to be intelligible. I like this statement by a great contemporary New Testament scholar, Ernest F. Scott. Whether we like it or not, the moral teaching of Jesus is rooted in his religion and cannot be detached from it. Even his demand for social justice is based on a religious postulate and is left hanging in the air when this is withdrawn. There is no way of saving Jesus' ethic at the expense of his religion. but it can never be sufficiently emphasized that he builds always on the central thing in religion. Now, if we were to accept these views of Scott that you have just quoted, would it follow from that position, from the position that you've been taking, Barnett, that all people ought to read the Bible? I think it's relative to this question of why read the Bible, to ask who should read the Bible. How do you answer that? Of course, I think that the Bible is more profitably read when read with the guidance of such a master of it as Goodspeed, or Scott. Does untutored, naive, reading of the Bible serve any useful purpose? I think it serves a great deed. I think there is so much of truth in the Bible. I think that human nature is so incurably religious that the man who is religiously hungry and inquisitive will get great value from the Bible, even though he reads it naively. But wouldn't you say that instruction, particularly of children, is necessary? I have known children who have come to despise the Bible because they spent too much time on the begats and the dull passages. And isn't it also true that the story of Noah's drunkenness and the story of what happened to Dinah, Jacob's daughter, is scarcely good reading for children? Well, I think, I think, of course, that all people should read the Bible. And I quite agree that it is not always easy to do so. You can start from one end of the Bible and you go a few of the books and you get bogged down. That's the experience of many people. But it seems to me that that doesn't mean that under the guidance, especially of the church, and in the light of the essentials of the Bible, as is known in almost every church or denomination that we have, the people should not constantly refer in their daily lives to this book, which is, to them, really the source of courage and faith and hope and power. I'd like to add that there is a special need in our time when we seem to be so confused and bewildered as to how we should live that those in authority and those who put men in authority should constantly turn to the Bible in order to get new light and guidance for their lives. And I don't think there is any trouble that is not worth taking in order to read the Bible as adequately and profitably as possible. That's well, very well said, Haratunian. But isn't there some danger that those, that people in authority, whether in state or church or home or community, might use the Bible to defend antisocial position, sheer bigotry at times. Do you, do you share that apprehension at all? Oh, I certainly do. I certainly do. As a matter of fact, you know, I sometimes think that the way everybody else uses the Bible is the wrong one. There is certainly a problem there, but I don't know what the answer to that is, except that we should make every effort to recognize the desperate situation in which we are to divest ourselves from all our prejudices, knowing what our situation is, in order that we may receive new light and power in this day. Well, I think the Bible is being used today as it has been used for centuries by people who have already made up their minds exactly where they stand and what they want, and they look into the Bible for some verse that will say what they once said. This is a cheap political trick to win arguments, just as in 1857 the abolitionists were faced with the quotation, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's manservant nor thy neighbor's maidservant. This was supposed somehow to defend slavery. And today, we have the same kind of rationalizations of physicians by searching the scriptures for an apt phrase. Do you have an answer to that one, Haratunian? Well, yes, I do. I think that what Dr. Lee said is true, but we must not forget that it is the Bible that revolutionized the ancient world. It is the Bible in the hands of the reformers that revolutionized the medieval world. And it is the Bible that brought new power into the industrial England in Westland. And it is the Bible which is our hope for a new life in the future for our civilization. I think there is no question that our speakers unanimously recommend the reading of the Bible. I think most informed people would. Why read it? Because it is a book of great moral wisdom, because it gives you insight into human existence, human good, and man's relation to God, because it confronts man with God in the person of Jesus Christ. We have had differences about the authority of the Bible, and we recognize the danger of naive interpretation. But we know it's a potential challenge to all thinking men and women. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Why Read the Bible? Participating as guests today, were Edgar J. Goodspeed, world-renowned student of the Bible and author of How to Read the Bible, Wayne A.R. Lees, Dean of Faculties at Roosevelt College, Albert E. Barnett, Professor of New Testament, Candler School of Theology, and Joseph Horatunian, Professor of Systematic Theology at McCormick Theological Seminary. Printed copies of this broadcast are not available. Next week, the reviewing stand will present another in this series of three rebroadcasts of outstanding reviewing stand discussions. At a time when the nation's highways are choked with Labor Day traffic and our accident toll soars, we will hear a discussion of the question, Can We Stop Drunken Driving? Our guests will be Robert L. Donegan, counsel for the Northwestern University Traffic Institute, Judge Harry H. Porter, Chief Justice of the Municipal Court of Evanston, Illinois, and Dr. R. N. Harger, who is credited with the invention of chemical tests employed by many states in determining the condition of drivers suspected of being drunk. Dr. Harger is Professor of Biochemistry and Toxicology at the Indiana University School of Medicine. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Can We Stop Drunken Driving? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
