And so, Diamond Jim went to India to see it. And he visited the great centers of Indian art and culture, including the Taj Mahal, and came home full of his big idea. What was that, Dean? Well, he decided to build the Taj Mahal of all pianos. He commissioned the Welty Mignon Company to make a special player action to go into a Steinway, and he ordered a special piano case made of teak wood, and elaborately carved and decorated with, well, about 40 ivory miniatures that he'd acquired in India. Well, Dean, is it true that this piano cost him $60,000? Well, that's what he said. If it did, I don't know where he'd put the money. The ivory miniatures are pretty valuable. As a matter of fact, when the piano was exhibited at the New York World's Fair, somebody stole several of them. Maybe the money went into the teak wood case. At any rate, I must say that the piano sounds like a very ordinary instrument today, and I don't believe the tone has changed much since the day that he bought it. The instrument's chief value now is as a musical curio, a reminder of the gaudy days of the gay 90s. But so that the world can hear a little bit of its music under comparable circumstances, I've asked one of the most glamorous ladies of music today to sing one of the songs that Lillian Russell used to sing, accompanied in part by that piano. And, Dave, I don't have to tell you who that lady is. No, indeed. Welcome to our radio auction room, Miss Helen Jepsen. It was very piano. It was one of Diamond Dim Brady's favorites, The Merry Widow Waltz. Golden glowing lamps are growing, Lights above While the swaying tune is saying, Love, love, love, love. And the beat of dancers Found it as they go Don't you hear them say, My dear, I love you so And with the music chime And the voices beating chime As if to give a sign That it would cry Be mine, be mine The lips may say no way But in my heart The song is heard That seems to whisper low I love you so Love that hovers Love that hovers Over lovers Speaks in song Hear the fingers blast That lingers close and strong Tell the music and sound Swaying to and fro Telling you It's true It's true I love you I love you Thank you, Miss Helen Jepsen And thank you, Deems Taylor. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are ready for bids on what is probably the costliest upright piano ever built. The highest bidder in the nation gets the piano. How much will you bid? Write or wire your bids to Dave Ellman's auction gallery care of the mutual broadcasting system New York 18. The piano will stay on exhibition at the gallery while the bidding remains open and anyone can see it. All bids must be in by midnight April 23rd. If you happen to tune in late perhaps you're wondering what program you're hearing. It's a new one based on an idea never attempted in radio before. Briefly, the idea is this. If you have an article which, in our opinion, is of unusual merit, one that is of interest to a nationwide radio audience, we will offer it at auction to an auction gallery audience composed of dealers and other prospective cash buyers, or perhaps we'll even auction it across the nation. It all depends on whether the article lends itself to human interest and entertainment purposes. We must be the sole judges. The name of the new program is Dave Ellman's Radio Auction Gallery and it is coming to you direct from the Pekin Art Galleries located in the Hotel Gotham on Fifth Avenue, New York. The raising of the flag on Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima a few weeks ago marked the climax in the greatest battle our Marines have ever faced. One man was there to record that event for posterity. An Associated Press combat photographer named Joe Rosenthal. It is fitting that the greatest combat photographer of all time should tell the story of the first combat photographer in history. Ladies and gentlemen, the man who took the greatest war picture of all time, that flag-raising picture you've seen in every important newspaper and magazine in the country, Joe Rosenthal. Joe, before you tell us about Matthew Brady, your Civil War counterpart, suppose you tell us about the picture which won you the Graflex Diamond, the highest award in photography. Well, Dave, here's the story. My flag-raising picture was taken on the morning of the fifth day of the battle for Iwo Jima. I was going into the beach again when I was told by a boat crew member that a patrol of Marines was going to plant the flag on top of Mount Suribachi. The hillside bristled with dual-purpose gun positions, caves and pillboxes, and the path up the mountain was steep and winding. I reached the top of the mountain about three quarters of an hour after the first patrol of Marines who carried the flag up there. I saw them working at the base of the flagpole, so I took a position at the inner edge of the volcano rim, dragged up a couple of rocks into position to stand on and waited. As they swung the pole up, I snapped my picture. At the end of the throw, when the pole was straight up, I snapped another. I followed this with a carefully planned third by calling men from all directions to crowd around the flagpole, cheer, and wave their helmets. I was really proud of that last one. Two days later, they radioed from Guam saying, fine picture, flag raising. Congratulations. I thought they were talking about the third picture, the one I planned so carefully. It wasn't until about five days later when I arrived at Guam that I knew which picture they were talking about. Well, Joe, someday I hope to auction off for the benefit of the Red Cross or for war bonds the very camera with which you took that picture. But since that camera is not available tonight, I wish you'd tell our audience about the two historic cameras which are on the nationwide auction block tonight. Glad to, Dave. Ladies and gentlemen, chances are, if you've ever seen any photographs of the war between the states, those pictures were the work of America's first famous news photographer, Matthew Brady. He ranged with the Union Army photographing generals, troops, battles, and the lonely rows of dead. He didn't have the modern cameras we have today for combat photography. No, his cameras were square mahogany boxes with telescoping lenses and wet plate holders mounted on long, clumsy, wooden tripods. save for age, they are in as workable condition today as they were when Matthew Brady used them. Joe, I believe one of these cameras is a stereoscopic camera with double lenses. Yes, Brady used it for photographing battle scenes and troops in pre-moving picture days. Incidentally, these cameras have taken many pictures of Abraham Lincoln. Well, thank you, Joe Rosenthal. Ladies and gentlemen, the apparatus used to photograph Lincoln are now on the nationwide auction block. Included with the cameras are many unpublished Matthew Brady photographs, stereoptic and views with small and small square prints mounted on cardboard and yellowed with age, but they are the originals made by Brady and mounted by him. We'll start the bidding here in our radio auction gallery and then turn the bidding over to our nationwide audience with the understanding that if the bidding here in the studio is not topped by midnight April 23rd, the highest bidder here in the studio gets Matthew Brady's historic pictures and cameras. What am I bid? Who'll start the bidding? Who'll start the bidding? There's a bid right back there. Former Graflex Corporation bids $1,000. Former Graflex Corporation bids $1,000 for Matthew Brady's cameras. U.S. Camera magazine bids $1,500. U.S. Camera magazine bids $1,500. Let's go from there. We have some more time left for the bidding. Yes? Graflex Corporation raised it to $2,000. Is there any advance? Is there any advance? At the $2,000 figure, we'll turn the bidding over to the nation. The highest bid here is $2,000 and now America, you can bid. Write, wire, or phone your bids to Dave Ellman's Radio Auction Gallery, care of the Mutual Broadcasting System, New York 18. All your bids must be in by midnight, April 23rd. It always seems that the bigger a man is, the more human he is. Now, you take Mark Twain, for example. We've all read his books and laughed at his wit and humor, but he went through hard times, just as the rest of us have done. But he went through them with a laugh. I'm holding in my hand a little paper-bound book entitled Ginx's Baby. It was published in 1871. On the title page, Mark Twain drew the picture of a tiny jug and labeled it Tear Jug. And then he wrote the words in his own handwriting, Life is no joke when I am broke. Mark Twain. Now, someone in our studio audience will own this valuable Mark Twain item in the next 20 seconds. 20 seconds for bidding who started? $5. $5. $5. $10. $10. $10. $15. $15. How much? $16. $16, is that correct? $17. $17. $17. $17. $20. $20. $20 is bid. Time's up. Time's up. $21. It's too late. $21. Takes the bid and sold to the highest bidder for $21. $20. $20. $20. It was two weeks before Christmas in the year 1799. Snow was falling gently on a mansion in Virginia. The approaching white Christmas wasn't noticed by the two doctors nor the man breathing with great difficulty who lay sick unto death on the couch. A woman entered the room. How is he now, Doctor? Have the foot baths helped? Well, it's too early to tell yet, but we're trying. He seemed so well early in the day. I thought by now surely he'd be improved. He's been ill since only yesterday? Not even since yesterday. He had a slight cold, but he seemed perfectly all right when he went to bed. Then in the middle of the night, he put on his dressing robe, wrapped at my door, and said he was terribly ill. But he wouldn't let me send for the family doctor. He said it was too far to travel because of the weather. And now, now he's... Quite ill. Has a very good chance for recovery. Dr. Dix, suppose we ease his pain by bloodletting? Well, yes, that ought to give him a little relief. Oh, but Dr. Brown, Dr. Dix, he's already done that before you got here by his own orders. Rawlings took over a pint of blood, and he's been getting weaker ever since. If only Dr. Craig was here. He's been our family physician so long. Madam, if Dr. Craig were here, he could do no more. And I'm sure he'd agree that what we're doing is for the best. It's our only chance. If I was only sure it would let him breathe easier. It will, madam. Indeed it will. And now, Dr. Brown, if you'll just roll up the sleeve of his robe. Dr. Brown rolled up a sleeve of that red and white caligar robe, worn by the man on the couch. The vein of the arm was opened, and as the blood flowed into a receptacle and a few drops spilled on the robe, the life of George Washington, the father of his country, spilled with it. And in a few short moments, the man who had been completely well less than 48 hours before was dead. The bloodstains show on that calico red and white checked robe to this very day, for it is exactly as he wore it that night. But every member of the Washington family to whom it has descended has written a documentary letter stating when each owned it and for how long. These letters are with a robe. Looking at the robe which is here beside me, I can see two tiny patches which were put there by his wife, Martha. Or you can even see the fine stitches which she sewed. This robe is the property of the Historic Arts Association. And the association are allowing me to put this robe on the nationwide auction block only on the condition that all money over and above the actual cost of the robe to the association shall be donated to the Red Cross. The cost of the robe to the association was $5,000. Because of the importance of this historic memento, we are going to turn the bidding over to the nation immediately. America, how much will you bid? Ladies and gentlemen, you've just heard a program which is absolutely new to radio. Dave Ellman's Auction Gallery. A nationwide radio auction. Would you like to hear a series of similar programs? If you would, by all means, write in and tell us. And if you didn't like the show, tell us that too. The continuation of the series will depend entirely upon... You have been listening to Dave Ellman's original radio auction at the Pecan Art Galleries on Fifth Avenue in New York. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. We'll be right back. And if you have a Sharma tetra, we do this. We will. Dear Neal and also play this. toy club. Which means support for you as well.