I knock on your door with a heartbeat knock. The beat of the heart of America. The beat of the heart of America. To mark the opening of the 1952 American Red Cross Fund Appeal, we present Answer the Call, a special program of drama and music starring Jessica Tandy, Hume Cronin, Dane Clark, and Charlton Heston, with music composed and directed by Meredith Wilson. And from the White House, Mr. E. Roland Harriman will present the President of the United States, who will speak to the nation. Answer the Call, and every star. Answer the Call, America. Across the land, from shore to shore, there's a hand knocking, knocking on our door. I come to your door with a heartbeat knock. The beat of the heart of America. Across the street, across the land, I leave the symbol of mercy on your door. And as the door is part of a house, so is a house part of a nation. Neighbors under one canopy of sky. In the old days of a man needed houses, his neighbors came, laid an axe to the trees, a plane to the planks, and a hammer to the nails. You are a farmer, the son of farmers. Proud as the hills high over the river, humble to the hand that turns the seasons, and strong as the old willow, with roots gripping the ground like a gnarled hand. Dear son, been snowing for days and days now, but I laid in plenty of food for the stock. We've got nothing to worry about. Your ma wants to know if it's snowing over there in Korea. She's looking out the window, and she says she can barely see the willow. How's that sound, Sarah? Tell him we miss him. But we're getting the chores done. Your ma and I are pretty busy these days. Things are just about the same as when he left. We feed the fire, take care of the stock, and watch the snow come down. Piling on the hills, filling the valleys, covering the fields. Flakes, falling, falling. A snowflake is a delicate, fragile thing. A thing of beauty, a masterpiece of craft. And for the billions fallen on the earth, each flake is a marvel of design. And in the sure cycle of the seasons, for each flake there is a drop of water. And the drops roll and blend and trickles. The trickles in streams, the streams in rivers. The rivers rise, burst over the land. And the design, the design of flood, is havoc. The river, the river, the river, the river, the river, the river, the river, the river. And in the first stroke of disaster, there is another design. The design of Red Cross. Neighbor to neighbor across the nation beats the great heart of America. Shelter for the stricken, the homeless. Hot food for the hungry. Medical aid for the sick, the injured. Shelter, rest. Sleep for the weary and forlorn. Sleep now. Try and get some sleep. We'll be all right, you'll see. House gone, barn gone. Water took everything. Forty years of toil, forty years. And all we got is the calluses on our hands. We still got the land. And I got my strength. You try and sleep now. I'll get started again. Somehow. In the old days of a man needed house, his neighbors came, laid an axe to the trees, a plane to the planks, and a hammer to the nails. But now, well, we'll work it out somehow. Just wait until the waters drain away. We got new neighbors. And the old days are gone. But the ways live on. The ways of a people who tamed the land shoulder to shoulder, neighbor to neighbor, the ways live on deep, deep in the heart of America. And that's how it is. Oh, many people. Folks from the towns and the farms. Why many people have been coming to the Red Cross chapter for help? You're not alone. Well, I'm not one for asking or taking things. Now, I'm not one for asking or taking things. Never had anything in my life I didn't work for. But now, two walls and the roof of my house gone, washed away. Most of the barn gone. Sure. I understand. Now, won't you sit down? I just gotta get some help. I need a hand just to get started again. Well, now, maybe we can help you rebuild your farm and your home. That's the big Red Cross job in every disaster. Rehabilitation. That's the big job. Say, had I seen you somewhere before, mister? Sure, no doubt you have. I teach in the high school here in town. Why, sure. Of course, you're the teacher. And Red Cross volunteer. You know, when the waters drain away, that's when our real job begins. Now, look. I just want you to fill out this application and then tell us what you need to get started again. Dear son, three months now since the flood washed us out, the Red Cross helped us. Started like the old days, people joining together in time of trouble. It made me proud. Proud to take a helping hand. The house is all fixed now and soon the barn. A grant, they called it. A gift from the people of America, neighbor to neighbor. Your ma is hanging curtains in the window and she can see the old willow green again. Still standing. Still gripping the ground deep. And your ma says... Tell my boy. Tell him we got neighbors. Good neighbors. Miles around and across the land. That's right. Good neighbors. The best there ever was. Enter the call. Enter the call. Enter the call. Enter the call. Your heart beats, America. Each beat sending a stream of life to the battlefields, to the hospitals, to the sick, the wounded. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Fire one. You are a Marine. Fighting in Korea. A fighting man who watches a patch of daylight from a foxhole. Who crawls in the wrinkles of the earth on hills called Heartbreak Ridge. What do you see, Jonesy? What do you see? Over. Dirt, all dirt, no oil. Come on, come on, Boyd. Tell us where to send it. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Over. Baseball five. Upper two D. Left. Fire one. Foul ball and strike one. Come on, come on, Jonesy. It costs money. Tell us where. Baseball five. Baseball five. 30 yards up. 20 yards right. Over. Baseball five. 30 yards up. 20 yards right. Fire. Hey, you broke up the ball game right into the bleachers. Okay, don't stop for any fouls. Come on home. I got a ball. Yeah, you got a bleach. You make holes in my eardrums. Hey. What's the matter, Tepperman? Say something. Hey, Jonesy. I got tagged. Sliding home. Holy smoke. Jonesy, you been hit? Hug the ground, kid. We're coming for you. Hug the ground. Corbin, stretcher. Plasma. Plasma on the battlefield. Vein to vein, heart to heart. What's the matter, Tepperman? Say something. Hey, Jonesy! I... I got tagged. Sliding home. Holy smoke. Jonesy, you been hit? Hunt the ground, kid. We're coming for you. Hunt the ground. Corbin, stretcher, plasma! Plasma on the battlefield. Vein to vein, heart to heart. Life comes across the sea, drop by drop. Life from you, America. Be glad, Bob. Keep it flowing. Whole blood at the medical station. Needle, release to clamp. And more whole blood in the hospital in Japan. Whole blood ready, doctor. Vein to vein, heart to heart, the lifeline flows. Thanks for the cigarettes and the shaving stuff, Red Cross. That's okay, Jonesy. Couple more days, I'll be able to hold my own cigarettes. Well, I never could do much in my left arm anyway. Maybe I won't miss it. Never did care for a southpaw. But I can't wait until they unwrap my right. That I need. You'll be using it soon, Jonesy. You're looking swell. Well, it must be the life. Trig. Six weeks here, flat on my back. Pampered. You know how many transfusions I got? How many? 28. 28 transfusions, they tell me. The average is nine. Nine, huh? Takes a baseball team to save a life, huh? Just about. Me, I'm special. I took a whole ball club and a couple of bumps thrown in. 28 people. Wow. 28 people. 28 people I never saw, never will see. Don't know. They saved my life. Well, that's why people give blood. That's why Red Cross collects blood. I hope you don't have to bruise your knuckles on anybody's door. The heart of America. It beats in hospital wards. The white fields of war without guns. Private James Carson, please come to office of Red Cross Field Director. Private James Carson, please come to office of Red Cross Field Director. Private James Carson, please come to office of Red Cross Field Director. You want to see me, Red Cross? I'm Carson. Yeah. Sit down, soldier. Thanks. Now, what's up? I've got some news for you, Carson. First, your baby's fine. Oh, that ain't news. I got a letter from my wife already. Kids are real busters. Seven pounds, eight ounces. I can hardly wait to see a picture of him, but my wife's afraid maybe the flash bubble will hurt the kid's eyes. You know women. Soldier, I just got a cable from Red Cross in your hometown. Yeah. They took your wife back to the hospital this morning. Back to the... What's up? Delayed postpartum hemorrhage. Hemorrhage, oh my God. They want you home, son. The doctor says you should be there. They operate tomorrow. And it must be here. I'm sorry. They operate tomorrow. And it must be... It must be bad. Here I am in Germany, 4,000 miles away. She... Maybe she's gonna die. You get to your CO for leave. I'll confirm the emergency. Hemorrhage. Why don't you pack your bag? I'll work on a plane hop for you. I gotta get home. Soldier. I gotta get home. Soldier. I gotta get home. Here's my wife. How's my wife? They're doing all they can. All they can. More blood? Yes. She needs more. More whole blood. You are a doctor. One whose eyes have seen the beginning of life and the finality of death. And now you are fighting to save a mother's life. You have allies. Transfusion. The skilled nurse. The watchful anesthetist. Blood pressure. 80 of a holding. And the magic. The magic of whole blood. These are your allies in the fight for life. Hemorrhage is the killer of mothers. Blood pressure. 80 over 40. Blood pressure. 70 over 40. Blood pressure. 60 over 30. Doctor. And then she died. She died there on the table. Pressure transfusion. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. There is more blood. More blood. Pressure transfusion. There was no breath. No pump. Nothing. No breath. Yes. No heartbeat. Life had stopped. For 70 seconds, life had stopped. And then, the miracle of blood. The miracle of one heart Giving the beat of life to another. One heart giving together. The beat of life. Heart to heart. From heart. Blood pressure, 60 over 30. 70 over 40. 80 over 40. She'll be all right. Doctor, my wife? She'll be all right. She'll be all right, son. Thank God. Thank you. The miracle of blood. Whole blood. You're getting your wife back because... Well, because of people who give of themselves, part of themselves, to give life to others. Those who give blood, if only they could have seen. If only they could have seen. Those people gave me back my wife. My kid's got a mother still. If only they could know what it means to me, those people who gave of themselves. The people. You were the blood in the veins of the sick and wounded. You were the hand that takes the stricken from the waters of flood. You were the cool and easeful palm in the corridors of pain. The people. You are the Red Cross. I will. I will. I will serene beas. The fit of information. You are the medical socially as well. I will exercise andalls. I can tell you how the variant of the Vietnam nuestras. A scattering命 of silver, you know. Conferential Cox, the same as possible. of the heart of America. Answer the call, America. Answer the call, America. Friends, it is my privilege to take you now to the White House. Mr. E. Roland Harriman, President of the American Red Cross, will present the President of the United States. People helping people. It's just as simple as that. That is the Red Cross. Each year during the month of March, the great heart of America beats a little more strongly. It's the time of the annual Red Cross Fund Appeal. During every year, day after day, throughout the nation, the people with skilled and willing hands that are the Red Cross answer the call of those they are trained and ready to succor. The servicemen in camp or hospital, at home or overseas, his loved ones left behind, those who have been hurt in the defense of our country, the victims of nature's fury across the street, across the nation. These are our neighbors whose call we heed. Today, our nation is building its strength to protect our peace and security with armor and might. So, too, must your Red Cross be strong with the spirit of voluntary service in the great partnership of people helping people. Answer the call of your Red Cross. Your membership is its strength. And now, the honorary chairman of the Red Cross will honor us by launching our 1952 Fund Appeal in the name of all those who serve and are served under the symbol of the American Red Cross. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. My fellow Americans, I want to tell you something about what the Red Cross has been doing this past year. The Red Cross is your organization. It is relieving human distress and suffering at home and throughout the world. In doing these things in your name, as you would want them to do them yourselves, if you could. First and foremost, in the last year, the Red Cross has been helping men and women of our armed services at home and overseas, and especially in Korea. It has provided the wounded with life-giving blood and aided the troubled and distressed to solve their problems. Through the Red Cross, you have been standing at the side of our servicemen and women, giving them comfort and hope wherever they may be. In this last year, the men and women of our country have given over a million pints of blood through the Red Cross. That blood has saved thousands of lives on the battlefield and in civilian life at home. That is something to be proud of. Every single one of you who gave some of that blood has helped to save a human life. I hope you'll do even better this present year because it has been proved time and again that blood transfusions will save human lives when nothing else can. The Red Cross has also been busy this past year in bringing relief to the victims of floods and disasters. Last summer, I flew over the devastated areas of Kansas and Missouri when the floodwaters were at their height. Homes, factories, even the fields themselves were destroyed. In that great flood, over 24,000 families in distress were given help by the Red Cross at a cost of nearly $14 million. Your contributions made this possible. Recently, I flew over the floods in the Ohio River Valley in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky. The flood damage was considerable, but thanks to our flood control system in that area, it was nothing like what it might have been. There along the Ohio, as in Kansas and Missouri, the Red Cross has been on the spot helping people. Red Cross workers helped to evacuate over 1,500 families as the waters rose and set up many Red Cross centers to care for the homeless and the hungry. The Red Cross was there as your representative, helping people in trouble, just as you would want to do if you had been there yourself. The heroic work of the Red Cross in time of disaster, its day-to-day service in saving lives, its constant help to men and women in our armed forces, these are the things that have made the Red Cross a living expression of our great tradition of neighbor helping neighbor in time of trouble. The Red Cross asks only for the resources to serve you and your neighbors. It's a great fellowship of men and women, and boys and girls in our land voluntarily bonded together to give friendly help to others in time of need. This is the cause of true brotherhood, and it deserves the participation and support of everyone. As the Red Cross volunteers begin the 1952 Fund Appeal, I urge you, my fellow citizens, to answer this complaint. to answer this compelling call of humanity. You have been listening to Answer the Call, a special program opening the 1952 Fund Appeal of the American Red Cross, and starring Jessica Tandy as your narrator, Hume Cronin as the farmer, Dane Clark as the Marine, and Charlton Heston as the soldier. Our original score was composed and conducted by Meredith Wilson, Answer the Call was produced by Bill Cohan, directed by Richard Depew, with script by Ken Greenberg. Others heard in tonight's cast were Ed Cullen, Joe Hardy, Natalie Core, Joe Draper, and John Seymour. This program was transcribed. This program was transcribed. The American Red Cross The American Red Cross Sometime during the month of March, you'll be asked to support your Red Cross. When you open your purse, you open your heart. With your support, your Red Cross is able to carry on for you. It is then you who lends a helping hand to the victims of disaster, to the veterans in hospitals, to the servicemen away from home. It is you who serve the Red Cross. The Red Cross is able to carry on for you. The Red Cross is able to carry on for you. The Red Cross is able to carry on for you. It is then you who lends a helping hand to the victims of disaster, to the veterans in hospitals, to the servicemen away from home. It is you who supplies blood to the wounded on the battlefield. It is you who open your heart when you open your purse. Think of all the things you'll be able to do for those who need your help. Think of them when you're asked to contribute to the 1952 Red Cross Fund appeal. And give generously. Answer the call. Give now. Your city station has brought you the Red Cross Drive opening ceremonies which were highlighted by President Truman's address.