Good morning fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens. We're in the historic chamber, council chamber rather, in City Hall and Mayor Vincent Impeletere is host to those who have through their courage and valuable assistance been of great assistance to the police department in emergencies in our city. The occasion is the presentation of honor scrolls to civilians and commendation bars and certificates of merit to public hack drivers. Now these men have rendered courageous and valuable service to the police department in emergencies and to the City of New York as well. There will be 91 individual awards in all. The first eight awards are to men who have already received numerous citations for courageous work in this same field of cooperation with the police department. And in just a few moments, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, who has just taken his place in there, at the desk there in the council chamber, is just going through the necessary preliminaries before the regular ceremony begins. There's a very long table here covered with the scrolls and on the occasion of the hack drivers, there's reproductions of their license and photographs attached to the citation which they will receive. The council chamber itself is crowded and the wives and sweethearts of these men are here and many beautiful bright-faced little children are taking their part in this program too to watch their daddy be acknowledged by the City of New York as a valuable citizen in his honesty of purpose in assisting the police department in the emergencies that arise constantly in our city. We're just waiting now until the chairman takes over and we'll bring you then the regular proceedings in the awarding of these honor scrolls and the commendation bars and certificates of merits to civilians and to public hack drivers, for those who may have tuned in late, who have assisted the police department in emergencies and rendered valuable and courageous service outside of course of the line of duty. The Mayor is very interested. A person now and then comes up and has a momentary conference with him. The police department themselves are here fully represented in the higher echelons of the police ranks and it's also interesting to see that some police officers are among those seated and who will receive scrolls or honorable mention in the proceeding here today in City Hall. The council chamber itself is going through a few repairs the same as the rest of this beautiful building and it's being remarkably taken care of. And now our chairman, Commissioner Murphy. I think we will have this gathering come to order by asking his honor, the mayor, to say a few words to us. Mr. Mayor. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere. Commissioner Murphy, Deputy Commissioner Mitchell, Deputy Chief Inspector Berkery, Merit Award winners, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great pleasure for me to participate this morning at this ceremony to cite and honor those who have rendered courageous and valuable assistance to the police department and to the city of New York during recent years. The work of our police department is a tremendous and a difficult task which could not be possible without the cooperation of an alert citizenry and, in this instance, the large body of public-spirited hack drivers who have established a record of fine service which merits recognition. Competent, courteous, and safety-conscious taxicab drivers are an essential part of the transportation setup of our great city. The manner in which visitors are treated is particularly important. And a taxi driver, as you all know, in many instances is the very first person with whom our visitors come in contact. New York City has the best taxicab drivers in the entire country. I should know that particularly after the campaign in November of 1940, 1950, what am I talking about? Now, careful investigation and supervision ensures that only competent and intelligent drivers shall be issued and retain licenses. New York City is proud, indeed, of its drivers and is justified in having a feel of pride in their occupation and in their cooperation. The citizens of the City of New York are thankful to taxi drivers for their efforts in all civic endeavors. Enlistment of cab drivers in our civil defense efforts have been most gratifying. And other groups might well emulate their magnificent work. Many instances of courageous and valuable assistance rendered by HAC drivers, some of which involve risk of injury, have already been recognized. In this connection, we are gathered here today to honor some of these drivers, as well as civilian members of our population, who have performed important acts of bravery and rendered invaluable assistance to the police department in the prevention and suppression of crime and in the apprehension of criminals. The people of the City of New York, your mayor and your police commissioner are deeply grateful to each and every one of you. It's now my pleasure to turn this meeting over to a gentleman that I had the pleasure of appointing police commissioner when I first assumed the job of mayor of the City of New York, who's done a magnificent job in the handling of the police department, which has met with commendation from civic groups, not only in our own city, but throughout the country. I know that he's a friend of the cab driver. I know that you will want to look upon him as a man that you can turn to in the event you have problems that should receive his consideration and attention. And in that vein, I turn this meeting over to our distinguished police commissioner, Tom Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply moved and happy to be a participant in this demonstration. This morning. I was born in New York. I have known cab drivers since I've been a kid. As a matter of fact, as I grew up and thought of the possibility that sometime I might have some money and be able to have a chauffeur, nothing would give me greater pride than to pick out a cab driver as my chauffeur. I've been around in a great many cities and in Europe, and there's no doubt about it, our cab drivers are not only better, but smarter than any other group in the country or the world. They have a New York savvy. They have a love for their job. And that love is expressed in the awards that are given out this morning because it means that over a period of years, these men, in complete cooperation with the police and in this regard of their personal safety, have come to our aid and assistance on many, many occasions. And I'm sure that that spirit is a spirit that's inborn in them and a spirit that will continue as long as we have New York City cab drivers. I want to take this opportunity, too, to commend those citizens who are here to receive scrolls for their aid and assistance to the police department. It means, too, that they are civic conscious, conscious the same way that all citizens should be, that they are part of the police department. They are part of the city government. And in time of danger, with complete disregard of their own safety, help and cooperate with the police in the apprehension of criminals, and in many cases, desperate criminals. Now, I think we might get on with the meeting because we have a great many awards to make. And I know that you will excuse the mayor who is very, very busy with his budget problem. So, with your permission, we will allow the mayor to go back to his other work, and I will give out the awards and citations. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You have just heard the police commissioner of the city of New York, the Honorable Thomas F. Murphy, make the honorary address to the civilians and hacked drivers here, who have rendered valuable service and courageous service to the police department in emergencies that arise from time to time in connection with police work in our city. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Pelletieri, as you know, is very busy now with the budget, and he, with the kind permission of all concerned, is leaving the council chamber, and Commissioner Murphy will take over and give out these 91 awards. It's very interesting to note that many men receiving awards today have already received previous ones of the first eight. Commissioner Murphy, Mr. Walter D. Clemens is being awarded. ...the premises where a pay snatcher had entered until the police arrived. He has received three prior citations. Mr. Clemens? Or Mrs. Clemen? Are you going to receive it on behalf of your husband? Mr. Clemens, Mr. Mayor. Mrs. Clemens is receiving the award, and the photographers are demanding a few pictures, and that'll take a few moments. There's 91 of these that's going to take a lot of time if they read all the citations. Commissioner Murphy is acting as host now in the mayor's place, but the mayor is remaining to take these essential photographs, because naturally the people will be very honored. Now Commissioner Murphy will go back to reading the next citation. Mrs. Clemens just accepted the reward for her husband. Mr. Clemens? Sidney Heimowitz. Sidney Heimowitz has just been called by Commissioner Murphy. Mr. Heimowitz. Would it be possible if it's too spread out this way, could the commissioner himself? Now those great imperial orders from the photographers are being issued to the mayor, and to the mayor. Mr. Commissioner Murphy, and the photographers have thought of a very good idea. They've asked the mayor and the commissioner to step down from the rostron, because the difference between the table here, the rostron, the commissioner and the mayor, and the one receiving the award, is the mayor. Mr. Heimowitz. Mr. Heimowitz. The mayor has been issued to the mayor. He's been issued to the mayor. He's been issued to the mayor. Mr. Heimowitz. Mr. Heimowitz. Mr. Heimowitz. The mayor has been issued to the mayor, and the commissioner to step down from the rostron, because the difference between the table here, the rostron, the commissioner, the mayor, and the one receiving the award, requires a lot of stretching and results we imagine in a very poor picture. So the ever alert cameraman is here to get his picture, and he always does. And nobody minds his peremptory orders because we know it's for the record, and it's a wonderful thing to have these pictures to recapture the essence of the event when time and history requires such a reference. The mayor is posing now with Mr. Heimowitz, and he's taking this time out to remain with those who are desirous of being photographed with him. These first eight men are all men who have received one or more previous citations for cooperation, and this is a repetition of their courageous and valuable service to the police department and the people of the city of New York. No city in the world loves to acknowledge accomplishment more than the city of New York, a city that has accomplished so much and been such an inspiration to all the world. Possibly every factor of human existence is demonstrated mechanically, technically, scientifically, and every other way in this great and wonder city. And anybody wishing a reference of any kind or an experience of any kind, they can surely find a record of it here in New York City. And these awards are one of the pleasant duties that is the lot of the mayor of the city of New York in his anxious routine daily. And now Commissioner Murphy will read the next citation in just a moment. Thank you. It's interesting to note that some young policemen are up here in the front, apparently about to receive awards, and the mayor tried to get away, but there's one more picture. It's to be taken with a young officer, young police officer, and Commissioner Murphy will read the citation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is interesting. The cab driver and the officer whom he assisted is being photographed with the mayor and the police commissioner, and the awards handed out to both. The room is full of bright-eyed, dear little youngsters who are no doubt the children of many of these men here, and their wives as well. And the photographers are having this complete tie-up picture now where the officer and the cab driver, the mayor and the police commissioner creates four facets of emergency in our city, and a coordination that really meets that emergency in a courageous and great way. And that is the purpose of these awards here today. There's a lot of comedy going on down there because those near enough are getting a lot of laughs out of what is happening. And Commissioner Murphy towers above all in more ways than one. These photographers have a lot of courage in some of the orders they issue. It's really funny. That's, I think, what strikes the audience funny. The mayor is leaving now, and Commissioner Murphy will continue with the program. The Honorable Vincent Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, is leaving. And another great Vincent, the President of France, Vincent Oriol, will be received here Tuesday, April 3rd. And that will be the next great function that will emanate from these sacred halls here, that has been serving the City of New York as its government seat since the year 1811. The building itself was started in 1803. All right. And now Commissioner Murphy. Morris Mainster. This gentleman rendered valuable assistance to patrolmen while apprehending several men who committed a felonious assault. Congratulations. Benjamin Mayle, who rendered valuable assistance that led to the capture of two armed men who had just committed assault and robbery. Congratulations. I have a privilege to say in just two words, please. Sure. I want to say I've been in a cab business for now and for 30 years. But in my estimation, I want to shake your hand with respect to work that I think is a man very, very valuable for the taxicab industry. I think the man knows everything about the cab business. That's very nice. Thank you very much. Thank you. Salvatore Mastreda. Salvatore J. Mastreda. This man rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a hit-and-run driver who was also wanted for another hit-and-run accident. He received a citation in 1949 also. Congratulations. Benedikt Pazenski. This gentleman rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of one of two criminals who had burglarized the store. He also was the recipient of a citation in 1949. 39. Congratulations. Giovanni Rivetti. This gentleman, by his intelligent and valuable assistance, caused the arrest of an armed stick-up man. Congratulations. This certainly places a great contrast. This award is to a very short man from a very tall one. Courageously effected the arrest of three hold-up men with previous police records. At the destination, one of the hold-up men stuck a loaded revolver in the driver's back and demanded his money, whereupon he ran from his cab and shouted for help. He also had a citation in 1946. Congratulations. Gatino Biscaglio. This man, by his intellect, courageously grappling and subduing his taxi passenger, who had demanded his money at the point of a toy gun, the defendant was arrested and indicted for robbery and for the possession of a dangerous weapon. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Joseph C. Kaporra, who courageously, with the assistance of another hack driver, subdued a man who had robbed a woman. The prisoner then attempted to stab a patrolman who had taken him into custody. A crowd attempted to inflict bodily harm upon the prisoner, but the hack drivers assisted the police in retaining the custody of the prisoner. The other driver was also commended. Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This man is naturally stooped and he can't straighten up and they're taking pictures at this time. That's the delay. Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy, your police commissioner, is reading the citation of these hack men who have assisted the police department in many emergency situations, rendering valuable and courageous service. And now Commissioner Murphy with the next citation. Edward E. Sims, this man courageously with the assistance of another hack driver, subdued a man who had robbed a woman. The prisoner then attempted to stab a patrolman who had taken him into custody. A crowd attempted to inflict bodily harm on the prisoner, but the hack driver assisted the police in retaining the custody of the prisoner. Other driver was also commended. Thank you very much. Hyman Altman, rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of two criminals who had burglarized a store. Congratulations. Albert Bartz, his prompt and efficient action resulted in the arrest of a hit-and-run driver who had just killed one man and injured another. Congratulations. Milton Beck. Mr. Beck was instrumental in causing the arrest of three criminals wanted for assault and robbery. Congratulations, Mr. Beck. David Berman. Mr. Berman, after he was held up and robbed by a man armed with a knife, pursued and captured the bandit with the assistance of two other hack drivers and turned them over to a detective. The other drivers were also commended. Congratulations. Benjamin Bregman, rendered valuable assistance while under duress by two armed bandits, directed by three detectives with drawn guns to stop his cab, did so at the risk of his life. He then summoned additional police, and after a fierce struggle, the armed bandits were apprehended. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Paul Bryan. Mr. Bryan was instrumental in the apprehension of an arsonist who confessed his crime. Congratulations. Samuel Bialik, rendered valuable assistance to the police in the apprehension of three armed bandits who were attempting a holdup. Congratulations. Joseph Cohen, jumped out of his taxi cab and captured a man who was being pursued by a foot patrolman. This man was wanted for grand larceny. Congratulations. Congratulations. James Constantine. Mr. Constantine chased, captured, and turned over to the police a hit-and-run driver. Congratulations. Congratulations. Larry R. Larry R. Larry R. Leroy Crane. Larry R. Leroy Crane. Leroy Crane. He was instrumental in causing the arrest of a man wounded by the police for a fleecing serviceman. Congratulations. Tony De Inocentes. His alertness, initiative, and cooperation resulted in the apprehension of a hit-and-run driver. Congratulations. Lawrence De Moller. Mr. De Moller was instrumental in causing the arrest of five defendants accused of painting and defacing public monuments. Congratulations. James A. De Moller. James A. De Moller. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension and prevention of escape of an armed bandit. Congratulations. Mack Feldman. Rendered valuable assistance to the police in the apprehension of three armed bandits who were attempting a holdout. Congratulations. Gilbert Fernandez. Affected the arrest with the aid of a patrolman of a hit-and-run driver who faintly injured an aged man. Congratulations. Ralph Florio. Assisted by two other hacked drivers, pursued and captured an armed bandit and turned him over to a detective. The other drivers were also commended. Congratulations. Morris Francis. He pursued and captured a man who had just burglarized a convent and turned him over to the police. Congratulations. Elmer Fuller. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a woman who had kidnapped a child from a hospital incubator. God, what a guy. Steven Galligan. Mr. Galligan. The Galligan effected the arrest with the aid of a patrolman of several men who had committed assault and robbery. Congratulations. Raven Geller. His valuable aid resulted in the apprehension of an armed bandit who had robbed him. Congratulations. The next one is absent. The next man is absent. And the next man in turn is Max Hollander. Mr. Hollander. Mr. Hollander rendered valuable assistance to the police in the apprehension of three armed bandits who were attempting a holdup. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. Amram Horowitz. Amram Horowitz. Engaged an armed holdup man in an altercation and was beaten about the head with a gun button. But his delaying action resulted in the arrest of a robber, the robber, by the police. Very courageous. Edward Yarn. His intelligent and valuable assistance resulted in the arrest of a man who had just stabbed another man to death. Very good. Frank Jones. Mr. Jones, observing that two male passengers in his cab were armed, he intelligently delayed them, and this resulted in their capture by the police. Jones. Congratulations. Emmanuel Kramer. Suspicious of his rioters' actions, pulled his cab to the curb and notified the patrolman of the same. Upon investigation, the defendant was found to have been engaged in a homicide. Very good. George Kurtz. Assisted by two other hack drivers, pursued and captured an armed bandit and turned him over to a detective. The other drivers were also commended. Congratulations. William Lamont. William Lamont. Bill Lamont. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a culprit who had attempted to hold up a grocery store. Congratulations. Melvin Lawrence. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of an armed bandit who had been a passenger in his cab. The bandit had a previous criminal record in New York and in other states for various crimes. Congratulations. I expect to be a patrolman. Oh, really? Yes. That's wonderful. Which one am I asking? Samuel Liner. Samuel Liner. Rendered valuable assistance to a patrolman having difficulty with a prisoner. Again assisted while en route to the station house when prisoner again attempted to escape. Prisoner finally submitted after being shot in the shoulder by the police officer. Congratulations. Morris L. Levine. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a defendant charged with transmitting a false fire alarm. Congratulations. Julius Levin. Rendered valuable assistance to a patrolman that aided in effecting the arrest of a man for felonious assault. Congratulations. Albert Liner. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a criminal one for burglary. Congratulations. Edward N. Maller. Mr. Maller. Rendered valuable assistance resulting in the apprehension of two bandits with two others that assaulted and robbed a citizen. Congratulations. Ernest A. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of two men charged with snatching pocketbooks from women. Congratulations. James F. Maller. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of two men charged with snatching pocketbooks from women. Congratulations. James F. Rendered. Rendered. Rendered. Rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of two men charged with snatching pocketbooks from women. Congratulations. James F. Rendered. Rendered executive engine through his coolness and because of his intelligent action and quick thinking, he made possible the apprehension of a dangerous armed criminal by a police officer. Congratulations, James F. This is the mother of Mr. David Mechanic, who is now serving our country in Korea. Her son rendered valuable assistance that resulted in the arrest of two men for burglary. Congratulations. Congratulations. Maitland H. Mercer. Mr. Mercer was instrumental in causing the arrest of two men charged with felonious assault. Congratulations. The next man is absent. The next man is absent. The next, Andrew Abuchowski. He pursued, captured, and turned over to the police a man who had stolen property from a parked automobile. Congratulations. Did I pronounce it right? That's right. Thank you. Isidore Ortman rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of an armed bandit in a stolen vehicle. The bandit committed suicide as the police sneered. He had a long police record. Very good. John Panuzzo, upon becoming suspicious of two passengers, notified detectives of their action. When defendants were apprehended and interrogated, they found defendants had participated in nine additional assaults and robberies over a period of time. Congratulations. Ralph S. Perner. Perner came to the aid of a man being assaulted by five men. Then, realizing his act futile, drove to the nearest precinct to obtain assistance. Five muggers were apprehended and indicted for robbery. Very good. Louis Rabinowitz. After being robbed by three hold-up men, obtained assistance of detectives and cruised the locality until the hold-up men were apprehended. Congratulations. Louis Risen. Louis Risen. Louis Risen. Mr. Risen was instrumental in causing the arrest of an armed bandit. Directed to hand over his money, he stepped on the brake and swerved the cab, throwing the bandit off balance. Aided by a patrolman in subduing the prisoner. Congratulations. Maya Rosenweig. His valuable assistance resulted in the arrest of a man for assault and robbery. Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Harry Zasov. Rescued and gave first aid to three persons overcome by gas fumes until the police and ambulance arrived. Congratulations. David Schlossberg. His intelligent assistance resulted in the arrest of a man who had reloaded a .38 caliber revolver in his possession. Real courage. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mark Schneidman. Mack Schneidman. His valuable assistance resulted in the apprehension of a bandit who robbed him. This arrest led to the apprehension of another bandit who confessed to six taxicab holders. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Frank G. Shannon. Ranted valuable assistance in the apprehension of a criminal wanted for burglary. Congratulations. Thank you. Ernest E. Smith. Ranted valuable assistance in the apprehension of an armed bandit who had robbed him. Congratulations. Oh, really? Nice to see you. One of my neighbors. Joseph Stein. Ranted valuable assistance in the apprehension of four youths wanted for robbery. As a result of this arrest, five other men were arrested. The nine men confessed to 35 crimes of assault and robbery in the boroughs of Bronx and Manhattan. Congratulations. That's very nice. Mr. Stein says that the workers are not being arrested. Congratulations. Mr. Stein says that the work of the policeman in that case exhibited to him the greatest exhibition of police work he had ever seen. It's his pleasure. And save the two of us. Thank you very much. U.A. Young rendered valuable assistance in the completion of a homicide charge preferred by the Nassau Police against a Nassau County resident. Congratulations, the honor. Thank you. John F. Weaver. Ranted valuable assistance in the apprehension of two store burglars. Weaver. Congratulations. Arthur L. Willis. His valuable assistance resulted in the apprehension of three men who were committing a robbery. Congratulations. The next group of awards are the honor scroll for civilians. Now, these people, by and large, do not come into the everyday turmoil that the taxi driver does. By and large, they are men and women who are on their daily business or housework and are suddenly confronted with the commission of a crime. And they are prompted, as I said before, by a real love of civic duty which burns in the heart of some of us and should burn in all of our hearts. And we are deeply proud that we are able now to publicly award these scrolls of valor to these civilians. The first man is Conrad Eckert of the Transit Police. He assisted in the apprehension of a dangerous criminal. Congratulations. Congratulations. George Glazer. Rendered valuable assistance in effecting the apprehension of two criminals fleeing in a stolen car. Congratulations, Glazer. Mr. Ford is absent. The next gentleman is John A. Culp. Assisted in the apprehension of three men who were assaulted and robbed another. Culp. A pleasure. Joseph Greco. He was instrumental in effecting the apprehension of a man who had fatally stabbed another. Congratulations. That's done it already. The next man, Koch, was the officer that we gave the award before. Daniel A. Cox. Rendered valuable assistance in effecting the apprehension of three men who had assaulted and robbed another. Congratulations. That's not enough. Mr. Culp is absent. The next man is Samuel Perlmutter. Shot and wounded a bandit who had attempted to commit a robbery. The bandit was apprehended by a patrolman. Very brave. George Weigand. He rendered valuable assistance in overpowering a prisoner who had become violent and attempted to escape from a patrolman. Congratulations. Thank you. Edward P. Samodalski. Edwin Crotina. He rendered valuable assistance in overpowering a prisoner who had become violent and attempted to escape from a patrol wagon. Congratulations. Edward P. Samodalski. Edwin Crotina. Rendered valuable assistance in overpowering a prisoner who had become violent and attempted to escape from a patrol wagon. Congratulations. Edward P. Samodalski. Sheldon Goldstein. He was instrumental in effecting the apprehension of a man who had fatally shot a woman. Goldstein. Congratulations. Edward P. Samodalski. Manny Silverman. He was instrumental in effecting the apprehension of a man who had fatally shot a woman. Goldstein. Congratulations. Manny Silverman. Pursued and captured a man who had snatched a pocketbook from a woman. Wonderful, Manny. Edward C. Connolly. Edward C. Connolly. Pursued and apprehended a man who with another had assaulted a man while committing a robbery. Congratulations, Manny. Joseph Martino. Instrumental in effecting the apprehension of two bandits who had committed a robbery. Martino, congratulations. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. On this date, December 23, 1949, and on subsequent occasions rendered valuable assistance in effecting the apprehension of two men involved in a payroll robbery. Congratulations, Walter. James Lake. A New York State Trooper. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. 132-month- digamos- banner. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. Walter McLaughlin. lady walt dieselawa-ingeronить darlosimiento. Walter McLaughlin!!! Walter M Sacramento. the driver under the tailgate of the truck. Very brave. Dominic Albano, rendered valuable assistance in extricating a man, same one, extricating a man from beneath a four and a half ton coal truck which had tilted backwards while unloading and had pinned the driver under the tailgate of the truck. You were with the other man. Congratulations. Irving Adler, pursued and apprehended the man who had attempted to commit a robbery. Patsy Mealy, assisted in the apprehension of a man who with another had committed a robbery. Patrick Gay McMahon was instrumental in affecting the apprehension of two bandits who had shot and killed a patrolman while fleeing from the scene of an assault and robbery. McMahon. Nice to see you again. This is Mr. McMahon's son, Patrick W. McMahon, who was instrumental in affecting the apprehension of two bandits who had shot and killed a patrolman while fleeing from the scene of an assault and robbery. Nice to see you again. Alfred Green Lanus, who was instrumental in affecting the apprehension of a man who with another had committed an armed robbery and exchanged shots with a patrolman. Congratulations. Thank you. Which one? This gentleman? This man? They want another picture, Mr. Lanus. Another picture. Oh. Getting in the press. All right. All right. Henry P. Nieba rendered valuable assistance in the apprehension of a man armed with a loaded gun who had fatally shot the proprietor of a jewelry store while attempting to commit an armed robbery. Out of code. Elliot B. Racer was instrumental in affecting the apprehension of three men who had committed an armed robbery. He's a member of our police department. Very nice. Thomas J. Kennelly rendered valuable assistance in affecting the apprehension of a man who with two others had assaulted the proprietor of a store while committing an armed robbery. Congratulations. Patience Jones. Mr. Jones observed the man assault another with a revolver. He quickly overpowered, disowned, and apprehended the thug. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hinn. And now there's a few moments for taking pictures. Commissioner Murphy has been most efficient in rushing through these 91 citations and getting through the schedule as quickly as he did. There's a little conference now with the commissioner, and we'll see what he has to say about what they're planning up there. We're quite a little distance from the commissioner. We're across the room in the council chamber, but you can't hide Commissioner Murphy. He's head and shoulders over everybody in every way. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. And again, my good wishes to you all. The Honorable Vincent Impelletari, Mayor of the City of New York, was host today to the civilians and hack drivers who have rendered valuable and courageous assistance to the police department outside of line of duty and, of course, just merely rendering this assistance out of their pride in being good citizens and their concern for law and order and realizing the difficult task of the policemen in preserving law and order and the protection of life and property in our great and wonder city. And in many instances here today, the officers who are assisted pose with the men who help them in the pictures that were taken by the photographers here. It was a very interesting site indeed to see this gathering here in the council chamber in City Hall, where the legislation of the city takes place in the instituting of the laws and the ordinances of our city. And then these people here today meet the factors that create the requirements for those laws and ordinances of our city. And it's a very happy situation indeed for the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletari, to know that there are many fine, loyal citizens in our city who respect and love the city for the great and wonder city that it is. And in this occasion today, 91 people received awards at the hands of the Mayor and Police Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy and the rank and line officers of the police department. Eight of these men had already received one or more awards for previous valuable services in this same cooperation with the police department and the enforcement of law and order. And it was very interesting indeed to watch the very, very fine work of the police department in organizing this ceremony here today and their extreme gratitude for the cooperation that was rendered them by the civilians and the licensed hack drivers of our city. We're just waiting now to see if there's a final word by Commissioner Murphy, but I guess not. They're taking some pictures now and the Commissioner Murphy has designated some people to pose in this picture with him in the line offices of the police department. And so that is about all we can give you here from the council chamber and City Hall today where this ceremony took place, awarding the certificates of merit and awards to these valuable citizens of our city, the civilians and hack drivers who helped the police department in an emergency that arose and as emergencies do arise in this great and wonder city, New York. The lawbreaker is still a little bit foolish. He either doesn't read the newspapers or he doesn't listen, but he ought to realize that the police department is organized to meet any situation that may prevail in the matter of breaking the laws of our city. And even if every element of that disappeared from the ranks, emergency would not. And the element of life and death remains with this great army of blue, your police department and your fire department in preserving the life and property of the people of the city of New York. That is all from the council chamber in City Hall. Be sure and join us Tuesday when the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletari receives another great Vincent, Vincent Oriole, President of the Republic of France, when the city of New York will have the first opportunity of its kind to recognize and extend to the head of the French government the honors and the civilities of this great and wonder city, New York. And as we sit here and look across the council chamber at the portrait of Lafayette, portrayed by a great technical man in communications, Mr. Charles W. Morse, why it's easy to realize that this is the best portrait of Lafayette ever painted, according to Lafayette's own opinion of it, and it is valued at $350,000 hanging on the wall here of the council chamber. That indeed will be a very welcome sight to President Oriole of France, when he is received by the Honorable Vincent Impelletari, Mayor of the city of New York and the distinguished committee, whom the mayor is forming at this time to pay honors to the head of the French Republic. We return you now to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.