We ask your kind permission to recess the program in progress in order that we may bring you, from the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall, the Mayor's reception to the young people who have come here from the different nations of the earth to take part in the Assembly of Youth. Mr. Whelan is just making the introduction. Mr. Whelan. The American Youth Assembly has come to America from 63 countries outside the Iron Curtain. They're on their way to Cornell University for a course there, and they represent not only students, but also in our colleges and high schools throughout the world, but also agricultural schools as well. It's a great pleasure for me, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, ladies and gentlemen, you'll note that we opened this ceremony with the playing of the National Anthem of the United States of America. Ordinarily, we play the national anthems of all the other countries who are represented on occasions such as this, but generally speaking, that only calls for one or two. Now, we would have followed that precedent today, except that, according to my figures, there's 60 other nations represented, so you can see that it would practically be impossible for us to play all 68. So, I think we'll have to settle for the one that was already paid. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In the name of the government and the people of the City of New York, I welcome and warmly welcome you delegates to the first triennial meeting of the World Assembly of Youth. You, who represent free nations and free traditions, will find many, many friends here in this city whose people came from every part of the earth. You will be with us until your assembly starts on August 5th. While you were here, I ask that you look around our city, talk to our people, visit our museums, our theaters, listen to our music, enjoy our parks and our beaches. And you will be free to do this without anybody tagging at your heels to find out what you are doing, what you are saying, what people are saying to you. You'll be able to do that just as freely here as you do in your own country. And that's important. You will find that New Yorkers are very friendly people. You will find also that they understand the many reasons why you are here. You will find that they welcome the young people of 68 free nations who seek to unite the efforts and feelings of young people everywhere. They welcome, as I do, your understanding that your generation will one day rule the earth. They welcome, as I do, your willingness to prepare for that time before it is too late. They pray, as I do, that your time of preparation will be in a time of peace. You are about to hold your sessions in one of America's great free universities. Cornell was founded by a man who believed that every man and every woman had the right to education. He said that he would find an institution where any person could find instruction in any study. His was a radical idea for that time. Education for women was not at all popular. People of all faiths and all races were not welcome at many of our universities. But Cornell has grown ever stronger over the years because of the great faith of her founder and the great minds of the educators who have taught the wisdom of the world to generations of American youth. In the atmosphere of such a place, your assembly must and will succeed. May God bless your deliberations and lead you on the way toward a program that will save the future of the world for all of us. Thank you very much. Mr. Arnauf Pins, Chairman of the Young Adult Council of the National Social Welfare Assembly. Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the Young Adult Council and the hundreds of Americans who are hosts to the World Assembly of Youth, let me express our thanks to you and to the citizens of New York for the splendid hospitality they have shown to our delegates. The delegates have come, many of them, for thousands of miles for this important meeting. I think that they will take back with them a picture of this city, its friendliness, its warmth, and a remembrance of the warm and hospitality that was shown to them during their short. But I think interesting stay in this city. Here in this capital of the world, they have seen, one can say, almost a piece of their own country. Almost every one of the 63 countries from which the delegates came have representatives in this city, and they too have shown them their welcome. We are very proud that the city of New York was chosen as the place to which the delegates should first come. And we are very confident that the first impression they received of America when arriving in this city will live on with them and will be a good start to a very pleasant stay in this country. We are very grateful to you, Mr. Mayor, to have taken the time from your busy schedule to personally welcome our delegates and to express to them the welcome of the whole city. Mr. Mayor Paul Maserot, Secretary General of the World Assembly of Youth. On behalf of the World Assembly of Youth, and in particular of those old delegates who have come to the United States for the first mission of the United States, the first meeting of our General Assembly, I would like to thank you, Your Honor, for the wonderful reception we have all received in your city. We have always heard so much about American hospitality. Now, we have the opportunity to experience it ourselves. And we have already discovered in the few days we have been here that the reports were not at all exaggerated. We are in the few days we are in the first meeting. Representing millions of young people of our countries, we feel how important are our responsibilities. We hope that this meeting will promote a better understanding among the young people of United States and other continents. It will be not difficult, I am sure, to do this, since all of us are linked by a common love of democracy, the same struggle for implementation of human rights, a common desire to build together a better world. The reception we have received in New York City, your cooperation, the marvelous hospitality of New Yorkers have warmed our hearts. For all this, I want to thank you very sincerely, Your Honor, and through you, all the citizens of the tallest city in the world. Thank you. That's the newest and latest description of New York, the tallest city in the world, selection by the Police Glee Club. The heads are up and the chests are out, the arms are swinging, cadence count. Sound off, one, two. Sound off, three, four. Cadence count, one, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. I had a good home when I left, you're right. You had a good home when you left, you're right. Jody was there when you left, you're right. Jody was there when you left, you're right. Sound off, one, two. Sound off, three, four. Cadence count, one, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. Left my gal away at west and thought that army life was best. Now she's someone else's wife and I'll be watching the rest of my life. Sound off, one, two. Sound off, three, four. Cadence count, one, two, three, four. Eeny, meeny, miny, moe. Let's go back and count some more. Sound off, one, two. Sound off, three, four. Cadence count, one, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. If I get snagged in the combat zone, give me a back to take me home. The captain rides in a T. The sergeant rides in a truck. The general rides in a limousine, but we're just out of luck. Sound off, one, two. Sound off, three, four. Cadence count, one, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. Sound off. Will you please go as quickly as possible to the steps of the City Hall because of the pressing engagements of the mayor and the meeting of the Executive Committee, which he left of the Board of Estimate, in order to be here with you at this moment? Will you please go rapidly downstairs for the newsreels and stand on the steps? The mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Pelletieri, was receptionist to the World Assembly of Youth here in City Hall today of the young delegates from 63 nations outside the Iron Curtain who are on their way to Cornell University for their first assembly. This is a very interesting contact because the teenager has now come into his own in the world scene, nationally and internationally. And speaking of teenagers, your City Station considers the teenager three evenings a week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evening when at 5.30 Lucille Small has a program that discusses matters that concern the youngster and gives him vision to look forward to his future citizenship and responsibility in the life of his wonder city, New York. Your City Station will keep you informed of the progress of this delegation to Cornell University of the World Assembly of Youth. That is all from City Hall. We return you now to the studios and join the program now in progress. Thank you.