Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, are public officials adequately paid? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around these questions. Can public officials live on their salaries? Should they reduce expenses, accept gifts, or ask for more pay? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Francis A. Allen, Associate Professor of Law, Northwestern University, Herbert Emmerich, Director of the Public Administration Clearinghouse in Chicago, and Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, let's come directly to our question. Are public officials adequately paid? How do you answer that, Emmerich? Well, you have to make a distinction between what public officials you're talking about. By and large, the men occupying great responsibility have not been adequately paid, in my view. But you have to distinguish between people like the President of the United States, the Cabinet officers, the members of the House and the Senate in Washington, elected officials in the states, in the state legislatures, in the state offices, and the large rank and file of civil service appointees. By and large, although we lag a bit in regard to rapidly rising prices, the rank and file have increasingly been well paid. There are, of course, some exceptions to this. But the people occupying high positions of great responsibility in a complicated government, members of Congress, governors, elected officials, we have tended to underpay. Well, how about the members of Congress and other elected officials of about that order? Should we concern ourselves with them primarily, Young? As for state legislatures, I should say that the salaries of the legislators are perhaps inadequate, that the states do not provide sufficient facilities, offices, and staff. As for congressmen, I should say that they are quite well paid, that they receive enough to have a fairly high standard of living personally, although it may not be as high as the congressmen's wives would like, and they receive enough in prerequisites of office to give them a leg up for the coming election. How do you see this, Alan? Well, while certainly I don't believe that all of the problems involving the efficiency or the integrity of government can be solved by simply raising the salaries of public officials, I do believe that we probably do not pay our public officials enough, both at the state and at the federal levels, and that the problem here is more than that of subsidizing an extravagant social life on the part of the congressman's wife, that this is a genuine and critical problem during a period of inflated prices and during a period of high taxes. In answer to your question, I would say that the discussion might very well be principally on the question of elected officials, members of congress and the like. Those are the jobs which have been very much in the public eye of late, and those are the jobs in policy-determining positions. I think it's wrong to suggest that public officials should or do live in great luxury. They do not. The problem is rather how to lift them from a certain anxiety and worry and from pressures to take on outside commitments, which they really shouldn't do in the light of their public responsibilities. The members of congress, in a way, have been going down in compensation, not going up. And I don't believe that we want a standard of luxury and lavish living or the accumulation of a fortune in public office, but we do want a state of compensation which will permit them to concentrate on their public jobs without pressure for seeking other sources of income. There's a great deal in what you say, Emery. I would tend to agree. On the other hand, we must not feel that by giving the congressman more money that we can relieve him of anxiety. You do have a particular position of an elected public official, which you do not have, in the appointed official. That is that he is responsible to several bosses. He is responsible in part to the government. The government pays him his salary, but he is also responsible to his constituency, to the party which put him in power, and to an extent they pay some of his expenses. So the real question, I think, is not whether they receive enough salary, but how much salary, how much compensation is to come from these various sources, what the rule should be, whether indeed we should attempt perhaps to limit some of these expenditures and control the sources and the object rather than increase a congressman's salary. Nevertheless, Young, I think it may be relevant to look and see what has happened to congressional salaries during this period of inflation and high taxes. A recent issue of the National Magazine has an interesting study of just that matter, and while I would not personally vouch for the accuracy of these statements, they must be substantially correct. It is shown, for example, that in the 13-year period between 1939 and 1952, although there has been an increase in the dollar amount of the salary of the member of Congress, when you take into account the reductions of living standard brought about by high prices and high taxes, that actually that dollar amount represents a decrease of about one-third in the living standard supplied by the salary in 1952 as compared to the salary in 1939. I think it may also be well to point out that there are certain extraordinary expenses that a member of Congress must face, such as the problem of maintaining two homes, traveling expenses, and the like. Although all of that is true, we can also say that the cost of campaigning has been increased during that period, but raising the congressman's salary doesn't answer that at all. I think the real issue here is the extent to which the government is responsible, say, for a congressman's salary in campaigning, the extent to which it should subsidize his office or his office expenses so that he can add to his personal popularity, and the extent to which the government is responsible for his continuing a relatively high, but not inordinately high, living standard. In other words, the issue is a false issue if we say that the congressman should have the standard of living of a Washington hostess or an ambassador or a lobbyist for a great corporation. He does not have to compete with men with salaries of that nature. Now, you agree with that? I certainly do, but let me say that they don't, and I have frequently eaten the dinner which has been cooked and served by the congressman's wife in a very simple home. I don't believe that most of them, unless they're men of great private means, want to or do live in that standard. There was a survey made back in February by the New York Times, and most congressmen answered the questionnaire and indicated almost a universal worry over personal financial problems and a feeling that that reduced their efficiency. Many congressmen are forced to resort to lectures and other means of earning extra money on the outside, and constant pressures and temptations are put in their way by virtue of the fact that they're living temporarily while they're in the public service on deficit or having to borrow money. The present compensation of a congressman is $12,500 per annum, be he a representative or a senator. He has a non-accountable expense fund in addition to that, which is not subject to income tax, of $2,500 or a total compensation of $15,000 per year. He also has travel allowances for one round trip, per session to his home, and he has stationary allowances and office hire for his office expenses. You think that isn't enough? I think it's grossly inadequate for the job he's supposed to do. How would that kind of salary compare with the sort of salary comparable men would make in private industry, would you think, Emmerich? Well, I think it would be very much less, and I think it's costing the country money to pay its congressmen so little. One thing we ought to look at is not only the analysis that Young suggests of the political part of his job, but the analysis of his legislative and representational functions. The modern congressmen, unlike those conceived by the founding fathers, are having to make a full-time job out of this. They're spending a very large percentage of their time in Washington. They're detached from their private law practices of businesses, which wasn't true in ages past. The complexity of government puts an enormous burden on their committee service, on their appearances on the floor, on their correspondence with constituents of a legitimate nature. And the modern congressman is more than a full-time man. In fact, many of them, especially the chairman of standing committees, are very hard-worked people. I would agree with much of what you say, Emmerich, but I think that you have made the wrong emphasis. We are interested, surely, in good legislators. We are interested in having them have adequate salaries. We should also say that the cost of being a congressman has vastly, vastly increased. Now, what is the function of the government in regard to that? Everyone would agree, I think, that these congressmen should have a reasonable standard of living. Perhaps the salary is not now adequate. I am not sure. But I think that we should look at these two other areas. One is office expenses and clerical help. And the third is the cost of campaigning. Now, the very fact that a congressman or a representative is in office for only two years adds to this anxiety. He is always running for office, and no amount of money that the federal government can give is going to relieve this anxiety to any considerable extent. If we want congressmen to be less anxious, to be more secure, I think the solution lies in other directions. But so long as we have the present system, we can say that the amount of money that the federal government gives for a congressman's clerical assistance, for his office help, telephone communications, travel, is quite adequate, I should say. And all of this, of course, does assist a congressman in keeping an office. And to that extent, it should be in part considered as a federal contribution toward a congressman running for office and staying in office. And to that extent, it gives the man in office a considerable advantage over the man who is not in office. But by and large, I take it, you think his salary should not cover the costs of political activity? I think that we ought to attempt to divide, if we can, these three sources and three kinds of expenditures. That is, the kind that the man himself is responsible for, the kind the government is responsible for, and the kind the smaller public, that is the party or whoever contributes is responsible for, that they should be known, that to some extent they should be limited, the objects control and define, and the people who give the money, for the most part, known, their names published. Well, there is one function that is included in your list, Young, which seems to me a very important function of a representative of a state or of a district, and that is keeping in touch with his home community. A congressman who has to be so often in Washington, so long a period in Washington, may lose contact with sentiment at home. It seems to me a proper charge on the public budget that he be permitted frequently to visit his home community and that he have plenty of facility to communicate with his home constituents, not only those of his own party, but the entire population of his home community. This is one of the great parts of a congressman's budget now, because the present allowances are completely inadequate, and he has to finance them in other ways. Well, I should agree with that by saying that I would not only have no objection to a congressman spending some time in his home district, but if it is necessary to subsidize additional travel, I should support that. We do not want, in other words, a congressman to feel that he must have a high standard of living in Washington, that Washington is his permanent home, that he must be re-elected and must continue to live there. I should be all in favor of more and more frequent contacts with his constituents. That, indeed, was the theme of the Reorganization Act of 1946, and it was presumed then that the congressional sessions would last no more than seven or eight months, giving ample, or at least more, opportunity for a congressman to spend in his home district. I'd be in favor of that. Well, who's going to pay for that, though, Young? So far as travel is concerned, if he needs to make an extra trip or two, I think the federal government might well pay for that. But we are not talking so much about travel. That is not the major item. We are talking in part of the extra, say, advantage a congressman will have from having a very large clerical staff, from having the franking privilege, having the privilege of republishing parts of the congressional record at cost. In other words, the great advantage that a congressman has in office at the present time, merely adding to the congressman's salary to his office expenses, will not do away with the anxiety that Mr. Emmerich has mentioned, and it will give him an advantage of his opponent, and it will make him feel that he must somehow stay in Washington. Alan wants a word here. Well, I take it that we are suggesting that there are certain aspects of the problem of being a congressman which can better be handled by means other than increasing his salary. Now, I would like to have a little more specific discussion of what those ways and means may be. I take it that there is a problem here of, to a degree, revealing the sources of income for political purposes. Perhaps some suggestion that expenditures for merely political purposes should be limited. Now, we have not conspicuously succeeded in our efforts to control expenditures for political campaigns, and I would like to hear Young and Emmerich suggest some of the specific means that might be taken to solve this problem. Well, is it, let me phrase the question just a bit differently first. Is it proper, in your judgment, for a congressman to accept funds from outside sources, from a group of businessmen in his community, or from any source whatsoever, in order to cover some of these activities which you think are not properly covered by his salary? It depends on who gives it and the purpose for which the money is given. You have an individual who is essentially a civilian, who is a public official for a short or a long time, and then will return as a civilian. You cannot cut off all contacts between the man and his background. He is the representative, and as such, he is supported in part by these private groups. What we want to do is to try to draw a line, if possible, or a principle, by which the man can, the congressman, if you will, can receive funds from private individuals for political support, perhaps for his own personal support. What is the rule? Well, I think the rule should be that the funds that are given should have no direct relationship with what the congressman does, that, if necessary, there be a degree of anonymity regarding the source of the funds, so that the congressman is not obligated. In other words, you do not want a congressman in power who feels that he owes his support to a particular group and who will influence his decision. I would agree with that, but it seems to me that if the congressman gets funds other than for the purpose of conducting his political campaign in an election year and gets them between times, one of the important matters from a public standpoint is full disclosure. Matters in public life require disclosure, and this is indeed a public matter. I would question greatly, though, the feasibility of this scheme because I don't think most congressmen and senators will have access to such public funds, nor will they find it possible, outside of the interest of a political year when elections are up, to raise any substantial amounts of money. Indeed, many congressmen and senators have testified that even in political years it is very difficult to raise the necessary funds for their re-election, and that very frequently their families have to make great sacrifices to contribute to these funds. Now, apart from the difficulty of raising these funds, you have no objection to them if they're fully reported, I take it. If there's full disclosure of the purposes of them and the sources of them, I would say that I see no insuperable objection. Do you... Should this disclosure include an accounting of personal income? Of the congressman or senator himself? Yes. Of the public official? Well, there we get on a very difficult problem, and many people have made that suggestion in recent years. It seems to me that we are engaged in a tremendous invasion of what was considered the privacy of the American citizen. I see no reason why the man running for public office shouldn't have the same protection about the privacy of his strictly private affairs unless he is accused of wrongdoing, in which case he may have to make a disclosure of income that may be deemed to be improper. But as a general rule, it seems to me the rule of privacy should prevail, that the congressman or senator should regard his personal income and his personal estate as something between his conscience and the Internal Revenue Commission. Do you all agree with that? I should agree with it on the whole. I think that our institutions, our legal institutions, are adequate for that. We perhaps have not sufficiently worked out, however, a principle regarding sources of funds for a private individual in office. Large gifts, say, by a single contributor, which are given solely and purposely for the person to have a relatively high standard of living to enable him to stay in office. Such contributions would come under the heading of gifts, and they are perfectly legal at the present time. The law there is clear what the theory should be. I am, at the present time, somewhat undecided. But at least it's an area where we might investigate further to see the extent of this practice, if it is extensive, and it is a problem. I frankly don't know. I might say as to that, that it seems to me that it may be difficult as a practical matter to make the rigid sort of distinction between contributions for political purposes and contributions to the political, to the personal income of the congressman. Now, of course, the income tax return will not solve the problem that we're talking about here. The congressman may still pay his income tax or his gift tax on the contribution to his personal income and still be under improper obligations to give favors to the person who has contributed to his personal income. So that it seems to me that if we say that under no circumstances or under only very extraordinary circumstances is a congressman under an obligation to make public disclosure of private gifts, that we may be opening up a method of evading the whole purpose and spirit of this attempted regulation. Do you think, Alan, that it's proper for a man to continue a private income after he's elected to public office? I'm thinking of a member of a law firm who's elected to public office or a man who's in the insurance business, continuing his private operation in drawing really a second salary from these private sources. That is, of course, a very difficult problem. Certainly, as to the practice, it is perfectly clear that many, if not most congressmen, do maintain private business connections, either in a law firm or an insurance firm or in some other fashion. Probably the origin of that practice is the fact that from time immemorial, the legislator's job has been a part-time job so that he had to maintain some kind of private business. I think that it is clear that that situation may create conflicts of interest between the legislator as legislator and the legislator as private businessman and that it may be necessary to impose restrictions which go beyond the private ethical standards of the legislator here. I would simply say, however, that before the public has a right to demand what may be a higher level of ethical conduct here, that it should be very sure that it has performed its obligation of providing a decent standard of living for the man in the legislature. And you question whether that's being done and Young seems to think that we're paying them adequately. Well, I think we should point out here that it has always been the theory of our elected legislators, whether national, state, or local, that they are part-time officials and that it has always been, since the beginning of the republic, perfectly proper and expected that they carry on their own businesses. Now, I think this has gotten particularly difficult in the national legislature, in Congress, since Congress has tended to become a full-time job. Of course, most members of Congress have been people in self-employed professions. It's very difficult for the officer of a corporation to get leave of absence to run for Congress. It's very difficult for a man who doesn't determine his own time. So that professional people and self-employed people have gravitated to Congress. It does present very great questions today with Congress legislating on so many things that affect public and private interests. And it seems to me in the last analysis, no amount of regulation will catch up with it, that it's, again, a question of conscience and the quality of people that we send to Washington. Well, now, this discussion we've been having of the propriety of retaining private employment while in Congress suggests a whole area here to me that we really haven't gotten into. We've been talking about Congressman Emmerich. How about other public officials on the state level? Well, I would say that as far as the rule goes, whether he be federal, state, or local, the full-time official in the executive branch should not have the same privilege as the congressman as a part-time official. He's supposed to give all his time to public work. If he is a lawyer or an accountant or whatever insurance man, he should associate himself with that business, not enjoy any of the profits from it while he's in public office, and devote himself entirely to his public work and should be compensated in a way that will make that possible. Well, now, are we compensating these people other than congressmen adequately? On the whole, I would say at the top levels where men have to take great responsibility, we are not. Public salaries are lagging behind. Other salaries, they're lagging behind the increased cost of living, and it is getting harder and harder to attract first-rate men to rent a public service. As for the state level, I would say that legislators are perhaps not paid enough in most states, although it's, again, difficult to generalize, but I would point out this, that most states do not provide adequate facilities for legislatures to do their jobs properly. They do not provide sufficient staff, sufficient clerical help, sufficient offices, sufficient printed material that the legislators can do their job. To some extent, they are dependent upon state organizations, chambers of commerce, private organizations of one kind or another to do their job adequately. So in this area, in the states, the elected especially, and the appointed also, should receive more attention and more consideration from their states than they have. Well, there's one question here that I'm sure would occur to a good many of our listeners. If those salaries are as inadequate as Emmerich and Allen, at least, are saying they are, why don't the legislatures do something about it, Allen? After all, it's within their power to increase their own salaries, isn't it? Well, obviously, there are practical political restraints on legislators raising their own salaries. The action is likely to be misunderstood by their constituents. Furthermore, there is a tendency for the legislature in general to lag behind needs with reference to salaries not only of the legislators themselves, but of all people who work for the government. For that reason, I believe that in the question of members of Congress, there ought to be a basic salary, say, of $20,000 or $25,000. That about doubles what they're getting now, doesn't it? Almost, and an escalator clause which would permit salaries to go up when cost of living goes up or down when it goes down. I should not think, Mr. Emmerich, that the congressmen should be awarded for their own folly and failure to control prices. You take exception, then, to the escalator clause. No, I don't think that an escalator price clause should be included in any salary arrangement that it might be even well for the congressman to be heckled occasionally by his wife on rising costs. I'd like to get in at this point a quotation from a wise administrator, Mr. William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania. He said in one of his writings that it is a dishonor to government that its offices should live of benevolence. As it ought to be infamous for officers to dishonor the public by being paid twice for the same business. And he went on to say that men must have public minds as well as salaries or they will serve private ends at the public cost. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Are public officials adequately paid? We want to thank our guests for today. Francis A. Allen, Associate Professor of Law in the School of Law, Northwestern University, Herbert Emmerich, Director of the Public Administration Clearinghouse in Chicago, and Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, the uses and limitations of the miracle drugs, penicillin, cortisone, and the like. Our guests will be Robert D. Coghill, Director of Research and member of the Board of Directors at Abbott Laboratories. Dr. Paul S. Rhodes, Professor of Medicine at Northwestern University and Chairman of the Department of Medicine at Wesley Memorial Hospital. and Dr. Guy P. Eumans, Chairman of the Department of Bacteriology in the Medical School at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, the uses and limitations of the miracle drugs. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. ZippYNANS with us being replaced with the juicy evolution of the