GGO John J. Bennett. I, John J. Bennett, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Chairman of the City Planning Commission of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Samuel J. Oranger. Samuel J. Oranger. Samuel J. Oranger. Samuel J. Oranger. Samuel J. Oranger. Do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Congratulations. Robert V. San Angelo. Robert V. San Angelo. I, Robert V. San Angelo Robert V. San Angelo do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Thank you. Harry D. Kingsbury. I, Harry D. Kingsbury Harry D. Kingsbury do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge Supreme Arcade and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of The duties of the Office of Assistant to the Deputy Mayor Assistant to the Deputy Mayor in the Office of the Mayor In the Office of the Mayor deputy mayor of the City of New York the City of New York according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability. Good luck. Harry Brickman. I, Harry Brickman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Deputy Mayor. I withdraw that. Deputy Treasurer. Of the City of New York. The City of New York. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Just, just a slight difference in the salary. I will support the Constitution of the United States. I, Eva Gazzetti, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the Office of the State of New York. The City of New York. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. the best of my ability. The City of New York. James V. McNulty. I, James V. McNulty, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the Office of the Office of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of New York. According to the best of my ability. What do you want first?