Tonight at sundown, Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, begins. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. Tonight at sundown, Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, begins. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. Tonight at sundown, Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, begins. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. As my fellow citizens of the Jewish faith consecrate the coming of the year 5,713, I greet them and congratulate them on the steady advance of the State of Israel, whose hearty people welcomed me a year ago. Now in its fourth year, Israel grows ever stronger, rewarding the prayers of generations of Jews all over the world. To all Jews, wherever they may be, I send my greetings on this holy day. payload which is going to be – you can go to thehoo whereby let me