New York City's own station, WNYC 830 on your dial. WNYC FM 93.9 megacycles. New York City is a world city and empire city, but it's a city with a heart, and today from the mayor's reception room in City Hall, we'll bring you a program that considers again the plight of those in Europe and other parts of the world who are badly in need of food. The silent guest program is the occasion here in the mayor's reception room in City Hall, and in just a few moments when the preliminaries are concluded, we'll hear the voice of the Honorable Grove Ray Whelan, who is chairman and will preside today and present the order of program with the mayor of the City of New York, Mr. Basil Harris and Miss Gabriel. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, we have with us this afternoon at the City Hall two of our New York citizens who are doing a great deal this Christmas to make the life of hungry Europeans more bearable this winter. I should like to introduce to you Mr. Basil Harris, chairman of the United States Lions and national chairman of the American Silent Guest Committee, and Miss Iris Gabriel, who originated this unique plan by which New Yorkers will be able to share directly with the hungry people of Europe this Christmas. I've heard about this silent guest's plan of yours, Miss Gabriel. This is the same plan which was launched last month by Governor Bradford of Massachusetts, supported by Governor Dewey too, and the governors of the other states, isn't it? Yes, Mr. O'Dwyer. We have the active support of the Special Committee of Governors, which Governor Bradford formed, and throughout the nation today, state and city officials are giving us warm support in our efforts to bring a little relief to these hungry people in Europe, who are the silent guests this winter. Miss Gabriel, how did you happen to hit upon this particular means of helping the people of Europe? Well, really it was an inspired one, Mr. O'Dwyer. I was attending a prayer retreat in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, over Labor Day weekend, when I received my inspiration for this program. You see, Mayor O'Dwyer, I have a good idea that what it's like to be ill and lonely and a shut-in. For four years after having an accident in Hollywood, I was a shut-in. During those four years in bed, all holidays had a special significance for me, and I formed the habit of fasting each birthday and holiday in silent thanks as I was still alive. I'm sure that is how it is with many of the hungry people in Europe today. They're fasting too, though often it is not through their own efforts, but because they just plain haven't any food at all. These really desperately hungry people are the ones who will benefit by our silent guests' plan this holiday season. Mr. Harris, can you tell something about the people who actually have been receiving these packages? Yes, I've received word today from Mr. Paul French, the Executive Director of CARE, concerning the distribution of CARE food packages to some 3,000 hungry children in Europe on Thanksgiving Day. These children were the first silent guests of our holiday season, and the contributions which New Yorkers will make between now and Christmas will assure us that there will be thousands of others who will benefit from this campaign. Mr. French said that he had received a telegram from Rome, describing the scene at one of the little orphan homes, where our silent guests' care packages were distributed. Mr. French said that the 150 girls at the St. Anthony's Orphanage in Rome almost cried when they saw the CARE truck pull up at the door on Thanksgiving Day while they were eating their noonday meal of thin soup and black bread. Physicians reported to the CARE mission in Rome that 90% of the girls in this orphanage will need added nutrition. Photographs accompanied this report from Rome on the initial distribution of CARE packages, bought through the American Silent Guest Plan at Thanksgiving. And I understand these are now being delivered to the New York newspapers and news agencies. They tell in pictures much better than I can in words. Just how grateful these children are for our help at this time. How's the response to your campaign so far, Mr. Harrison? It's been excellent, Mr. Mayor. I've received a report today from Mr. William Brewster at Pilgrim Hall, Plymouth, Massachusetts, saying that to date we have collected and deposited in the bank the sum of $38,500. Mr. Brewster is the man who is actually handling all the money in the nationwide campaign. Mr. Brewster has arranged with CARE to release food packages already in stockpiles in Europe as soon as the funds are counted. Mr. Brewster then sends CARE a check to cover the cost of the packages released. In that way, Mr. Harris, a $10 contribution made in New York tonight might actually be distributed this weekend in France or Italy or Czechoslovakia. Is that right? Yes, that's correct. CARE is endeavoring to get these packages distributed in all countries in which CARE functions as soon as possible after orders come from New York to release these bulk orders to the neediest persons known to the various CARE ones. I believe that some of these holiday packages will undoubtedly be distributed before Christmas, for some of the people known to CARE are in such condition that there is no time to waste in supplementing their meager ration diet. However, I believe the bulk of our silent guest packages will actually be distributed on Christmas Eve about the same time that Santa Claus is coming down the chimneys of many New York homes. I certainly think this idea of entertaining a silent guest at our homes this Christmas is a commendable project, Mr. Harris. Each of us in New York City this Christmas season have with us silent guests in the form of hungry people in war-devastated nations. Unless these starving men, women, and children receive immediate and direct aid from us, there is danger that they may not survive the cold European winter. The families of New York City cannot bring these people to our tables in person this holiday season, but they may be brought closer to us in spirit through a nationwide plan now being projected by the American Silent Guest Committee. This plan, which has my hearty approval, as well as the approval of Governor Dewey and the governors of the 48 states, is simply this. On your table, some night between now and Christmas, place an extra plate. Have every member of the family put a sum of money on this plate as a reminder that somewhere in Europe, a family the same size as yours is unable to get a good meal this winter without your help. After dinner, send this money to the American Silent Guest Committee, one Broadway, and they'll use every cent contributed to purchase care packages for hungry Europeans. Every dollar contributed means a full day's food for two persons. With every ten dollars contributed, an entire care package of 22 and a half pounds of life-saving food is purchased. The time is short. I urge all New Yorkers to join in the holiday spirit of giving by inviting a silent guest in Europe to share with them this year. Mr. Mayor, we at the Silent Guest Headquarters appreciate that your job as mayor of the world's greatest city is a tremendous one. But we'd like to ask you just the same to be the New York City chairman of our silent guest campaign. I'd like to take an active part in this campaign in New York City, but as you know, Mr. Harris, I won't be in the city after tonight. However, I shall be glad to accept the title of chairman of the New York Silent Guest Committee, and would like to ask Grover Whalen here to assist me in the actual carrying out of the campaign. I'd be glad to do that, Mayor O'Dwyer, and know that there are many people in this great city of ours who will join with me in this holiday season and bring this form of comfort and life-saving food to the hungry. I should like to add that all contributions to the American Silent Guest Committee at No. 1 Broadway are properly deductible from income taxes, since this is a non-profit, non-cooperative charity which is functioning in cooperation with CARE. CARE itself, as many of our listeners know, was informed some two years ago to handle relief overseas for 27 of the largest American charitable organizations. The CARE membership comprises organizations representing all races and creeds. Every dollar that you contribute to this campaign means a whole day's food for two people somewhere in Europe. For every $10 contributed, an entire 22-pound CARE package will be bought, which is sufficient to supplant and supplement a family's meager rations in Europe for a whole month. Did you have anything to add, Miss Gabriel? Yes, Mr. Whalen. It's just this. I'd like to ask the school children and school teachers of New York if they'll also join us in this campaign of ours to help feed hungry Europe this Christmas. Will you in New York schools please do without desserts for one day? There are about 900,000 of you students in New York's public schools. If each of you did without one 10-cent dessert between now and Christmas, this would give us $9,000. And to the children in Europe of your own age, $9,000 means $910 care packages, or a total of some 20,250 pounds of life-saving food. If you New York City teachers will send your class contributions to the American Silent Guest Committee, one Broadway, New York City, with a Christmas card on which is written the name of your class and the school, we'll see that these cards are flown to Europe and distributed on Christmas with the Silent Guest Care packages. Then, perhaps within the next month, you will receive word back from the school children in Europe who've been helped by your contributions. And to all of you who are helping us, let me extend my deepest thanks and a very, very Merry Christmas. The microphones of your city station have carried the message from the mayor's office here in City Hall. Mr. Basil Harris, Chairman of the Board of the United States Lions, made his second appearance within a few days in the cause of food for those who need food so badly. Last Sunday from Pier 59, the United States Lion American leader carried 8 million tons of food to Europe and will arrive there 10 days before Christmas and be distributed. And then Mr. Harris, the same Mr. Harris, is chairman of the Silent Guest Committee. And as Miss Gabriel, the mayor, Mr. Whelan and Mr. Harris have said, if you'll mail your contributions to number one Broadway, you will find the complete cooperation there to bring the food to those who need it. Musicians have set music and called it Perpetual Motion, but I think Perpetual Motion is here in City Hall because Mr. Mayor, our Honorable William O'Dwyer Mayor of the City of New York, is now ready to receive two flyers, so we must get out of the room, pay our respects to these two intrepid flyers, and leave you from City Hall and return to the studios in the Municipal Building.