From Lake Success, United Nations Radio presents its daily program of UN news and activities, the United Nations Today. The United States plan for a worldwide arms embargo against the People's Republic of China has successfully met its first test in the United Nations General Assembly. Before this plan can be finally adopted in full formal fashion, it must be accepted by a plenary session of the 60-nation assembly. Before the plan can be presented to the plenary meeting, it must similarly be approved by the 60-member political committee of the assembly. But on Monday, the American plan won initial endorsement in an assembly committee of 12 members, set up to determine what further measures should be taken against the People's Republic for its aggression in Korea. Let us listen for a moment to the high points of Monday's meeting as the committee chairman, Mr. Sarper of Turkey, put the United States proposal to the vote. Those who are in favor of that draft resolution, please signify by show of hands. Eleven of the committee's 12 members vote in favor of this resolution embodying the embargo plan. These are the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Belgium, Australia, the Philippines, Venezuela, Brazil, Mexico and Turkey. Abstentions. The 12th member, Egypt, abstains. The draft resolution has been approved with 11 in favor, none against and one abstention. Now that the American resolution has been approved by this unit of the assembly, it next goes to the political committee for wider discussion. The political committee has scheduled a meeting for Thursday at Flushing Meadow. The United States resolution would have the assembly recommend to all states, whether members of the United Nations or not, to impose a selective embargo against the People's Republic of China and the authorities of North Korea. The embargo would cover arms, ammunition, implements of war, atomic energy materials, petroleum, and items useful in the production of arms, ammunition, and implements of war. Included in this resolution are measures to assure a successful imposition of this embargo against the Peking government and North Korea. The appropriate committee of the assembly would moreover continue its study of additional measures to be taken to meet the aggression in Korea, but may defer that task if concurrent attempts at a peaceful settlement show progress. Let us consider now for a moment the essence of some of the statements on the American embargo plan made during Monday's meeting of the Additional Measures Committee. The sponsor of that resolution was Mr. Ernest Gross of the United States. Mr. Gross declared that, as seen by the American delegation, the work of the Additional Measures Committee was in aid of the Assembly's Good Officers Committee, in that body's search for an honorable and peaceful settlement in Korea. Mr. Gross felt that, far from signaling failure of the Good Officers Committee, the embargo resolution would strengthen its hands. He added that the embargo proposal was an action unique in history, on a par with the decision of the United Nations of June 1950 to put down aggression in Korea by collective military action. The primary purpose of his resolution, Mr. Gross stated, was to proclaim as a matter of United Nations policy an embargo on strategic materials already being applied by a large number of countries. This embargo, he said, would have a very strong moral and political effect as a demonstration of unity on the part of the United Nations. The representative of the United Kingdom, Sir Gladwin Jebb, said that his country had originally had some doubts about the advisability of the American embargo plan, but had now decided to give it its wholehearted support. The United Kingdom, he said, had at first feared that an embargo, such as that proposed by the United States, might have an adverse effect on the Peking government's willingness to negotiate. This view, he added, could no longer be insisted upon by his country in view of what he called Peking's continued unwillingness to enter into negotiations. Sir Gladwin declared that his government had, almost since the beginning of the Korean War, been applying the selective embargo recommended by the American resolution. Thus, he observed, the resolution amounted to recommending that all nations should do what the United Kingdom had, in fact, been doing. Other speeches supporting the American resolution were made by the delegates of France, Belgium, Australia, the Philippines, Venezuela, Canada, and Turkey. Monsieur Francis Lacoste of France indicated that when the American resolution comes before the political committee, he would make suggestions for a more complete elaboration of the general sense of the resolution. Monsieur Joseph Niseau of Belgium said that his country was already applying a selective embargo against China. Mr. Salvador P. Lopez of the Philippines said that the time had come when measures such as those recommended in the American resolution were clearly indicated. And Dr. Juan Carlos Muniz of Brazil described the American proposal as being only a corollary to the United Nations' action in Korea. Whereas Mr. Selim Saper of Turkey said that the American resolution was the least that could be done at present, but not all. It was only a beginning, and a modest one at that. He hoped that the committee would be able to recommend further measures to meet aggression in Korea and to shorten the conflict. Mr. Holmes of Canada said that his country was already imposing controls against China and would support general action by the United Nations, similar to its own. And Mr. Shan of Australia said that his country, too, had already put into effect the embargo envisaged by the American resolution. Though not entirely convinced of the wisdom of pressing such a resolution at this juncture, he said, Australia would support the resolution to show the sense of unity within the United Nations. And so, having passed its first test with no opposition, the embargo plan will next go before the 60-member committee of the General Assembly. At the beginning of each week, the United Nations today brings you a portion of the most recent speech in the current UN radio series The Price of Peace. Over the weekend, Egypt's permanent representative to the United Nations, Mahmoud Fawzi Bey, pointed to the ever-increasing price of war and added, In our time, the urge for peace has been expressed more than it was ever expressed before on an international basis. At variance with what prevailed previously, when empires aimed at extending their hegemony so that it would encompass all the peoples and so that the rule of law and not the rule of war would prevail. The accent in our time has been put more on international cooperation rather than on an attempt at imposing upon the world the supremacy of one power. Even the United States of America has come out of its isolationism under the impact of world events and the Second World War. The United States, after disavowing the policy of President Wilson, which favored participation in the League of Nations, came all the way out in support of the United Nations, which was mainly conceived and given its very name by President Roosevelt. He had said in his last message to Congress on the State of the Union on January 6, 1945, In our disillusionment after the last war, we preferred international anarchy to international cooperation with nations which did not see and think exactly as we did. We gave up the hope of gradually achieving a better peace because we had not the courage to fulfill our responsibilities in an admittedly imperfect world. We must not let that happen again or we shall follow the same tragic road again, the road to a Third World War. Thus spoke President Roosevelt. At the present moment, unfortunately, the world seems to be dangerously heading for a Third World War, unless much more in behalf of peace is done by the United Nations and by its members than what has been done so far. The Egyptian delegate pointed to areas of weakness in the UN's efforts to maintain peace, to regulate armaments, and in other political, moral, and psychological fields. And then he said, These areas of weakness should be made into areas of strength. This, however, cannot be accomplished by merely creating a more or less thin crust of armed forces around the country or an area. It is an obvious truism that the armed forces at the front must be supported not only by other armed forces elsewhere, but also by a robust economy and by sound social conditions. Nor is this all. The paramount importance of the political and psychological factors must be kept in mind and given its due. We cannot have areas of strength where people are weak or dissatisfied, or where people have no faith in the United Nations, or have been meted an international injustice, which they believe to have been done or tolerated by this organization. That was Mahmoud Fawzi Bey, the chief delegate of Egypt to the United Nations, speaking in the UN radio series, The Price of Peace. While our attention is centered on the area of the world from which the delegate of Egypt comes, we have an encouraging report to give you from the Near East. Syria and Israel have accepted the United Nations' call for a ceasefire. Both parties have accepted the Security Council order at informal meetings of the Syrian-Israeli Mixed Armistice Commission. The two states have agreed to observe the ceasefire, to withdraw military and paramilitary forces from the demilitarized zone along their common frontier, and to refrain from aggressive acts across or against the zone. On Tuesday, the Security Council meeting at Flushing Meadow will again take up the Israeli-Syrian dispute over civilian drainage operations in the Hule area, which led to the outbreak of armed conflict. While these questions of embargoes to deter military aggression and Security Council orders to cease fire very naturally attract the most urgent attention of the world, the United Nations, in its manifold activities, has not lost sight of the economic and social factors of present-day life, which so often serve as smoldering sources of conflict, as this next item of news will show. A blueprint for bolstering the economies of the world's underdeveloped areas has been given top priority on the agenda of the Economic, Employment and Development Commission, which opened its sixth session at UN headquarters on Monday morning. This is a plan prepared by five experts, which includes a survey of conditions in the underdeveloped areas and sets down four basic recommendations. It says that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development should set itself the objective, to be reached within the next five years, of lending $1 billion annually to underdeveloped countries. The plan proposes the creation of a UN International Development Authority to help the underprivileged countries prepare and coordinate and carry out programs for economic progress. The proposed development authority says the report should eventually spend about $3 billion on schools, public health, technical training and other projects to enable the underdeveloped countries to absorb capital investments. The magnitude of the task of developing the economies of the poorer areas of the world is illustrated in the report which says that it would cost more than $19 billion annually to provide such development at a rapid pace. Another recommendation in the report proposes that the United Nations should establish an international finance corporation authorized to make loans to private enterprise without government guarantees. The report also says that rapid economic progress is impossible without painful readjustments, including the discarding of ancient philosophies. And it points out that there cannot be rapid economic progress until the leaders of a country at all levels desire economic progress for the country and are willing to pay its price, the price which is the creation of a society from which economic, political and social privileges have been eliminated. In summing up, the plan concludes that most of the underdeveloped countries would find it extremely difficult to make progress in the initial stages of economic development without effective international aid. economic development of these countries, it adds, will require fundamental changes in their social and economic structure, a large effort at mass education, and very intelligent husbanding of their resources. And so we conclude another edition of the United Nations Today. Prepared and produced by the international staff of United Nations Radio, the United Nations Today has come to you from Lake Success, New York. It is a privilege for me as chief executive of our city to join in the Memorial Day broadcast of the Jewish war veterans of the United States of America. I am happy to join in this program because this veterans organization for so many years has been a bulwark for American security in peace and in war. The devoted efforts of organizations such as the Jewish war veterans and its ladies' auxiliary have done much to give our city an understanding of its responsibilities to the memory of those of our heroic war dead whose supreme sacrifice has made it possible for us, the living, to strengthen the defenses for a free world. On this Memorial Day, a new generation of Americans is taking its place at the battle stations in Korea, where our country and the United Nations are fighting communist aggression. Americans, again, are fighting as liberators, not as aggressors, as protectors of the weak and defenseless, and not as their conquerors. members of the Jewish war veterans and their brothers and colleagues in the American Legion, the veterans of foreign wars, the Catholic war veterans, and other veteran organizations are again leaving their peacetime councils to return to military duty here and abroad. In returning to military service, they can take comfort in the knowledge that their veteran organizations will continue to provide leadership on the home front. The lesson brought home to us repeatedly by the work of the veterans' organizations is that we honor our dead best by having their sacrifice stimulate us to greater efforts for the living. As Abraham Lincoln stated so eloquently in his Gettysburg Address, it is for us the living rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain. I welcome this opportunity to join with my fellow veterans of the Jewish War Veterans of the United States of America in paying tribute on this Memorial Day to those who have paid with their lives for the freedom we enjoy today. May all of us, working together in peace as we serve together in war, be worthy of the sacrifices of our honored dead. I deem it a great honor to participate in the Memorial Day program of the Jewish War Veterans of the United States. This organization, while made up of members of the Jewish faith, is above all a symbol of our democratic way of life. If we turn to the record, we find the inspiring story of heroism on the field of battle by sons of Jewish parents, some of whom were born here and others who came here to seek a haven from religious persecution in other lands. They absorbed fully the spirit of Americanism and they fought and died for their country because they worshipped at the Shrine of Freedom and loved its institutions and all that these institutions stood for in our daily life. I think, however, that it is important to remember always that these Jewish boys who were in the armed forces of the United States joined the fighting arms of our great democracy not as Jews but as Americans. America to them spelled the dignity of the individual, the freedom to worship their God in accordance with their conscience and heritage, the right to express a viewpoint and the power to indicate through a secret pole their choice of leadership. That is what these boys fought and died for and we honor their memory as decent, God-fearing Americans. And the same motives prompted boys of the Catholic and Protestant faith to go forth to fight bravely and make the supreme sacrifice for their country. It is no wonder that we have created a nation that has taken its place as the leader of the world, a world that is now in chaos and confusion. I pray to God that we shall have peace. I hope that there will be no bloodshed and that men all over the world will see the light and adjust their differences in a civilized and sensible manner. Nevertheless, we must be on the alert. We must be ready to meet any crisis that may arise suddenly or in the far future. We must be prepared to defend our way of life for if that goes down, then everything is lost including honor and decency. On this Memorial Day, the Jewish war veterans of the United States honor the boys and young men of the Jewish faith on whose graves there wave little American flags. And I have no doubt that should the occasion arise, Americans of every race and creed acting not as Jews or Catholics or Protestants, but as Americans will rise to any emergency that may come up. Just as those who died have not failed their country in its hour of great need, so those living will stand on guard against those who would seek to destroy the structure of democracy. As that great American Benjamin Franklin said, even peace may be purchased at too high a price. and so as we observe this Memorial Day, we come face to face with a world situation which is confused and millions are troubled and uncertain as our leaders grapple with the most difficult problems that have even challenged civilization. But democracy is on the march and no matter what happens, we Americans of every faith shall not falter in our determination to oppose communism and to give our lives just as these honored dead have done in behalf of a free world, a world in which men and women can live side by side with dignity and friendship. and the honor of the mayor impoletarian and Mr. Charles Silver, please accept the appreciation of the Jewish war veterans of the United States for your splendid addresses. You both have always been a friend of the veterans and particularly of the Jewish war veterans of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are honoring the long immortal roster of Americans who fought for the blessings of peace, security, and the American way of life. On this day, we pay our tribute for the sacrifices made by men of every creed in order that all of us may continue to live in freedom. Our mission has not yet been accomplished. The peace is under attack. The security of free peoples is uncertain. Threats to this and other free institutions of our beloved country have not been banished from the earth. As never before in our history, there is again a need that our land be made safe from aggression beyond our shores. and from attacks within our borders. None of the men whom we honor fell as an aggressor. They only fell as liberators. We must remember that in the days ahead. We must remember when those in our country who have failed to heed the lessons of the wars of our lifetime cry out that we are seeking only to militarize our youth. It is not the purpose of America to seek to establish the largest standing military force in the world. It is only our purpose to discourage assault upon us and to make our armed forces strong enough to convince any potential enemy that America is a self-reliant nation whose people can only be dealt with on a peaceful basis of mutual understanding and respect. America did not depend upon diplomacy when we undertook to gain our liberty 170 years ago. We gained our independence because our men, women, and children formed themselves into a fighting army. The history of the years that follow shows clearly that whenever our diplomats have failed to overcome the hostile designs of foreign statesmen bent on achieving their ends by forceful means, it was necessary to rely upon our armed forces to develop our citizens into a fighting force strong enough to preserve our existence. Our distance in the terms of miles from Europe or Asia has ceased to be a determining factor upon whether America will or will not use its potential for the purpose of keeping the world free. For if in any instance the freedom of any country throughout the globe is threatened, so is the peace of America threatened at the same time. Great quantities of jet and rocket propelled weapons capable of spanning oceans and continents at incredible speeds are being produced from every country's laboratories. we can count upon time for only one more effort on our behalf. It can render only one more service to our security and our freedom if we call upon it now. We American veterans know that the lack of one hour of adequate training in time of peace can mean the loss of an American soldier's life in time of sudden emergency. Today, we are faced with an even more serious problem than confronted us in 1941. We were able to wage global war successfully against enemies who had trained and equipped themselves for years for one purpose, to wipe out our form of government. Now this, in spite of the fact that we were ill-prepared to wage such a war of such vast proportions. We can no longer take such chances. Our potential enemy is prepared fully to wage a total war against us. The Jewish war veterans of the United States of America for the past 15 years has consistently urged the American people to insist upon preparing a potential force which, with universal military training and the draft, could be expanded in sufficient time to protect the security of America. The American people have indicated their desire that this be accomplished. The Congress of the United States has thus far not carried out the wishes of the American people. The existing threat grows daily. Lack of preparedness can mean disaster. Preparedness will cause those who attack us to hesitate. And if we should be attacked, we must be prepared to defend ourselves. Twice in this century, our country has given without stint of its men, its leadership, and its industry in order that human rights and the dignity which we cherish for ourselves might be shared by other peace-loving people. We have been and we will continue to be the arsenal of democracy in war. Today, it is true as never before. that our country bears a major responsibility for aiding the physical and economic recovery of nations that wish to remain free. We have aligned against us tremendous opposition both from within our nation and from without. With the measures thus far undertaken, we have demonstrated to the world that we understand our obligation to maintain peace. the world We pause today in tribute to all the brave men who have died and are dying now in Korea and elsewhere so that mankind may one day conquer fear, hatred, bigotry, and oppression for all time. It is for us to have survived this continuing war to move forward until this great mission has been accomplished. Mary! Mary, we haven't time for breakfast this morning. It's late. Well, sit down and have a cup of coffee. I poured it. Thanks, honey. Ooh, it's still too hot. You ready? Tom, there's something we must talk about. Uh-huh, where's my briefcase? I've been suspecting it now for a couple of weeks. Uh-huh. Well, yesterday... There's our train. Come on, honey, you'll be late for work. Tom, I'm not going to work today. A little vacation, huh? Tom, wait, I've something to tell you. Oh, can't it wait? I'll miss that. No, it can't wait. I'm going to have a baby. But can't you... Huh? UN Story. This is a story told by people everywhere of how their lives are affected by the United Nations. Today, a story about a subject close to all of us. We've called it Mary's Baby. That scene we heard a moment ago happens pretty much the same, I guess, all over the globe, even if the language is different, or if the train sounds different, or if it doesn't run at all. And like you, I'm very interested in this particular event in our lives. In fact, you might say the birth of a baby is my personal business. Barkley is my name, Sam Barkley. I'm not a doctor. I work for the International Labor Organization of the United Nations. And my special field is maternity protection and child welfare. Those big words boil down to this. I'm interested in the well-being of working mothers and the kids they bring into the world. Our world. Here's something. We've got about 13 minutes left for this program to run. If I do my mental arithmetic right, there'll be about 3,100 new world citizens among us by the time we finish. Some of them will be blessed events. Some will be another mouth to feed somehow. Some of them will die. But all of them, eventually, are going to affect all of us. That's why the United Nations is interested in this particular event in the lives of this particular young couple. Let's call them Tom and Mary. I guess my wife's all right, isn't she, Nurse? Perfect. Just a normal delivery. She seems awful tired. Naturally. Anyone would be tired after that. Sure, sure. I'd be too. I mean, thanks to all of you here for all you've done. Oh, don't thank us. From the moment your wife came to us eight months ago, that baby was ours as well as yours. Like to come and see it? Can I? Of course, Tom and Mary were pretty lucky young people. They were able to present us all with a baby like that because they lived in a place where good hospital care was available, the right foods and so on. Life comes a lot tougher for some mothers and some babies and they're all part of our great international family too. That's why the General Assembly of the United Nations put it down in black and white on the 10th of December, 1948. Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights. Now, we all know that things like that are easier said than done. But at the International Labor Organization, we're trying to get some of it done. Remember what that nurse said a moment ago? From the moment your wife came to us, that baby was ours as well as yours. And ILO begins to take an interest in that baby of ours right from the time the family doctor hears about it. Well, Mary, how do you feel? A little frightened, I guess. Because it's your first baby? Well, there's nothing to be afraid of. To bring a baby into the world is a normal and beautiful thing, especially if you're well and happy. Oh, I feel fine, doctor. It's just that, well, I'm kind of worried. About what, Mary? Money to begin with. You know that Tom and I both work and now I'm afraid I'll have to give up my job. Oh, not right away, though. This is only your second month, isn't it? Yeah, but our budget will take an awful beating later. That is when, shall we say, when I begin to look a little conspicuous? When you begin to look conspicuous, that's the time to stop worrying. At first, let's give you a thorough physical examination before we examine how you'll keep your job and still have a baby. All right, I'm all set. Mary, have you ever had any sickness I didn't know about? Any operations? Not since you took out my tonsils. Otherwise, I'm all there. But I still want to know how my budget will be all there when the baby starts kicking. When our baby starts kicking, Mary, my agency, the ILO, starts its work. Under international labor agreements, every worker, like you, is entitled to special protection. You'll get six weeks leave before the baby's born and six weeks after, and with full pay, too. And when you're back at work, and you will be back, because your country has signed the ILO Convention, which says you've got to be taken back, when you're back on the job, you can even nurse that baby during working hours, if you have a mind to. Now, that may not be so important to you, Mary, but listen. I was in Eastern Europe a couple of months ago, and a young mother said to me, Mr. Barkley, my baby's with me all day in the fields. You don't know how secure that makes us feel, me and the baby. Mary, does the knowledge that all this is not only possible, but actual, make you feel more secure? How's our baby coming along, huh? It's just about four months, Doctor. And your husband's worried about you? Why? Well, Doctor, I sometimes trip when I walk, and Tom gets awfully scared. Tell Tom there's nothing to worry about. The baby's getting heavier, unbalances you a little. Oh, I'll say. But first, tell me, are there any complaints from you? Well, I'm awful hungry all the time. You mean you're both hungry. That baby's got an appetite all its own. Now, watch your diet, Mary. Stick to those charts I've given you. Plenty of minerals, calcium, iron. That means milk. Lots of it. Eggs, meat, fruit, vegetables. Hey, wait a minute. I know all about your budget, my dear. Stretch it here. Take it in there. Plan, Mary. And there are hundreds of others helping you to plan, Mary. helping to provide you with the good foods you and your child need. Besides my own outfit, the ILO, there's the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN. We call it FAO for short. At this very moment, as I'm talking, the FAO is planning better food production all over the world so that you can have bananas from South America, so South America can have rice from India, so a mother and child in India can have wheat from Poland, and a Polish baby can have orange juice from the USA. Now, let's not kid ourselves about the facts. Literally, thousands of babies are dying also while I'm talking from malnutrition, which is a polite word for starvation, dying or perhaps living on with half bodies and mixed up minds. And so the world is planning its budget too so that mothers and their babies everywhere will get more food and better food. Perhaps you thought of all this, Mary, around about the sixth month of the life within you. Perhaps it showed in your face when the doctor said, A penny for your thoughts, Mary. Hmm? Oh, I'm sorry, Doctor. Daydreaming, huh? You haven't listened to a word I said this morning. Oh, well, I know that nothing seems to exist for you except you and your baby. But, uh, what were you dreaming about? I wasn't dreaming, just thinking. This one time, Doctor, you're wrong about me feeling that no one exists for me except my baby and myself. No? Well, who were you thinking about, Mary? Children. Plural. How you and I have been so concerned about the birth of a single baby. I've been thinking, how about the millions of mothers and children all over the world who aren't as lucky as I, as we? Lucky in what way, Mary? Well, no war ever came to my house. no bombs. No bombs. From my bedroom window, I can see a field of corn. I can see cows out there, too. Peaceful as you please. I just wondered how much food and how much milk there's left for some kids after the war stuffed itself. You're right, Mary. You're right. A hungry war leaves hungry children. And here's where still another UN agency takes over, the International Children's Emergency Fund. Based on the belief that the kind of a world we have tomorrow will depend on tomorrow's citizens, UNICEF, as it's called, concentrates on emergency help to children in war-torn areas. For the next child born in Liedtse, a bottle of cod liver oil, medicines for the sick kids in the mountains of Greece, shoes for the youngster in Yugoslavia, a coat for an Italian child who still lives in a cave of rubble, a clean diaper for the baby born in Rotterdam. UNICEF doesn't just look after the children of a worker's family, but for every working mother, the Children's Emergency Fund has been a real necessity. everywhere where this sound is remembered with a sharp pain. Far from the intimate memory of that sound, Mary reaches her eighth month. How's our baby coming along, Doctor? Position of the fetus? Correct. Now let's have a listen to that heartbeat, Mary. One, two, three, four, five, six, steady and strong, that's fine. Mm-hmm. Your own pulse is good, Mary. Blood pressure, 110. Everything in shape. Oh, I'm glad, Doctor. I guess I should quit worrying. In the next few weeks, the pains will come. Now don't be frightened. It's the normal way of childbirth. We'll speak to Tom about bringing you to the hospital in plenty of time. Oh, he'd better. Well, there's one final thing. Stay away from sick people, especially from people with anything you can catch. Contagious diseases haven't any compunction about hitting women and children. And they don't recognize any boundaries either, Mary. Our baby isn't free from a plague, no matter where it breaks out. A child in Cairo goes white from cholera. A baby in India coughs the tired blood of tuberculosis. A little girl in Burma shivers from malaria. And it becomes the concern of the whole world. That's where the World Health Organization steps in. Another of the specialized agencies of the United Nations. Another agency helping to look after the working mother and her baby. Helping to see that healthy people everywhere will mean a healthy baby for Mary when the big moment comes. Anesthesia ready, Dr. Brown? Ready, sir. Well, uh, don't apply until I give you the word. she's a healthy girl. This will be a natural birth. Blood pressure? Uh, 120. Fetal heartbeat? Steady. All right, doctor. When I give the word, when I see the baby's head, apply anesthesia. I'm all set. Here we come. All right. Anesthesia. Beautiful. Beautiful. Here we are. A baby is born. A good healthy yell, Mary, for a good healthy child in your house, in our house. In the world's house. Someday soon, Mary, when your baby's asleep and you're home from work again, take a look out of that bedroom window of yours. Take a look at that field of corn, at those peaceful cows, and think again of those other mothers and those other babies and of the world we're all growing up to live in together. It's our place. And that's why the United Nations was looking over the doctor's shoulder when your baby was born. Welcome a new member of our big human family. You have been listening to another UN story. You have been listening to another UN story. stories told by people everywhere of how their lives are affected by the United Nations. UN story is a feature presentation of UN radio. Uh, I'm a corner grocer. I run my business pretty much like the grocer down at your corner, I guess, only my corner happens to be rather special. I'm not fooling when I say it's a corner of the world, because my customers come from most every part of the world. They work at the United Nations. They all like to shop at my place for their groceries. There sure is some funny things happen there, but nothing so funny as what happened to me one day. Something hit me, and a whole drawer full of ideas come shooting out, just like punching a cash register. U.N. Story. Stories told by people everywhere of how their lives are affected by the United Nations. Today, a story about one of the things it takes to make the world go round. Told by a corner grocer. And I'm not talking about love, though we could use some of that, too. There's something else. I'll tell you how it happened. I was helping an old lady back to a car with a couple of bags of vegetables one day last week, and we had to cross a busy intersection. The lights changed fast on me, and I got caught. Me and the old lady. Right between two streams of traffic. I began to feel like the guy on the receiving end of a knife-throwing act when suddenly a cop stepped into the road and... Every car stopped dead in its tracks. Okay, lady, hurry it up. We did. The cars waited till we were across, and then... And away they went again. I helped the old lady enter the car with her vegetables and cross the street again. As I got out to the corner, I saw the cop. I said, thanks, pal. It's okay, Mac. Thank the drivers. They stopped for you. Yeah, but only when you blew your whistle. They couldn't all see what it was for. Oh, they know I wouldn't blow for nut. Lucky for us to count on that, I guess, or they might not stop so quick. Brother, unless people had faith in a cop, he couldn't do his job. It's confidence in each other that makes the world go wrong. Well, thanks anyway. So long. So long, Mac. So then it hit me. Why did all those drivers stop? Because for the benefit of all drivers, they agreed to abide by the rules. Because they had confidence in the cop who was running the rules. You know how something hits you like that sometimes? Philosophy. You know. However deep thoughts like that are a luxury around my store, it's so busy. And I never gave it another never mind till just before closing time. I was serving a Norwegian customer when it hit me again. Do you want to pay for that roast now, Mrs. Peterson, or do you want to put it on a bill? I put it on the bill, please. You trust me? Oh, sure thing. You trust me to give you a good piece of meat, I'll trust you to pay for it. That is right. We make a bargain. Sure. Here's your potatoes. After all, it's confidence in each other that makes the... That's funny. That's what the cop said. The policeman. What? The policeman? What does he got to do with roast beef? How could she tell what the connection was? I didn't bother to explain. But I kept thinking as I closed up the store and walked home that night, I kept thinking that just as the cop said he couldn't do his job unless people had faith in him, well, I couldn't do mine unless people had faith in me. And vice versa. You know what I mean. As I said to my wife at dinner... All right, I'm listening. Don't talk with your mouth full. It ain't nice. Okay, okay. But don't you see? How do they know the bread I give them ain't poison? Don't be fanciful. Well, how do they? Confidence. Confidence in me. Sure, same as they got in any store. Don't be so proud. I'm not proud. I'm just interested. Billy, eat up your spinach. It's good for you. All right. How do you know that? Yeah, how do you know, Mom? Because the doctor says so. Now, no more of this nonsense. Eat it up. How do you know the doctor knows? Of course he knows. No, sir. You just have confidence in him, that's all. Yeah, sure. That's all. You be quiet and eat your spinach. What I say is good enough for you. You see, even in a family, the way things run depends on the kids having confidence in their mother and father. And father's not much help at the moment. I'm teaching them how to think. This thing never hit me until middle age. Look at the head start they're getting. Betty, take that spoon out of your milk. Why don't you leave the teaching to school? It's the same thing at school. How could a school run? How could teachers run a school unless the kids had confidence in their teachers? Just like me and my customers. All right. Supposing you did poison a customer. Suppose one of your UN customers doesn't pay a bill. What then? Where's your confidence? Yeah, that's right, isn't it? Well, I guess maybe we'd be up in the courts. We made a bargain and one of us broke it. Okay, so it's the sharp bargainer who makes out, not the guy with faith. Wait a minute. No, because the guy with faith has faith in the court. He's got confidence in the jury or the judge. Even if he loses the case? Betty, take that spoon out of your milk. Yeah, she's always doing that. She'll spill it. Don't you see? This thing goes right from the bottom to the top. It's coming clear now as we talk. Look, look. Right from the time you're born, you have to have confidence in your parents or you'd never last out. All right, you go to school. Either you have confidence in what your teachers are doing for you, or what do you do? Play hooky. Sure. And the minute you start that, what happens to you? You get caught. Sure. The long arm of the law. You're not kidding. All right. Now, what is the law? As that cop was saying to me today, the law depends on an agreement between people to have confidence in the kind of machinery they set up to keep things under control. Now, that goes right up the scale. From the local cop to the Supreme Court, both sides have to agree to have confidence in the machinery they set up for it to work at all. Don't yell. Who's yelling? Look, just like my grocery business. And that goes right up the scale in business, too. And even trade between countries. I think it even applies to the United Nations. Well, how can it work unless everybody agrees to let it work and have confidence that it will work? Right up the scale. You can climb up the scale from bottom to top faster than anybody I know. Just because you get to know a lot of United Nations people by their last names when they buy a carrot from you, you become an expert on international affairs. Well, am I so dumb? Isn't that right? Well, I said no. You're so busy building pretty ideas, you trip over your nose. You ask me how I knew the doctor was right. All right, I'll tell you. It's because he's always been right before. You don't have confidence in anything until you've had experience of it. And then you have confidence or you don't have no confidence in it all. Yeah, that's right. And as for United Nations, from what I read in the papers, I don't think anything to be getting confident about. From where I sit, the world's still in a mess. And all they do is sit around making long speeches about, ain't it a pity? It's in milk again. Oh, Betty, I told you to take that spoon out of your glass. It's all broken into little pieces. So was my bright idea, broken into little pieces. Trouble was, I really didn't know enough about things to argue with her. And that puts a man at a terrible disadvantage. But I figured there was one big advantage I had over her. And that was that I could talk to some of the people who ought to know. So I started to find out the next day. Nobody got away with even a bunch of parsley without answering a question. I'll take a dozen eggs, please, also. Mrs. Arbett, I want to ask you a question. Yes? Do you have much confidence in the United Nations to run the world? I mean, how's the record? Has the UN achieved much in the way of action? I suppose it depends on the point of view. From your point of view? Well, from the point of view of Syria, my own country, yes. It has achieved much. Now, this has got to be good and concrete because I'm discussing it with the wife. I got to have facts, you know. You want an example? Well, in 1946, Syria brought a complaint to the Security Council that British and French troops were still in the country after the war, long after they needed to be. And as a result of a vote in the Council, the British and French representatives agreed to withdraw their troops. It might have been a very unpleasant business. I see. Well, have you got my eggs, please? Eggs? Oh, yeah, yeah, your eggs. Thanks, Mrs. Arbett. Not at all. Goodbye. So I chalked one up on a calendar behind me and went to work on my next customer. He happened to be an Englishman. Have you some really ripe bananas? Right here, Mr. Metcalf. I'll take two pounds if you have it. I think so. Mr. Metcalf, I hear tell the United Nations made you people take your army out of Syria a while back. Is that right? You mean the British in 1946? Yeah. Well, that's not quite right. Britain agreed of her own accord that it was the right thing to do. You think the U.N. is doing a pretty good job? Well, you can't expect the world to be remade overnight, you know. Mr. Metcalf, I need facts. Give me samples. Of good jobs? Yeah. Well, there was a nasty incident in the Corfu Channel, you may remember, when British warships were damaged and some British sailors were killed by Almeyan mines. We brought that to the U.N. and then it went up to the International Court of Justice, all being handled in a very peaceful and law-abiding manner, when it might have been a very ugly business indeed. Thanks, Mr. Metcalf. Not at all. Here's your bananas. Pay the cash here. Thank you. I chalked up another on the calendar. These are little things, but I remember little things like somebody getting shot that started pretty big things. And I thought they'll add up. Next customer was a lady from India. I could have guessed what she wanted. Just a small package of curry, please. The usual, Mrs. Menning? The usual. Mrs. Menning, tell me something. Yes? Do you think the U.N. is doing a good job? A job that should get the confidence of everybody in the world? I'm afraid you're one of those who'd like us to go to bed in the darkness and wake up in the morning with everything bright and perfect. Oh, no. I just want to know actual cases so I can talk about them. Well, here comes Mrs. Hussein. She's from Pakistan, the country next to ours. We'll tell about a case. Mrs. Hussein? Hello, Mrs. Menning. I've been asked if the U.N. is doing a good job and challenged to quote Chapman Burst. Do you think we can? Oh, can we? You have heard of Kashmir? I've read something about it. Well, her country brought up before the United Nations a difficult situation in the province of Kashmir, which lies between our countries. I won't go into it, but there was fighting and a great deal of bloodshed over whether it should belong to Pakistan or to India. Each of us thought the other was to blame. Well, we both agreed on one thing, that the province should belong to whichever country the people wanted to join. So, both countries agreed that a plebiscite should be held under the supervision of the United Nations, and the fighting was stopped. Okay, ladies. Thank you. Here's your curry, Mrs. Menning. Oh, thank you. And goodbye. Come over here, Mr. Menning. I just chalked a third one up on the calendar when I saw my big test coming along. Mr. Oblamov. He's from Soviet Russia. I popped the question. Hello, my friend. I want some nice oranges. Mr. Oblamov, just before I get them for you, will you answer me a question? I do my best. Does your country have confidence in the United Nations? I am here. You are looking at me? We are part of UN. How can you ask? Well, now, tell me why. What has UN done that gives you confidence in it? Well, sometimes member nations do things that don't give one confidence, of course. But we get a lot done, even if we don't agree on many things. For instance? For instance, when the United Nations asked my country to take our troops out of Iran, we had enough confidence in UN to do so. And that incident in itself gave everyone a little more confidence in UN, and so on. It was a history of several things like that that made possible what happened in Palestine, where both sides were willing to accept mediation from the United Nations. Okay, point four. But there's still a lot of trouble going on there, isn't there? Of course there is. But that's no reason to lose confidence in UN. UN has two jobs. One is to prepare the world for peace by promoting knowledge and understanding and good health and good food and so on. The other is to stave off war while we get there. The point is that we are still getting there, gradually and painfully, but we are getting there. Well, thanks, Mr. Oblomov. I guess I ought to give you these homages free after that. Oh, no. I want you to have confidence that I will pay you the next time. Shall I pay the cashier? For a minute I wondered if it was just propaganda, what he said. After all, those fellows in the UN got an axe to grind. Of course that's their job. But he'd give me facts, and I don't know how you get around those. I had them right up there on a calendar. After everyone else had gone home that night, I tore off my notes. As I locked up, I tried to remember the names of those places, so as I could just toss them off in front of the wife. Iran, Pakistan, the Kofu Channel, Syria, and Palestine, of course. I figured I'd just use these to show a sample of how much I knew. And the last thing, just before I took the change out of the till, something hit me again. You know, our family would work a lot better if that woman had a little more confidence in me. You've been listening to another UN story. Stories people are telling everywhere of how their lives are affected by the United Nations. Today's story was called Confidence. UN Story is a feature presentation of United Nations Radio. Why don't you see you in financial ancestry? You've been listening to F ancients Radio. I don't go to any media, so forth I don't vehement. You've been listening to my son of infidel政府 and all Series is probably Pepsi- Japan. Not a Unlikeiona, because of drinks, with Japan. Moreover, the whole thing is considered AF China. The Having Guhr in agal. Page of two 사essa, Fujianux, by Ku Kluxa's, Dubai..