We'd like to ask the people of the City of New York to stand by at this time for a very important message with the mayor, which the mayor of the City of New York in person will deliver in the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall. These are anxious days in the great city and the mayor has a very important message at this time, the full particulars of which you will hear at the time that he speaks in just a few moments. We're getting ready now for the preliminaries to the broadcast by the mayor of the city and we ask you to give us your attention until such time as the mayor takes his place in the dais here in the Board of Estimate Room. We'd like to say at this time that the mayor of the City of New York is about ready to take up the regular order of business. He's been delayed there in the hall a few moments, but now the mayor is coming into the Board of Estimate Room and in just a moment we'll hear the mayor of the City of New York as soon as he gets properly placed and his location on the dais here in the Board of Estimate Room. Ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of the city of New York will now deliver an important message to the people of the City of New York and the top-ranking police officers of the Police Department of the City of New York. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Fellow citizens, we are approaching another presidential campaign during the course of which every interested citizen, as well as every candidate for public office, claims the privilege of engaging in hot debate and even becoming emotional at times. I'm speaking to you in the presence of the top-ranking officials of the Police Department of this city, because recently there have come to my attention several instances of disorder and violence in connection with the public meetings where political views of a controversial nature were expressed. I want to tell you what instructions I have given to the police, so that you may know what you have a right to expect from them and what their obligations are. We are living in a very trying time. We have come through a great world war, but have not yet achieved world peace. We are going through a period of post-war confusion and adjustment. Everywhere one hears talk of another war, and the minds of our people are filled with anxiety. We are also living in a period of inflation, high prices, and economic instability. And consequently, our people are fretful about their future and their well-being. The issues that confront this nation, and which will be publicly discussed, perhaps sometimes intemperately, are of great significance and importance to all of us. When I speak of issues, I mean international, national, and indeed local issues. Issues necessarily involve differences of opinion, sometimes very wide differences between men of integrity and goodwill. Our democracy is founded upon the premise that there must be a free exchange of ideas, and that no man may be denied the right freely to express his views. Whether or not he advocates what you or I like is not the test of whether he should be permitted to say what he thinks. The real test comes when the speaker voices opinions with which we completely disagree, and which we wholly disapprove. Unless we are willing to give such a speaker the right to be heard, we cannot rightly call ourselves true Americans or pretend to be believers in true democracy. Only a few days ago, a candidate for the presidency of the United States at meetings of American citizens was egged, and prevented from speaking on subjects, many of which are of deep concern to the vast majority of the citizens of this country. According to the press, the conduct of the mob was in direct proportion to the vigilance, the police, or rather lack of vigilance, on the part of the police at these various gatherings. It has been called to my attention that acts of rowdyism and violence have been directed towards some of the meeting places of the Progressive Party and the American Labor Party here in this city. We in this city are unfortunately not without our hoodlums, but such conduct will not be tolerated as long as I am mayor. I shall not permit the name of this town to be sullied by irresponsible persons or groups who are more interested in stifling opinion than they are in preserving the right of free speech. I have great faith in the wisdom, tolerance, and integrity of the citizens of this city. On August 25th, I instructed the police by letter. I shall read it to you. It reads as follows. The Constitution requires the city authorities to protect persons exercising the rights of free speech and assembly from interference of physical violence. It has always been our policy to extend the fullest measure of protection to persons exercising those rights on the city streets, and we will continue to do so. Anyone who interferes with speakers or persons lawfully holding a meeting and anyone who commits physical violence against any person must be arrested and prosecuted to the full limit of the law. Let us remember that you cannot disprove ideas which you think are wrong by heckling or assaulting people who express them. If any citizen thinks that he is right and the other fellow wrong, he has the privilege to tell the world about it in a lawful and orderly way. The history of this country shows that the people can be trusted to listen to both sides of any question and choose the right answer. That is the theory behind the constitutional guarantee of free speech and assembly, and it is the very essence of democracy. Our system, embracing as it does the freedoms of speech, religion, press and assembly, has made this country great. We cannot permit it to be encroached upon without inviting the tyranny of the police state. Let us all curb our tempers and be good sports in the coming political campaign. And let us bear in mind that if we interfere with the constitutional liberties of other people, we betray the great principles of freedom upon which this country was founded. In line with the foregoing expression of fundamental principles, I call upon you to exercise continuing vigilance in the policing of all public gatherings, and to take prompt action to protect the exercise of these rights wherever they are threatened. We will be able to do that. Similarly, any acts of vandalism tending to impair the free public display of political messages on banners, posters, or other lawfully maintained signs should be investigated and prosecuted. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that the police, in fulfilling their duties, are entitled to the goodwill and cooperation of every intelligent and honest person in this city, without regard to his party politics. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has just addressed to you, the people of the City of New York, the same message which he brought to the ranking officers of the police department, assembled here in the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall. From which historic point, the Mayor has brought you many and all important messages concerning you, the people of the City of New York, and your good and welfare. This concludes our broadcast from City Hall, over your own city station, WNYC, WNYC-FM. organizations inió làーん cà Where'd the right Do you do i đó