Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum, and a very good evening and best wishes to WNYC radio audience. We have reached the fifth meeting on our Psychology of Emotional Growth lecture series, and the subject for discussion this evening is the pre-adolescent stage of emotional growth. We are very happy and fortunate to have Dr. Peter Bloss come down to lead us in this discussion this evening. Dr. Bloss is a consulting psychologist, lecturer at the New School of Social Research. He is connected with the graduate school of the faculty of the Postgraduate Center for Psychotherapy. He is author of several books and papers on counseling in adolescence. And it gives me pleasure to introduce to you Dr. Peter Bloss. Thank you. Dr. Peter Bloss. Thank you, Mr. Churchill. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pleasure to be here and talk to you tonight about pre-adolescence. Dr. Peter Bloss. And this is a platform with the rare advantage that I don't have to bother about these microphones. The engineer is doing everything. So I can turn wherever I want to, come close and go away, and I can concentrate on our subject. Dr. Peter Bloss. In looking over the program, I noticed that the last evening was devoted to the preschool years. Now today, we jump to the pre-adolescent years, and it seems to me we are skipping a few years. Maybe they are not so interesting. Maybe nobody wants to talk about them. I don't know. But I just want to call your attention to this fact, especially if some of you are listening to the whole series. The child during the primary grades is not discussed. And I will, right away, go to the age of the pre-adolescent child. When we talk about pre-adolescence, we mean the child in the age of 9 to 13, or roughly the age of 5th to 8th grade. It is astonishing that very little is known about this pre-adolescent age. It is almost a dark period in child development. We know a great deal about infancy, about childhood, about adolescence. and maybe there are even some reasons for that. With a child, we always, we all can identify, we find great interest in the child. And we can feel with the child. And we can also see in the adolescent some challenge. And we also can still share some of the feelings an adolescent boy or girl has. However, this child, the pre-adolescent child, which lives in between. It's not a child anymore. It's not an adolescent yet. What is it? It is in this no man's land between childhood and adolescence. While we can idealize both stages, the one of childhood and the one of adolescence, I don't think there are very many people who would idealize the pre-adolescence stage, especially after we have been talking a little in detail about this stage. A mother came to see me the other day to discuss some camp report she had received about her boy. And there were some alarming facts. The boy had become more aggressive. He resisted more the routines. He wasn't as punctual as he used to be the years before. He was more secretive. He was not so easy to talk to. He wasn't even interested to have a nice talk with the council or the director. He just brushed off such nonsense. And the camp director was a little alarmed. What's the matter with Johnny? Maybe you should look into it. Now, looking into it really revealed only that this boy is behaving like a real pre-adolescent youngster. That is not always to the comfort and convenience and pleasure of its surroundings. In fact, to a great extent, quite to the opposite. It is difficult to be aware as a parent or teacher that there are changes taking place because very few physical changes are yet apparent. Therefore, we still refer to these children, roughly between 9, 10, 13, 14. We refer to them as children. Of course, they are not children as they were before. Some changes have taken place. The adolescent growth, which sets in later quite dramatically, of course, hits us between the eye and we cannot deny any longer that this child is now not a child anymore. This boy or girl is growing up. But changes do take place. Otherwise, there would be no reason to isolate this phase of development and talk about it. There are some typical changes. Some changes so outstanding that we can describe this age quite clearly. And that is, in fact, the thing we want to do first tonight. The changes which take place show themselves in the area of discipline. Discipline problems in school increase during that age. The average grade of boys among illegal absentees from school is about 7B. That's about that age we are talking about. Now, what's the matter? Why are so many playing hooky? What came over them? And what can we do? For girls, it's by the fact a little later. Most girls are absent in the 8th grade, rather than the 7th. In family life, there is also a change taking place in the behavior of pre-adolescent children. They become more quarrelsome, more demanding, or more retiring. They are easily absent-minded. You call their name, they don't hear you. You call twice, they insist you never called before. And they are forgetful. You might send them to the store, and they might come back and have forgotten half of it. They were quite reliable when they were 7, when you sent them to the store. Now, suddenly, what's the matter with them? They are older. They should remember better. They should be more responsible. And, of course, that's what we constantly tell them. They are often more secretive, while they shared freely with their parents all the mischief, everything that went on, all the excitement of their lives. Now, a great deal of what goes on outside the home, you just don't know anymore. You might draw your conclusion from seeing his shoes, or his jacket, or his hands, and so on. But what actually went on is none of your business anymore. They are full of exploratory interests. And boys are not too much concerned about girls. But they are talking a language which is sometime of shocking directness using a shocking vocabulary. The sexes are not attracted to each other very strongly. In fact, boys and girls that age, thrown together, really don't know what to do if left alone for a long time. If you have seen boys and girls that age, let's say, a dancing school, they behave more like trained monkeys than like human beings having a good time. If you see the same boys later playing baseball, then you see what a difference it is and what their natural behavior actually looks like. They do not worry much about the future. You cannot excite them by saying, look, if you don't learn nothing, you will not become anything, and you will be a bum. And these things do not impress them very much. They are little, they are absorbed by their own interests, often collecting interests. And they can be quite concentrated on these activities. While they do not pay attention to what parents and teachers think is the important thing to pay attention to. And they are absorbed by their own interests. And they are absorbed by these solitary interests, like collecting and trading, stamps, cards, or what not. Or they are very absorbed by quite extroverted activity. It's hard for them to sit down and stay put. They never stay put in one place. And it's hard for them also to listen and to talk things over seriously. In fact, the younger child was much more willing and able to do that than children of this age. This is not very attractive to adults. It's rather disappointing, this age, to parents and teachers. And the changing picture, which sometimes reveals itself suddenly, is quite frightening to both of them. What are we going to do? What are we going to do? What's happening to Junior? How can we prevent a complete collapse here? After all, he came on so nicely. Now we must watch that he doesn't lose everything he has learned so far. The change comes always unexpected. No parent, no teacher is prepared for it. It's not like adolescence. With adolescent boys and girls who have grown up and have attained almost mature stature, we are expecting that things are different. But children this age still look like children. And we are always surprised when these changes do take place. Of course, the child has no awareness of what happens. These things come over him and he is more surprised than anybody else. It is a developmental stage, which can be understood by adults. Now much of this commotion in the child's behavior, this general change, this instability we suddenly witness, is a child's reaction to his own change, emotional and physiological. Even if not visible to the eye, there are already changes taking place in the physiology of the body, which we cannot observe directly. There are no voice changes yet. There are no voice changes yet. Nothing we can put our finger on and say, that's it. Now he's growing up. But before we try to understand this age, and try to understand it in the orderly sequence of the various stages in child growth and development, let us collect first some more observations. So we have something to refer to when we try to see this age in its specific significance. Some of these characteristics I have already briefly sketched. I like now to summarize them a little more systematically. One of the outstanding observations is the increased restlessness. Children in that age of pre-adolescence have an extremely difficult time to sit still, not to move their leg, their hand, their wiggle, they are fidgety, they dig in their pockets, they pull their ears, they pick their nose, they are constantly busy with something, they play with a pencil or with paper or with the... If there is nothing, they find something, you can be sure. And this motoric restlessness indicates that some changes have come over this child and that this child is in his pre-adolescence. This is accompanied by a rather unstable behavior. The child is less responsive. While previously, the child was much more responsive to the parents or the teachers' feelings and was willing to conform, to please. To please mother, to please the teacher, to please the father. To please the mother. Now, this has lost its strong appeal. I will not say it's gone, not by any means. But you cannot defend it anymore. All this, do it for mother and be a nice boy and all this now seems rather to run off like water from a duck's back. In conjunction with this, I should mention that the child in this age is also less obedient. Some of the control the parent and teacher had previously over this child is now not so easily exercised anymore. A child will say yes, yes, and then go ahead and do what he wants to do anyway. You cannot depend as much on your influence as you could sometime before. In fact, the child might at times become openly hostile to parents and to the teacher and simply defy authority. And that is, with many children, quite a new and surprising form of behavior. Now, I'd like to mention how some other achievements in training gradually disintegrate. And I'd like to refer here especially to the training in cleanliness and orderliness and punctuality. I think you all are familiar with the fact that children this age do not care so much how clean they are and how clean they look. They are not very fussy, but they are clothed. Anything will do. The older the better. And orderliness is another distressing discovery that it is also in the stage of disintegration. If you look into their closets, into their desks, into their pockets, into anything, orderliness, which was previously pretty well on its way, is seemingly now again lost. And punctuality is another such matter with which we have to wrestle a great deal because our whole life is ordered according to the clock. And Johnny's mind just keeps different time, which gets him constantly in trouble. This carelessness about appearance, cleanliness, which I have pointed out, shows itself in other areas too. In language, for instance. If you listen carefully, you will notice that their language acquires a great many new words. Words which you do not cherish. Which they might not use in your presence if they think it's not safe. But if you listen to them when they are among themselves, you will see that the use of dirty language has suddenly flourished overnight. Many of these words they don't even understand. They even use them the wrong way. Some parents even are so smart and try to correct them. That's very modern education. But strangely enough, the youngsters have very little interest in such information. They are much more satisfied just with what they think anything means. Even very clean-minded children use quite obscene language. And that gets them into good standing with their peers. I heard the other day a 13-year-old, a very nice, friendly, clean boy, if anything a little too well behaved, and he was just trying to make them feel as if they were not. And he was turning around in school and telling the girls sitting behind him something very dirty. And the girl was shocked, of course. One day with respect to what they were doing and doing very well kinds of things. Because everybody最後 moved from theımin k told me it was different. Le одним of the ill must be very good for the poor. he really is. One girl slapping his face, but all the boys coming along, giving him a slap on the back and saying, Good coming, Vicky. So with the boys, he was suddenly in good standing. But I will come back to this, because it's an interesting fact that they develop certain standards, which are completely set apart from our standards, but which are the most powerful motives in determining their group behavior. In connection with this lack of refined behavior, you are all probably familiar with what kids can do with their stomach gases at this age. And it gives many parents and teachers gray hair. And I see from your responsive laughter that you are not unfamiliar with these. More, should I say, those facts one usually doesn't mention on a platform. But it belongs to that age. You can't get away from it. And this interest in refinement is something we just have to take a look at. It may be hard for some of you, but if we talk about this age, we at least must be honest. One factor, for instance, is that they have no provulsion towards otherwise considered bad odors. In fact, many of them wouldn't mind wearing their socks two weeks if mother wouldn't change them and take them away. They wouldn't even notice it. They have no conception anymore of all this what has been trained into them. And it's so frightening that because so many parents are afraid, now it's lost forever. This dirty, greedy, sloppy stage, which is particularly outspoken in boys, is often skipped and certainly not so evident in girls. Then I have to turn to another observation. And that is the rise of nervous habits. You see again, at this age, nail-biting, more frequently than before. Children develop fears again. These fearless youngsters on the street, they develop nightmares again. Even occasional bedwetting can be observed at that age. And speech disorders return frequently. We also see an increase in superstition in certain rights and practices. like tapping, like tapping, or counting, or not stepping on a crack, or if you think back a little, perhaps you remember some of these odd things you did in that age. That is very interesting that it should come up at this time. And I will come back to it later. And we will see whether we cannot detect some coherent element which makes this behavior understandable. I have already mentioned that they resist adult intrusion. They do not welcome confidences and confidence talks. Let's talk it over now. Come, let's sit down. And what's the matter? And come on. They get bored. And they show it. And that's hard to take. Fantasy life is another matter which has its particular coloring at this stage. It is of the comic strip type. And their daydreams are of the wildest sort. They are very easily distracted and go off into fantasies. Adult life attracts a curiosity. But they seemingly prefer their vices to their virtues. They are interested more in the wrongdoings of adults in all the excitement and sensational reports in the papers than in understanding why people do this. Something which develops later in adolescence. An adolescent doesn't simply is not simply satisfied with gory details. They have more interest in the personality problems involved. We see a renewed search for the facts of life. But again here they are more interested in the fantastic in the gory aspects of it than in an orderly factual explanation of this area. They stick to their own misconceptions and they do not want to be barbed by any by any correct and sympathetic introduction. that's quite different from the young child. I'm sure Dr. Despertis talked about how receptive the young child is to be introduced to all this information and knowledge. At that age there is very little real interest in the factual enlightenment. Then they are difficult to teach. Naturally with all this going on their attention span is shortened. Their attention span is wavering and anything can distract them. In fact they are only looking for distractions. Their creative powers which were so strong during the during the years of middle childhood they are also now gradually disappearing. children become more interested in creative work let's say in art and drawing painting in rather factual representation. They draw airplanes cannons guns battleships with all the details and very little artistic feeling which again is a disappointment to those teachers and those parents who thought that their children are so gifted that they are artistic and now it shows that they are drawing just prosaic pictures with very little artistic meaning. This age has been called the gang stage because boys stick together they do not mix much with girls in fact girls are considered rather inferior girls are sissies and they are afraid of the dog and they cry easily and they are tattletale and boys have all these definite opinions what girls are these opinions are gradually revised when they get older but at that age boys constantly demonstrate their superiority over girls girls often pick up the cue and rather try to please boys by behaving more like boys and there we talk about the tomboys and girls like to be included on the boys terms playing rough and tumble as they do and wearing blue jeans and acting more or less like boys in fact that is the girls stage of pre adolescence in which they still play half boy half girl until with progressing adolescence they become more feminine and girlish the relationship to animals I have to describe briefly because the closeness is replaced by distance the child doesn't want to be hugged and caressed and kissed anymore certainly not in public and the child begins to see parents with critical eyes they begin to compare their parents more openly and clearly with their neighbors they see faults in their parents they will rave about a meal they got next door and all the good pies mother makes suddenly are not the best thing in the world anymore and anything beyond the home almost has more attraction than all the attraction their own home had before they compare their parents why can't be mothers so pretty like so and so why can't father be so funny why can't my father tell as good jokes as Billy's father can their criticism creeps in more and more and that is the beginning of seeing their own parents as people still we must not forget that parent disapproval has a has a deep effect on them they are they become more sensitive also in the home about their body they don't like to be dressed and undressed anymore they don't like to be bathed anymore if mothers should show such wishes they now separate themselves increasingly more from their parents from all this it is easy to see that this age is not easy to deal with and in the surprise attack which this age often makes on the parent fathers and mothers respond with an emergency reaction namely now for God's sake don't let lose grip on this child otherwise he will be gone we must we must not give in otherwise we are bound to lose or this this is the more stern tyrannical approach or some other parents turn to a new try out of the power of love and they display to their children all the sorrows they make and all the trouble and the difficult and appeal to their love for their parents do it for mother now how can we understand all this what is going on what happened to the child of course the child is approaching maturation adolescence is a few years off the childhood structure of the personality is gradually loosened up and the new strains of this movement is met by the child with a regressive movement what do we mean by this we mean by this that the child retreats to well accustomed ways of dealing with difficult situations we mean here that it retreats to more infantile ways of coping with new pressures and strains the child had a certain strength up to that age to keep himself in check and fairly well on the right track with the rise of new demands emotionally a physiological disturbance which prepares adolescence the child is suddenly confronted with new demands with new demands it has on new demands it has to meet it was prepared and it was able to deal with the life as it presented itself up to now but suddenly with all these new demands coming up the child simply cannot stand up with the accustomed ways of dealing with life and therefore we see this apparent disorganization this disintegration of the personality is essential before it can be reconstructed again during adolescence in a mature way to form a mature adult therefore this disintegration is not simply a nuisance which a freak which nature produced but it has its developmental significance and meaning these reactions of the younger child like temper tantrums and daydreams and bragging and sulking and lying and disregard for orderliness for the more refined tastes of adults all this we see again emerge in the pre-adolescent child it actually belongs to the age of the three four and five year old and since the child has no other means to meet the onslaught of new developmental demands it reverses to those with which it is acquainted namely those of an earlier period this will explain some of the behavior changes which we have described then the inner disorganization naturally as always mobilizes anxieties and fears because anybody being up against a situation he is not able to cope with develops some signs of fear and anxiety these anxieties during this age are responsible for some of the for some of the nervous behavior which I have described as nail-biting nightmares and overeating and similar such such nervous habits they can be understood as nervous habits however if they occur at this age they are of an entirely different significance than if they would appear in the age of the 7 year old or 6 year old or if they would appear in the 17 or 16 year old therefore we don't have to be alarmed to that degree as if these signs these symptoms would make their appearance at another age anxiety and fears then are combated by compulsive reassurance this clinging to the concrete which I have pointed out is so evident in their interests in their art productions in their reading in their fantasies they are all rather concrete mechanical scientific and have none of the poetic creative quality which later again the adolescent will retrieve we have the symbolic reassurance in this age the possession of knives flashlights guns which remind you of the young child who surrounds himself at the age of five or six with all his animals in bed so to speak protecting him while he is asleep it is a symbolic reassurance that nothing can happen to him again the pre-adolescent will outgrow this and you see then later and Dr. Ackerman will discuss this the next time that the adolescent use entirely different means to cope with this situation the importance of the gang the group identification which is such a characteristic feature of this age is the first sign of the child's social role as a citizen even if at that age the gang cannot be classified always as a good citizen nevertheless this social experience points the way toward identifying oneself with a group which is not the family which is self-chosen where there are certain group loyalties group responsibilities and devotions which are of such importance for mature democratic living as a citizen there is a need for a gang life and there are strong anti-family moments in the lives of these youngsters we speak here of the peer culture that means there is a culture with all its ramifications which is characteristic for this age now some standards coincide with adult expectations and some work by Trine and Riedel in this field has studied this which has from which we have learned a great deal for instance such a gang might consider it okay to do your lesson and to study and but on the other hand it's rather a must for all the boys belonging to this gang to smoke and to lie if the gang interest is at stake but not otherwise not to be dishonest there is a code of honesty dishonesty is allowed only under certain conditions they are not crooks they are not thieves they are not liars they are not criminals but there is a different standard which we have to understand and in that same group there might be a strong disapproval of stealing or to go beyond telling dirty stories that anything beyond that would be simply out of order and this just would describe one such complicated gang code there are endless gang codes depending on the neighborhood on the social structure of the community on endless factors in their environment I just want to point up here that there is a very complicated but in itself consistent group life which to our eyes looks often just cow because we have no chance no opportunity to look into it to know its details to see its logic its significance and therefore we see only the nuisance value of all this but we must realize that for children it has an important meaning now if we do understand pre-adolescent development along these lines we certainly will not be surprised now that is one good thing if one knows that something is coming one knows a few signs at least one is not surprised it does help you if you know that clouds could mean rain before you go on a hike or you might be very much surprised well you take that for granted but with children it's the same way we do not see the clouds and if they come we just don't understand them because we have to see them in relation to a significant development and we must not forget that in dealing with these problems all adults have certain blind spots and certain sensitive spots there are certain things which are hard to take from this age and I just want to characterize a few typical reactions of parents which have which I have come across for instance the ambitious parent who wants to make out of her child a successful person wants to delay any kind of development which does upset the one important thing which is to let's say get good marks and achieve something in school and anything that interferes with it is suppressed by the parent in the interest of the child so to say then we have the loving of the doting parent who cannot stand the child separating from him living his own life and constantly tries to keep the child close so this parent child relationship which is so important and so lovely should not be disturbed at any cost that also interferes with this child development at this age or the moralistic parent who immediately clamps down where there are any moral standards are endangered to be lost and concentrates on that or the over anxious parent who is who cannot stand in the child that the child is unsupervised who continues supervision has to know all the time what the child is doing where he is going with whom he is playing what he is playing and what the other child said and what the other child didn't say and what the other mother said to him and so on and on and on there is no willingness to give the child privacy that the child has something what you don't know and then there is parent whom we might describe as the laissez-faire parent who simply takes off in flight and say all right all right do what you want everything will come out all right in the end and children should do what they want and simply turns away from the child and let the child battle for himself such parents we find too especially those who have misunderstood some of the teachings of modern psychology and we have to evaluate our standards in all these areas in dealing with our children take for instance smoking every parent gets shocked when junior when he finds out that junior smoked his first cigarette the strange thing is so often that then if the parents say well if you want to smoke why don't you have a cigarette in the living room that is of no attraction he smokes his cigarette in his room or in the bathroom or in the basement or somewhere else or in the street and there we have to evaluate our standards do we know that a cigarette once a while hurts a 12 year old a 10 year old this is all just assumption we know nothing but that is going too far that is the same thing daddy does mother does you have to wait with such things and we have to see whether we don't get hysterical about something which is completely irrelevant if you might look at it in a different way and that's what I mean by not overlooking one's own etiosyncrasies one has the right to have some and we all do and to plan a life in which a youngster of this age can experience some of these changes still within the confines of the family and another thing is to find out those spots in your child where he is most sensitive and where you can hurt him most where he will fly off the handle most quickly and don't use that don't always say gee you were such a nice child or when you were little we just had so much fun with you why can't we have any fun anymore with you now children that age just despise such reminiscences and are completely bewildered and cannot do anything then run out of the room and slam the door there's nothing to say to it there's nothing you can answer that is simply touching the most sensitive point namely what he is desiring is to grow up and what you say gee that's terrible what you're doing to me and naturally as in all questions where you are puzzled as in health questions where you are puzzled there are moments times situations where you might talk it over with somebody who has close knowledge of this age group and can discuss it with you somewhat in a more detached way but whatever we do we get most out of our children going through that age if we grow with them because that's our only chance as parents we have at age when they become pre-adolescent and adolescent to grow with them and that is for us the last chance to experience growth first hand thank you thank you very much Dr. Blob for that blast for that very nice talk every age seems to be very difficult and I am impressed by the fact that I got through so many of them I don't know how any of us did each age I hear about is a very strange and terrible age and the one thing that impresses me so much about these talks the talks the type which you have given here is that it gives those of us who are over 35 a chance to look back and know ourselves a little bit better in what has gone into our makeup I'm learning a great deal you can be sure of that Dr. Blob when educators confront you when teachers confront you with these problems that you so competently describe how do you deal with them what advice do you have for the school teacher who's dealing with children of this age you don't expect me to answer that otherwise we would be still here tomorrow morning because it cannot be answered just like this one thing is that the school has to take recognition of the fact that something happened in the makeup of pupils usually this is not done there is no attention paid to the fact that children at this age are motorically very restless we do not provide physical education and length of lessons which is in any way related to the emotional or physical makeup of this age but simply to the convenience of administration if you build it on the convenience of the administration then you must not be surprised that you simply invite trouble and if you invite trouble then you have to shoot and that's what you have to do as teacher so my answer would be simply that as a teacher in a room with desks screwed to the floor overcrowded no facilities to run around and to have any decent play facilities time that this is simply not solvable by schedule by administration or by talking to children children have to live and not be talked to all the time and if we know what the requirements basic requirements of this age are and we would take it serious then we would change something about the way we schedule their day we certainly teach them an enormous amount of extremely dull subject matter and then we are surprised that they daydream and pick their noses and make dirty remarks to their neighbors this is only the consequence this you cannot eliminate if everybody here smokes a cigar and we all cough you can't tell me well how can we stop get the smoke out there is nothing else you can do and we do not provide the physical conditions nor the emotional environment which is geared and planned for this age that's I know this is very unsatisfactory but that's all I can say well thank you for trying sir that's all we can expect anybody to do doctor do you agree with Kinsey that sexual activity does not subside during the periods you describe that nice young lady just brought that down sexual activity does not subside however it is of an entire different character than it is during adolescence it is much more on a sexual play an organismic level and more on the type of inquiry and experimentation and it is something which belongs to this age and very often also takes place or is practiced between members of the same sexes which is no perversion at that age and if we talk about the gang stage that goes a little further than what I said it relates also to sexual behavior and we must also here be careful not to apply adult terminology and judgment to the behavior which we can observe at that particular age thank you sir here's another one that you can take all night to discuss will you please discuss the reaction or the effect of wars on pre-adolescent development now I'll state so let's limit this to their mental development not to their physical and their food and dietary habits I'm appalled this person said wars with S I'm not going to answer there is not going to be another one they probably lived through two they probably thought somebody else might have to live through two it has one typical reaction and that is the speed up of personality development because in a war suddenly an 18 year old is a man on whom the country depends before the war and there is no war the country depends on man between 30 and 50 and those men then suddenly get into the decline when a war comes and the young proudness is actually the one force which the country needs and which will save the country and that has an effect on the pre-adolescent he will act much older and grow up faster that was an amazing non-answer doctor it was really very nice what should be done if anything with a girl of 10 who matured at an early age and seems to refuse all companions except one should anything be done with that you see such such questions can only be answered if one knows the child because I would do great injustice to that youngster if I would answer that simply in a generalization it depends what that means to the child early maturation is a pretty heavy burden on boys and girls and that's something I failed to discuss which is far more characteristic really for the adolescent that early maturation throws the youngster so completely out of step with the age group and therefore it is also difficult to have companions and to belong to the social group and that is as much as I want to say because here this can only be answered if one knows that particular child thank you sir and doctor since tomboy behavior of girls at a pre adolescent stage is completely normal should parents disregard this behavior or should they attempt to channel all other activities into that field or into different fields the the question is not whether you can whether you channel it you cannot bend these tomboys the way you want to but one thing is true the more hysterical you get and the more determined you are to be helpful in channeling this tomboy into some feminine interest the more difficult will be your job the less frantic one is it does not harm to point out that this is not the last answer but girls have been extremely tomboyish for several years and then suddenly they began to wear dresses constantly and also to develop some feminine traits pushing pushing at this age usually is not of great help if they see mothers who rather enjoy their femininity it is something for a girl to identify with but mothers who only who show their dissatisfaction with the development of their daughter only discourage the development into more into a more feminine character so it's not the question what you want to do it's often the question what you can do doctor when a child is untidy do you advise correcting it or just ignoring it I would say correcting it and ignoring it don't get worked up over it you can't let junior come to the dinner table with his filthy hands and what not but on the other hand it's the question whether this becomes a moral issue and it's the question whether this is the ground for a battle this is taken for granted that he washes his hands you don't ignore it but on the other hand you don't you don't make it you don't make it a battle and that can be done by ignoring nothing is nothing is really helped these youngsters at this age still need adult guidance but guidance which takes into account the changes which are taking place and if you give a youngster enough leeway where it's possible and you give him room to be untidy you can demand that in certain situations he is tidy it's a question of dosage rather than of principle I'm sorry that's all right I'll go right ahead somebody would like to know what is the proper reaction of the parent to the pre-adolescent state of the child which one of the reactions you did mention several which reaction of the parent would be the most helpful for the best or proper development also another question here is what is meant by growing along with the children could you enlarge on that a little bit how do you advise us to grow along with the pre-adolescent by that I simply mean that if that by understanding what goes on in children that this makes new demands on us for a new adjustment to a new phase in the development of our child that means you grow as a mother you are different with an infant than you are with a pre-adolescent you grow up with that child you don't treat a ten year old the way you treated a two year old and if you do well God help the child if the parent does not grow up with the child the child has very little chance to grow up himself that's what I simply mean by growing up and well the first question is difficult to answer which of all the reactions of the parent there again it is very dangerous to generalize because each child can only be understood judged and handled adequately in terms of what this child in terms of the life this child had lived so far and that is the danger with generalizations a child who was brought up let's say with little freedom and another child has been brought up with a great deal of freedom these children have to be treated differently in their pre adolescence because if you suddenly give a child who has been used to adult controls of all sorts if you suddenly let such a child loose you do not do a service to this child you bewilder the child you confuse the child and therefore anything we do with children at any stage has to be related to what we have done how this child has been trained brought up in the stages before that's why I can only say if one understands this phase of development then one has to draw one's own conclusions on that basis of understanding generalizations of handling will never solve any problem doctor how would you handle prejudice against an individual child in group situations how do you handle prejudice in this pre adolescence group well how do you handle prejudice against the child this this again cannot be answered in general terms well this child plays the role of a scapegoat that we cannot say in this age many children are discriminated against who are teachers pets not in the school outside when the teacher is not around and that is there often the teacher contributes to the social discrimination against the child in her class and there she has to study the whole group structure including herself in order to really understand what's going on here otherwise one cannot find an answer to it doctor what sort of disciplinary measures if any would you take against the pre adolescent child and for what type of behavior would you use the old standard method or is there new ones there now well a disciplinary measure has to be related to the perpetrated crime there must be some relationship now you cannot just talk about discipline in a vacuum discipline has a purpose and something has happened now at times at times disciplinary issues are made of something which are only disciplinary issues for that particular parent in another family that wouldn't be a disciplinary issue and it has to be it has to be a punishment which the child can understand and has again to be related to the upbringing of the child you cannot just introduce new disciplinary methods and only confuse the child that's what I meant by the misuse of what modern psychology has had to say about education that we quickly absorb it and try to use it in a situation which is not prepared for it and that's why I say disciplinary questions cannot be discussed in a vacuum it involves a specific situation several people certain expectations values judgments and those have to be known really I am against corporal punishment is that what you want to know doctor a gentleman in the front row would like to know if remnants of the pre-adolescent personality linger permanently in adulthood I think he thought there were some traces that were lingering in some people these days remnants of all stages linger in adulthood naturally and there's nothing surprising that anything that has happened to us has not simply vanished it has made its impression on our personality and somewhere it is still in existence that is obvious however we try to control such pre-adolescent lingerings but they do come up if you see some pictures of conventions stag parties you know water pistol play on Broadway that's very interesting doctor because the next question somebody wrote in here was why do some adults who should have reached maturity remain adolescent does anybody know that well that belongs to the same problem this gentleman thinks that all bachelors for example are very immature and adolescent you couldn't say that you wouldn't say all of them no that's good that's encouraging to some of us I'm sure what would happen later doctor if a child becomes introverted at this stage this word introverted frightens me because I don't know what you mean you mean the child is retiring doesn't talk to you and lives more in fantasy that can only be judged if one knows what has happened before that means if this child had tendencies to a self sufficiency and cutting himself off from participation with others and you see that there are trends already going back into his childhood years then you would talk about it quite differently as if this might be a very pronounced behavior during that phase that's why I am a little careful to answer this and rather suggest that one looks at the total life stream of a child before one jumps to conclusion what will happen later that's that's a simple question but too difficult to answer Dr. Boss in your opinion is the pre-adolescent stage natural and occurs and happens or occurs in all cultures or is it more predominant in one particular culture is it a cultural matter a physical matter a mental matter all of this because it is it is of course obvious that that any culture uses any developmental phase well this is infancy or adolescence for its particular purposes of influencing molding forming shaping the personality which will contribute most to the structure and to the life of that culture you see that in adolescence so clearly how adolescence is culturally conditioned but nobody would deny that adolescence has a basis in biology that it is the phase of sexual maturation and attaining mature stature that we all know still adolescence can be achieved in a few years in three years four years or it can be achieved in eight you would be surprised if you go back in history for instance Lafayette he was 18 when he was I don't remember lieutenant or general in the army and he took over the whole family estate and had responsibilities which you wouldn't dare give an 18 year old these days you have many important jobs in statesmanship in early American history which were performed by extremely young men under 20 these things just do not exist anymore not because our mind isn't as good but because the process of maturing has been delayed for instance in the case of war you will see that maturation is speeded up in times of a depression you will see that maturation is slowed down and we try to keep adolescents as young and out of the labor market as long as possible we continue artificially we prolong artificially in maturity in that sense any developmental phase is used by the culture for its own purposes thank you doctor I have one more question for you that's been handed in the lady I think it was a lady stated that you did not mention the girls at all I think you did mention the girls at all a little bit sir but why didn't you say more about them except to say that they were like boys at this period that's a very good remark well was it a girl it is true that that with girls the whole period of pre-adolescence is not as or should I say dramatic outwardly I think inwardly it is just as dramatic for the girl and it is that is one reason why I did not spend so much time talking about girls in fact we know far less about girls during that age because a great deal goes on in their fantasy life and the study of their fantasy life is not very extensive I have some material in my book on the adolescent personality of girls pre-adolescent fantasy life but it is the behavior is not so easily to describe and it is characterized by a greater activity I mean by greater motor activity girls are much more active and restless during that age too then they become later when they become more ladylike or sedate and that the phase of the time until feminine identification is attained in adolescence that phase is initiated in pre-adolescent years with this peculiar mixed interest in playing boy and girl now in their fantasy life that has been brought out very clearly but as I say their behavior does not give us such juicy meaty material as the boys throw our way thank you very much dr blow and good evening ladies and gentlemen