My transcription. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand. In seven weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The reviewing stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the reviewing stand discusses the question, can we curb subversives without losing our freedoms? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the extent of subversive activity in the United States and the current and proposed methods of dealing with this problem. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our first speaker by special transcription is the Honorable Pat McCarran, United States Senator from Nevada. Senator McCarran. Can we curb subversives without losing our freedom? Mr. Moderator, that is a loaded question. If we cannot curb subversives, then most surely we shall lose our freedom. International communism has strangled freedom in too many lands to permit any doubt that the communist conspiracy must be defeated if we are to remain free. The question then is, can we defeat the communist conspiracy without accomplishing the very purpose of that conspiracy? To state it in another way, are we confronted with the choice between letting the rats overrun our house or burning it down to destroy them? I say we face no such choice. At the start, we must understand that the fight is not against subversive ideas, but against subversive acts. Current looks of corruption, so i will do the rights to win total power, but against aggressive critical problems. And since human beings are named at the top of their country, the ones that you will ever hold up isihi- Safi-Pi- εί of王's power. There must be that assists and容易 result out of security of locating. Even if we need this,此 at once would be called a milestone. Private players represent theれて for thewear of theihiediiist as the struggethous therefore, on stage of the optional aspect of his strong eternities as the peaceful genocide- Thing it is. to the light of truth and a free society. Laws suppressing free expression of any economic and social doctrines, no matter who advocates them, would be unwise and would strike at the roots of our constitutional guarantees of free speech. The real danger to our freedoms from the communists is not in what they say or think, but in what they are trying to do. The economic and social doctrines of communism are only window dressing behind which a conspiratorial fifth column operates in the United States under the absolute discipline of the Kremlin. This foreign control conspiracy is working thematically to undermine or overthrow the government of the United States by overt acts. There are certain things we must do to defeat this communist threat, and none of them need result in losing our freedom. For one thing, we must try to force the communist conspiracy out into the open, to subject it to the light of public opinion. This can be done, as the International Security Act provides, by requiring communist organizations to register and to identify their literature and their radio and television programs. Does the communist refusal to register mean we are stymied? Of course not. The refusal was anticipated. Communist leaders have bragged they would refuse to obey such a law and actually use that boast as an argument against the Internal Security Act, intimating that because they would refuse to obey it, the law would break down. Not many Americans will agree that the government of the United States must give up its sovereignty because the servants of Moscow in this country say they will not comply with the law. Mr. Moderator, we're fighting treacherous, elusive forces which will stop at nothing to flaunt our law. And the procedural safeguards necessary to protect the innocent, in keeping with our Constitution, are time-consuming. But it is only a matter of time before the communist organizations will finally be either forced to register or subjected to the penalties of the law. In that thought, let us be resolute and determined. Meanwhile, we should strike vigorously at those overt acts, not thoughts or ideas, which are designed to further the objective of the communist conspiracy in the United States. We can prosecute without persecuting if we are careful to give the full protection of our traditional judicial processes even to violators of our law against subversive conspiracies. Mr. Moderator, communism in the United States is in fact a fifth column under foreign control. Hence, we must cut the pipeline of penetration by agents sent here by the Kremlin. We have laws aimed at doing that. The enforcement of these laws must, like the enforcement of our other laws, be sane and reasonable so as to accomplish, rather than defeat, our overall objective. We cannot build a self-enforcing legislative marginal line against communism. Eternal vigilance is still the price of liberty. We must continually appraise the adequacy of our statutes and their enforcement in order to keep up with the ingenuous devices employed by the communists to evade our laws or to violate them with impunity. In conclusion, Mr. Moderator, let me leave this word of caution. Those who seek to destroy us are even now cunningly using the argument that if we curb them in their diabolical efforts, we must also lose our freedom. That in itself is but communistic propaganda. I have complete faith in the vitality of our democratic institutions to meet that challenge. Thank you, Senator McCarron. Continuing this Northwestern University reviewing stand are Robert F. Hurley, commentator and director of news with radio station WGN, Paul Van Riper, professor of political science, and Nathaniel L. Nathanson, professor of law, both of Northwestern University. Now, Hurley, you've heard Senator McCarron. What is your position on this question of curbing subversives? Well, Dean, I agree quite conclusively with Senator McCarron in most every point he has made. And I was rather interested in that last statement or near the last when he said can we curb subversives without losing our freedom sounds like a question which would be propounded by a pro-communist. because you at first set up the idea of can we curb subversives and then you add without losing our freedoms and of course you immediately cause our listeners to think that if we do try to curb subversives we would be losing our freedoms. Now, it's a known fact in this country that legally our laws are written that our laws are written to protect the innocent and oft times as we see in crime the evil slips around and takes advantage of those laws. And of course that's exactly what the communist wants to do. He has a field day in this country because of our laws and because we do try to be fair. I'd like to have the question discussed some around the table and give you a better idea of just how I feel about this. Very good, Nathanson. Let's have your point of view on this. Where do you stand? Well, Dean, I was also interested in Senator McCarron's last remark when he called our attention to the cunning cry of the communists that we cannot curb their activities without destroying our own freedom and suggested that they, in effect, are trying to take advantage of our constitutional guarantees for their own benefit. Now, I have no doubt that the communists are being hypocrites when they attempt to wrap themselves in the cloak of freedom of speech and press and so on because there's no doubt that if they had the chance they would be the first ones to curb those freedoms. But all the same, I think that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be true to our own philosophy. Freedom of speech, as Justice Holmes said in one of his greatest dissenting opinions, means freedom not only for the opinions that we think are harmless, but even for opinions that we loathe and believe fraught with death. Now, I believe we should stick to that strong principle in dealing even with the problem of communists in this country. But isn't there a distinction, Nathanson, between freedom of speech and overt acts? And McCarron makes that distinction very carefully or tries to. That is, he's concerned about subversive acts. Yes, Dean. He denies no one the opportunity to state his views. I agree with that and I think Senator McCarron did make that point. But I was wondering how he would really draw that line. Well, Nathanson, what difference does it make? He didn't suggest that he was going after the freedom of thought. No, that's true. But now I... Why argue the point? Well, I think we have to find out what the statute that he's proposing really does. Now, I think that it would be nice if we could ask Senator McCarron that but since we can't, I tried to look through the Senate debates on this bill to find out what he really meant and I find a rather interesting colloquy between Senator McCarron and Senator Graham. Senator Graham called attention to a provision of this bill that defines the term advocates. Just one moment. Can I just make clear... No, not until we get an idea of who Senator Graham is. Oh. Now, Senator Graham is known to have been associated with many pro-communist causes. Well, now, I think that's a perfect example of just the kind of discussion we ought to get into. To suggest that the truth is to be found out by trying to label people and suggest that we... I'm not labeling the man. He is and has been through his years as the president of the university. He has been associated with pro-communist causes. Well, that's nonsense. Senator Graham was investigated... Well, you say it's nonsense. ...was investigated... Well, I was investigated about as carefully as any man could be investigated by the security checks and loyalty boards of the Atomic Energy Commission and was entirely cleared of any such... He was cleared of being a communist, of course. No, of any reasonable ground to doubt his loyalty to this country. I think that was the issue and that was clear. I'm not questioning his loyalty to the country. I'm questioning his beliefs and the fact that the man has been associated with pro-communist causes. Well, I think... Now, if you will continue... If you're suggesting that the kind of causes that Senator Graham was connected with for the advancement of the South and for the development and promotion of the welfare of the South is pro-communist because it happened that the communists undertook to support some organizations which were also engaged in that activity, why, then you can say that anyone who tries to advance good causes which he thinks are good and causes which communists also try to advance in order to get the benefit of the good names that are associated with it, then you're going to say that all those people are pro-communists. That I come back to. I think it's nonsense. Mr. Nassonson, you're giving me innocence by association which is indeed a strange and curious twist in these times. Well, I think perhaps that's better than guilt by association which is one of the worst twists in this time. You will say, let us, in order to judge what Senator Graham said in debate, since we are assuming that Senator McCarron is a right-winger, let us say... I'm not assuming anything about Senator McCarron whether he's a right-winger or a left-winger. Let us say that Senator... I wish we'd assume nothing about either senator as a matter of fact. Yeah, I would just like to tell you what they said to each other and have you consider the issue in that light. Now, I was saying that Senator Graham asked a question and I'm interested in Senator McCarron's answer. The question was whether a term which says admits... advocates... defined as admits belief in, as the statute does, refers to an act or a belief. Now, Senator McCarron answered that if a man admits belief in something, that's an overt act. Now, I say if that's what we mean by overt acts, then we're not... we're paying only lip service to freedom of speech because, of course, freedom of speech implies the right to say what you believe and the right to advocate what you believe. Well, now, wait, now... Now, you'd agree with that, wouldn't you, Mr. Early? In a sense, but to this extent, if a man admits that he believes that the government of the United States should be overthrown by the assassination of the president, I hardly think he is a decent citizen to be allowed to walk the streets. If nothing more, he should be put into an insane asylum. Well, I think that might be occasion to refer him to a psychiatrist. I would agree with that. How in the world are we going to sit here and discuss what was said by two senators on the floor of House prior to the passage of this bill? Well, I'm saying that we should now examine this bill carefully to find out whether it really is concerned with overt acts in the sense of what people do or acts only in the sense of beliefs which they admit they hold. We're talking about things that were said in discussion prior to the passage of the bill and not the bill itself. That's right. Well, I think that's a silly thing to do. I think it may be a help to us in deciding what to look for in the bill. Well, this much is clear. Nathanson is concerned about this act lest it invade freedom of speech and press and it's equally clear, I think, that Senator McCarran has denied emphatically that that is the intent of the bill or that it does move in that direction. Now, we'll have more to say about that. Van Riper, where do you stand here? Well, I'll say the same thing that I did just when I broke in for a second that I am not at all interested in Senator McCarran personally or in much of anybody else personally. I'm interested in what his legislation tends to say that I'm interested in the precise interpretation insofar as we can guess at it and in a sense you can only guess at interpretation of legislation. This thing is 40 pages long and I will say that for myself I am interested in two things in the control of subversives so far as I can define them and I want us to get into that for a moment a little bit later is that first I am interested along with Senator McCarran and I assume everybody else hear from their statements in the enactment of carefully defined criminal laws of what I call a negative character. On the other hand I am just as much interested in what I would call ordinary laws of a positive character designed to make social order as consistent as possible with the ideals we profess and I am not sure of what I am interested in the positive as much as the negative if you are interested in controlling anything relating to people's ideas. I am not sure I understand that distinction between negative and positive action. The McCarran Act is what I would call a negative act forbidding something from happening. It does not tend to create the kind of social order which we would find inconsistent necessarily with our ideas. Now I think the positive negative can be pushed too far but I think it's too far. Now what would be how would you illustrate some positive action in this field? In certainly legislation aimed at the idea of equality of opportunity for instance making that a positive thing making democracy work just as well as we can possibly make it work. That's the best answer any subversive that we've ever made. I think that certainly is as good an answer as the negative one. But I would like to see both of them. Isn't that just a I want to see both of them at the same time. We want to make democracy work just as well as we can make it work. Now I would suggest for example that when we find out that democracy is being corrupted by gangsterism by banksters and the ideas of gangsterism people who can control by purchase or by force the officers which which have been elected supposedly by the democratic process the heart of the democratic process if we find that going on as apparently we have found through the investigations of the Key Farber committee then I think we're finding real subversives and I think we ought to get busy and do something about it. Then you're trying to parallel the crime subversive with the communist subversive. Why exactly. I think that if the communist is also found to be engaged or in plotting crimes then he's as he says he's a very bad subversive and I think that there are many things that communists have been found to do or planning to do which come within the realm of real crimes and I think we should get busy and enforce the laws which apply to those particular types of crimes. I think that is the danger of any communist conspiracy in this country as distinguished from communist doctrine. Now I'd like to have Hurley spell out the problem that this McCarran act is designed to get at as he sees it. Well Dean to me I'm very pessimistic about the whole thing for years now. Ever since we recognized Soviet Russia in 1933 and started to build up the Soviet Union by giving her dignity that she had not had before under this dictatorship we have allowed in this country the communist group and the definite conspiracy to overthrow our government to continue. We have found people in high places both in Washington and our official family and in education and in religion and radio and the press and book publishing field in the movies who have given impetus to this whole thing and during those years... Mr. Hurley can I interrupt you just a minute? When you speak of this whole thing aren't you really discussing the problems of our foreign policy and the dangers from abroad? I am not. the dangers from within. I am not. I am discussing the communist conspiracy which is promoted by Moscow and the Kremlin. Well of course it is promoted and it's promoted to the extent that it can from the outside and also from within but when you talk of the danger of building up the power of Soviet Russia that's a danger from without which we must face. Mr. Nathanson if I must spell this out for you was part of the conspiracy. That was the beginning. That was one of the first steps to have Soviet Russia recognized and to have the dignity given. At the time that Litvinov was in this country prior to the signing of the pact between the two countries in November of 1933 it was decided then and our secretary of state was Mr. Hull that at that time and henceforth there would be no conspiracy in this country that the communist party would not function with its propaganda and Litvinov smiled when he signed that obviously because since then it has built up and created for itself a magnificent position in this country in which it brought our as I said a moment ago our official family and many people of high repute and so it was a natural thing to find them fighting against the un-American activities committee from the first whenever they tried to expose communism. I feel the hour has grown very late that it will be very difficult to control subversives and when I say subversives I mean communist and that's what is meant by this bill we're talking about so let's face facts and stop talking about the keepover committee we're talking about the McCarran law to control subversives which is meant communist. I have only one question to say about the bill actually meaning communist I don't think it does so it says at the very beginning that the it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to combine conspire or agree to anything that would substantially contribute to the establishment within the United States of a totalitarian dictatorship as defined by another paragraph and that doesn't make it any more precise. Well you don't think communist Russia is a totalitarian dictatorship That's not the question but there are an awful lot of other things that might well be considered under that and to say that this law refers entirely to communists is simply not true. Well I think one of the things that Trump will say is that I don't know what this law in that particular section refers to and I don't see how anyone can be tell very well from reading that section whether he's violating the law or not. I think that it's a very dangerous law because it imposes criminal penalties for an act which is so poorly so generally defined that it is it carries a substantial threat to the kind of justice as well as freedom that we've always known in this country. That may be good communist justice to try to enforce a law like that but I don't think it's good American justice. Nelson once again we had a bill written in Washington this McCarran bill which had we had the help of those who were interested in protecting our freedoms and that is the so-called liberal in this country and the left winger and we have them in our Congress if those people had gone to Washington and appealed to their representatives to write the kind of a law that might do the things that you want to do I think we could have had it but just as in the Taft-Hartley law the labor leaders of this country did nothing but hamstring the writing of a bill we did not get a good bill in the McCarran law I admit that but I say this that had we been given support from all shades of opinion your opinion too Mr. Nathanson we might have gotten a pretty good law out of this but instead you sat back and hindered while they were writing it and then when the law not you speaking particularly here you understand that but generally those who were liberal or to the left certainly did nothing to help us get a good law therefore we have a law that is not as we would want it to be Mr. Hurley I think that perhaps our main difference of opinion really is that I think that the kind of debate which has been going on about the purposes of the communists and the communist party and the communist conspiracy has been the best kind of an answer the best kind of an exposure of communist propaganda that we could have had I don't think that a law would have done half as much good as the what we have found out for ourselves and what individuals throughout this country have found out for themselves I would like to just give one slight example if I can for the dean that I was told just the other night by a friend of mine that he had to pass upon an application for admission to the bar by a young aspiring lawyer who had appeared had belonged to what might be called a communist front organization in his youth this boy frankly admitted that and also said that he was not himself a communist and had never been a communist but he thought he could work with communists in what might be called to him were good liberal causes so he tried he found out that he couldn't he found out that he had in order to belong to that organization to participate in its activities effectively he had to faithfully follow the communist line and so he withdrew he said he would have no more to do with it I think that boy learned something in the whole process of democracy I think he's a reliable citizen because of that I think he's learned more than he would have learned from the law which said to him you mustn't join any communist front organization because you may be contaminated by it and that's my main objection to this law I object also to some of the indefiniteness in certain of the early provisions I'd like to say also just for the benefit of audience in a sense is that there are quite a number of provisions in the McCarran Act we have the registration provision the detention provision the alien control provisions most of the latter of which I would take relatively few exceptions although to sit here and discuss all the act all at once as if it were entirely the communist question is just not true it concerns a whole lot of things and that I will say also in reply to Mr. Hurley that I to some extent agree that some people we would call say in quotes liberals if we can define that have fought I think there are also good reasons for them having fought in that I would find some people called the conservatives I think in a sense if you want to put it I'm apt to make a little worse than that why the Dias committee and so on why Mr. Van Ruyper have been their worst enemies by the fact that of the way they have tended to interpret or try and interpret acts as for instance saying all new dealers are subversives or such language as that which you continually find through the Dias committee reports and I do not blame anybody who finds who takes who looks at the Dias committee statements and says if that's the way the law is being enforced then I want no law at all it's worse than nothing we've been intoxicated by words and phrases and that's why a moment ago I suggested why would you say you would go a little farther than saying conservative now we've been trying the usual opposite to the word liberal is reactionary I can't find either one very well and I don't know neither do I and I just wanted to get that to our listeners the fact that you would tend to think of a conservative in some instances as reactionary in opposing such a bill as this now Nathanson with the example he presented here a few minutes ago suggests his answer to this problem he suggests that we don't need restrictive laws of the nature of the McCarran Act that we can learn this through experience is that your program for the most part Dean I would like to say that I think there are some good things in the McCarran Act too we just talked about some of them there so I have to say there are certain acts which are really subversive which have to be taken care of acts of espionage and sabotage and there are provisions in this statute which strengthen the laws on that subject which I think should be retained the rest I think should be gotten read out aren't we in an emergency where we can't you're mighty right we can't learn by experience I think we've got 50,000 casualties or close to it in Korea and our boys who have been killed in Korea have been killed by communists and that's what I'm talking about this morning and I say had we had an exposition of this thing earlier we wouldn't have been in that position well thank you gentlemen you've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion can we curb subversives without losing our freedoms our speakers today were the honorable Pat McCarron who spoke by special transcription Robert F Hurley Nathaniel L Mathenson and Paul Van Riper a copy of this program with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed can be secured by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston Illinois in the past few weeks the reviewing stand has discussed deficit spending the welfare state the draft the Korean War and other timely subjects a list including these and other programs discussed in the past year can be secured by sending your name and address to the reviewing stand a subscription that will bring you copies of future broadcasts costs only one dollar for the next four months two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year right to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston Illinois and now our moderator James H McBurney will tell you about next week's program next week the reviewing stand asks do rockets and jets mean a new era in air travel our guests will be Kenneth Jacobs supervisor of propulsion research at the armor research foundation Burgess H Jennings chairman of the department of mechanical engineering at the Northwestern University Technological Institute and John T. Retagliato vice president and dean of engineering at the Illinois Institute of Technology we invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question do rockets and jets mean a new era in air travel this program was transcribed this is the mutual broadcasting system出来 and the question ober Buttuis of the seks this year based ans a new site for the collagenブ также perder the cowper Kendall would you say they can版 was isn't March and no one Wait one La Flamme officials德 any different the underwear underserved the premier Doesn't not Hah Owen wantsуса any
