That's an oil painting. That's oil, isn't it? Yes, it is. That isn't watercolor. Oh, no. It's a very lovely thing. This is supposed to be a table and a vase of flowers. And then there's this here. I'm going to put some vines in it. That's just another little vase. See, that's the object over here. I painted it from that object there. The main thing is to work. I found that out. And then you get that peace of mind that nothing compares with it. Haven't you discovered that... Oh, in this picture and painting? Yes. Oh, it's the most wonderful thing, the most fascinating thing I've ever undertaken to do. You have a self-expression. That's right. If you have something to say, you say it right on the painting. That's right. And then if you make a little mistake, you can cover that up so beautifully. Are you going to frame this picture when it's finished? Oh, I wouldn't part with this picture. I'm going to frame it and keep it forever. Because in this picture, at one time, I had it darker and then it come lighter. In the recesses of my mind, I could see that darkness leaving. And I craved that light and that's why I did it over so many times. That's beautiful. But you've forgotten one thing. What's that? Your signature on the corner. Oh, no. I don't want fame. I just want peace of mind. Peace of mind. We've come a long way from handling a narcotics addict as a criminal to our present approach of treating him as a sick patient, which he is. But treating the patient after he has the disease is still but one step in solving the narcotics problem. The vicious circle has to be broken and that starts with a surprising fact. A fact we'll hear about from a world authority as our UN microphone goes right into the Narco Research Laboratory. Perhaps the greatest center for this type of investigation in existence. Here, scientists are probing for the answers. Over there is Dr. Isbell investigating sleeping pills. Dr. Altshul at the electroencephalograph studying the brain waves of addicts. Dr. Nathan B. Eddy of the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. The world authority on narcotics is observing that. He is the chairman of the expert committee on habit-forming drugs of the UN's World Health Organization. He's been asked a question which probably goes right to the heart of the dope problem. Here is the answer. Dr. We have not made a pain-relieving drug which is free of habit-forming quality. Then I understand that to this date there is no drug which has the property of killing pain which can be stated definitely as being free from the danger of incurring a habit. That is true. Well, is this laboratory in which we are standing now, is this laboratory concerned with the discovery of such a thing? Dr. In this sense that one of its functions or one of its activities has been to determine the habit-forming qualities of these new synthetic substances, morphine derivatives and so on, which we hoped might have adequate pain-relieving power with less habit-forming quality. Well, if a man takes marijuana, for example, does that build up his sense of invincibility so that he can go out and rob a bank, let us say, without any fear? No. Does any drug give that? No. I was speaking to one of the patients. He said that after a shot he felt like Superman. Well, drugs don't make criminals. They're already criminals. The drug may make it easier for them to commit the criminal act, but the criminal tendency was there to start with. I know that you are a chairman of the Committee on Habit-forming Drugs of the WHO, the World Health Organization, the Specialized Agency of the United Nations. How does the United Nations come into this picture at all? If you want any adequate control over a narcotic drug, a habit-forming drug, it's got to be at the international level. Therefore, the United Nations is the logical, practical agency for doing that? Definitely. Can you think of any other way of handling it? No, because the different nations will have different degrees of control, and unless it is uniform, unless there is interchange of information about the amount of drug produced and shipped from one country to another, no matter how tight the control is in this country, you have an adequate control. You know, somebody once criticized Abraham Lincoln for telling some humorous stories during the darkest days of the war between the states. Lincoln replied that war is no laughing matter, but that he was sure a laugh made war a little more possible to bear. Narcotics addiction is no laughing matter either. But here too, a laugh now and then helps a lot, all around. Our reporter, in his tour through Narco, saw tears, but also some smiles in the answers given his questions as he carried his microphone to the tables in the cafeteria. How much do you weigh? Two forty-five. Well, how did you get mixed up with the stuff? Just a coincidence. Coincidence? Yeah. Well, this time, see, I'm here for marijuana. What sort of a sensation do you get out of marijuana? Sometimes I think the world's mine. Yeah, but how long does that affect last? Well, that would last you about two hours and a half or three hours. I see. Then you'll have to smoke again. Yeah. Well, you can't keep doing it, can you? Well, if I don't keep smoking, I just keep drinking. I've got to keep a gauge up. Dr. Vogel, do you think that he needs this? I must tell him right here before all of you listening that he's not as smart as he looks. Well, that might be right. See, but, Doc, I mean, I never had a shot in my life. Nothing but the worst thing. I mean, I woke up a minute and a morning, I got a shot all right, but it was out of glass. Well, the way these men around here are laughing, I don't think they quite believe you. Well, I mean, just a matter of fact, I mean, I look at it like this. I mean, see, out there in the street, everybody, I mean, they get some kind of kid. I don't agree that everybody looks for a kid. I mean, everybody that I associate with. Well, you better... You better find different associates, then. Well, I think, but I hope that we'll meet again, Jeff. It won't be him. It'll be in the city of New York. I don't know. Addiction to narcotics was once considered to be just a local affair. Today, dope addiction is more than ever a matter of international concern. Now, international action against illegal traffic and drugs isn't new, but the scope and methods being employed by the United Nations are new. Here is just one example. Somewhere on the East Coast, there's a United Nations detection center, which can trace and determine where opium is coming from. In a moment, by special tape recording, you will look over the shoulder of a UN chemist at work. First, come behind the scene at Washington, D.C. and meet the chief of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Narcotics, Mr. Harry J. Anslinger. Mr. Anslinger holds the all-important post of American representative on the UN's Commission for Narcotic Drugs. He is questioned by another UN reporter, Michael Haywood. What have you found to be the chief problem in your fight against illicit narcotics traffic? The chief problem, as we see it, is to determine the country of origin of smuggled opium because that is the source of all the illicit traffic, not only in this country, but in the whole world. Some five years ago, we started a laboratory in Washington, and by scientific analyses, we have been able to determine just where the smuggled opium has come from. I assume what you're talking about is the new laboratory that you turned over to the United Nations together with its chief chemist, Dr. Fulton. We were only too glad to turn over the laboratories and personnel to the United Nations for this purpose. This is a worldwide problem, and so many of the delegates whose countries had in the past been charged of being the sources of origin had to say, give us some proof that this opium has come from our country. From now on, there shouldn't be any doubt. Now to the detection center, the exact location of which cannot be revealed. UN scientists are at their jobs. Our reporter holds a chunk of raw opium in his hand. He turns to the chief chemist, Dr. Fulton. What would you say about this? Can you ascribe it to any country, just on the basis of the looks? It looks like Indian opium. I have here some different kinds of other opium that we might compare with it. Here's some Turkish opium. Notice that the texture is granular, and it isn't nearly so dark. What's that long stick you have in your hand? That's a form in which Iranian opium often comes. Well, what's your next step in determining the origin? The next step is to make a microscopic test. Now when you look at it, here under the microscope... May I look into the microscope? Oh, yes. You look, and you'll see... Yes, what shall I look for? You'll see that there are long rods there. Oh, I see them. Little rectangular things, aren't they? Yes. Well, is that pretty conclusive evidence by now, or do you take the thing further? Well, we take it considerably further. That's pretty conclusive considering the appearance, but we want to make some chemical tests and determine the amount of some of the alkaloids that are present. Where is the main opium center? It's grown largely in the Balkans, in Turkey, Iran, India, China, Mongolia, Asiatic Russia, Korea, Burma, Siam, and some other countries. With narcotics, both natural and synthetic, capable of coming from so many different places, it is obvious that anything but effective world control is no control. UN reporter Hayward asks the opinion of a representative of one of the countries where opium is grown, India. Mr. Gopala Menon, member of the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Mr. Menon, do you feel that the new United Nations laboratory will strengthen the UN fight to break up illicit drug traffic around the world? I have no doubt at all, because for the first time you'll find that we will be able to find out exactly what the source of the opium is by internal chemical foolproof evidence. And there can't be anything better than that, tackle this question of illicit traffic. Is the Indian government going to cooperate with the UN laboratory? Oh yes, the Indian government has already done its very best, and Mr. Anslinger has paid a tribute to the Indian government for their cooperation recently. And hereafter, certainly, we will be sending all our samples to the UN laboratory. What does it all add up to? The doctor, the lawyer, the peddler, the boy, the woman who found peace in painting, the investigators, the UN laboratory. It adds up to a family of nations working together to prevent more tragedies like the ones you've been listening to. I met some fellows who used it, finally coached me to take a shot. I was extremely nervous, emotionally upset. Well, it was through ill hell. Unfortunately, I've been an addict all my life. Today, all legal trade in narcotics is under the control of the United Nations. The UN Narcotics Commission, with the Drug Supervisory Body and Central Opium Board, strictly regulate how much narcotics each country may import, export, and manufacture. By increasing international vigilance, investigation, research, and effective worldwide control, the illicit drug problem can be solved. When that day comes, narcotics will still perform its medical miracles and yet not wreck lives. Like that of 62-year-old Elliot, with whom our UN reporter spoke in the addiction ward of a narcotics hospital. Are you married, Elliot? No. Were you ever married? No. Didn't you ever want to be married? Yeah. What happened? Disappointed? This. This. Shooting gallery. The third in a new series of United Nations broadcasts. Mr. Gary Cooper was featured as guest narrator. This eyewitness account of illicit narcotics traffic, its victims, and its control was prepared for radio by Jeff Sparks. All recordings heard were completely authentic. In order to protect the identity of the patients who appeared on this broadcast, no last names were used. Music was composed and conducted by Irving Zathmury. The program was produced by Gerald Keene of United Nations Radio. The National Broadcasting Company has just brought you a special transcribed repeat broadcast on the illicit narcotics traffic as a timely public service. The National Broadcasting Company has just brought you a special transcribed public service. The National Broadcasting Company has just brought you a special transcribed