The Roma Wine Company, producers of America's largest selling wines, brings you, in place of their regularly scheduled commercial announcement, this urgent message from our government. Ladies and gentlemen, let's face facts. This is a total war, and every American, every one of us, must help in every possible way to win it. If you can, join the armed forces or work in the essential war industry. Join up for civilian defense. Volunteers are urgently needed. Use carefully and as little as possible any product that may be needed in our war effort. Make less, do more. Another important way all of us can and must help our war effort is to buy war bonds and stamps. Buy to the limit of your ability regularly every week or payday. Roma urges you to remember this. By buying war bonds regularly now, you're helping to assure future economic security and freedom for yourself and your loved ones. Now, here's more platter, and it's Charlie Barnett and the orchestra in merry-go-round. Thank you. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ The following is transcribed. I.J. Fox, 5th Avenue, Anniversary Fur Sales. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ you will understand why it's the standby of millions. If headaches persist or recur frequently, see your doctor. Use Standback only as directed. 10 and 25 cent packages. You save when you get the larger size. For simple headaches, snap back with Standback. Now here's more platter for you. Glenn Miller with Ray Eberle and the modern air singing Yesterday's Gardena. We will try every 1 or 2, 1 or 1 in 15 years. www.θηp.ifices.blogspotten.com You cannot say all he's making for love. You cannot say all about this! Here's the fact that you realize The End The End The End The End The End The End Yesterday's Cardenas With A King The End The End The End Following is transcribed. Oh, nurse? Yes, Dr. Allen? Where are those memos you have for me? Here they are, doctor. Yeah, now let's see. Send a check to the USO, buy another bond, send off scrap, HE buy a new fall suit in Barney's Imperial Room. Did you say Barney's Imperial Room? I see you're getting the Barney habit, too. And it's no wonder. At Barney's Imperial Room, you can buy a suit tailored by 3G Society brand or DeGrosso for only $45, $50, and $60, far less than you'd pay elsewhere. You can choose from New York's largest and most complete selection. And you'll receive friendly, cooperative service. Yes, and you know, too, that the workroom supervisor will fit you with all the care of a custom tailor. Visit our hat department, $750 for only $585. Barney's, open evenings till 9 is easy to reach from every place by subway, bus, or Hudson Tew. Calling all men. Calling all men to Barney's, 7th Avenue, and 17th Street, the only store of its kind in New York. America, one old battery makes three 3-inch anti-aircraft guns. Get in the scrap today. Now here is Bill Harding with Racing News. The other day scratches at Bay Meadows for you, and the one at Bay Meadows scratched post three fighting words. In the two, they all go. In the three, they all go. Four, all go. Five, all go. Six, all go. Seven, all go. And the eight and last at Bay Meadows scratched post three, Leon Green. There's Racing Today at Belmont, 1.30 and fast. Rockingham, 2 o'clock fast. Laurel, 2 o'clock fast. Hawthorne, 3.15 fast. Detroit is 3.25 slow. Fairmont is 3 o'clock and fast. And Bay Meadows, 4.15 fast. Armstrong Publications, publishers of the William Armstrong Daily Sports, the National Racing Program, the Daily Green Sheet, will be on the air throughout the entire afternoon and evening, giving you full and complete results of every race at the major tracks running today. First post, 1.30 at New York. Have your copy of an Armstrong publication with you, and be listening then. Now again, Jack Negley and more platter chatter. With Horace Height and the orchestra, Charlie Goodman, Donnan or Don Wands, in Don't Tell a Lie About Me Here. Don't Tell a Lie About Me Here. Why should I? And I won't tell the truth about you. You know we all make mistakes. Why tell a lie till you see this? Let me explain. If all of those things are true. Who's been talking to you. Honest and truly. I love you. I know that. Remember. You loved me too. I still do. So don't tell a lie. I know that. About me, dear. I'll never do that. And I won't tell the truth about you. You never do. You never do. You never do. He never do. And I won't tell the truth about you. Why about me, dear, and I won't tell the truth about you? Why tell a lie till you cease, see, my dear rest, if all of those things are true? Honest and truly, I love you. Remember, you loved me too. So don't tell a lie about me, you would never ever lie, and I won't tell the truth about you. And wouldn't it hurt, for I won't tell the truth about you? And so we leave your platter chatter, the all-recorded program, until tomorrow at the same time. So keep a listening, won't you? Your platter chatter originates in the studios of WINS. The following is transcribed. WINS New York, 1000 on your dial. And here comes a transcription by the slipcover man. I'm talking about slipcover. I'm talking about a new life, new beauty, new charm in your home. How many of you can say with assurance, I'll live the rest of my life without worry of sickness or of an accident? Well, now that would be nonsense, wishful thinking. But wishing and thinking are two different matters. The person who really thinks prepares for the unexpected. They know that if an accident or an illness comes into their home, they're going to have money to meet their obligations. They know that they're not going to have that fear and worry and anxiety of what's going to happen to them or their family. They know that this plan of security is working for them 24 hours a day. Right now, every man and every woman between the ages of 16 and up to 70 can have this new superior policy for an average cost of a little over 4 cents a day that gives you a guaranteed income of $25 a week in case of sickness, $25 a week in case of an accident. Yes, the coverage is so complete that even a common cold pays you $25 a week. Now, that's how complete the protection is of this new superior policy. And if you're in good health right now, you can have this policy without a medical examination. Well, there's so many benefits in it that I haven't time to list them all for you. And that's why Colombians want you to call Bryant 9-6000. Bryant 9-6000. And ask for Jack Negley. Leave your name and address, and then they will send to your home, without cost, without obligation, the entire story of this new superior policy. Now, that means for you housewives, women who work, no matter where you work, what you do, how dangerous you may think your job is, you can still have this new superior policy for a little over 4 cents a day. Folks, it's the most terrific thing that has been ever offered to the American public for protection in case of sickness or in case of an accident. Call Bryant 9-6000 right now and ask for Jack Negley, or put your name and address on a penny postcard and send it to Superior. S-U-P-E-R-I-O-R. Superior, in care of WINS in New York City. But folks, do it now, before it may be too late. And now... WINS, Newspaper of the Air. W-I-N-S, Newspaper of the Air. Oh, Mary, give me the desk. Copy desk. One moment, please. Good afternoon. This is Maury Dreister and the copy desk staff already and set to go. Here's our first cable report from Moscow. The Red Army widened its offensive northwest of Stalingrad today and again broke into Nazi trench fortifications at one point. An announcement by the Soviet High Command at noon said that Marshal Simon Timoshenko had launched offensive operations designed to relieve the siege of the city on several occasions. The High Command said scores of Germans were killed when the Soviets broke into the Nazi trenches. Heavy battling between tank and infantry forces raised on at Stalingrad, despite assertions made by German military spokesmen in a broadcast over the Berlin radio, that only artillery and air forces would be left to mop up the city. This may possibly be German propaganda, which we're fighting for all too readily. The Germans were beaten back from another street within the city when the Russian defenders counterattacked to eliminate a temporary gain scored by the Nazi. Soviet reports said that the Germans drive into one street, but after stubborn fighting, the remnants of the Nazi force retired to their initial position. A Nazi attempt to carry out a pincer attack south of the city was frustrated by Red Army troops. The Russians stood firm when the Nazi renewed an offensive on this sector and destroyed 26 tanks accompanying the attacking force. Sid Shekman, let's have that lead story from Washington. All right, Maurice, here it is. The Navy announced today that United States Army Liberator bombers escorted by fighter planes dropped a total of 15 tons of bombs on Keesker Island and severely damaged one Japanese cargo ship in the harbor. At the same time, the Navy announced the U.S. Coast Guard cutter, Muscat, is overdue in the Atlantic and presumed lost. Text of the Navy's 144th communique of the war follows. North Pacific. On October 6th, Army Liberator bombers escorted by Arakobra and lightning fighters dropped approximately 7 tons of bombs on the area surrounding the seaplane hangar at Keesker. Eight more tons of bombs were dropped on the camp area and fires were started. Two cargo ships in the harbor were attacked and one was left on fire and sinking. The radio station was damaged by strapping. One seaplane was destroyed and water and another was damaged. Reconnaissance over Ottawa and Agathe on the same date failed to reveal any enemy activity on these islands. Nice going, Sid. For such a prodigious yawn of colossal significance. Sarah Lee Harris, what's your first story? Here you are, Maurice. Mount Clemens, Michigan. Wondering why nearby Centerline was often referred to as the sweetest town in the state, The Macomb County Rationing Board sent out an investigator to find out just what the sugar ration situation was there. The investigator, sharp-tongued Mrs. Elizabeth Summers, decided today that the sugar situation was not good and consequently she confiscated 90 rationing books. She said that many families had been too liberal in their estimates of their sugar needs and some of the books, according to Mrs. Summers, will not be returned for the duration because some of the owners were making wine. She said it doesn't make any difference whether the people who issued the cards knew the law or not. The applicants should have known. The regulations were printed. Ignorance excuses no one. All right, that's right there, Lee Harris. Helen Eastman, what have you to report? Maurice, here's a story on women in Warwick, New York. I've been working on the railroad. I've been tuned to a high C pitch since the Morris Park Railroad Yards of the Long Island Railroad began hiring women as laborers. For the first time in its 50-year history, that railroad employs women as engine wipers and manual laborers, a move necessitated when over 200 workers were derailed by the draft. They're surprisingly good, said master mechanic Regis J. Conrad, boss of the Petticoat Brigade today. They go at it with a vengeance as if they were polishing furniture. So hard-boiled yardmen, who thought they had seen everything, from the iron horse to engine housewives, who did all but knit a muffler for the steam gauge, reported to work one morning and got the shock of their lives. The firehouse was gone. So was the spare stallion. In their place was an elite dressing room for the ladies, complete with lockers, tables, and mirrors. The women moved in with their heavy artillery of cold cream and lipstick, and everybody was happy. I hope the engines were, too. And thanks a lot, Helen Eastman. Now, a bulletin from London. American bombs crashed by the hundreds into Nazi military installations in northern France today when United States flying fortresses and British fighting planes carried out the heaviest raid yet staged on French territory. The raiding planes swept up and down the heavily fortified French coast for miles. Spitfires and hurricanes made the first attack, dropping light bombs and strapping installations with machine gun fire. Immediately on their return, big formations of fortresses roared over to follow up the initial attack with heavy bomb loads. Headquarters of the United States Army Air Corps had nothing to say regarding the number of forts employed in the raid. But one international news service observer on the south coast telephoned into London with this. It was the biggest bunch of forts, that's planes, of course, yet to go over. But they streamed out over the channel in waves. So far as could be ascertained, the raid was directed mainly against the great industrial area surrounding the city of Lille. Sid, we can use that sport summary now. All right, Maurice, here it is. The world of sport is just getting over the hangover left by the World Series. And football gets ready to knock it right back where it started from in the old upset pile. And football returns to New York in full bloom tomorrow. Up at Baker Field, Lulittle's Columbia line square off against a highly tutored Brown University Bruins. Columbia will be led by co-captain Paul Gouvernelli, the outstanding passer and ground gainer in the nation. Brown will be led by Frank Margarita, the one-man backfield. There's anybody's ballgame tomorrow at Baker Field. The Fordham Rams, although not as bad as that 40-14 shellacking last week at the hands of Tennessee seemed to be, will take on North Carolina with the polar grounds tomorrow. And this looks like another game for Fordham in the wind column. Manhattan College travels to the football wars to take on Georgetown out at Georgetown. And anybody's ballgame, another close rivalry. At the Yankee Stadium, Princeton will try to attempt to sink the Navy. A tough one in any battle. This one looks like another victory for the Middies. And it's football Sunday at the polar grounds where the battling New York Giants will take on the Philadelphia Eagles in the Manhattan opener of the pro gridiron season. And the Brooklyn opener, the Brooklyn football Dodgers. Square off against the Pittsburgh Steelers and will attempt to carry on in a winning column. And that's all the news today in the sporting world, Maurice. All right, Sid, knowing you're a Columbia man, I can well imagine whom you're going to be rooting for. Sarah Lee Harris, what have you to report? Here's a story on the New York scrap drive. New York's contribution to the scrap metal drive, sponsored by publishers throughout the nation, today stood at 141 million pounds, with still more coming. Included in today's total was 84 million pounds of household scrap collected yesterday from Brooklyn's 2.5 million residents. Collection of heavy pieces, which could not be handled without special equipment, is to begin today, and will still further swell the borough total. The 141 million pounds figure represents the collections in only three of the city's five boroughs. The Bronx will hold its scrap drive next Tuesday, and Manhattan will make collections on the following Thursday. Throughout the day yesterday, 1,400 heavy departments of sanitation trucks and other city-owned rolling stock lumbered through the Brooklyn's 1,500 miles of street, as some 10,000 workers tackled mountainous piles of steel and iron, which littered the thoroughfares. All right, that's fine, Sarah Lee Harris. Helen, I believe we have time for a brief bulletin from you. Here's a meaty story, Marie. New York. The man who wanted steak, medium rare, wandered in and out of 125 New York restaurants today, and finally settled for oyster stew. This was the day on which the Restaurant Owners Guild of New York launched its first experiment with voluntary meat rationing, and all 125 of its members featured menus entirely devoid of meat dishes. The experiment was not without its scoffing observers. The Society of Restaurateurs, another organization of eating place owners in New York, was strictly aloof with the comment that Friday is already a fish day and practically meatless in New York under even normal conditions. Paul Henkel, secretary of the restaurateurs, commented, it would be a joke to try to tell the public that restaurants were moved by patriotic spirits not to sell meat on Friday. All right, and now the copy desk editorial originated by the editor. The decision, or at least the reported decision, of the Nazi to withdraw from Stalingrad and attempt to raise it by guns may in all probability represent a key turning point in the war. Obviously, the German plans to use Stalingrad as a winter base this year, just as they used Harkov as a winter base last year. The whole principle of the German tactics in Russia has been the fortification and use of already erected stone buildings as enormous toolboxes. This proved relatively successful in Russia last year. It appears apparent that to wipe out the entire city of Stalingrad by artillery will be extremely difficult. Once the range has arrived at, it will be relatively simple for Russian air forces to bomb German artillery placements. Madrid was able to withstand nearly a two-year bombardment. The fate of Stalingrad is now entering a similar phase, and that just about does it. And this is Maury Dreiser and the copy desk staff saying that until Monday at 1 o'clock, it's 30 here. And folks, remember, if you haven't called Bryant 9-6000, do it right away. Leave your name and address so that Columbian Protective Association of Bingham, New York, can send to your home without cost, without obligation, the complete story of this new superior policy. Now, investigate different plans of security. Find the plan that gives you the most protection. And by all means, be sure that the plan you do pick has the approval of the New York State Insurance Department, because after all, that is your guarantee and mine that it is all right for us to have. Now, you know and I know how tough it can be to need money at any time. But particularly at a time of sickness or accident, it can be very tragic. And that is why today, everyone should protect that salary to the best of their ability and do that with a plan of security. And when you can, for a little over four cents a day, that's the average cost of this new superior policy that gives women the same protection as was only given to men before. That means even for a common cold, yes, the benefits are so marvelous that every one of you listening right now should at least investigate. And for the breadwinners, if your salary isn't protected, by all means, call Bryant 9-6000. Bryant 9-6000 and ask for Jack Negley or put your name and address on a penny postcard and send it to Superior. S-U-P-E-R-I-O-R, Superior, in care of W-I-N-S in New York City. Get the complete story of this new superior policy without cost, without obligation. All the facts are printed very plainly in the policy so you can't go wrong. Call Bryant 9-6000 right now. Copy Desk is a copyrighted feature originated and edited by Bernard Estes. The next regularly scheduled newscast on this station will be heard at two o'clock this afternoon. Program originated in the studios of W-I-N-S. The following is transcribed. Oh, for goodness sakes, Gordon and Tommy. Mark, you didn't tell me that you were going to the dance with me tonight. Oh, my, did I ever, Gordon. Oh, I told you, I'd go to the Academy Harp with you. Well, that's tonight. And the Harp of Promise tonight, too. Oh, Gordon, Tommy, will you ever forgive me? Oh, I can't go with either of you. Huh? Oh, I've got such a horrible headache. Gee. Mark, if I can get you relief from that headache, will you go with me? Well, if I feel better by nine o'clock, I guess I could, couldn't refuse. Oh, what could you do? I could get Margie a stand back and get a relief from that headache so fast you'll be amazed. Stand back? Ah, nuts. Why didn't I think of that? Margie, you'll be dancing around that floor without a care once you've had a stand back. So great has grown stand back's popularity during the past 32 years that millions of packages are now used yearly. You, too, will like the remarkably speedy relief stand back gives from headaches. Tell your doctor about headaches that hang on or return frequently. Use stand back only as directed. 10 and 25 cent packages. For simple headaches, snap back with stand back. 115 WINS, New York. 1,000 on your dial. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, here we are again, and there's just a couple of more days left that you can get that marvelous book bargain. Remember, this bargain goes off the air this week. That get-acquainted offer by the Book League of America for those two marvelous books, The Sun is My Undoing and War and Peace by Tolstoy. Both books were $1.39. So if you haven't called Bryant 9-6000 to order your books, may I suggest that you pick up the phone right now and get that order in before it may be too late. Remember, this offer goes off the air this week, so the time is short, and get your order in now. While the instrumentalists play able to hear your troubles away. My Friendship chatter Big Aristo Big Ar兩 Big Ar resident called White Arielle Beach Silver
