and students and students of the fine public schools of the city and state of New York. Now, I'd like to, you're hearing about the Bill of Rights today. I'd like to approach it from this point of view. How many of you have thought of what your obligations are under the Bill of Rights? All those of you who have thought of what your obligations are under the Bill of Rights, raise your right hand. Well, I see some of you have thought about it, and I hope, I hope, that when I have finished with a few words that I want to say, that you yourselves will think more about it. Now, the other day, I was making an address on the question of the necessity of the observance of religion. And I asked all those in the audience who wanted to go to heaven to stand up, and everybody stood up except one little boy. And I said to him, my dear little fellow, I said, everybody else has stood up but yourself. Can I ask you why you didn't stand up? And he said, if you don't mind, I don't want to go to any either place just now. I want to stay right here. Now, you all of you, I presume, if you can't hear me, I don't like these microphones very much. If you can't hear me, will you raise your hand, because then I'll talk louder. But I suppose that most of you, that most of you, read our papers, our newspapers. And if you read them, at least I am every time I read the papers, I'm surprised at how good they are. Now, when you read them, you'll see a great many items of news, I know. And one of the things, one of the things that shocks me when I read the papers, and I guess it shocks you, is the fear, is the fear that every other country in the world has. And what is that? That's the knock on the door. Now, what does that mean as you read it in the papers? It means that the government comes into your family and takes perhaps the father, takes perhaps some other member of the family, and you'll never see them again. Or, or, as we've just been witness, perhaps you'll hear of a confession and an execution. Now, the human body is so constituted that you can torture it into making a confession. Now, why, we're the only country in the world which has a written guarantee against that happening to our citizens here. And that, and our guarantee, is in writing, is in writing. And it's a guarantee that protects your rights against even the government, if you can maintain your rights in a court of law after a hearing. Now, that's a great achievement, isn't it? When the next you read in the paper about the knock on the door and some member of the family being taken away without any hearing at all, then you'll come back, I'm sure, if you don't do it after this morning. Then you'll come back and you'll say, why doesn't that happen here? Why can't the government come in and seize me or my father or my brother? And then you'll say, well, I remember that somebody speaking before the school called our attention to our Bill of Rights. And then I'm sure for the first time, perhaps, perhaps for the first time, you'll go back and read those Bill of Rights. Now, those Bill of Rights are the first ten amendments to our Constitution. And I hope you'll read them. They say, in substance, I won't take the time because I haven't got the time this morning to take them up one by one. But they provide that before you can be taken, even by the government, you have a right to be heard. And you have a right to have a court say whether you're right or whether the government is right. And we also have here an independent judiciary, which isn't under the power of the government, but which has the courage and the right to say, as between the United States government and your little self, that you're right. Now, that's a great right. And we're the only country in the world that has it. And don't you think, don't you think that when we have that in writing, that when I said how many of you have read the Bill of Rights, there ought to have been a great many more hands go up. There were only a few. And even some of those were a little hesitant. They didn't go all the way up. So that the Bill of Rights, if you understand it, makes you, will make you a loyal American if you haven't been before. And when you hear somebody say, cast aspersions on the American government, just ask them, ask them if in their country the government is supreme and can take you whether you're right or wrong. Ask them that. And then you'll come back to America and you'll say, thank God for America and for the Bill of Rights. Now, I want to tell you something else. And I'll have to move on because I see my time is moving out. How do you suppose you can lose those Bill of Rights? Why, in the first place you can lose them by neglect. Do you realize that in this country, in this country, only 51% of the people here take the advantage of their right to vote? Now, isn't that a shame? And I want you fine young women, when you grow up, to see that in your family, that in your family, your family knows that they mustn't lose their right to vote. They mustn't, they must exercise their right to vote. Now, how else can that right be lost? It can be lost by corruption. It can be lost by corruption. Now, corruption, corruption is a thing which I'll show you in a minute. Destroys government. And let me say this. When I say this, I haven't got more, I haven't got more time than just to mention it. I hope you'll understand it. And that is the power of individual integrity. Don't make any mistake about it. That particularly applies to the boys and the girls. It's what your neighbors think of you, the counts. And the power of integrity is very great. And you can think, oh, well, in a big city, I can do what I please and get away with it. I tell you, you can't do it. Somebody knows about it. Somebody knows about it. And when they say, what kind of a man or a woman is this? If you sacrifice your integrity, you're gone. Now, I want to say one other thing. That I'd like to have the time. I'd like to have the time to go over the history and show you how the countries were lost when they had a government or a people that didn't have integrity. That Babylon, that Babylon, Athens, Rome, Rome, for a little while, Great Britain, they said, God, they came back again to integrity. Now, I want to say one other thing. I want to speak. I want to speak of two of these. I want to speak to the broken hole. I want to say this. That this is particularly true of the women of America. The women can hold the homes together. The women can do it. They have power. They have power. The women can do it. They have power. And the moms can do it. The women can do it. They have power. And the men can do it. They have power. And the men can do it. In your home, those who pray together, stay together. Stay together. Now, it doesn't make any difference what your religion is if you have some religion. Don't forget that. Those who pray together generally stay together. Now. You said to pull your coat tail. All right. My dear friend, Gardner, her husband, says that my time is just about up. So I want to just leave that note with you, that those who pray together are apt to stay together. And I... I just want to repeat a question which wasn't clear to you. Judge, I'm repeating a question which wasn't clear to them. Those who have read the Bill of Rights, please show their right, raise their right hand. Those who have read the Bill of Rights. They have read the Bill of Rights. Yes. They didn't get the question. You see, I've got to protect the interests of the school here. Now, Miss Louise Zabriskie, who is President Emeritus of the National Society of Colonial Dames of America, has come here to pay her respects. Students of the schools of the city of New York, Again, I greet you and wish you God's peace in your future life. Do you realize that before many years have passed, you will constitute the meaning of the first words to the preamble of the Constitution, we, the people. You will be the people, and by your authority, you will rule America. Therefore, upon your shoulders will rest the responsibility of keeping safe with our forefathers, who laid down for us in our great Constitution and its amendments the rules of government. In the preamble and the First Amendment, we, the people, presented to the world our assets, and that asset was freedom. But this freedom was only obtained by the uniting of the people in this new and falsely settled country. We can only preserve freedom by preserving the unity of the people. That unity is obtained through moral and spiritual force that knows no barriers of race or creed. It is the united spiritual force of we, the people. Therefore, it is your solemn obligation as the coming generation of we, the people, to preserve that moral and spiritual force which is unity. Goodbye, and God bless you. I am vice president of my board of education in Hastings down in Hudson. I have two children in the school there, and I think one of the greatest things that parents can do is to see that our own children have a real grand American education. And you all are so, so lucky in having Mary and Jules as your principal. Mary and Jules. applause applause Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.