Well, Bernays, I think it's time that we got down to something concrete now. How do you translate these principles of morale into action? What do people do? What do individuals do? What do we do in our voluntary organizations? What do we do at the political level? What do we do in the state and the municipalities? What does the federal government do about morale, both in its domestic relations and in its international relations? I think we ought to get something concrete by this time. Your city station has brought together another panel whose purpose is just that, to develop a concrete program of action on the harnessing of America's psychological resources. You have just heard one of the participants in this evening's discussion, Dr. Otto Kleinberg, professor of psychology at Columbia University. The other panel member will be introduced shortly by your moderator, Edward L. Bernays. Tonight's program is the third and final discussion in this series on mobilizing America's psychological resources in times of emergency. And this evening's broadcast is concerned with a blueprint for action on the psychological front. Now, here is Mr. Bernays. This is the third of a series of three panels in which we've tried to bring to the listening audience the problems of morale that the United States is facing. And just to bring you up to date on the first panel, which was held two days ago, we had Ed Grunewald, managing editor of Business Week, one of the ablest and most knowledgeable young editors in the country, Dr. Houston Peterson, professor of philosophy at Rutgers University. I know you know him because you listened to his invitation to learning. And Dr. Frederick Wertham, a psychiatrist. And we discussed the whole initial problem of definition of morale and its importance. And just bringing you up to date, that panel concluded first that morale was one of the four important elements of strength in our country, men, money, materials, and morale. Well, we discussed the importance of the citizen getting sound information, the importance then of letting the public have the facts, the fact that morale was not something you could just create overnight, but depended upon what Callan called a psychosomatic situation, sound physical and psychological health of the public. We discussed the importance of the minorities in this country having a reason for belief in freedom, equality, and orderly justice for a strong morale. And we discussed the possibility of a morale committee, formal or informal, on a national basis, to act as a guide in these things, indeed. Now, we then had a second discussion. That second discussion went a bit further. That second discussion tried to figure out first what our morale resources were, and then how to harness them. And for this, we had a rather interesting combination. There was Callan, philosopher and abstractionist, Kleinberg, if you want to call him that. Bob Landry, a realist, a man from variety and drawn from Columbia Broadcasting Program Department, where he was formerly the head. We had Professor John W. Riley, who was a professor of sociology at Rutgers. He'd just come back from Korea. He's secretary of the American Sociological Association. And there, the thing became dynamic already, and we found that these people discussed morale on a more realistic level. Callan and the others brought out first what our morale resources were. Well, first, he said the Bible of America. That is our great state papers, Jefferson's Declaration of Independence, the 14 points, the four freedoms, Jefferson's second inaugural address, the Gettysburg Address. He mentioned Lincoln's papers, the great poets, Walt Whitman, and so on. The tradition of America. Then Riley said, well, we've got other morale resources. We have this tremendous reservoir of our voluntary organizations that function to keep those traditions alive. Then Callan said, but for heaven's sakes, don't forget, we have even more than that. We have the know-how, the knowledge of how to apply science, and we have our public school systems which carry forward the pattern of America and the traditions and the know-how. Then they agreed that we have, in addition, our high standard of living, a mechanistic standard, as well as the standard of our ideals and ideas. And then Callan and Riley both said we have, in addition, our health, psychological and physical health, our general well-being, which are factors in our resource. Well, we came to agreement then that A, morale is important. B, here are our morale resources. Now, how can we harness them? And we then came to a discussion of harnessing these resources so that in peacetime, because we're not in the Third World War, I agree with you, Kleinberg, as to that, and I think everybody else must, that this is a peacetime activity. We got to a point where we said, how can we harness this? And we then had certain rather broad discussions, which these are going to define and redefine and refine, as to how these resources of America, which are not things, but which are what Callan called guts and heart, can be harness. And we had two points of view. One was, well, maybe a broad national committee, and then maybe research to act as a basis for policymakers. Well, now, I think that pretty much covers it. Mr. Carter, who's Assistant Program Director, listened to all this. I'd say that that covers it, don't you think, the first two programs. And here we are today, Professor Otto Kleinberg, Professor of Psychology at Columbia University, who prepared an extraordinarily able document, which I hope you read, Teed, if you haven't, on relieving international tensions, I think it was called for UNESCO. Was that the name of it? It was called Tensions Affecting International Understanding, a Survey of Research. A Survey. I stand corrected, sir. A very able and a fine book that everybody should read. Dr. Professor Kleinberg is also Executive Secretary of the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues, which is made up of many social psychologists. Which I'm a humble member, Bernice. And so am I. Good. I'd like to hear that. And with Dr. Kleinberg on the program with me is Dr. Ordway Teed, who is Head of the Board of Higher Education of New York City, an organization which is, I think, the largest university organization in America or the world. The largest college organization. The largest college. How many, Teed? 72,000. 72,000 men and women in the various city colleges. And these two gentlemen and myself will then discuss the problem of morale, not from the standpoint of the two backgrounds, which have laid, it seems to me, a pretty sound base, but from the standpoint of where do we go from here. Now, it seems to me that if we're all agreed up to this step, six minutes talking time, what can and should the individual citizen do? What can and should the various political units do, state and city? And third, what should the federal government do at home and abroad? Well, now, let's open it up. What can the individual citizen do to further morale? Bernays, before we go into that, may I just take up one of your points and amplify it just a little? I was delighted to hear you say that what we're discussing is important for peace. Not, it isn't necessarily related to the fact that there is, unfortunately, a war in Korea. And it's certainly not related to our belief that a third world war is coming. I think we all have hopes, very strong hopes, that that third world war will not come. And I'm very happy to see that in the past discussions and also today, you're laying the stress on the value of morale in peacetime. Let's keep that in mind. We still have hopes that we will not allow this Korean episode, terrible as it is, to be extended into a third world war. So let's, I think, keep that in the forefront of our thinking and planning as we go further with our discussion. I agree with you, Kleinberg. Kleinberg, I think we must predicate our whole thinking and our whole philosophy on the fact that in the world today we must be strong. And strength is not only a matter of physical strength, materials, it is also a matter of moral strength. That is, of what Callan called guts and heart. A man may be down, but he's never out. And I think we must all agree, and I know you do, Teed, that in dealing with this situation, we're dealing with the situation of what we might call moral strength and not with a situation of war. Well, now, with that... You were emphasizing as a part of the individual effectiveness as we look ahead, the role of information and very properly. I'm troubled by one aspect of that statement. How do I, as a citizen, come to know enough to be intelligent? You alluded, for example, to Kleinberg's book. I haven't had time to read Kleinberg's book. I read the headlines immeasurably in both the New York Morning Daily papers. I feel somewhat frustrated on the score of my time factor in gaining information about these critical matters, Bernays. Well, I agree with you that the matter of being informed in a cockeyed world such as the one we are living in is one of the great problems of the age, particularly since the average schooling of American adults is only 8.8 years of age. But I think that the deliberate citizen can inform himself of what goes on by developing certain shortcuts to understanding. I would say today that if a man reads a newspaper like the Times or the Tribune or both in New York City, or papers of the same character through the country in the larger cities, he can be pretty well informed. I think that if he listens to such broadcasts as those of men like Edward Morrow and Elmer Davis, he can be pretty well informed. I think that if he reads one or two news magazines, he can get a pretty clear picture, as objectively as he can get it, of the world he lives in. And I think that if he looks to men whose interest is not biased, and he can find that too, that he can get a pretty good basis for being able to separate the impropaganda from what I call the propaganda, using one in its sound sense and the other in its antisocial sense. Don't you agree with that, Kleinberg? Well, I would say this, Bernays. Yes, I think I agree with what you've said so far. But I also wanted to suggest that it isn't entirely a question of information. That's important. I agree. But there's also something that the psychologists have termed, perhaps it's a rather clumsy expression, ego involvement. That is to say, the feeling that these problems are... It can't grow. Well, he's not the only one. A number of others have used it. He has used it. Ego involvement really means that we somehow feel identified with the problem, that it means something to us, that we take a stand in connection with it, that we don't just leave it to somebody else. It's our business. It's our problem. And I think that's almost, well, I put it as equally important with the acquisition of information. I wonder if I could give an example of an area in which I think we should all be much more ego involved than we are now. And that's the problem, which ties up also with your previous emphasis on the American Bible, the problem of not regarding any man as guilty until he's proved guilty, thinking of himself as, thinking of him as innocent until he's proved guilty. Now, a great many voices have been raised against guilt by association, against holding something against a man because perhaps he joined an organization 15 years ago, which five or 10 years later was declared to be subversive, even though he didn't know it at the time, and certainly he himself may have had no subversive thoughts or attitudes or behavior at the time whatsoever. I think that's a very fundamental aspect of our American Bible, that we're in some danger of forgetting. And if I may take just a few seconds more to say that as a professor, I have been profoundly shocked and disturbed at discovering how many people in my field, psychology, sociology, anthropology, are not allowed now, for example, to work for the American government because of that kind of presumed guilt by association with organizations which weren't even regarded as guilty at the time they were associated with them. And what I'm saying is that as part of our morale problem, we've got to take seriously this threat against one of the fundamental tenets of our American Bible. Well, Steinberg, maybe I can answer T's question from what you've just said to me, or said to us. That is, the individual citizen should not only be well informed, but the individual citizen should attempt to live up to the American Bible, the American tradition, freedom, equality, orderly justice, and certainly to the Bill of Rights, which definitely condemns no man without trial by jury. It seems to me, and I quite agree with you, that a lot of this vigilantism, which was fine when we had no law and order, let's say, in California in 1848 and 1849, is rampant today, and that we should go back to the constituted law enforcement authorities for ensuring that there is an adherence to the pattern of America. That's something the individual can do, and that would greatly raise morale, because I agree with you that the morale of many good Americans is suffering from the hysteria and the rabble-rousing and the witch-hunting that is so existent today. Steinberg, while you're mentioning the academic community, I'd like to register my own profound conviction, because I have to be raised to this problem too, of the ineffectuality, the worthlessness, from this national morale standpoint, of anything that would encourage the extension of what are called loyalty oaths in the academic community. I wonder if you don't agree that that is nationally a morale, an adverse morale factor, rather than something, hopefully, to get more college faculty to be more patriotic and more loyal. I'm against them. I agree with you entirely, Pete. I don't see that any possible good comes out of loyalty oaths. It's been pointed out so often that people who aren't loyal would be perfectly willing to take the oath, and they wouldn't mean anything by it anyway. So why subject loyal Americans to the indignity of having to take the oath when it isn't any use in the first place? With disloyal Americans, of course, to me, Kleinberg and I, you're a social psychologist and I'm not, it would seem to me that that is still part of our belief in the tyranny of words and of magic verbalism. It's like the old medicine man who had to say, who said to one of his primitive adherents, die, and the fellow died because it was the medicine man that said it. I think we are grown up and sophisticated enough as a nation not to depend on verbalism, incantation, and the use of simply the tyranny of words when we are really dealing with reality. I agree that Fuchs and the Hiss episodes have made many Americans jittery, but I do believe that the only way to deal with that situation is not on a basis of believing that words will cure it, but that due constituted processes of law should be involved to deal with the situation. Well, the question I raise then is on this matter of what can and should the individual citizen do, I think we're agreed, number one, he should be as informed as he can by listening, talking, reading valuable information so that he can attempt to separate truth from impropaganda. Secondly, that he should congregate with his group in order to get information. Third, that he should attempt to live up to the American Bible that Callan called it or the American tradition and fourth, that in dealing with the hysterical aspects of life, he should attempt to come back to realism instead of permitting himself to be stampeded by the herd. Is that correct? Well, I see, Bernays, you don't like my expression ego involved, but... Well, ego involved is a little academic for the audience. And from that, I think that we're really in agreement. With one addendum I'd like to make, please. That is that, for example, take the college boys of draft age with whom I have to be concerned in my particular role. It seems to me that there has to be, on the individual level there, Bernays, there has to be some attention paid nationally within the education institution. Two things. Two things. First, what the college boy being drafted is convinced about, feels, believes, as to our American Bible and all its implications today. And second, as to the extent to which he, apart from actual death in actual warfare, he has as a democratic promise of personal fulfillment out of his draft obligation of two years or 26 months. Hasn't the nation some obligation to say to him that here are your educational guarantees after you've done this tour of national service? Here are the expectations that we have for you for this taking two years of your life for the national purpose. In other words, T, do I understand you correctly? You believe that the government should tell this young man just what it will do for him as he is doing his service for the totality of government. I do think so very deeply. In other words, you believe that we should tell the individual citizen as a government what we will give him in recompense for adhering to his obligations as a citizen. I wouldn't even put it as recompense. I would say it's a part of the national balance sheet. The citizen contributes this, the nation contributes this to a total ongoing of our country. Well, now, I think there's another aspect of that, Dr. Thede and Bernays, that uncertainty is a very bad influence on morale. Uncertainty, just not knowing where one will be, what one will do. And whatever decisions are arrived at, I think our young men and women should be informed of those decisions as soon as possible so that they'll just, they'll know how to plan and how not to plan. I think, Thede, you'd agree that, on the basis of your experience with students, and I've had a little myself, that that fact is tremendously important because not knowing what one will be doing next year, where one will be next year, is, I think, the most, has the most devastating effect upon any kind of decent work this year. Doesn't mean. Now, just recapitulating because I want the listening audience to see this picture in its entirety, I think we deviated a little bit for the moment as to what the individual citizen should do, to what the state should do for the individual citizen, but to get back to the individual citizen, we said he should inform himself, we said he, we said that he should not be aware of propaganda or be aware of it to a point of being able to distill it, we said that ego involvement was an important element, and we said, Thank you. You see, you got the word over, and I'm sure it is over to the audience. Now, it seems to me that the individual citizen can do another thing. If we accept the Jeffersonian premise that he is the most important factor in our society, he also has a part to play, I wonder whether you agree, T, in affecting the various great mass communications media, Carter was pointing this out only a little while ago, so that he can play his part in ensuring that the great social forces move in the direction of the American tradition or keep moving in that direction. In other words, I can say to you from my experience as a public relations man that one letter effectively written to certain key individuals will affect policy because the individual recognizes that I may be speaking for a large number of people. Now, it seems to me that any individual citizen can use postcards, can use letters, can use the telephone, can use contact with commentators, with broadcasting stations to create a sense of awareness in their minds if they haven't got it of what this American Bible is and of what the broad trend of American freedom, equality, and orderly justice is and should continue to be and should, and it seems to me the American individual can at every point of his life function in a way that makes him much more important to everybody and even to himself. I've seen little fellows who can use simply a pen on a postcard affect the whole destiny of a nation. I wouldn't disagree with that. I do find, however, that when organizations all send in identical postcards, identical wording, it leaves me as a public official singularly unmoved, Edward. Well, I said as an individual, I didn't say this now as a pressure group. I agree with you that everybody in a position of policymaking and power is the victim or beneficiary of pressure groups. At the same time, I feel that if individuals act within the framework of the pattern of the American tradition and become articulate, they can play a much greater part in the whole flow of the American pattern because the researchers have indicated that 90% of our citizens are apathetic and skeptical and passive about most things. You would agree with that, wouldn't you? I wouldn't, I wouldn't. Well, wouldn't you, Kleinberg? Yes, not only would I agree, but I think that it's very important to bring this out because so often we seem to establish a kind of rigid dichotomy with those... You better explain dichotomy. That's another tough one. ...a contrast or a splitting between, on the one hand, those who are in charge of mass media or those who are in a position of public responsibility and, on the other, the mass of the people. But I think, and of course, I bow to your superior knowledge in this area, but those who are responsible for the mass media certainly believe that they are giving the people what they want. They want hearers or readers. They want people to like what they're giving them. And therefore, if people, the mass of people would make their wishes and points of view more articulate, I think that could have a very real influence upon the content of the mass media. I agree with you. Most people don't realize that and seem to feel, well, this radio station is owned by such an individual and that newspaper by another. Nothing can be done. And yet, I think the masses could have, the mass of people could have a very real influence on content if they only took some trouble about it. Well, I agree with you tremendously. Gilbert Seldes wrote a book which you undoubtedly know, Klineberg, The Great Audience, in which he showed that this blind adherence to what the mass media think the mass wants has created a situation in which the mass media have alienated the mass. He shows, for instance, that in motion pictures today, their attempt to deal only with mass audiences has created a situation in which over 50% of the people don't go to the movies. Do you see? Now, I feel that making the individual citizen in a situation like this that we are in, a crisis situation, not war, a crisis situation, recognize the implications of his power by a postcard, by a telephone call, can really remodify the deviants that now are carrying forward many of them anti-democratic patterns because the places in which they are articulate have received no response from the public that really becomes an influence to them. In other words... I guess what I would like to add, Go ahead, Klineberg. It seems to me that that's one of the most important and significant things about our democracy, that the individual can affect the mass media, and it's a tragedy if we don't make use of this wonderful opportunity that we do have in a democracy that we as individuals can make our voices felt. Well, I remember, Klineberg, possibly the most dramatic story that illustrates the validity of this. I remember that when, before World War I, the matter of the draft, the re-voting of the draft in Congress came up in the House of Representatives, it won, if you recall, by one vote. Now, that one vote, I understand, in favor of the draft, which enabled us to carry on with an army before we had gotten before Pearl Harbor. That one vote came about, I learned, because 19 school teachers in Brooklyn signed a petition to one congressman asking him to reverse his vote. And on the basis of that, according to my informants, we had the draft passed by a majority. Now, it seems to me that there is a dramatic element that shows how important the small individual voice is, even in this tremendous frame of reference of millions. Well, do you think, Tide, we've exhausted what the individual citizen can do? He can inform himself, he can become articulate, he can become articulate to his group, he can become articulate to his mass media, he can try to affect the trend in favor of the democratic tradition, he can, one other thing, participate. You would agree with that, wouldn't you? Participate in action. And Bernays, by participate, I take it you mean, with his own logical groups, whether vocational or professional or some other type, logical group participation. You recall, Tide, that de Tocqueville said, we are a nation of joiners. I once figured out that there were 783,000 groups in this country representing social, economic, political, and other groups. Now, if we just think of this situation, if we get 783,000 people articulate, they would swing the country much more speedily in certain directions. Bernays, may I make a footnote for that? Would you agree that every action of a professional, vocational, or other voluntary group that will be articulated on public questions does not equate with and mean the same thing as a pressure group? I think there's much confusion in the public mind that every group that functions with a single voice is a pressure group. I think that's invidious, I think it's unfortunate, and undemocratic. I quite agree. I think that since we have no French academy in America, the meaning of words is the result of the kicking around of the word. I recall after World War I when the word propaganda was used in polite society. I recall when Hitler made the word propaganda a very bad word and when the Russians and when the Italians did. And I find that now propaganda is again changing its meaning slightly. I think it is terribly important and I'm terribly glad you made the point that part of the thing the individuals, that part of the important element that an individual citizen must carry out in a time like this is not to be ensnared by old meanings of words or new meanings of words, but that what he must do is to get behind the meaning of the word to what the semanticists call the reference of the word to ensure that he is weighing a situation in terms of the realities rather than in terms of the flavor, the color, the emotional content or what one of Dr. Kleinberg's associates would call the detonative and connotative meaning of words. Surely not one of my associations. Well now, I think we've pretty much covered what the individual citizen can do. now, what do you think the various political units that are made up of these individual citizens should do? And by political units, I mean obviously the counties, the cities, the states, in harnessing these morale resources that Callan and the others have described as the Bible of America, our traditions, our voluntary organizations, our public school system, our standard of living, our things. What do you think the political units should do? Well, now, coming at this from my special angle of interest, I want to register a very important emphasis, and particularly today with inflation, on the inadequacy of the support both in cities and at the state level that we are giving to our public educational organizations. I don't think anybody can exaggerate the need for a more liberal tax appropriation, both at the local and the state level. For our grammar, high schools, and our state and municipal universities. And that is a morale factor which is adversely affecting our school teachers and our faculties today. And I want to put in a big definite plug for more generous tax allocations. I find, Teed, that yesterday Callan brought that out. And he brought it out in terms of the national emergency, and brought it out, it seemed to me, very effectively. And it would appear to me that the listening audience could also utilize this basic principle of Callan. He said that the army experience, the army and the navy experience have shown that they today have to spend millions upon millions of dollars to educate or re-educate the people who get into the armed services because of the poor education they received at these other levels. And he regarded that as a very potent factor in our morale not being as high as it was. That all of a sudden we were up against an emergency in which we had to take X million people and give them an education in a much shorter time span in order to have them deal effectively with the realities and the ideological values that any army has to deal with. And certainly if you have recently read as I assume you have that new book by Jones, From Here to Eternity, I think you will find in this book of army life and the very true picture of army life, I gather, that the level of understanding of intelligence of the people in the army is depicted as extremely low and certainly education at every level would meet that situation. Do you agree, Kleinberg? Oh yes, Bernays, I think that Teed's emphasis and your own would certainly deserve, do deserve the support of every thinking person in this whole field. I think that in terms of good morale, in terms of getting the best out of our citizens, we ought to give them every educational opportunity of which they can take real advantage. And I certainly feel that again one of the glories of our democracy when fully and completely realized will be precisely that, to give to every individual the opportunity to develop himself up to the limits of his capacity. And it's only by having a good, a better, an ever better educational system from elementary grade right on up through college and university level that we will get those best potentialities out of our citizens. And we spoke before about the importance of information. Well, you need a background in order to be able to assimilate information, in order to interpret it properly. And therefore, I see what Teed and what you have been saying is very closely bound up with what we discussed before. I might add that after all, those who are in our local and state governments and elsewhere are also individual human beings, and therefore I imagine that many of the things we spoke about earlier would also apply in this context. I think we can, we've covered that step then of the importance of education from the long time and the short time standpoint. I think we might also, in this matter of political units, hit upon this matter of what is called civilian defense. Now, I was pretty closely in touch with that situation in the last war, and if you recall LaGuardia and then Mrs. Roosevelt, or maybe before that Mrs. Roosevelt was the head of it, and today we are developing civil defense units. It is a matter of regret, and I wonder whether you don't agree with me on this, that the people who are appointing these civilian defense units appear to have no real knowledge of the fact that those civilian defense units do not only consist of materials, but of human beings, and that they are completely, at least to my knowledge, neglecting to add to their units elements of human beings who can give them advice on human relations, on social relations, on psychological relations. It seems to me that maybe our individual citizens can make their voice felt to ensure that their civilian defense units add the knowledge of human behavior, human motivation, guts, and heart, that the social scientists have studied. How do you feel about that, Kleinberg? Well, I can only agree heartily that any activity that makes use of human resources, human materials, ought to be informed by the best knowledge we have of human beings. And I can only therefore echo your feeling that those who have been concerned with human motivations, human behavior, people like psychologists, sociologists, anthropologists, many educators, should certainly have a more active part in the development of the best techniques for handling the problems of civil defense, and for getting to our goal by at the same time making use of the best information that we have about human beings. On that I think there can be no doubt. Well now, Kleinberg and Tid, I'd like to ask you both questions, and I hope you don't answer them at the same time, but you fight for who is to answer them first. Let's be very specific. Why shouldn't Tid, as head of all the institutions in New York, the higher education, and you as head of this great national organization of social psychologists, anthropologists, and psychologists, come out with a public statement and very definitively say that one of the most important lacks in our political units today that have been set up for civilian defense, and they've been set up all through the country, is the fact that, as far as you know, these units have no social science unit attached to them. Now I know that New York hasn't, I know that Caldwell in Washington hasn't, and I also know that both these units presumably are functioning one on a national basis and other on a basis of 10% of the people. I think maybe this is the time for two real politicians like yourselves to articulately demand or request that the people who are the policymakers avail themselves of the talents that you control or at least that are represented in your constituencies. What do you say to that, Steve? Bernays, isn't the very word defense a gesture of resignation in the light of a problem and a centering of attention upon it at a purely mechanical level which is less than challenging to the kind of point of view and need that you suggest? I don't like the phrase civilian defense as defining a great necessary movement in our land. I don't either. I think maybe we ought to call them offices of civilian strength. And then... Bernays, I was going to say exactly the same thing. I'm delighted that Teed mentioned it. And it ties up with what we said just a few minutes ago, that we don't want to create the, or help create the atmosphere as if we were in the Third World War. And speaking of defense, perhaps contributes along those lines. And I think that perhaps that's what Teed had in mind and I just want to say that I'm in complete agreement. Well then, but you haven't answered my question either of you gentlemen. How about your moving ahead in that area? But maybe you want to give that some future consideration. Well now, I think we have covered then what the various political units can do. I think we have discussed the situation from the standpoint of the inadequacy of funds for schools, which is certainly a long time element. And we have discussed the inadequacy of considering civilian defense, which is what local units are doing from the standpoint of a defensive operation instead of an operation that deals with strength and that calls upon experts in humanics to aid them. Let's for a moment then go to what should the federal government do first at home and then abroad in trying to improve our morale. Maybe we can narrow it down by raising a very specific question. One, should the federal government as a government at top policy levels implement or develop any unit organization to deal with morale or should that be a voluntary effort? What is your opinion, gentlemen? I confess to no strong and clear conviction on that score, Bernays. Whether public or private, I just hadn't thought through. I think, and I'm not meaning to digress because I know you want to combat this, I can think of certain specifics which, under either public or private endorsement, are elements in our program. May I mention one which is always referred to, I understand, abroad? Notably, the legislative or other efforts of a non-discriminatory character. I believe in a greater extent both federal and state of the FAPC legislations. Again, they're a part of this morale program at a very vital point. The anti-poll tax, the anti-lynching legislation, would be things that this type of body, better housing, would be parts of a program that this morale body would have to come along with. But, Ordway, but Teed, just to stick for a moment to a course of action, assuming that President Truman is listening to these broadcasts, as we hope he will, do you see this as a separate function of government? Do you see it as something that should represent a man being attached to the presidential office and watching everything? Do you see it as possibly raising a man of the stature of Charles Wilson, who is in a physical mobilization effort to being made head of a national psychological mobilization effort? Maybe you have an idea on that, Frank. Well, I think that this whole approach is important enough so that we do need somebody at a very high level in government to be in charge of it. And I'm thinking of the morale-building potentialities of something like an expanded voice of America in terms of... Well, we're thinking now of the United States. Well, I was just bringing the two together because I would like to suggest that we think of the voice of America not only as a means of speaking to the rest of the world, but that we also have a voice of America for America. That is to say, some manner or some way of informing the Americans also of what is going on. You mean like the fireside chats of Roosevelt? Well, that perhaps... That was a voice of America when it was performed. function, and I think we need more attention paid to that function with reference to the domestic or local situation, and not only, although that's also very important, not only to the international situation. I thought when you spoke of the possibility of having an officer of this kind that you were perhaps thinking also that he'd be able to say something to the American people, and that's why I linked this with the voice of America, which is speaking to the rest of the world. I think Bernays is trying to suggest, however, that any policy information activity, which I take it the voice of America, either here or there, is what we're talking about, should be more closely linked than is now apparently the case with policy shaping functions. That's right. And I think that's what he's struggling to get shaped up clearly. That's right, Peter. Maybe I can state the problem, and then... Not the problem. What I see is a possible solution, and then maybe you can knock it down. As I see it, there are two possible ways of building morale in this country. One might be called the Jeffersonian idea, that is, to have it grow up from the grassroots, from the people, from voluntary organizations. The other you might call the Hamiltonian idea, to have it a centralized group at the top. Or it might be a combination of those two ideas, both affecting each other. Now, as I see the situation, it could be either one or both. As I see the situation, I would like to see the situation so handled that the President of the United States appoints an assistant, just as he has William Avril Harriman as an assistant who advises him on foreign relations, as the head of an organization that deals with what we might call morale building in the United States. That this head of an organization, who is a man of the stature of Wilson, in turn, might be supported by representatives of the social sciences, as well as of the mass communications, as well as of the various constituent groups, labor, management, foreign language groups that make up our country. And that, such a committee of national morale, acts in the same capacity to the policymakers of government, whether they be in Congress or in the departments, as a good public relations council, acts in relationship to his clients. Because today we know that any act does not only depend upon how good it is, but it also depends for its effectiveness, but it also depends upon the method in which it is communicated to the people and the way it is integrated into what you call their ego involvements or their ego motivation. Now, tell me, as I envisage this type of national committee on morale with a moving up towards the top policy-making level, do you, does that seem to you to be a reasonable and sound procedure to ensure that the flow of government will be more consistent with the American tradition and that there will also be a focal point that can take up slacks where there is a breakdown of morale due to stupidity, apathy, distortion on the part of our policymakers or leaders? Well, Bernays, I like the general idea, but again, I'd like to suggest that this person or this office be concerned, that the same office be concerned both with what we say to our own people and what we say to the world outside. I think that's very important. I see three possible functions that could be performed by an office of that kind, all of which I would regard as important. One would be, and I think this was suggested in what you said, one would be to participate in policy decisions so that in making policy, the decision should include the possible effects on morale at home and abroad, on our allies, on ourselves. In other words, that the, if you like, the propaganda impact of a particular policy should be kept in mind when that policy is made. That's one point. Secondly, I think that that kind of office could help to reduce the kind of uncertainty we talked about before, which is true, I think, not only of our students, but of people generally. Take at this particular moment the debate as to whether we're going to cross the 38th parallel or whether we're not going to cross the 38th parallel, and people arguing whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, and we get, we've got no indication from our government as to what's going to happen. It seems to me that as soon as decisions are made, the people should be informed of those decisions, and I think that would strengthen morale by reducing uncertainty. Thirdly, I think that this office could modify and help to determine our foreign propaganda policy, our propaganda to the outside world, and I think that I would like to, that I personally would like to see that office keep very strongly in mind one major point, that we want to make clear to the whole world, including ourselves, that ours is a program of peace. Now, I say that because it seems to me that we have so far rather failed to make clear to the whole world, and I'm speaking of our friends and not only of our enemies, that we stand for peace. The communists have, in a sense, taken over the propaganda offensive. They've been talking about peace, and here in this country, some people seem almost afraid to talk of peace because it sounds like the communist line. I think it's terrifically important that we regain that propaganda offensive for peace. Those are three directions in which I would see the office, this new office that you speak of, as having very important functions. Bernays, one final question. Suppose you get this individual leading up this group of consulting wise social psychologists up very close to the president and the cabinet. And realists. And realists. Up very close to the president and the cabinet. After he sits in cabinet meetings. How then, may I ask, do you have him sufficiently close to policy shaping and thinking in the Senate? There seems to me there's got to be a liaison there. It's very critical in character. May I say this? It seems to me that we recognize in this country today that we are in a crisis situation. If we weren't in a crisis situation, Mr. Charles Wilson, his mobilization director, would not have powers that have never been given to any one man before, certainly without any precedent for those powers. Now, it seems to me that if our thinking is correct and if the principles and facts that have been laid down are as sound as I think we all agree they are, then we must put on a parity with physical things the same type of power and policy making on the level of ideological concepts. concepts. And I have the feeling that if we can find a man of the type of Wilson in the field of ideas, that the strength of that man with the public support behind him, just as the public support is behind a Wilson, will help to produce an effect that will make his word and his policies and his practices valid even with the irreconcilables in Congress. Or putting it another way, that he will have the majority of the American people behind him and that he will therefore have the majority of Congress behind him. But let us, since we have only a few minutes left, sum up what I think has really turned out to be, Kleinberg, what you demanded in the first place. Let's get rid of abstractions and come to grips with reality. I think the first two broadcasts lay down the facts and the points of view on the basis of which we could establish some kind of a tangible and practical program that could be adopted by individuals and by political as well as voluntary groups. I think our broadcast today covered these points pretty effectively as I got it from you two gentlemen. First, we stated that we believe the individual citizen, 82 million of them I think there are adults in this country, could function effectively to further a higher morale in this country. That these citizens could function first by informing themselves more effectively, by joining and participating more effectively in their voluntary organizations, by expressing their voice, speaking up for democracy, more effectively both to their political and other units that spoke for them in the political pattern, as well as to the mass media of communications that helped to mold and modify public opinion in the direction always of the American tradition. I think that we also took up rather effectively what various political units could do. First, as Dr. Kleinberg and Dr. T both insisted, building up inadequacies into adequacies in the educational system. Second, ensuring that our civilian defense organizations would more effectively utilize the knowledge of human relations, human behavior, human motivation in dealing with human problems of morale. Then we took up what the federal government could do on two levels. First, the level of our own national community, and there it was brought out that a national committee on morale should be organized, whether voluntary or on an official basis was not definitely set, but there was a general consensus that possibly it might be done under some figure who had the same status in the public mind and in terms of influence that a Wilson did and that such a man functioning under the president should, with a committee, organize both our, organize to produce an impact both on a national basis and on an international basis, always keeping in mind that propaganda of the word and the deed must go hand in hand and that this could not be the magic of verbalism, but rather the harnessing and liberating of human and individual forces towards maintaining freedom, equality, and orderly justice, both in the United States and as a projection of what happened in the United States to the rest of the world. Thank you. And so we have completed the series, Mobilizing America's Psychological Resources, recorded by your city station. Participating this evening were Dr. Otto Kleinberg, Professor of Psychology at Columbia University, and Dr. Ordway Teed, Chairman of the Board of Higher Education in New York City. Your moderator for all three of the broadcasts in these series was Edward L. Grenades. Your reactions to these recorded broadcasts will be received with interest. Simply write to Panel Discussion, WNYC, New York 7, New York. To express your opinion on this series, simply write to Panel Discussion, WNYC, New York 7, New York. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.