We interrupt this program to bring you the special broadcast which follows in just a moment. Our regularly scheduled programs will continue over WNYC-FM 93.9 megacycles. Good afternoon. From the Astor Gallery of the Waldorf Astoria, your city station brings you this special broadcast of the United Nations Luncheon of the Advertising Women of New York. There are many distinguished guests from the United Nations here, and among the speakers this afternoon are Ernest Gross, U.S. Delegate to the United Nations, who will speak on the 6th General Assembly of the U.N., and Dr. Hugh Keenleyside, who will discuss new patterns for self-help. To open the meeting and to introduce our guests, here now is Dorothy Lewis, Honorary Luncheon Chairman. Madam President, very distinguished guests and member of Advertising Women of New York. Some years ago, a minister visited New York at the time of the building of St. Patrick's Cathedral. He was not wearing his clerical collar. As he walked up Fifth Avenue, he passed the new building, stopped the first worker he met, and said, Well, what are you doing today? The man replied, I'm putting one brick on top of the other. What do you think I'm doing? He stopped another worker and asked what he was doing. He replied, I'm earning $2.80 a day, thank heaven. He walked a little further on and met another man and said to him, Well, what are you doing today? The man looked up toward the sky and said, I'm building a cathedral. Ladies and gentlemen, at the East River, United Nations headquarters, and throughout the world, men and women are hard at work building a monument to peace. Two of these architects and builders of peace will be heard on today's broadcast from this platform. Ambassador Ernest A. Gross, holder of degrees from Harvard and Oxford, has been in government service for many years, concerned with legal, economic, and labor problems. In 1949, he was designated coordinator of foreign assistance program. He has served as the alternate representative of the United States at the both fourth, fifth, and sixth sessions of the General Assembly. He is a member of the permanent United States Mission to the United Nations, acting as deputy United States representative with the rank of ambassador. In this capacity, he has been active participant in the Security Council meetings on aggression in Korea. We are honored to present to you now Ambassador Ernest A. Gross. Thank you. Mr. Lewis, Your Excellencies, representing so many of our colleagues in the United Nations with whom we work so closely, and ladies and gentlemen, I think that the public attitude toward the United Nations is best reflected by some of the comments which have been made about the General Assembly of the United Nations, which concluded in Paris about a month ago. There is just about as much agreement as to the accomplishments of the General Assembly and by reflection concerning the accomplishments of the United Nations as there is at the average horse race where every horse in the race is a favorite. I think it really is very difficult to summarize the results of the session of the Assembly, just as difficult as it is to put into a phrase or a sentence the accomplishments, the shortcomings, and the downright failures, if you like, of the United Nations itself. But I would like to take the liberty of naming a few names and referring to a few of the newspaper comments which we have analyzed and collected so that you may see what a cross-section of opinion there is concerning this mighty and crucially important effort in which our government is engaged. In naming these names I imply no criticism, praise, or any other attitude toward them. I just want you to know about them and see how representative they are and how different they are as among themselves. The distinguished commentator, Mr. Elmer Davis, concluded and I will quote throughout here without using the phrase quotation marks, the commentator, Elmer Davis, concluded that the session of the assembly had produced very little in the way of affirmative action. The distinguished Washington, D.C. newspaper, the Washington Post, felt that the session had been windy and wordy three months. The New York News characterized the session as three months of loud and mostly futile debate. I should say that about half the comment throughout the country tended to reflect the views expressed by Miss Anne O'Hare-McCormick of the New York Times. On the whole, she thought, the session has not been fruitless. The Washington Star, although seeing no clear signs of positive progress towards a good piece, found some measure of encouragement in the fact that the outlook had not grown perceptibly worse, as they said, in a somewhat similar vein, the Denver Post asserted that the most hopeful achievement of the General Assembly was, and here I cannot forbear to say, I quote, its survival to meet again next September, unquote. The General Assembly, said the Boston Herald, the General Assembly did not shake the world, but it maintained and even strengthened the prestige of the United Nations. elections. And the New York Times verdict was that the General Assembly demonstrated again that it now plays an indispensable role in world affairs, both as a parliament of man and as an instrument for the preservation of peace and resistance to aggression. And finally, Mr. William Stoneman of the Chicago Daily News, with an enthusiasm that was somewhat unique, declared that the session was a howling success. I don't know whether he meant more howling or more success. But he also went on to say that he felt that it was an international decompression chamber and a forum for conflicting opinion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the United States delegation, I cannot help feeling a certain envy for those who can summarize or dispose of or even, if you like, praise the work of the General Assembly or of the United Nations in a sentence or in a phrase. Whether one agrees that there were accomplishments or whether one feels that the net effect of the General Assembly was that it merely showed a capacity to survive for another meeting, we, on the United States delegation to the General Assembly, were all of the view that the, if there had not been the Assembly, if this Assembly had not taken place as an important international conference, which is what these Assemblies are, that the problems with which the Assembly dealt would have been immeasurably worse. Whether or not the General Assembly led to solutions, discussion of the problems, and there were some 80 or 85 relatively and some crucially important problems on the agenda, whether or not the Assembly led to solutions of these problems, discussion of them was an important fact in itself. The pressures for peace, which responded, for example, to the initiative taken by the governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and France in presenting new disarmament proposals, these pressures for peace, the voice and voices, which were extremely articulate and very determined, of emergent nationalisms throughout large areas of the world, and the strongly expressed feelings of the Middle East and Asian groups regarding most important problems, such as the revolt against hunger and distress, all these were registered in unmistakably warning terms, which I think all of us on the delegation felt we would fail to heed at our peril. It was an accomplishment, in short. It was an accomplishment to have had the forum. I think that the release of pressures and the recording of the storm warnings were important, very important, political facts. But, in addition, among the winds and the words, the United Nations did find time to give birth to a new nation, Libya, a proud new nation in North Africa, to establish a disarmament commission to carry on the hard but necessary work of seeking agreement on the reduction of armaments and armed forces and the elimination of the atomic weapon, to expand its technical assistance programs, which you will hear more later, which has fired the imagination of millions of people throughout the world, to carry forward land reform programs, which are essential, in our view, to bring stability to Asia, the Middle East, and many other areas, to lay out programs for the million or more poverty-ridden refugees who are victims of the Palestine wars, which the United Nations brought to an end, and to reject the Soviet attacks on the Atlantic Treaty, and to debunk their phony peace campaign. These are a few of the things which were done in this windy and wordy three-month session. people who are in the United Nations, but I think, in fairness, it must be said that much of the disappointment and frustration about the United Nations is due to the fact that from this list of proud accomplishments which I have just read, there is missing the one thing we wanted most of all, that is, one little sign that the tensions between the East and West were easing, that Soviet communism and the rest of us were moving a little closer together on anything, that some issue between us might come closer to solution. It wasn't there. It tragically wasn't there. But despite this fact, or even, I should say, because of it, support for the United Nations, in my judgment, at least, deserves to remain point one of our foreign policy program, which is where President Truman put it three years ago in his inaugural address. You often hear that the United Nations is suffering because it was oversold. That word is frequently used. I think, as representatives of an advertising profession, you will all agree with me, perhaps, that a good product cannot be oversold. It can be misunderstood. It can be misused. It can even be misrepresented. I do not say that any or all of these things happened or is happening to the United Nations. but I disagree with those who say that it was oversold. I think what people mean when they say this, when they use this expression, is that it had been hoped that when the United Nations was formed, it would serve the purpose of bringing together all the great powers, including the Soviet Union, into efforts to maintain and strengthen the peace and to solve through cooperative action the economic problems of disastrous proportions which the last war had left to the world as its legacy. The UN was never created or conceived as a peace in a package. It was a plan for peace. It was an instrument for peace. And the things which are creating frustrations and even despair and worst of all, apathy or disinterest in the United Nations, I think are the things which reflect the failure of governments and one above all others in the world today to use the instrument and to follow the plan but the Soviet Union walked out on its promises. That we all realize but where does that leave the rest of us? Does this fact make any less valid and enduring the objectives of the United Nations charter itself? I'd like to ask whether any of us feel that our civil war in the United States nullified the principles of the United States Constitution? Does the fact that the Soviet Union find itself in revolt against the principles of the charter and refuse its fair measure of cooperation in the problems with which the United Nations was intended to deal, does that fact make any the less necessary machinery for peace, for economic cooperation, for the preservation of human rights and all these plans and procedures and machinery which we set up at San Francisco? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if we scrapped this machinery, which is doing some of the essential work of the world, we would merely be abandoning each other. Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador Grose. Recently, the distinguished historian Arnold Toynbee was asked this question. Can we guess what the outstanding feature of our 20th century will appear to be in the perspective of 300 years? He says, My own guess is that our age will be remembered chiefly, neither for its horrifying crimes nor its astonishing inventions, but for having been the first age since the dawn of civilization some 6,000 years back in which people dared to think it practicable to make the ideal of welfare for all a practical objective instead of a mere utopian dream. You are about to hear from another one of these architects and builders of peace, Dr. Hugh Keenlyside, whose chief concern is making a practical objective of the idea of welfare for all a dream come true. Dr. Keenlyside is well known at the United Nations. He was a member of the Canadian delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations during the second part of its first session in 1946. In August 1949, he led the Canadian delegation to the United Nations Scientific Conference on the Conservation and Utilization of Resources. He served as Canadian ambassador to Mexico from November 1944 to March 1947. He is one of the founders and members of the Board of Governors of the Arctic Institute of North America and a board member of the Canadian Geographical Society. He is a holder of many degrees and is an author of note. In September 1950, he was appointed by the Secretary General, Mr. Lee, as Director General of the United Nations Technical Assistance Administration. We present to you now Dr. Hugh Keenlyside. Madam Chairman, Madam President, Your Excellencies, and ladies and gentlemen. May I say, Madam President, first that I am more than a little astonished at the number of members of your organization who are in attendance at this meeting today. Judging from the comments that I have heard during the last week, I have come to the conclusion that there would not be in the whole city of New York this many ladies or gentlemen who would be able to afford the price of a luncheon in the Waldorf Astoria on the day after the 17th of March. It's a great tribute, I think, to the prosperity of the advertising profession. May I congratulate you also on the tolerant fact that you are willing to listen to two gentlemen speak to you and, in addition, to allow so many other members of the underdeveloped sex to be present at your meeting. It's my duty, Madam Chairman, to speak to you about technical assistance, a new pattern for self-help. I'm not going to make any reference to the political situation in the world today for two reasons. In the first place, that has been done very admirably by Ambassador Gross. And secondly, it would be very improperly for me, as an international civil servant, to talk about political matters. Fortunately, however, the subject of technical assistance is a technical subject that can be and should be divorced as far as possible from political considerations. And in consequence, I can speak about it with a certain measure of freedom. Before trying to tell you something about the way in which the United Nations and the specialized agencies and, indeed, the various nations that individually are engaged in this whole field of technical assistance, I would like to lay out, if I may, in a very brief form, some of the more pertinent facts about the condition of the world as we find it today, omitting, as I have said, any reference to the great political conflict that is taking so much of the attention of all of us. The first thing that is significant in what is happening in the world in the 20th century is the tremendous and rapidly increasing rate of growth of the human population. It's not perhaps so I'll recall that at the present time humanity is growing in numbers more rapidly than ever before in history and that rate of increase is increasing. Today, the population of the world increases at the rate of something like 20 million people a year. That works out, if my arithmetic is correct, at about 68,000 people a day. In other words, every day throughout the year an addition is made to the population of the world roughly equivalent to the population of the city of Troy, New York. And next year it'll probably be a larger city that we'll have to use to give this comparison. That increase is paralleled in some measure and we hope that it will be paralleled or rather exceeded in the future by the increase in the utilization of resources and in the increase in man's power over and control of nature. There have been more changes in the material civilization of humanity in the last hundred years than there were in roughly say 10,000 years before that time. That rate of increase again is increasing in a geometrical manner. The last ten years there have been more changes than took place in the previous 50. If that goes on you can estimate the effect that it is going to have on the spiritual and the moral qualities of humanity as well as upon their material circumstances. The fact of course is that our spiritual and moral qualities, our social adaptation of these changes has not in any way kept pace with the alteration in our material life. That is one of the great difficulties that faces humanity today. The gap between our knowledge and our practice. Another characteristic of life as we know it in the 20th century is found in the fact that these changes in our material civilization have not been made equally and the results have not been adapted equally by all peoples in different parts of the world. One of the great difficulties that we face today is the fact that the social adaptation of the knowledge that we have has been made in a varying manner. That there is a tremendous difference in the way in which people in different parts of the world have profited by or have suffered from these changes in our technical and scientific knowledge. Take a few illustrations. There once was a complaint made by the governor of North Carolina to the governor of South Carolina that was a long time between drinks. Now for most of the people in most parts of the world it's a long, long time between meals. Most of the people in the world today are hungry most of the time. Not only between meals and before meals but after meals as well. This results in effects on their health of course and I think it is a fair estimate that at least half of the people in the world are ill at any one time. And much of that illness could with our scientific knowledge properly applied be overcome. It works out more over in the life expectancy of people in different parts of the world. If you happen to be born in New Zealand you might expect to live out the biblical span and even little more than that. Something like 71 or 72 years. If you're a woman your chances are about five years better than if you're a man. If you live in any one of some 20 other countries in the world however your life expectancy is between 23 and 25 years. So it makes quite a difference where you were born. Some years ago a very distinguished president of this country said that one third of the people in the United States were ill housed, ill clothed, and ill fed. That statement was made about the country that is by far the wealthiest, most prosperous in the world. A country that has an average income for man, woman, and child at the present time is something over $1,500 a year. But there are 29 countries in the world where if you can translate their income into dollar terms at all that income is estimated at something less than $100 a year. and there are 12 of these and 12 of the largest countries in the world in which the income is less than $50 a year. Approximately 60% of the people in the world at the present time are illiterate. There is still in many parts of the world a remnant of straight human chattel slavery. And in many more parts of the world there are evidences of slavery that are somewhat camouflaged by systems of payonage indentured labor and so on. These conditions are characteristic of the world in which we live. It can be said of course and it can be said truly that the conditions are no worse than they have been at various times in the past except that there are more people suffering from them. That is perfectly true but the natural inference that might be taken from it because conditions are no worse and perhaps they're even a little better in some respects the problem need not worry us too much that natural inference does not follow because in the world as we know it today the people in the underprivileged areas are not prepared to accept the circumstances in which they find themselves in the way in which their ancestors did. Today the average man or woman in an underdeveloped country does not believe as his forefathers did that the condition of poverty and disease and ignorance in which he lives is something that was ordained by God or is a law of nature. He knows perfectly well that it's not because he had brought to him by missionaries from the outside world a knowledge of the fact that a great many people in the world do not live in these circumstances and he is coming to believe that he himself need not live in them. When I say missionaries of course I don't refer only to religious missionaries although they played a great part in this. They carried to all parts of the world a belief in the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God that took arm with some of the people in these different underprivileged zones and many of them are beginning to wonder when these principles are really going to be practiced internationally. But there are other kinds of missionaries too. Political missionaries have told them about democracy and the other ideals that we consider to be essential to modern life. In addition to that we had commercial missionaries who went into the different parts of the world telling the people everywhere about the products of western civilization and what those products might mean to them in the way of improving their circumstances of life. Taken to them by every means that has been developed the radio the illustrated paper the now television and all of the other modern accessories of life that have been adapted for purposes of disseminating information. nation. I doubt if there is anyone even in the most remote Pacific Island that doesn't now wonder whether he may not be suffering from some kind of an unpleasant condition that not even his best friend would tell him about. however on more serious matters they also know that people in the countries that have been industrialized or have profited from the industrialization of their neighbors are living lives that are very different from those that were lived even in the more advanced countries a hundred years ago and are still more different from the conditions in the underdeveloped areas today. Well as a result of this knowledge there is abroad in the world today a revolutionary spirit a ferment a discontent that is one of the significant phenomena of life as we know it in the 20th century. To some extent an effort has been made to solve the problems created by this discontent through the granting of political independence and many people felt that once political independence was gained that that would mean that the other desirable attributes would be added to it. Now that is coming to be recognized as a fallacy. 600 million people have gained political independence since the end of the second world war about a quarter of all the people on earth. In the end that will undoubtedly be a valuable development. For the moment it has not brought those other changes in the lives of the ordinary people in these countries that have gained independence that the ordinary people want and now demand. So political independence is not enough. What then can and should be done about this situation in which we live and which affects adversely so many of our contemporaries throughout the world? Well it was recognized at the time the United Nations Charter was drawn up that while the first duty of the United Nations was to maintain peace its second and a very real corollary to it was the necessity of trying to do something to improve the social economic conditions of the people in areas that had not benefited from the progress that had been made in the more advanced parts of the world. In articles 55 and 56 of the Charter of the United Nations this statement is set forth very clearly and in signing the Charter all of the participants in the work of the United Nations undertook to do what they could in cooperation to bring about improved circumstances in the countries that desired the help of this united family of humanity. the beginning of the technical assistance program of course goes a long way back into history. Find illustrations of it wherever you find contacts between organized human societies in the past history of our race. But it was only with the organization of technical assistance programs although they're not called that by the colonial powers and by such branches of the United States government as the Department of Agriculture that this became a really significant development in the relations between the more advanced and the less advanced countries. And in using these very loose terms I'm using them of course in a strictly economic sense. But with the establishment of the United Nations a new element was brought into this whole picture. Now for the first time the countries of the world brought together the new body of technical and scientific knowledge and made it available on request to any country that might apply for assistance from this pool of common knowledge. This meant that you had for the first time universal participation in the supplying of knowledge or almost universal participation in the supplying of knowledge in these fields. It also meant that any country anywhere that could draw on this common body of expertise. Various forms have been developed for the utilization of knowledge. The sending of individual experts, the sending of groups of experts, the making of arrangements for individuals from the underdeveloped areas themselves to come into other countries and learn by seeing and even by practicing the arts of administration, the arts of industrialization and so on, and then going back to their own countries to apply their knowledge to the benefit of their own people. seminars, conferences, literature, all of these methods are used to transmit information to countries that are in need of it. Perhaps the best way of describing what is going on would be to use a few examples. They could be carried on indefinitely. We had the case of the, and I should say that these examples are being drawn not only from the experience of the United Nations itself and of the specialized agencies, which each operates in its own field, but also from, in some cases, from the work of the United States government, from the work of the British government, and the Commonwealth governments through the Colombo Plan, and so on. One example was the assistance given to India to reclaim a swamp area that had been out of action from a productive standpoint for something like two centuries. Now 10,000 families are living in that area. After about three years since the technical knowledge of how to do it was first developed with the assistance of Indians, but largely on the basis of knowledge that was brought in from outside. In the same country, you had a very interesting development within the last two years, this time as a result of work done by a very distinguished American, where in an area of about 100 square miles, through the use of new techniques, not very different from those that they were using before, but somewhat different, and with the use of new seeds, the output of cereals was increased by some three times. In an island down in the West Indies, there was a great supply of underground hot water, and the people there began to think there should be some way of utilizing that for their national or group benefit. They came to the United Nations and asked if we could give them somebody to tell them how to turn this thermal energy into electric power, and we looked around to see who could do that work. We found that the only experts in this field were to be located, one in Iceland and one in Sicily. After some discussion, we got the man from Iceland to go to this island in the West Indies, and as a result of his report, the government of that island is now putting in an electric power plant based on the thermal heat that has been available and going to waste in the country throughout recorded history. Another country in Latin America, we were asked to send in a group of people to help them reorganize their whole civil service, because one of the great difficulties in many of the underdeveloped countries is the fact that even though they may have the knowledge that is requisite to change the economy of the country, they often do not have the administrative experience that will enable them to do it effectively. One rather amusing incident in the history of technical assistance, again, draws on the history of point four. In one of the countries in Central America, where there was a great lack of protein in the diet, it was felt that something should be done to increase the supply of meat that was available to the people generally. They thought that perhaps they could introduce hogs and feed these hogs on the waste matter that resulted from their coffee production, the leaves and the swigs and other things that were left over when the coffee beans were shelled or whatever is done to coffee beans. The hogs, unfortunately, didn't like the taste of coffee and wouldn't touch it. An American expert was taken down who devised a sort of catnip or hog nip, which he mixed with the material that came from the coffee, and now the equivalent of some 34 million bushels of corn is made available to hogs in this country every year by the use of the materials left over after the coffee bean is taken away. Finally, there's the case of a great valley in Central Asia that had in early history a rather interesting time, but which suffered under repeated invasions by the great conquerors of the Middle Ages. The first place Genghis Klan went in, destroyed many of the works that had been built up in the way of irrigation and so on, killed many of the people. The country or the valley population had only got back to normal again and was working about as it had before when Tamerlane came in and did the same thing, but did a much more effective job and killed off practically all the people and destroyed all the irrigation works. From that time to the present, that valley has been a desert. Now works are underway there, which when they are completed will result in making the valley available for an agricultural farming population of something like 300,000 people. That sort of thing is going on here and there throughout the world under this program of technical assistance. A great deal more, of course, could be said about it, but I think that that gives you an idea of how the program is working, as what I said at the beginning gave you an idea of why there should be such a program. The fact is that we live in a very dangerous and paradoxical world. Humanity is faced with problems that are more grave than anything that we have faced at any time in the past. After some centuries of effort, our scientists have succeeded in placing in our clumsy hands the power of self-destruction. And there's very little in our past record that would lead one to believe that we're not going to use it. Yet this same scientific knowledge, if it were properly utilized, could abolish poverty and solve most of the physical and material problems with which as human beings we are now faced. Our technical achievements have gone so far and have gone so fast that they have left the moral development of our people far behind. We've placed the knowledge of an Einstein in the hands of people who morally are barely adolescent. This lag in the social adaptation of our scientific knowledge is the most serious fact with which we're faced, the greatest of all our dangers. The Third World War would not necessarily destroy the material evidences of civilization, but it's doubtful that very much of our spiritual heritage would survive. Democracy, liberty, the recognition of individual human worth, all those qualities that we think of as the finest achievements of the human mind and the heart would almost inevitably succumb. The technical assistance programs are not the whole or the final answer to these problems with which we are faced, but they do constitute one short step in the right direction. As such, they deserve and I think may properly demand the firm and constant and critical support of all men and women of goodwill here and everywhere throughout the world. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Keenlyside and Ambassador Gross and your excellencies, honored guests at the United Nations Luncheon of Advertising Women. We hope you'll all visit the United Nations. We hope that you'll believe in the United Nations. Thank you all. Thank you. You've been listening to the United Nations Luncheon of the Advertising Women of New York. Principal speakers were Ernest Gross, U.S. Delegate to the United Nations, and Dr. Hugh Keenlyside, Director General of the U.N. Technical Assistance Administration. The Honorary Luncheon Chairman was Dorothy Lewis of U.N. Radio. The broadcast emanated from the Astor Gallery of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. This has been a special public service feature of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.