The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Divorce, an American tragedy. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the divorce problem. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the effects and causes of divorce and suggestions for dealing with the problem. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Julius H. Minor, Judge of the Circuit Court in Cook County, Illinois, Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, Psychiatrist and Medical Director of the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene, and Robert F. Winch, Associate Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University. This week and next, the Reviewing Stand brings you a discussion of divorce. Today, the nature and extent of the problem. Next week, the means of control. Now how do you regard the divorce problem, Judge Minor? In what sense is it an American tragedy, if it is at all? I might best quote an official committee appointed by President Truman and headed by Mr. Eric Johnson, composed of 150 leading citizens of America who have made a study of the problem. They said, and I quote, Our divorce laws are a mess. They are rotten. No language can be too strong. The lawyers and judges are bitter about their impotence on their existing procedures. Social workers view the legalisms and fiction of divorce with unconscionable scorn. The press and periodicals treat the divorce laws, including the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, with outspoken contempt. I take it you subscribe to that statement, Judge? Fully. What is your position, Winch? Divorce is a tragedy in the sense that it is a symptom of frustration, emotional difficulties, and unhappiness. Divorce appears to be both a cause and an effect of frustration, emotional difficulties, and unhappiness. Novak, how do you look at this? It is a simple, well-known, uncontradictable fact that our growing divorce rate is a problem and a tragedy. That the problem is so large, however, or the tragedy so great as official and unofficial attitudes and personal prejudices would make it appear to be is questionable. The alarm and the tragedy with which the problem is viewed is engendered by many misconceptions, such as that all marriages are for life, that every divorce is an evidence of failure, that there are no justifiable divorces, that there is no solution to the problem, and others. A scientific examination of these and many other misconceptions about divorce would enable us to better understand the problem and to further existing and initiate new constructive measures which may lead not only to a lowering of the divorce rate, but also to better ways of achieving those things which divorced people, consciously or unconsciously, seek. That is, happiness, security, freedom from anxiety, and so forth. Now, you suggest, Doctor, that there are circumstances under which divorce is justifiable, that not all divorces are bad. What would some of those circumstances be, in your opinion? Certainly, divorce is not the solution to all problems, but there are circumstances under which divorce should be considered as a possible solution. For example, there might be personality clashes between the husband and wife which cannot be resolved. There might be factors of emotional immaturity, neurotic conflicts, sexual maladjustments, that cannot be resolved. Do you agree with that, Winch? Yes. In general, it seems to me that we may conceive of there being two broad kinds of attitude toward divorce. There's one kind of attitude that we might call that of categorical morality, an attitude which just says, divorce is bad, and that's all we can say about it. This is the sort of attitude which certain groups in the country take, particularly certain religious groups. An alternate attitude is one that we might call that of pragmatic morality. Such an attitude as that, it seems to me, would be concerned with not labeling the act itself as bad, but viewing rather the consequences of the act. In other words, we should then, operating on this principle, have to decide in each case whether it is more evil or less evil for the divorce to take place, and evil in terms of what it does to the various people concerned in the case. And I take it that it was this concept of pragmatic morality that the doctor was developing here earlier. I should gather that was so and that he was ignoring the other concept. I agree with him because we must take into consideration the fact that nature had never intended to make us all perfect in health, in character, or in temperament. The question before us now is at what stage of the game are we to recommend the divorce? There are millions of couples living who have never reached a divorce court who have far more serious grounds than those who are there. And we ought to address ourselves primarily to the question of examining the field, exploring the situation, particularly where children are involved, to hopefully reconcile them and preserve the home. When we will have reached the stage of hopelessness, then there's no alternative but to give them a divorce. It seems to me that we are concerned today rather with what we are, what we view as the causes or conditions under which divorce is generated rather than when we should tell people to get divorce. And in terms of the considerations which the judge raises, it seems to me that we might note that we today apparently are less tolerant of various difficulties in the relationship between husband and wife than we were for a hundred years or so ago. And this is for a variety of reasons which we may or may not be able to get into this morning. Well now, before we examine some of the causes of divorce, which we most certainly should like to look into, I'd like to ask the judge here why he regards this problem with so much concern. That is, you read a pretty strong statement there at the opening. In what sense is divorce bad? What are the effects that worry you? It wasn't only my own statement but the consensus of the American people. While I consider the problem of divorce between childless couples serious and worthy of consideration, in the final analysis, it is their own problem. But where there are children involved, it becomes the court's problem and society's problem. They have no lawyer in court. They become victims of the conclusions, premature, neurotic, bad in judgment, of the parents. and they ultimately suffer in a tremendous degree. For instance, I find that there are over 278,000 children annually orphaned by the divorce process. What becomes of them annually? They are the citizens of tomorrow. And the more tragic phase of it is that 80% of the youngsters who find themselves ultimately in the juvenile court, many of whom I've disposed of in the criminal court and sent to penal institutions, are our problem, society's problem. and unless we do something about them, America, as a nation, will suffer. And that is probably one of the principal reasons why we are more lawless than any other nation in the world. Because we feed youngsters, our divorce rate is much higher than that of any other nation. And we feed those youngsters into the juvenile courts and into the criminal court. And more than that, they become financially dependent in whole or in part upon the community. And here in Illinois alone, the taxpayers are dishing out $13 million annually to maintain those youngsters. Every nation supports their youngsters in proportion. It runs into hundreds and millions of dollars, but more than that, it runs into a tremendous figure in the maintenance of penal institutions for these youngsters. I'd just like to offer a statistical footnote to the judge's comments. In 1948, which is the last year for which we have good data, there were 313,000 children under 21 who were affected by the divorces. There were 421,000 divorces. Another way of looking at it is that about 3-5ths of the couples who had divorces had no minor children. But of those who did have minor children, there were 1.78 children per divorce. I would like to add to that that every divorce sets an example for the child. And the child, when it grows up, will look to divorce as a solution to its marital problems rather than looking for other solutions. So that the divorce problem becomes important not only where there are children, but also in instances where there aren't children because it adds to the total number of divorces which reinforces the adolescence and the child's idea that divorce is a solution. Whereas, in many instances, there may be much better solutions for the problem. Well, now, the judge obviously is primarily concerned about the kind of divorce that breaks up a home where there are children. Do you go beyond that concern, Winch, in this problem? In my opening remarks, I indicated that divorce was a tragedy in terms of its consequences. And it seems to me that while we are concerned very much about the children, because in a divorce case, relatively few others seem to be concerned about them, there is also the consideration of what happens to the husband and the wife who are parted. And while it appears that husbands tend to remarry in much greater proportion than wives, does appear then as a consequence that the wives are particularly disadvantaged. And especially, of course, those with children in making another marriage. What is the effect of all of this on, Doctor, on the family as a social institution in America? CERC needs helping or promoting the breakdown of the family. There are many other factors which promote to that, and that is merely an additional strain placed upon the family. Is it helping to break it down, or is it a consequence of a breakdown that has already happened? It's both a cause and an effect. You suggest that the family as an institution is weakened, is breaking down. What's your line of reasoning there, Winch? Well, it seems to me that we can compare the modern urban family with the family that we saw in this country, say, perhaps a century ago. To take the most conspicuous example, the kind of family you'd see on the homestead farm. In that situation, it was up to the people themselves to carve a living practically out of a wilderness. That meant that husband and wife, and as soon as they could have them children, were dependent upon each other for practically every human need. They would buy nails and perhaps salt, but everything else they had to produce. Not only did they satisfy each other in the terms of economic needs through their labor, but what education went on was passed from generation to generation. Religious instruction, likewise. Contrast that, then, with the situation that we have today in the modern urban family, living in a money economy. Anyone who can have a job need not be dependent on the family for almost all of his needs. He can buy almost anything he needs and get a more efficiently produced and better article. That means, then, that we have reduced greatly the number of bonds between members of the family from educational, religious, economic, and so on down to the one remaining one, the principal one, that of affection and emotional gratification. That means, then, that we place a great deal of emphasis upon this and when this falls apart, we have nothing else to hold the marriage together. Yes, it's the emotional needs that I was going to stress and that is that the family formally supplied practically all the emotional needs for the child whereas now, the child, with the family breaking up, the child must find more and more satisfaction for its emotional needs in the community rather than in the family. They may not be as intense but they should be more diverse. And that is happening, is it not? It is happening. While I agree with both doctors from a psychological and psychiatric point of view, I disagree with one point and that is the economic point. The average earning that I find in the divorce court is approximately $40 take-home pay. Many of them run less than that. They have to meet every obligation with those few dollars. They, um, when they stop off at a tavern to buy a drink and spend $2. when he places $2 on horses, when he gallivants, when he meets the boys and they gamble a bit. It is reflected in the ultimate pay envelope which deprives the children of a bottle of milk or a needed pair of shoes or the landlord cannot receive his rent. 60 or 65% of those who come in court are not in the bracket the gentlemen are talking about. It's the laborer, the carpenter, the plumber, the white-collar man who, who, who comes in there. Those, uh, differences in the pay envelope ultimately result in argument, in quarrels, and they, finally, are named by the lawyer as cruelty, desertion, um, adultery, or whatever else the statute provides. But in the main, in those 60 or 65% economy is the basic cause of it. Now, the doctors mentioned a bit about the women being a little more independent as a result of the war. that too contributes. She is less apt to take it and she ultimately, particularly when there are no children involved, finds employment, becomes more independent than the husband, uh, and even when there's a child involved, she will leave the child with her mother or a sister and go out and, and help, uh, provide the necessaries for the family. There is the principal reason how the same man who earns 10 or 15,000 a year and he stops off at a club and gets drunk. In that family, it isn't drunkenness because he can afford it and the wife takes it. She can stand it. Are we to conclude that there are no divorces at this level in the 10 or 15,000? Or do they get the divorces in Reno? Well, they get their divorces at Reno. They have time for pleasure thinking. The woman who scrubs the floors and washes the diapers and looks after her children hasn't any time for that. With her, it's purely a matter of feeding the babies. Certainly placing a materialistic view upon life, a materialistic philosophy. No, pardon me. I don't think that's a fair interpretation of what the judge has said. I don't think there's any materialism in his point of view. What he's saying is that out of his experience in the divorce courts, that more often than not, that the people in the lower income brackets get themselves in difficulties because they don't have the money. Now, that doesn't make a materialist out of the judge. I might better illustrate them with a story. In the higher bracket, the lawyer and his client walked out of my courtroom when I signed a decree for divorce. As he walked out, he said to her, now that you've got your divorce signed, how do you feel? She says, I feel like a new man. I think there's a deep psychological significance to that. I feel like a new man. As the woman ever accepted her femininity and was that a Freudian slip of the tongue, I am now a man. That's her purpose, in getting a new man. No, her purpose was to acclaim her, to deny her femininity. But isn't a decent mother in America who wouldn't lay down and die, actually, to save her children. Well, the judge's very good little story, I think, has moved us into another area of analysis here. Winch is suggesting earlier that the breakdown in the home, in the family, as an institution, is actually a contributing cause to the increased divorce rate. The judge, of course, has emphasized this economic factor and is terribly concerned about divorces in homes where there are children. May I just say one word? When you sit there every morning and you hear mothers coming in weeping for a few extra dollars because the child needs an operation, over and above the allotment already decreed, then you know what you mean by saying that it's an economic problem. I'll agree, but when I sit there every morning and listen to my patients whose parents never allowed them to grow up so that they aren't emotionally mature adult individuals, although chronologically they are of age, then I might question whether in some of these economic deficit families the economic deficiency in itself is not an evidence of an emotionally immature individual or the individual who cannot so ration his income so that he has money for two dollars on the horse races and for the landlord, whether there isn't something lacking in that individual. So we go beyond the economic difficulty into the personality of the individual. It seems to me that we're getting into rather grave difficulties when we interpret differences in income solely in psychiatric categories. Except this, that I'm for Dr. Novick's point of view and this client of his needs treatment, not a divorce. that I'll agree. Well now you're suggesting then that in addition to the breakdown of the family which Winch has been pursuing, the economic factor which the judge has been pursuing, that in many of these cases, doctor, it's a matter of mental maladjustment. Is that often primary do you think? I would say that in those instances where divorce is sought as a solution to the problem two, three, five, eight, and ten times that should be very suspicious of the emotional development or the degree of maturity which that individual has attained. Does that happen very often? It happens very frequently that either the man or the woman has not attained that degree of emotional maturity and cannot find it in marriage so that it cannot make the marriage a go. That does not mean that every divorce is a result of a neurosis. It does not mean that a neurotic individual cannot marry and make a go of it because if it so happens that both are emotionally mature and one complements the other they may make a very successful marriage. Although we can't be sure of it it strikes me that probably what's happened over the past hundred years is something like this. I suspect that there probably hasn't been a great deal of change in the kind of personality and character which has been shown in our people although of course the trend in urbanization has no doubt affected it somewhat. I suspect however that say a hundred years ago people were much more tolerant of the foibles of their mates and were not so disposed to respond immediately with an anger reaction and say divorce is the necessary solution. They accepted marriage as marriage for life and they didn't have the expectations of shall we say a perpetually glamorous emotional life that they had so many bonds of responsibility between husband and wife parents and children that divorce just wasn't thinkable. Supplementing his remarks in being in search of a mate we think only in terms of finding the right mate and we don't think in terms of being the right mate. It takes two of them to make that bargain. What's soon? Dr. Winch said it's true. We find more people on Sunday morning in taverns than we find them in the churches. I doubt it but it may be true. They find them in my courtroom. Many states have a Sunday law don't forget. They find their way. We think in terms of personal pleasure rather than thinking of our home and our children. Men go to the ball game and leave their babies behind. They go to play cards and leave their babies behind. They have never learned the real pleasures of romping with their children on the floor and taking them to the zoo going into the park and doing everything that the baby desires. That's the happiness of a home. And unless they learn that of being the right mate of being kindly and considerate and thoughtful and compromising the greatest word in the marital dictionary is give and take sacrifice and share. That's right. But we cannot give unless we have received as infants. We cannot love unless we have been loved as infants so that we get back to the early infancy and childhood development which is personality development that I've been talking about. When Winch mentions that in former days it was a matter of tolerance it's a question that in former days too it was the philosophy of society that one must it may be bitter but one must settle down in marriage. Now we're not willing to accept swallow that bitter pill of settling down in marriage and we're looking more for what Judge Minor points out. a sharing not necessarily a hundred percent agreement between the couples but a sharing of pleasures as well as disappointments. Now we're beginning to talk about ways of handling this problem doing something about it. That's going to be our emphasis on this broadcast next week. But I'd like to have while we've got you here I'd like to have your recommendations. I think you've analyzed the problem helpfully. What's the answer to this Judge? What would you do? The primary answer is that we must learn that love cannot be bludgeoned but must be courted and won. That goes for children as well as for grown-ups. I have given this a great deal of consideration. I've been hurt physically and mentally by this three years of constant grind at the divorce court. I've come to the conclusion that one of the principal fields that we have not yet explored is the ease with which suits are filed. Anyone can walk in and pay $15 and institute a proceeding and that's the beginning of the battle. It's the calling of names under oath. He becomes an adulterer, a deserter, a cruel man, she becomes everything else under the sun. It's too tender a relationship to be exposed to public scorn. As long as the secret remains their own within the confines of their own home, it is safe. And it is often forgotten and compromised. What would you do about that? I would, I have recommended to our legislature and they have passed it unanimously. a law which prevents the filing of a suit for divorce or separate maintenance for a period of 60 days. The party advancing the cause may come in without cost, with or without a lawyer and file a declaration of intention merely giving the name of the parties and the name and the ages of the children. And what would they do during those 60 days? During those, that confidential card is impounded and turned over to the judge. No one has access to it. During those 60 days, they may cool off themselves, but the judge himself can lend the agency of the court psychiatrically, psychologically, physically, in every other way in the hope of bringing the people to an understanding. It can't hurt anyone. It must do a lot of good. And I've experimented with a situation in my own court under the consent of my colleagues and have found that 40% of the 300 cases that I've handled have been reconciled and have gone home happily. Take a few sentences to react to that suggestion, Winch. Well, it seems to me that it certainly could do no harm and in many cases that the people themselves might well decide that they didn't want a divorce after they had cooled off from their anger reaction and various types of conflict. I think it's an excellent suggestion. I would go one step beyond and that is doing something before the marriage to prepare people more adequately for marriage and different attitudes about that. I might add, if I may, it has the endorsement of every bar association, of every legal agency, of everything, of every law school. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Divorce, an American Tragedy. This is the first in a series of two programs on this important social problem. Today's discussion dealt with causes and social consequences of divorce. Next week's program will deal with proposed solutions to the problem. For copies of this series, send 20 cents in coin to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Single copies may be purchased for 10 cents or start your subscription to the Reviewing Stand with the Divorce Series, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Judge Julius H. Minor, Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, and Robert F. Winch. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. As you have just heard, next week, the Reviewing Stand presents the second of a series of programs dealing with the divorce problem. Our guests next week will be Malcolm S. Knowles, President of the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago, William F. Ogburn, Professor of Sociology at the University of Chicago, and Samuel M. Starr, Chicago Divorce Attorney and Director of Divorcees Anonymous. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Can we control divorce? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Bill Oliver. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Blossom numbers are drawn to the challenge of courseChe and that is what is happening. So if you're looking at the