Mayor Dwyer. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of this most distinguished gathering, this is a great day for the College of the City of New York, and a great day in the history of the educational and cultural life of our city. City College, in its 100 years of history, has seen and paralleled the astonishing growth of America. It opened during a turbulent era. Mr. Polk, our President, who was Commander-in-Chief of the Army, was waging war against Mexico, and was being denounced by a one-term congressman named Abraham Lincoln. Revolution was sweeping the European continent. Famine was leaving its victims in Ireland. Both caused tremendous immigration to this country, and in those years, our College started. The College has lived through the milestones of our glorious history of the last 100 years. It has lived to see the expansion of this nation to the Rio Grande, to the Pacific Ocean, and to the settled Canadian border. It has seen our country spanned and unified by telegraph and railroad, which were coming into use when the college was opened, and by the telephone and the airplane, which were invented long afterwards. It has seen our Union grow from 28 states to 48 states. It has seen our country torn by civil strife and then reunited. It has seen the abolition of slavery. It has seen the United States attain the status of a world power at the beginning of this century. It has seen the gallant arms of our country in two world wars. City College has seen a century of history and has become great in the educational sphere as the country has become great throughout the world. In a sense, City College is graduating today. As our country grows old, more and more of its institutions, its colleges, railroads, banks, corporations, keep reaching the century milestone. This fact has become particularly noticeable since the First World War. City College now joins the group venerated by a century of life in our country. This film inume, we have experienced all the generations that we never finished. This era is truly a parsed of science today. Today, we face the beginning of a second century. The last two-year world-old is American River and of öğren. Most sisters and OLED have여idas. A civilization capable is theše aberr a little tan 여规al OAS. A formally grinder at the site of the mosque, the mass A little more than 100 years ago, Mr. Townsend Harris, who was then the president of the Board of Education of the City of New York, proposed a college constructed and equipped at city expense, which would be open to students who wanted an education and who could not afford to pay tuition in private colleges. His proposal was met with a storm of opposition by prominent citizens, by the press, and in government circles. The legislature passed the appropriate act only after extended debate. As in many liberal movements, the vociferous opposition, able to make its voice heard above the crowd, did not represent the wishes of the people. In a referendum on the question of establishing the college, the affirmative carried the vote by 6 to 1. As we stand here today, a century later, we can say that the confidence of the people, that the people showed in Mr. Harris's proposal 100 years ago, has been justified by a century of progress. City College is known the world over for its high standards of scholarship. It is respected wherever men meet and discuss institutions of learning. Its high standards are deep-rooted. History proves that of the 143 students who entered the college when it was open, only 17 were graduated. City College always was a hard school. City College is a hard school. It is a hard school. And I hope it will always remain a hard school. It has had some excellent athletic teams. But City College never sacrificed scholarship for athletics. It is known and will always be known for its scholarship. It is known for the first time. We in New York City are proud of City College. What the city's alma mater did for its country and city during the war, and what it is doing for the country and city during peace, will always be an inspiration to succeeding generations. As mayor of the city, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you, the faculty and the students, that your city is proud of you. We know there will be more of these century-old celebrations. We are sure that our city's alma mater will be greater and greater with each succeeding milestone. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.