The radio's microphones are now in the council chamber in City Hall, and the occasion is the oath-taking ceremony of the Honorable Rudolph Halley, President-elect of the City Council of New York City. They have just made their entrance into the council chamber, and in just a few moments you'll hear the voice of Mr. David L. Schivitz, who will preside and present the regular Ottawa program. Mr. Schivitz. Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous flight, O'er the ramparts we watch were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? Please remain standing while the invocation is offered by the Right Reverend Charles F. Boynton, Suffragan Bishop of New York. O God, the fountain of all wisdom, whose statutes are good and gracious, and whose law is truth, we beseech thee so to guide and bless this thy servant, Rudolph, here to be sworn into the weighty office of President of the City Council of the City of New York, that he may be the Lord, and may obtain and ordained for our governance only such things as are right and pleasing to thee and to the glory of thy name and the welfare of the people of this city. Grant unto him, O Lord, the spirit of counsel and ghostly strength, the spirit of knowledge and ghostly strength, the spirit of knowledge and true godliness, that he may discern the truth and impartially administer the law in the fear of thee alone. In the time of prosperity, fill his heart with thankfulness, and in the day of trouble, suffer not his trust in thee to fail. All of which we ask of thee, O Father Almighty, world without end. Amen. Stay here, Captain. The oath of office will now be administered by Honorable Matthew M. Levy, Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. Hold up your right hand, Mr. Halley, and repeat after me, please. I, Rudolf Halley, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, York and that I will faithfully perform and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office the duties of the office of president of the council of the city of New York of president of the council of the city of New York according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability so help me God so help me God congratulations thank you Supreme Court Justice Matthew Levy has just administered the oath of office to the president-elect of the city of the council the honorable Henry and Marion Halley will pay the usual filing fee to the city clerk who's standing right over there Mr. Murray stand will you go right over and give me the money the two youngsters have just paid the filing fee to the clerk Mr. Shivitz vested in me as a justice of the Supreme Court of the state of New York I do now declare you Rudolph Halley duly inducted into the office of president of the council of the city of New York both personally Rudy and officially mr. president I congratulate you and I wish you every success in the conduct of the affairs of this important and responsible public office good luck thank you mr. you have just heard the justice Levy congratulate the honorable Rudolph Halley senior Edward Roberts Moore pastor of old st. Peter's church will now read from the scriptures prayer adapted from the book of Leviticus the 19th chapter the 11th to the 18th verse O Lord our God help us to be mindful of the word thou has spoken through Moses thy servant do not violate the honor of thy God by swearing falsely in my name the Lord's name O Lord our God help us to be mindful of the word thou has spoken through Moses thy servant do not wrong thy neighbor or despoil him by violence do not withhold the wages of thy hired servants till morning comes do not miscall the dead or put a stumbling block in the blind man's and put a stumbling block in the blind man's and steal and steal and deceive and deceive one another do not violate the honor of the God by swearing falsely in my name the Lord's name O Lord our God help us to be mindful of the word thou has spoken through Moses thy servant do not wrong thy neighbor or despoil him by violence do not withhold the wages of thy hired servants till morning comes do not miscall the deaf or put a stumbling block in the blind man's way. Thou hast the vengeance of thy God to fear, the Lord's vengeance. O Lord our God, help us to be mindful of the word thou hast spoken through Moses thy servant. Do not pervade justice by giving false awards, taking a man's poverty into account, or flattering the great. Give every man his just due. Do not whisper calumniers in the public ear and swear away thy neighbor's life. The Lord hears thee. O Lord our God, help us to be mindful of the word thou hast spoken through Moses thy servant. Do not nurse resentment against thy brother. Put thyself in the right by confronting him with his fault. Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge for wrong done to thee by thy fellow citizens. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thy Lord is his. Amen. Marie LaGuardia will now make a presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody in the council chamber rises to salute Mrs. LaGuardia, who is about to make a presentation. This gavel of Fiorello's is significant because he used it for so many years. It was given to him at the dedication of the municipal airport, now called LaGuardia Field. And he was so proud of that achievement that this is the one he used not only as mayor, but when he also presided as director general of UNRWA at their sessions. In giving you this gavel today, Rudy, it just shows our confidence in you. We are many here today who have been striving and working to bring back good government to the city of New York. And we feel that you now are going to carry on for us. And I'm very happy to use this as a symbol. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. LaGuardia is now presenting personally the gavel to Mr. Rudolph Halley. The Honorable Rudolph Halley, who has just been sworn in as president of the City Council of New York. Thank you, Marie. Thank you, Marie. I regard this gavel as a symbol of dedication to public office, of complete integrity in public office, and of decent, honest, and efficient public administration by a fearless man. In holding this gavel, Marie, I will feel that I am holding the hopes and the aspirations of many millions of people, and certainly my own hopes and aspirations. On this occasion, I would like to say that having, by the people of New York City, and with the blessing and the aid of the Lord, undertaken the responsibilities of the office of president of the City Council, it is appropriate that I publicly state my concept of the responsibility which I am accepting, and my concept of the dedication which I am making. I believe that we, people of New York City, have given me a mandate, a job to do, a job which I must do, and must do with all of my ability, and never shrinking from it. A job, a job which has definite confines and limitations, and to which I should limit myself so that I can give all of my energies and activities to the task at hand. I believe that I am making. I believe that mandate is to use every effort within the legal, constitutional powers of my office, in cooperation with my colleagues in office, to bring about clean, decent, efficient municipal government. I believe that I cannot please all of the people all of the time. I believe that I will have to have the courage to do that which is, in my opinion, right after I have sought and carefully weighed expert advice and received the help of the many people upon whom I know I can count, and on whom I should say I know we, the people, can count for aid and assistance in this job. My election came after I had made a number of statements as to policy. Of these I will not be unmindful. They will always be in the forefront in every activity. And I shall construe this mandate to mean that I shall engage in activity as the independent who has been elected, turning neither to one side nor to the other, but serving all of the people faithfully throughout my term of office. And I thank those in this room, each and every one of you, on behalf of all of the people of the City of New York. Thank you. Dr. Israel Goldstein, Rabbi of Congregation B'nai Jeshrin, will pronounce the benediction. In the spirit of self-dedication to the high purposes with which these ceremonies are invested, in the spirit of self-dedication to the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light. We turn our hearts to the source of all inspiration. Thy spirit, O God, implanted in man, doth move him to do justice, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thee. Thy prophets have taught us that the measure of man's merit in thy sight, is the extent of his concern with the well-being of his fellow men. Millions of thy creatures inhabit this huge and multi-complexioned metropolis. May our chosen leaders keep their minds and hearts attuned to the needs of the masses of the people. May they not hesitate to vent their cleansing wrath upon iniquity. May they bend their compassion to the weak and the underprivileged. May they devote their talents to the improvement of our city's manifold services to all its citizens. Upon him who this day assumes high office, an office to which he was elected by the people, we ask thy special blessing. May his vision of a community cleansed of its dross be matched by zeal of performance. May he be granted health and strength to endure the strain of public office. Patience to cope with the obstacles which may obstruct his path, skill to overcome them, and wisdom and resourcefulness to set ever higher goals for the progress of our community. Thy blessing, O God, bestow upon all who carry public responsibilities in our city, state, and nation. May peace reign within our borders and flow from our borders like a torrent to all parts of this strife-torn world. Establish thou, O Lord, the work of our hands. The work of our hands do thou establish. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord cause his spirit to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his spirit upon thee and grant thee peace. Amen. If you will all remain seated, Mr. Halley will receive those who wish to do so in his own name. and his office is downstairs. But I would like you to remain seated until the members of the Board of Estimates, the Council, can go leave the room. Radio's microphones this morning have brought you the oath-taking ceremony of the Honorable Rudolph Halley, who has just been sworn in as President of the City Council of the City of New York. Mr. Halley is now leaving the Council Chamber and is going to his own offices on the first floor of City Hall, on the east end of City Hall, where, as Mr. Schibert has just announced, he will receive the guests and friends who have come here this morning to greet him and wish him success in his new undertaking. He is now escorted by the Board of Estimates and the members of the City Council as they leave the Council Chamber in City Hall. That is all we have to report from City Hall. We return you now to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. I talked to Mr. Halley has a famous staffing facility and angels thinking about all對吧 owners who have us arbitration to find ourャ одной seatbelён. So myаль delle ruziever on魔 وت commissioner baile snare ichi symbol Mount de heat free, he is my sonar fuà di haig. He has chelaps e aino esper wireless API, I have to report every Sage whom I réd겠습니다, a narrow gallon from Lionelster Amas 2. His build on some sense of his friend's own ob거나 We will see him that he gets the electric cable intake cycle. He teaches the cruise owner those other legs to us and he is joined and he is the public forum and he grows neben them and he gets the crew He is now nominated of the crew tak há, so we are not able to do that. We start to write the interactive löorted system.