Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, do we face critical shortages? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the production of civilian goods, government controls, and the situation faced by the consumer. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are James W. Alsdorf, President of the Cori Corporation and the National Housewares Manufacturers Association. Mark S. Massell, partner in the legal firm Bell, Boyd, Marshall, and Lloyd, and formerly with the War Production Board in the War Department as a consultant on government contracts and pricing. And Bernard A. Mitchell, President of the Mitchell Manufacturing Company and Vice President of the Newport Steel Corporation. Well now gentlemen, do we face critical shortages now? What is the present picture as you see at Alsdorf? At the present time, there are no critical shortages of consumer goods. However, it is very likely in the months ahead with the government's projected and contemplated program of a combination defense production effort as well as a civilian production effort that we will have dislocations and shortages of many civilian goods. Do you agree with that, Mitchell? Yes. If you had a cake and took a one-quarter slice out of it, what's left would represent what we are going to have for our civilian economy. The three-quarters that is going to remain represents about the same amount of durable goods as we produced in 1949. However, full employment in the period to follow, higher base pay, more overtime, full pay envelopes, will result in more buying power by the consumer. More demand against a dwindling supply in the months to come, in my opinion, adds up to shortages. And do you accept that analysis, Marcel? I have much more difficulty with the problem than either Alsdorf or Mitchell appear to have. First of all, I have some problem in trying to define what we might mean by critical shortages. The issues are whether we mean critical shortages from the standpoint of military requirements, critical shortages from the standpoint of consumer needs, or critical shortages from the standpoint of the general development of our stabilization program. Now, actually, those are all related, aren't they? Very definitely related. And I take it we're concerned primarily here with the shortages for the consumer? Yes. Second is the question of the timing of a critical shortage. Are we thinking of it in terms of the critical shortages for the next several months, for this year, for the next five years, or ten years? And in connection with that, when we think of critical shortages, do we mean that there will be shortages that may last for six months or longer, or do we mean that there are shortages which may last for several years? Well, Macelle, I think we all agree it's very difficult to endeavor to gaze into the years ahead. Although I believe we are committed to a defense effort that may last for a long time. However, in the immediate future, I believe there are unfortunately some shortages in for the consumer. In the meantime, it's been very, very misleading because when you pick up your newspaper, you read about industry having a cut on steel of 20%, on copper, aluminum, and many of the critical and vital materials that go in a defense effort. At the moment, there are no shortages at the retail level when the consumer goes in for purchases. There may be waiting periods for certain specific products, but they are obtainable. However, the defense effort has really not gotten underway completely. A great deal of procurement orders have been placed by the government. As a matter of fact, five months after Korea, the defense orders were placed at the rate of about $1,800,000,000 per month. In last January, or this last January, there were $4,800,000,000,000. So you can see that the ratio is stepping up. Now actually, the war plants or defense plants have not gotten into the production. Most of them are what we call in the blueprint stage. They are planning, they are going to go into production in September, October, November, some of them not even until 1952. The result is that the shortages are going to start later, not now. Another problem that I have on facing the up to the first question is the fact that it seems to me that when we look at it over any period of time, there are a number of unknown factors which will have a strategic effect on the general problem of shortages. I would like to mention a few. First is the international problem. How long will the Cold War continue? What type of warmer war activities will take place? In connection with that, will we have any of the so-called peace scares which may affect our entire production problem? How far will we go in further developments along the line of Marshall Plan and military aid? In connection with that, how much will we expect other countries to produce for themselves and how much raw material will we import from the other countries? A second set of problems is the matter of government purchasing. What will be the timing of the government purchasing? Will it be possible for the government to carry through on a plan which has been tentatively suggested? Namely, to step up the volume of purchasing over a period of time until we have enough capacity both for military purposes and for the production of military items so that it is no longer necessary to continue procurement at that high level. In other words, the program which has been suggested is that we may have a substantial hump of military procurement which would be followed by a longer range program of military procurement at a somewhat lower level. Well, now, Alsdorf said a minute ago that we have not faced any very serious shortages as yet, but they are imminent. Is that essentially your position? Yes, that is very definitely my position because we have a problem that's rather complex. The government is endeavoring to maintain a civilian economy and at the same time a defense effort. Now, although we have had the highest production in the history of our country in the last six months and the last year, nevertheless, with the increased employment and employment at the present time is at the highest levels in our history, there are a million more people employed today than there were a year ago at this time. These people have money. They desire and they need goods and they want to buy goods. When we take materials and endeavor to follow a defense pattern and simultaneously an economy, it's going to be impossible to keep an equilibrium and synchronize it so there will not become soft spots and shortages. Well, Alsdorf, I agree that there's going to be shortage, but we must also remember that there's going to be a lot of production because the government is only slicing back manufacturers from using a certain amount of material and the balance can be used for civilian purposes. I don't believe we're going to see the long queues nor will the customer have to wait years to get what he wants. With a little advanced planning of his needs, I think the average civilian is going to be able to get what he wants. Well, let me see if I can summarize this just a bit. We seem to feel that we're not facing any very serious shortages now, but that we're likely to when we feel the impact of these war contracts. But I'm interested in your analysis, Marcel, which introduces these uncertainties into the picture. You say it's a hard question to answer because of the complications in the international situation, the possibilities of extended martial aid, timing on contracts, and so on. Well, now, if we face a crisis here that's likely to go on for a decade, what are we up against anyway in terms of your own analysis? Well, if we face a crisis which is likely to go on for a decade... And some people say that that's the situation. And the crisis is set up in terms of a Cold War type of operation. It seems to me that there is some possibility that we may not have very substantial critical shortages. that there is a possibility that the government may be able to carry through on some of the program which has been suggested. Namely, to step up the volume of military production and to step up the construction of new capacity in such a way that the total volume of production, which may be possible later on and which may be available for consumer uses, would be stepped up very substantially. But I believe that before it is possible to tell what will happen in either the short run or what would happen under a program of that type, we have to face up to some very serious questions regarding what consumers will do. In that connection, I believe that we have to consider what will be the effect of current fiscal programs and substantial new fiscal programs and monetary programs which will have an effect on purchasing power. I believe also that we have to consider the question of how consumers will react to the total situation. Will they be anxious to spend all of their purchasing power to grab off what they can? Will they maintain stability through this without getting into any mood for hoarding? Will they recognize the fact that it is possible for them to have a substantially high standard of living without creating new distortions in the entire economy? And in connection with that, I would like to point out that despite the announced cuts in the programs which the government has come out with already, those cuts are on a level of production which is substantially higher than any peacetime level of production that we had ever had before. So for example, in the fourth quarter of 1950, our volume of production which contained very few, relatively few military items was at a rate which was about twice our volume of production in 1939 and at a rate which came fairly close to our highest year of production, 1943, where a very, very substantial part of our total production capacity went into military items. Yet by the same token industry has been producing at capacity, so has the consuming public been making their purchases at capacity rates. As a matter of fact, retail sales so far this year are up 15 to 25 percent above a year ago. And despite the cutbacks that will be forthcoming and felt by the consumers on certain products in the third and fourth quarter this year, unquestionably retail sales will still be up 10 or 15 percent for the year. One problem that comes up in an evaluation of those figures is the issue of how much of consumers' purchasing was anticipatory. How much of the purchasing by consumers was because of fear about future shortages? How much was because of fear about future price increases? In addition to that, if we look at it in terms of the actual standard of living, I believe that it is fairly safe to say that the consumers' total supply of consumer durable goods today, and even of many soft lines, is greater than we have ever had in the nation's history. We've had more automobiles on the roads than ever before. We have a greater supply in the hands of consumers of electrical appliances of various types. We have a better housing picture than we ever had before. So that it seems to me that there could be a fairly substantial amount of cutting without anything which could possibly be called critical. Well, I think it's fairly clear that we have a shortage in metals right now. Steel, copper, aluminum, nickel, tin, and zinc, which are primary metals in consumer goods, have already had their use restricted by the government. Announced cutbacks for the second quarter of 1951, that's beginning April 1st, are steel 20 percent, copper 25 percent, nickel 35 percent, aluminum 35 percent, zinc 20 percent, tin 20 percent. Use of these materials for decorative uses and for many non-essential items has already been banned. To the extent of these non-essential items, we, of course, already have a shortage of those right now. Well, now, how do you men regard this government program of controls, to which Mitchell refers? Well, the government program of controls, I feel, believe we all feel that their philosophy is the right approach. I mean, they have endeavored to establish these controls whereby we could have a peacetime civilian economy to take care of most of the civilians' basic needs and at the same time take care of the defense effort that we all recognize as needed for the present international situation. I do believe one of the most confusing issues, however, has been that the various orders and regulations on materials for producers that come out of Washington, unfortunately, have followed no consistent pattern. For example, the aluminum order is 35 percent and it refers basically to the manufacturer using the aluminum. It does not refer to the assembler nor even to the mill producing the aluminum. On the other hand, the steel order just issued, which starts April 1st, cutting back production 20 percent, goes on an actual item basis by weight that the cutback must be. Now, the problem for producers is that all of these critical materials are usually used in their production. So that in trying to synchronize all these materials together, there is quite a production problem. The end result of which is, as your production flow is not consistent and you stop certain production lines, you lose your productivity and that can very materially hurt production. The government problem, at best, is a difficult one. The National Production Authority determines requirements for industrial materials and commodities needed for defense, for military needs and civilian and also for our foreign needs. They formulate and execute policies and programs necessary to fulfill such requirements. It's a little early to tell about how this administration is going to work out. Before limitation orders, cutbacks are imposed, the government makes an effort to consult with industry representatives. Obviously, less essential civilian needs will be cracked down on. The effort seems to be sincere to keep essential needs going after accommodating the military. I think that in trying to evaluate the government program in this area, we have to recognize the fact that the government is going through growing pains. It has taken on a task which is easily comparable to the task of trying to establish a completely new factory, turning out a completely new line of products. If an individual company attempts a job of that type, there is no doubt, it seems to me, but that the company has to try testing various methods of accomplishing its purpose. I believe that that is what the government is trying to do now. In line with that, I believe that some of the inconsistencies which Augsburg referred to are practically inevitable. I think that the general picture of government controls can be summed up somewhat along the following lines. They are trying to see what techniques they can develop for meeting the issues of controls today. That requires consultation with industry. That requires developing completely new statistical patterns for getting information and for setting up controls which will follow those patterns. In connection with the steel picture and the aluminum picture, it may well be that one of the main reasons for the differences in the controls is that the people working on it within NPA are in different sections. That in those different sections, they have to consult with different industries. That the statistics on the utilization of steel products and the statistics on the utilization of aluminum products may not be quite the same. Therefore, whereas ideally they might like to put them on the same basis, they must go through growing pains before they can develop and perfect a system. And I would like to add one further point in connection with it. I believe that the effort today is to depend as much as possible on the ingenuity of the individual company. That instead of trying to tell the individual company just what it shall produce, the effort is to restrict its use of certain products, assuming, and I think it's a very reasonable assumption, that individual companies can exercise their ingenuity to maintain production as much as possible and to see what they can do about ironing out the inconsistencies at the company level. It seems to me that looking at that type of problem, that industry as a whole and the individual companies can probably do a more reasonable job of ironing out inconsistencies early in the program than the government can. Macell, I must hardly agree and concur with you on that point. I think the government has taken great pains in consulting with industry and endeavoring to apply these orders. Unfortunately, there has been no consistency in the pattern of the orders. Now the problem is that there are many of us that are small manufacturers. And as these orders come out, they are worded and phrased in quite legal language. So unless you have a staff or corps of lawyers that can interpret the regulation, there is a lot of confusion. I believe that a little more from the government in the way of interpretation of the regulations would be exceptionally helpful. These flat cutbacks of materials such as have been imposed by NPA are bound to create inequities. And I believe that this should be recognized in government thinking. I also believe that small business be given more consideration in the allocation of available materials. I'd like to come back to Osdor's point with regard to the complexity of the orders. I think that one of the main critical shortages that we have to face is manpower. And manpower includes manpower among lawyers. On that account, I'd suggest that instead of having a whole staff of lawyers working for the government to interpret these orders, we might consider the possibility of writing orders in simple enough language so that they can be understood without all of these interpretations. And a lawyer, that's magnificent. I can assure you industry would heartily welcome that. Well, what has been the impact of these government controls on the producer, on the manufacturer? At the present time, realistically, there has been no impact as yet at the producing level. You mean they're producing as much now as they did before? Not only as much, but actually in the first quarter of this year there will be more durable consumer goods produced than ever before in the history of our company. However, that is rather misleading in that the regulations actually start to take effect on production in the second quarter commencing April 1st. And obviously, these will, the effects of these cutbacks will not be noticeable at the consumer level until probably the third and fourth quarter of this year. And by the same token, the defense contracts that have been let, a lot of them are not as yet in production. Now, as they endeavor to procure the materials to go into production on defense contracts, I think the question of whether a producer can continue to make 80% of his merchandise in steel may become an academic question. Because it's quite possible that with defense material procurements, which naturally must have priority, that the 80% available to the civilian producer may not be obtainable. I continue to get the picture that we face no substantial shortages on the consumer level now, that we're likely to face such, let's say, a year hence. That's quite right. And then this thing is likely to iron out over the long run. Is that a fair statement, you think, Marcel? Well, I think it's a fair statement. I would like to add a footnote to it, that these shortages may not be severe enough to be called critical. What has been the, or is likely to be the effect on the quality of merchandise produced under these conditions, Mitchell? Well, I believe that quality will deteriorate slightly as manufacturers eliminate fancy trims. There has been some prohibitions on certain consumer goods against using chrome plating as an example. I think there will be some quality deterioration as manufacturers stretch the use of their available materials, in an effort to obtain more units out of the material that's permitted to them, and also as they use substitute materials. American industry has always shown a lot of ingenuity in the use of substitute materials. As a matter of fact, the last war, and immediately thereafter, American industry found they had to use and employ substitute materials, and strangely enough, many of the substitute materials ended in a better product than the original material that went into the product. Well, I'd like to close the discussion with some direct consideration of the impact of all of this on the consumer. Now, we've had that fellow in mind all the way through the discussion, I know. Specifically, has there been any evidence of hoarding on the part of consumers? How have they responded to these shortages, Macell? Well, the general picture that I get from a number of people in industry is that there has been fairly substantial hoarding on the part of consumers. We saw the period immediately after Korea, in which sales went up very, very substantially, in which, as a matter of fact, for certain types of items there were temporary shortages, and consumers had moderately substantial waiting periods. What were some of those? Those were in the... Foods, mainly? No, not mainly in foods. I think that it was much stronger in consumers' durable goods and in consumers' soft goods than in foods, although there were many, there were some areas in foods in which some hoarding took place. I understand that some department stores and haberdasher stores, for example, have found that customers who usually purchased one or two shirts at a time were purchasing one dozen or two dozen shirts, that the... there was a considerable speed up on the number of orders for automobiles, for washing machines, for television sets, and for a number of other consumer items. What Macell is referring to, I wouldn't call hoarding. There has been a large amount of anticipatory buying by manufacturers, wholesalers, and retails. Consumers, too, have bought in advance of their immediate requirements. However, merchants seem disposed to sell their goods rather than hold them awaiting future shortages. The government seems to be meeting this problem of hoarding by regulations preventing hoarding of vital raw materials. One of the first regulations issued by the National Production Authority was a restriction against holding unreasonable inventories. I don't believe there is any real evidence of any hoarding at the consumer level at the present time, because there is really no commodity, whether it's a consumer durable good or a food, at the present time that is in critical or even in what you would term short supply. I would first like to accept Mr. Mitchell's amendment. I did not mean to talk about hoarding, but about anticipatory buying. I believe that the reason that there are very few items which are in short supply today is because of the fact that many consumers, having engaged in a round of anticipatory buying, have discovered now that the goods are available and have built up enough through their anticipatory buying so that they are not too anxious to go in pushing for more. Mr. Mitchell, I agree with you. I think the anticipatory buying was basically immediately after Korea, and it's since tempered off considerably. Yes. Now, you seem to make a nice distinction here between what you point they call anticipatory buying and hoarding. Is there a distinction there? Well, there's a distinction in this sense. A man may go out to buy an automobile because he's afraid that prices may go up or that he may have difficulty purchasing automobiles of the same quality next year. But you could hardly say that he would be hoarding automobiles in the sense in which he would put a number of them away in a storage closet to keep for use on some later occasion. Therefore, when you get into items which loom very large, it is extremely difficult to say that somebody is purchasing that item for purposes of hoarding, in the same way in which you can say that a man who purchases, a housewife who purchases a large number of cans of food is hoarding. So that anticipatory buying is one of those nicer terms which does not carry the connotations of hoarding. Yes, I gather that. How do shortages in certain goods affect the buying of other goods, Mitchell? Well, it is known that as consumers have difficulty in buying consumer durable goods, that they spend their money on more food, services, and entertainment. I think this was well illustrated during World War II when the nightclubs and theaters did a thriving business. You think we're likely to face shortages in foods? We haven't discussed that very much specifically. I don't believe so. At the present time, with the increased population and food consumption as a whole, is up about 3%. On the other hand... Sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up now. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Do We Face Critical Shortages? You can obtain a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. A subscription costs only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were James W. Alsdorf, Mark S. Massel, and Bernard A. Mitchell. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss population and food pressure in the Orient. Our guests will be E. B. Espenshade, Jr., Professor of Geography at Northwestern University, D. Gale Johnson, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, and L. Dudley Stamp, Professor of Geography at the London School of Economics. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the subject, Population and Food Pressure in the Orient. Remember, for your copy of today's reviewing stand discussion, the address is Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.