Your health is your most valuable possession. Guard it well. In cooperation with the New York County Medical Society, your city station brings you another in this series of talks on you and your health. Today, our guest from the Medical Society is Dr. Leonard F. Siner, who will speak on delivery by cesarean section. Dr. Siner. Every woman, and especially every young woman, whether single or married, should know the basic facts about cesarean section. The operation which involves the removal of a fully developed baby from the uterus by an incision through the abdominal wall and uterus or womb. Since natural delivery is not possible or is too dangerous for many women, delivery by cesarean section provides the method. By which they can be safely delivered of living children. Consider not only the tremendous number of lives of mothers and babies which have thus been saved, but also the countless happy families which otherwise might not have come into existence. However, like other great triumphs of man's ingenuity over nature's irregularities, the improper use of the cesarean section can be dangerous and definitely undesirable when used as a substitute for the natural delivery process. The delivery of a child by this method has recently been glamorized, one might say. Its importance has been unduly magnified by popular Hollywood actresses who have had their children delivered by cesarean section for one reason or another. Most unfortunate of all is the fact that too much has been said or written about cesarean section as the easy way to have a baby. Although it is true that this method of delivery entirely eliminates the process of labor, except when it is done after labor has started, medical science is now enabling women to have their babies with as little pain as possible and in the most natural way. Caesarean section is almost certainly one of the oldest surgical operations with its origin lost in antiquity and ancient mythology. In 715 BC, a law was enacted in Rome that the child should be removed from any woman who had died in the last few weeks of pregnancy. Since the Roman laws later became known as the laws of Caesar, it is assumed that the name Caesarean operation originated in this way. Although this operation had been practiced from earliest times on women who had died in labor, it was not until the 14th or 15th century that the delivery of a living child by this method was attempted. The modern type of caesarean section was first described by the German physician Sanger in 1882, and since that time it has been improved and perfected to a remarkable degree. Various types of anesthesia may be safely used for this operation, depending on the physical condition of the mother and the size of the baby. Some type of nerve block is frequently the method of choice. The use of caesarean section is now considered commonplace and is no longer deemed the spectacular or formidable last resort of the past. The incidence of this operation has risen in the past several years due to a broadening of its indications. Furthermore, better equipped hospitals, improved techniques, better prenatal care, newer drugs, preparedness for immediate transfusion when necessary, have lowered the mortality rate of mothers delivered by this method, as well as the death rate of their infants. The operation is done now for almost any obstetric complication, but it is not without danger to the mother and baby. Since it is a major operation, most hospitals require consultation with at least one other obstetrician before surgery is sanctioned. There are three types of caesarean section. One is the elective section, which is planned for the patient beforehand. Another is the emergency section, or a caesarean which is done as an emergency measure to save the life of the baby, the mother, or both. And a third type of section is a caesarean after trial of labor. Here the obstetrician gives nature the benefit of the doubt, but after a sufficient period of trial, a caesarean is done. Why is a caesarean section done? Mainly, to save the life of the mother or child or both, and when necessary, to ensure a healthy mother and baby following delivery. The reason for our number of caesareans is disproportionate. In simple language, the baby's head is too large for the mother's bony pelvis, or in other words, the passenger is too big for the passageway. Another indication for a section is bleeding from the vagina or birth canal. Any vaginal bleeding during pregnancy is abnormal. The obstetrician attempts to determine the cause and then makes his decision. Usually, there are some defects with the afterbirth or placenta. Taxemia or eclampsia is another indication for a caesarean section. Here, the blood of the mother is poisoned, and the toxins may be transmitted to the child. This can happen if vital organs do not function normally. The dysfunction is caused by the inability of the organs to adapt themselves to the extra work of providing for the growing uterus and the tiny unborn child. When this complication does not respond to medical treatment, it may become necessary to deliver by caesarean section. Unproductive labor or active labor for a long duration without progress is another indication for this operation, which is usually considered before the patient becomes physically exhausted. The patient's obstetrician is always the best judge of her condition. Outside influences should be disregarded as much as possible. A timely section, when there are no serious contraindications, is far better for both mother and child than a difficult force of delivery. Remember also that the hazards are increased with added delay. Abnormal positions of the baby in the uterus or the presentation of the baby by the breach, occasionally complicated, with other difficulties during the onset of labor, may also make delivery by caesarean necessary. Other conditions warranting plans for delivery by this method include constitutional diseases such as tuberculosis, diabetes, and severe heart disease. There may be congenital abnormalities of the female organs or abnormalities caused by previous surgery, which would preclude a normal delivery. Also, when tumors of the pelvic organs are present, a child may be more safely delivered by caesarean section. When there is a history of difficulty in becoming pregnant or in carrying a baby to term, especially in an older woman, it is advisable to plan for a caesarean section or to be prepared to do one after a short trial labor. The consensus of a medical opinion is that it is unwise to attempt a normal or natural delivery when a patient has had a caesarean performed previously. Since it is not possible to actually observe the old scar on the uterus, there is always a possibility that labor contractions may cause a scar to reopen, a most serious complication. Hence the statement one often hears, once a caesarean, always a caesarean. Three sections are considered safe for a woman, but there have been women who have had more than three, usually, I might add, against the advice of their physicians. There are several disadvantages of delivery by this method. The size of one's family is automatically limited. It is a major operation which involves even greater risk of infection than most other pelvic surgery, since there is always a chance that bacteria in the uterus or in the birth canal may invade the abdominal cavity during or after the operation, causing peritonitis and possible blood poisoning. Also, after the patient has already undergone the stresses of pregnancy, her system is more susceptible to the danger of surgical shock and pulmonary complications. Statistics show that caesarean sections in the United States amount to no more than 5% of the total base. The mortality rate for this type of delivery is five times that for other abdominal surgery, and it is eight times more dangerous for a woman to have her child by caesarean section than to have it naturally. Most obstetricians believe in early ambulation or early rising following a caesarean section, and a patient may be out of bed on the following day. Her activities are progressively increased, and within six weeks she will probably be leading a relatively normal life. But she will feel like doing everything long before that. A mother may nurse her child if she wishes after this type of delivery, as milk will be produced by the breasts when the pregnancy is terminated. A patient may do exercises to regain her figure, but her obstetrician will advise her to wait longer before initiating them than if she had been delivered normally. Delivery by caesarean section does not affect the menstrual or menopausal processes. It has no connection with the functioning of the ovaries. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that confidence in one's obstetrician and in his judgment with careful attention to his advice is of primary importance. Placing oneself under his supervision early in each pregnancy so that any eventuality may be cared for as it arises is of equal importance. Finally, it should be emphasized that a caesarean section is a serious operation but is of great value when natural birth is not feasible. since it is not without its dangers and disadvantages. It should be resorted to only when it promises to be the safest means of ensuring a healthy mother and child at the completion of the pregnancy. You've been listening to Dr. Leonard Epps-Signer speaking on the subject Delivery by Caesarean Section. These programs heard each week at the same time are produced in cooperation with the New York County Medical Society. For a free copy of today's broadcast write to WNYC New York 7 New York. Now stay tuned for Music America Loves. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. on the proper way of Gr llegar with the Comme Loves. The New York-K Ce crashing will be equal because you have to replace the river chapter and to get conoce of our horse and from the get to indicative