National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. National Anthem of India. Ambassador of India to the United States, ladies and gentlemen present and those who are listening in. New York City's honored guest today stands at the head of a free nation of 355 million people. That nation reveres him as one who struggled for its independence. All India reveres him because he fought for that independence to the sacrifice of his health and his personal freedom. But through the years, the people of India heard his strong voice when, as a follower of the great Mahatma Gandhi, he pleaded the cause of freedom for India. Today, the premier carries with him the spiritual legacy of Gandhi. In his endless search for world peace and justice, he has firmly held to the principles of Gandhi. This great man, who understands the culture and the complex problems of India, has come to the United States for the first time. Let us welcome him as a representative of a great nation that is at the same time old and new. Let us here in New York City help him to understand the culture of America. And as we greet him today, let us assure him that this nation, so truly represented by the people of the city of New York, is with him on the side of freedom for all nations of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many receptions to great men and women on this hallowed spot on which we stand today. Today, we find a man who knew because he learned to bring peace even without force. We find a man who represents the one thing today in this world that lives, that can give peace, not alone to India, but to the nations of the entire world. It is a great joy to me, as mayor of this city, to give him the hearty welcome that our city wants to give him, to make him feel that we understand him, to ask him to have patience and understand us. He will, because we mean what he means. We will settle for nothing less than a guarantee to the unborn that this world will one day be a peaceful world where all peoples will understand one another. To the premier, my heartiest welcome. Thank you. His excellence, Prime Minister of India. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I have come here a simple man from a country of simple ways. I have come to this great and proud city of New York, and you have offered me a welcome full of pomp and ceremony. I am deeply grateful to you for that. And I am even more grateful, if I may say so, for the friendly welcome that so many of you that were in the streets through which we passed gave me. You looked at me with friendly eyes and friendly faces, and that conveyed more to me than even, if I may say so, the great ceremony which surrounded me. For I have come here to this great country and to this great city, which has become, in the course of time, the nerve center of the world, to this great country which through work and struggle has achieved this pinnacle of greatness, and on which now is thrust, whether she wills it or not, a great measure of responsibility in world affairs. So I have come here in many ways. Naturally, many of us in far parts of the world are rather dazzled by the wealth and prosperity of this country. But what has brought me here is not merely to look out of curiosity on these great emblems of wealth and power and prosperity, but I have been attracted even more by that background of freedom which this country has had, its struggle for freedom, its championship of the cause of freedom in other countries, because that found an answering echo in our hearts. And we felt that, however much we might differ from one another, there was a great deal in common also. And so I came here and I expected a friendly welcome, because those from your country who had visited my country had come there often enough as friends, and we had met there. So I expected a friendly welcome. But I must confess to you that I have been rather overwhelmed by the exceeding cordiality and friendliness that I have met here, everywhere, from the President of the United States to from Washington and in New York. And now you, sir, Mr. Mayor, have given me this great welcome in this mighty city. I can assure you, Mr. Mayor, that I heartily reciprocate the sentiments to which you have just given expression. I wish with all my heart that your great country and mine may cooperate in the larger causes of peace and freedom in the world. We are separated and we are far away. But today, distance doesn't count. And even though we might have our separate problems, often enough we have to face common problems. Often enough we have to cooperate together in their solution. We may have our different ways of looking at things that is natural, because our backgrounds are different, our present, our geographical position is different, and we have grown up in different ways of life. We have to understand that. We have to understand and appreciate differences sometimes in order to find out the basic similarity and unity. And therefore, I hope that it will be given to us in India and to you here to work together for these big causes and to face the big problems of the world together. I thank you most heartily, Mr. Mayor, and you ladies and gentlemen, for this very generous welcome that you have given me. Mr. Whelan. The Police Glee Club will render a selection. I interrupt to say that Mr. Nehru, in a point of graciousness and politeness, has asked Mr. Whelan to escort him to the stand where he can pay strict attention and give his personal attention to the Glee Club while they're singing. And he stands there watching with the greatest attention and listening to the music of the Police Glee Club. Mr. Nehru. Life is wonderful side by side. Here we go. Hip hip hooray, we're on our way in second handed clothes. Where are we bound for? Nobody knows. Ah, even though we're short of dough, we've got a lot of fat. Nothing to wait for, we're ready to step. Hip! Where do we go? Where do we go? Why do we care? Why do we care? We'll be in Clover when we're there. When we're there. We're marching along together, sharing every smile and tear. Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. Marching along together, whistling till the skies are clear. Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. Swinging along the highway, over the road that's wild. Without a bugle, without a drum, we need to chase the jinx away. Drumty diddly, here we come. We're happy, dinky dinks. Hooray! Marching along together, life is wonderful side by side. Hip hooray! Life is wonderful side by side. You know, those wonderful cameramen, they saw a great opportunity when Mr. Nehru stood up because he didn't sit there, he just wanted to see who was singing and entertaining him. And he took Mrs. Nehru by the arm, then the mayor joined him, then the cameramen started issuing orders. Now Mr. Whelan speaking. Mr. Whelan has just issued the request that the entire pageant here pass in review of the mayor of the city of New York and Mr. Nehru and Mrs. Nehru, the guests of the mayor today. Mr. Whelan speaking. Might be again an attempt to recapture this scene. I don't know whether there will be any further speeches, but now as the Army, Navy, Marines line up for review, and the veterans of our own great armies of blue, the police and fire department, and other units have turned out here today to pay strict honors to Mr. Nehru, Prime Minister of India, at the instance of the mayor of the city of New York, who has arranged this truly wonderful pageant. Mr. Nehru himself seems absolutely stunned, but most graciously interested in everything that's going on here today. In fact, his acuteness and his personal interest in what is passing takes some of the stateliness out of the affair and makes it more friendly and neighborly. He seems very desirous of understanding everything that is happening and why.