The New Frontier, today starring Quentin Reynolds. This is a story about a newspaper man who looked for facts and found an unexpected obstacle blocking the streets on the new frontier of human freedom. Quentin Reynolds is the newspaper man, and the story is called Elephant in the Streets. Remember that famous saying from the Bible, ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free? That's what this story is about. I wanted the truth about our town, and I found it with the help of a lot of people. Some good, some bad, but mostly both. Just people. I read my own newspaper, and I didn't like some of the things I was reading. I thought about it, and one morning not so long ago, I sat down in a room in City Hall and waited. This way, please. The mayor will see you now. Thank you. Well, you old son of a gun. It's good to see you. Sit down. How's the newspaper business? Oh, flourishing, Your Honor. One mess after another to write about. Well, that sounds like my business. Every once in a while, I wonder why people fight to be elected to this job. A near-resistible urge to serve the public and to improve the community. I hope. Well, believe it or not, I think that's true. More often than not. Good. Then I have a project for you. A project is all I need now with a budget fight, transit problems, and the election coming up. What's on your mind? Now, two weeks ago, the Spanish paper in town carried an article charging discrimination in employment against Mexicans. A month ago, vandals defaced and broke several windows of a synagogue over on the west side. Last week, there was a near riot trying to keep Negro families from moving into that new housing development. What do you want me to say? How about trying to stop it? Just like that. These problems have been plaguing the world since the dawn of history, and you want me to stop them. Oh. You got any ideas? Maybe. Maybe. But first, I'd like to know about prejudice in this town. How much is there? What forms does it take? Why does it exist? Why do some people discriminate against others? Maybe if we could find the answers to these questions, we could do something about them. Look, are you sure these outbreaks are not just sporadic? Maybe they're not as serious as you make them sound. Maybe. But I'd like to know. And then what? Tell the people. I think they ought to know about their town, whether it's good, bad, or indifferent. If it can be improved, how and where? Maybe we need more education. Maybe legislation. But let's find out. Ah, you'll be stirring up a hornet's nest. You know I'm coming up for re-election. Can you think of a better platform for re-election and improvement of human relations in this town? Well, can I count on the support of your paper? Right down the line. Okay. We got a couple of hundred thousand people in this town. Talk to every one of them, if you like, and keep me informed. Well, I sent a lot of reporters out, and here are some of the answers they got. Live and let live. That's my motto. Now, I hold ill will toward no man, but Jews just don't make good neighbors. They're too noisy, too clannish, too many relatives. I'm not prejudiced, mind you. I just don't want them living next door to me. Personally, I wouldn't mind a Mexican working right alongside me. As far as I'm concerned, he could join the union, too. But, well, you know how it is. Lots of members would object. It would destroy our union. You can't have that, you know. Negroes are just plain inefficient, that's all. I'm not prejudiced against them, but I just don't want to be waited on by them. Yes, it was most interesting. Nobody had any prejudices. A lot of people really didn't, but they're not the ones I want to talk about. I want to talk about the others. They're the problem. Naturally, they wouldn't come right out and say it. It was as though there was something dirty and embarrassing about it. Not quite nice. But they had ways of getting over what they meant. Applicants for this job must fill in all questions on the applicant blank. Name, age, sex, race, and religion. Also, please attach photographs to the application. Photographs don't lie, you know. In this advertisement for the hotel, we'll just put in a line, Church is nearby. They'll get the idea. I say I've got a right to choose my own neighbors, and I want Gentiles. 100% white Americans. That's the kind of neighborhood we've got, and, brother, it's going to stay that way. Some of it was polite. It even sounded respectable, if you can call it that. Some of it, as you can see, wasn't polite. But whichever it was, it was the same thing, and it served the same purpose. Prejudice was like a weed. Apparently, it could grow and flourish anywhere. How's this for an unlikely place? Nurse, I want this child admitted at once. Have the operating room prepared, and we'll fill in the forms later. But, doctor... Nurse, there isn't time to talk now. Doctor, this child is colored. I can't admit her. That's a rule in the hospital. Nurse! I'm sorry, doctor, but it would mean my job. You'll have to take her someplace else. With the very first answers to our questions, a pattern began to emerge. We found that better educated people are less prejudiced than the uneducated. We found that both upper and lower income groups, however, seem to have the deepest prejudice against those minorities with whom they compete most in their business or on their jobs. I reported this to the mayor, and we kept on digging with a different kind of question. Would you say, sir, that the average Mexican has certain faults to a greater degree than other people in our town? Yeah, they sure have. No proper sense of right and wrong. They're always fighting. You can't trust them. They're not educated. And they're not clean, either. More than half the people in our town apparently believe that. Would you say, then, that you think of most Jews as different in ways other than their religion? I most certainly do. About the same number of people in our town appeared to believe that, too. Do you think that, as people, Negroes are superior, inferior, or just about the same as other races living in our town? What a question. They're inferior, of course. Bad blood, low IQs. They're responsible for every problem we got around here. Judging from the answers we got to our questions, it seemed to us that a lot of people were inventing reasons for discriminating against certain minorities. But why? We had some idea, of course, but we wanted a scientific answer. We went out to the university and asked this question of one of the country's leading social scientists who teaches there. What's at the root of this kind of prejudice? Why are people willing to believe things that just aren't true? A difficult question, and I can give you only a partial answer. It takes quite a person to admit that he himself may be responsible for his own shortcomings, his own insecurity. If a man loses his job, can he blame it on the economic system? Yes. But there's not much satisfaction in that. It's too big, too impersonal. Resentment and hostility build up within him, and he tries to discharge it against individuals or groups even more precariously situated than he is. His scapegoat can be anyone that's handy. Mexicans, Japanese, Catholics, Jews, Protestants, Negroes, anyone. Well, there it was, right down the barrel head. And it sounded all too familiar, looking back on what happened in Germany before the war. There was this insecurity and resentment. Then there were the exclusions, the restrictions, and the discriminations. We had found all of them feeding a reservoir of hatred. There were people in our town, not many, it's true, who were fishing in this reservoir, making a living from it. But let one of them talk for himself. Brother, in this town, we've got everything. The scum of the earth, controlling business, running the city, sitting next to our kids in school. And what are we going to do about it? I've got a suggestion. Take them out for the neck and get rid of me. Okay, that's enough. Crackpot? Sure. But don't forget that reservoir of hatred, and don't forget these crackpots are earning a living from this sort of thing. Leave it to them. Give them five years, like Hitler said, and you won't recognize America. Well, I sent the report to the mayor, and then I went down to City Hall again to see him. While I was waiting, a lot of facts about some of our minorities went through my mind. Some of our minorities have the highest infant mortality rate in the city. Some of our minorities have the highest tuberculosis rate in the city. Some of our minorities have the highest percentage of juvenile delinquents and criminals. Some of our minorities are the last to find employment, the first to be laid off. Some Wyatt, some of our minorities have the highest percentage on the city's relief norms. Some of our minorities have the lowest percentage of taxpayers.ハ Mayor will see you now, sir. Thank you. Well, I've just been reading your report, and I don't know whether I'm glad to see you or not. What have you got in mind now? An official agency of the city administration to deal with minority group relations in this city. Wherever there is the kind of injustice and inequality this report shows, I want that agency in there fighting for what is right for everybody in this town. And I don't care whether he's rich or poor or what his color, race, or religion is. How about it? I don't know. It's nothing original, you know. Such agencies have been established in many cities around the country, and they work. Why not here? It's stirring up trouble. Why can't we just let it rest? Things haven't been so bad here. We've got an elephant in the street. It's there whether we look at it or not. And if we want to get it off the streets, we've got to do something about it. That's what prejudice is. And our town, an elephant in the street. We ought to get rid of it. Yeah, all right. It's a good point. But who'll help us? I've been holding out on you. There's one thing I haven't told you about. We asked one more question. This is it. Let's consider such groups as Catholics, Jews, Protestants, Mexicans, Negroes, and so on. Do you think something needs to be done so that these groups can get along better with each other? Or do you think nothing need be done? What were the answers? Well, 14% of those we asked said they just didn't know. Huh. 22% said that nothing had to be done. But the vast majority, 64%, wanted something done. 64%? That's right. If this agency, I suggest, evolves a good program, you're going to have their support. And as it gets rolling, you'll begin to pick up the support of the others, too. Well, then that's a little different. 64%, huh? With an election coming up. Yeah. Okay. How do we go about it? What kind of a program can we evolve? Where do we start? We started right then and there. We called the agency the Mayor's Committee on Human Rights. We got out fact sheets, facts on prejudice, facts on specific situations. Whenever people got excited about discrimination in employment or on housing or on anything else, we've been right in there trying to straighten things out. And our support is growing. We've had less tensions, fewer problems, and no riots. The fight against prejudice and discrimination is going on in our city, in our streets, in our homes, in the hearts of all of us who believe in truth and justice. I think we're making headway. I think we're getting the elephant off our streets. From what I hear, more and more towns and cities in America are getting on with this job, too. In this country, you show the people the truth, and the truth will make them free. Quentin Reynolds was starred in Elephant in the Streets, another program in our series The New Frontier, a Lest We Forget presentation of the Institute for Democratic Education. Listen in again next week at this same time for another tale of our times on the new frontier of human freedom. Your announcer, Nelson Case. The New Frontier Today featuring Edward R. Murrow. This is the story of a woman named Alice Pardee, an ordinary woman, and of her unexpected encounter with the law, with a new law on the new frontier of human freedom. How did Alice Pardee get involved with this law? What is this law? Here is Edward R. Murrow to tell about the case of Alice Pardee. There was a special quality about that early April morning. The month-long promise of spring had suddenly been realized. Alice Pardee sensed it immediately as she closed the door behind her and went out into the street. Even the bleak, dreary tenements looked more cheerful as she ran to catch the bus. The newspaper advertisement had said in bold type that young women, not a woman, but women, were wanted as telephone switchboard operators by one of the largest manufacturing companies in town. Experience unnecessary, it said. Alice Pardee needed that job badly. That was in April. It is now May. Joe, how's your leg? A little better, I think, Alice. Oh, Joe, if I could only get that job. You could have the operation and... Yeah. Oh, don't talk that way, Joe. You'll work again, you'll see. That job, though, that's the answer. Honey, do you need a big electric sign to tell you that the answer's no? Oh, it's been a month already since you applied. Maybe those switchboard jobs are filled before you got there. Well, that's just it. They still aren't filled. How do you know? Here, look. The same advertisement in this morning's paper. Exactly like the one I answered a month ago. I've got a right to work the same as anybody else. Sure you have, but the man who does the hiring, he's got a right, too. It's his money. He can hire anybody he likes. Try jumping over that high stone wall. I've heard that ever since I can remember. And it's still like that. No, Joe, it isn't. Not in our state. We've got a law now, a law that says different. Honey, the books are full of laws, but sometimes the bad things the laws are supposed to stop go right on happening. Not this law. I heard that this law makes it illegal to refuse jobs to people because of their color, their religion, or the country that their parents came from. Sure. Sure, that sounds good. I'll give you that. But what's to make a man tell the true reason when he don't hire you? The law set up a commission against discrimination. It's their job to find out the truth. It's their job to make the law work and to show people how to make it work. I've heard they've got results, too. Yeah, sure. Joe, why do you say it that way? Alice, don't try to change the world. There's no rest in it. I don't want to change the world, Joe. All I want's a job. Maybe this law can help me, and I'm going to find out. That evening, Alice Pardee set about finding out whether the law was merely a few thousand words on paper, like her husband said, or whether it was a real law that could help her. Alice filed a complaint at the nearest office of her state's commission against discrimination. And furthermore, every day since I applied, the company has been advertising in the newspaper for switchboard operators. I believe that the company has discriminated against me because I am a Negro. From the moment Alice Pardee filed her complaint, it was no longer merely the lonely concern of a young woman looking for a job. It now became the concern of all the people of her state through the commission representing them, which now would determine whether her complaint of active discrimination was in fact true. As personnel manager of the company, I'd like to say that there's been no discrimination against Alice Pardee. We do not discriminate in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin. You can test an article for short weight pretty easily. You put it on a registered scale and you have your answer. But how do you test a short weight of liberty? Where are the weights and measures for words and motives? To uncover discrimination takes time and tact and patience. Justice must be served, but carefully, without shoving, so that no injustice may be done. Discrimination in employment is a violation of the law of the state in which Alice Pardee lives. But how can that violation be proved? Please understand my position, Miss Phoenix. I do, Mr. Bowen. You're an investigator and you'll not rest until you've proved a case of discrimination against this company. Not at all. My job is to find out the facts. The commission will decide whether or not the facts prove discrimination. Very well, then. What do you wish to know? Uh, is there any Negro girl or woman employed by your company at present? No, there isn't. We had one working on the assembly line for a short time, but she quit. However, that has nothing to do with our refusing a job to Alice Pardee. Oh. Uh, why was she turned on, then? She's married. But your advertisement didn't say that only single women need apply. Well, sometimes we make exceptions, but it's been my experience that married women don't stay with the company for any length of time, particularly as switchboard operators. I see. Why is that? You know how it is. Sometimes they have to work the night shift and they kick about it. Pretty soon that's followed up by, my husband wants me to quit my job. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Then, uh, Alice Pardee was turned down because she was married. Yes. But, uh, well, that's only part of the reason. She's had three years of college. Wouldn't that be in her favor? Oh, no. Girls with a college education usually don't stay on as telephone operators, Mr. Bowen. Uh-huh. Is there any other reason, Miss Phoenix? No, I guess that's about it. As you can see, it's simply a case in which the applicant's background is such that, well, I know she won't make a good employee. And furthermore, she won't stay long with the company. It has nothing to do with the color of Alice Pardee's skin. As vice president in charge of personnel, I can tell you, Mr. Bowen, it would be inadvisable to employ Negro girls as telephone operators. Now, on the switchboard, they'd have to sit close to white girls and, uh, touch them as they reached across the board. Now, the white girls would resent that, and we'd have an even greater turnover in employment than we have already. You see, Mr. Bowen, in a big plant like this, the switchboard is vital to our flow of production, and we want people to stay on their jobs. I see. And then, of course, there's the question that they're having to use the same dressing rooms and restrooms. It's, uh, a rather touchy problem, you know. Uh, you've, uh, had experience with this, Mr. Lawrence? No, no, but I've been here ten years, and I think I know my employees. I see. And another thing, Mr. Bowen, we try to consider the safety of the girls. Safety? No, yes, yes. Since, uh, Negroes usually live in the poorer neighborhoods, anything might happen to them after they leave the plant late at night. And, of course, uh, we wouldn't want that. These are the first steps toward answering the complaint of Alice Pardee, the complaint of discrimination. The words of the company representative are carefully and fully reported and added to the file. The search for the truth goes on. Time, tact, skill, and understanding. These are the tools with which to seek out discrimination. Every phase of the corporation's employment procedure is carefully investigated. Job applications are studied. Reasons for rejections are noted. Conferences are held with all who can shed light on the facts. The file is again carefully studied by one of the commissioners, and piece by piece a pattern begins to emerge, to become clear, and it is a pattern of discrimination. The company's president is asked to call upon the state commissioner. Mr. Larkin, uh, I want to make this point clear. The anti-discrimination law is an instrument of justice, not a weapon of revenge in the hands of someone who has been refused a job. We've heard hundreds of cases since this commission was set up. The greatest majority of them have been settled through investigation and conference and conciliation. Very, very few have gone to a public hearing or to the courts. I understand, Commissioner. Since it's the law, can we get down to cases? Very well. Now, the commission has made a thoroughgoing investigation of your company's employment records, and we have spoken to several of your executives. And all the facts that we have accumulated show that your company has a definite policy of discrimination against Negroes. Well, all right. I admit that we have not hired colored switchboard operators. We felt it was for their own good. I see. Now, I suppose we'll have to hire every colored girl that applies. No, no, no more than you have to hire every white girl. I don't understand. Well, you see, it is not the commission's business to question the qualifications that you have set up for the job, educational or any other, but to see that they are applied equally. If a girl meets your qualifications, the law says only that she should be considered for that job without regard to her color, creed, race, or national origin. All right. That's fine in theory. But suppose we hire Negro girls and our white girls refuse to work with them. Then what do we do? Mr. Larkin, we've heard the same objections in many other cases. But believe me, in no case so far have these fears materialized. I hope you're right in this one. Now, what about the woman who started all this, this Alice Pardee, do we have to hire her too? Oh, no, no. Alice Pardee has gotten another job. When did this happen? Oh, several weeks ago. Why wasn't I informed? All this fuss and the woman's already gotten a job? Why didn't you drop the whole thing? Mr. Larkin, because there are more people than Alice Pardee involved. In your files are two applications from Negro girls who apparently meet all your requirements. There are? Yes, yes. Here are their applications. We ask you to reconsider them. Well, uh... Mm-hmm. Yes, these two seem to be all right. Our interviewer gave them good rating. All right, Commissioner. If it's the law, we're going to obey it. But I'm telling you, next Monday it's going to be a real red-letter day for us, and the responsibility will be yours. How do you mean? We'll start these two colored girls working, and I'll bet you dollars to donuts half the white girls quit their jobs as switchboard operators. I'd like to read you an excerpt from a letter written by Mr. Larkin, president of the company, two weeks after his red-letter day. It is addressed to his State's Commission Against Discrimination. It says, Final entry in the case of Alice Pardee. Excerpt from a letter to Alice Pardee. In the name of the State Commission Against Discrimination, I want to assure you that you have performed the most valuable service in reporting to the commission that you had reason to believe that you were discriminated against. Your services has been of value not only to the people of your race, but to all the people of this state. The case of Alice Pardee is closed. But the case against discrimination is not closed. It is still open. Its file is still large and active. And whether you are an employer or employee, whether your state has a law against discrimination in employment or relies upon voluntary cooperation to remove this blight of inequality and prejudice from the American landscape, this problem is your problem. It is you who stand to lose or gain. For discrimination threatens not only the inherent rights and proper privileges of the people of the United States, but at a crucial period in our history, it menaces the foundations of our free democratic institutions that today must be firm and strong if we are to retain our leadership in the creation of a free and democratic world. Edward R. Murrow was the narrator in the case of Alice Pardee. The script was prepared with the cooperation of the New York State Commission Against Discrimination. The people and incidents in the script are real. The names are fictitious. Listen in again next week at this same time for another tale of our times on the new frontier of human freedom, a lest we forget presentation of the Institute for Democratic Education. Your announcer, Nelson Case. The New Frontier This is a story about a newspaper man who looked for facts and found an unexpected obstacle blocking the streets on the new frontier of human freedom. Quentin Reynolds is the newspaper man and the story is called Elephant in the Streets. Remember that famous saying from the Bible, ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free? That's what this story is about. I wanted the truth about our town and I found it with the help of a lot of people. Some good, some bad, but mostly both. Just people. I read my own newspaper and I didn't like some of the things I was reading. I thought about it and one morning not so long ago I sat down in a room in City Hall and waited. This way, please. The mayor will see you now. Thank you. Well, you old son of a gun. It's good to see you. Sit down. How's the newspaper business? Oh, flourishing, Your Honor. One mess after another to write about. That sounds like my business. Every once in a while, I wonder why people fight to be elected to this job. An irresistible urge to serve the public and to improve the community. I hope. Well, believe it or not, I think that's true. More often than not. Good. Then I have a project for you. A project is all I need now with a budget fight, transit problems, and the election coming up. What's on your mind? Now, two weeks ago, the Spanish paper in town carried an article charging discrimination in employment against Mexicans. A month ago, vandals defaced and broke several windows of a synagogue over on the west side. Last week, there was a near riot trying to keep Negro families from moving into that new housing development. What do you want me, you say? How about trying to stop it? Just like that. These problems have been plaguing the world since the dawn of history, and you want me to stop them. Oh. You got any ideas? Maybe. But first, I'd like to know about prejudice in this town. How much is there? What forms does it take? Why does it exist? Why do some people discriminate against others? Maybe if we could find the answers to these questions, we could do something about. Look, are you sure these outbreaks are not just sporadic? Maybe they're not as serious as you make them sound. Maybe. But I'd like to know. And then what? Tell the people. I think they ought to know about their town, whether it's good, bad, or indifferent. And if it can be improved, how and where? Maybe we need more education. Maybe legislation. But let's find out. Oh, you'll be stirring up a hornet's nest. You know I'm coming up for re-election. Can you think of a better platform for re-election and improvement of human relations in this town? Well, can I count on the support of your paper? Right down the line. Okay, we got a couple of hundred thousand people in this town. Talk to every one of them if you like and keep me informed. Well, I sent a lot of reporters out and here are some of the answers they got. Live and let live. That's my motto. Now, I hold ill will toward no man, but Jews just don't make good neighbors. They're too noisy, too clannish, too many relatives. I'm not prejudiced, mind you. I just don't want them living next door to me. Personally, I wouldn't mind a Mexican working right alongside me. As far as I'm concerned, he could join the union, too, but, well, you know how it is. Lots of members would object. It would destroy our union. Can't have that, you know. Negroes are just plain inefficient, that's all. I'm not prejudiced against them, but I just don't want to be waited on by them. Yes, it was most interesting. Nobody had any prejudices. A lot of people really didn't, but they're not the ones I want to talk about. I want to talk about the others. They're the problem. Naturally, they wouldn't come right out and say it. It was as though there was something dirty and embarrassing about it, not quite nice, but they had ways of getting over what they meant. This is the first time I've ever lived. I've never been for this job. You must fill in all questions on the applicant blank. Name, age, sex, race, and religion. Also, please attach photographs to the application. Photographs don't lie, you know. In this advertisement for the hotel, we'll just put in a line, Churches Nearby. They'll get the idea. I say I've got a right to choose my own neighbors, and I want Gentiles, 100% white Americans. That's the kind of neighborhood we've got, and, brother, it's going to stay that way. Some of it was polite. It even sounded respectable, if you can call it that. And some of it, as you can see, wasn't polite. But whichever it was, it was the same thing and it served the same purpose. Prejudice was like a weed. Apparently, it could grow and flourish anywhere. How's this for an unlikely place? Nurse, I want this child admitted at once. Have the operating room prepared and we'll fill in the forms later. But, doctor. Nurse, there isn't time to talk now. Doctor, this child is colored. I can't admit her. That's a rule in the hospital. Nurse! I'm sorry, doctor, but it would mean my job. You'll have to take her someplace else. With the very first answers to our questions, a pattern began to emerge. We found that better educated people are less prejudiced than the uneducated. We found that both upper and lower income groups, however, seem to have the deepest prejudice against those minorities with whom they compete most in their business or on their jobs. I reported this to the mayor and we kept on digging with a different kind of question. Would you say, sir, that the average Mexican has certain faults to a greater degree than other people in our town? Yeah, they sure have. No proper sense of right and wrong. They're always fighting. You can't trust them. They're not educated. And they're not clean, either. More than half the people in our town apparently believe that. Would you say, then, that you think of most Jews as different in ways other than their religion? I most certainly do. About the same number of people in our town appeared to believe that, too. Do you think that, as people, Negroes are superior, inferior, or just about the same as other races living in our town? What a question. They're inferior, of course. Bad blood, low IQs, they're responsible for every problem we've got around here. Judging from the answers we got to our questions, it seemed to us that a lot of people were inventing reasons for discriminating against certain minorities. But why? We had some idea, of course, but we wanted a scientific answer. We went out to the university and asked this question of one of the country's leading social scientists who teaches there. What's at the root of this kind of prejudice? Why are people willing to believe things that just aren't true? A difficult question, and I can give you only a partial answer. It takes quite a person to admit that he, himself, may be responsible for his own shortcomings, his own insecurity. If a man loses his job, can he blame it on the economic system? Yes. But there's not much satisfaction in that. it's too big, too impersonal. Resentment and hostility build up within him, and he tries to discharge it against individuals or groups even more precariously situated than he is. His scapegoat can be anyone that's handy. Mexicans, Japanese, Catholics, Jews, Protestants, Negroes, anyone. Well, there it was, right down the barrelhead. And it sounded all too familiar looking back on what happened in Germany before the war. There was this insecurity and resentment. Then there were the exclusions, the restrictions, and the discriminations. We had found all of them feeding a reservoir of hatred. There were people in our town, not many, it's true, who were fishing in this reservoir, making a living from it. But let one of them talk for himself. Brother, in this town we've got everything. The scum of the earth controlling business, running the city, sitting next to our kids in school. And what are we going to do about it? I've got a suggestion. Take them out by the neck and get rid of me. Okay, that's enough. Crackpot? Sure. But don't forget that reservoir of hatred and don't forget these crackpots are earning a living from this sort of thing. Leave it to them. Give them five years like Hitler said and you won't recognize America. Well, I sent the report to the mayor and then I went down to City Hall again to see him. While I was waiting, a lot of facts about some of our minorities went through my mind. some of our minorities have the highest infant mortality rate in the city. Some of our minorities have the highest tuberculosis rate in the city. Some of our minorities have the highest percentage of juvenile delinquents and criminals. Some of our minorities are the last to find employment, the first to be laid off. Some of our minorities have the highest percentage on the city's relief robes. Some of our minorities have the lowest percentage of taxpayers. The mayor will see you now, sir. Thank you. Well, I've just been reading your report, and I don't know whether I'm glad to see you or not. What have you got in mind now? An official agency of the city administration to deal with minority group relations in this city. Wherever there is the kind of injustice and inequality this report shows, I want that agency in there fighting for what is right for everybody in this town. And I don't care whether he's rich or poor or what his color, race or religion is. How about it? I don't know. It's nothing original, you know. Such agencies have been established in many cities around the country, and they work. Why not here? It's stirring up trouble. Why can't we just let it rest? Things haven't been so bad here. We've got an elephant in the street. It's there whether we look at it or not. And if we want to get it off the streets, we've got to do something about it. That's what prejudice is. And our town, an elephant in the street. We ought to get rid of it. Yeah, all right. It's a good point. But who'll help us? I've been holding out on you. There's one thing I haven't told you about. We asked one more question. This is it. Let's consider such groups as Catholics, Jews, Protestants, Mexicans, Negroes, and so on. Do you think something needs to be done so that these groups can get along better with each other? Or do you think nothing need be done? What were the answers? Well, 14% of those we asked said they just didn't know. Huh. 22% said that nothing had to be done. But the vast majority, 64%, wanted something done. 64%? That's right. If this agency, I suggest, evolves a good program, you're going to have their support. And as it gets rolling, you'll begin to pick up the support of the others, too. Well, then that's a little different. 64%, huh? With an election coming up. Yeah. Okay. How do we go about it? What kind of a program can we evolve? Where do we start? We started right then and there. We called the agency the Mayor's Committee on Human Rights. We got out fact sheets, facts on prejudice, facts on specific situations. Whenever people got excited about discrimination in employment or in housing or in anything else, we've been right in there trying to straighten things out. And our support is growing. We've had less tensions, fewer problems, and no riots. The fight against prejudice and discrimination is going on in our city, in our streets, in our homes, in the hearts of all of us who believe in truth and justice. I think we're making headway. I think we're getting the elephant off our streets. From what I hear, more and more towns and cities in America are getting on with this job, too. In this country, you show the people the truth, and the truth will make them free. Quentin Reynolds was starred in Elephant in the Streets, another program in our series The New Frontier, a Lest We Forget presentation of the Institute for Democratic Education. Listen in again next week at this same time for another tale of our times on The New Frontier of Human Freedom. Your announcer, Nelson Case. The New Frontier The New Frontier Today featuring Edward R. Murrow This is the story of a woman named Alice Pardee, an ordinary woman, and of her unexpected encounter with the law, with the new law on the new frontier of human freedom. The New Frontier How did Alice Pardee get involved with this law? What is this law? Here is Edward R. Murrow to tell about the case of Alice Pardee. There was a special quality about that early April morning. The month-long promise of spring had suddenly been realized. Alice Pardee sensed it immediately as she closed the door behind her and went out into the street. Even the bleak, dreary tenements looked more cheerful as she ran to catch the bus. The newspaper advertisement had said in bold type that young women, not a woman, but women, were wanted as telephone switchboard operators by one of the largest manufacturing companies in town. Experience unnecessary, it said. Alice Pardee needed that job badly. That was in April. It is now May. Joe, how's your leg? A little better, I think, Alice. Oh, Joe, if I could only get that job. You could have the operation and... Yeah. Oh, don't talk that way, Joe. You'll work again, you'll see. That job, though, that's the answer. Honey, do you need a big electric sign to tell you that the answer's no? No. It's been a month already since you applied. Maybe those switchboard jobs were filled before you got there. Well, that's just it. They still aren't filled. How do you know? Here, look. The same advertisement in this morning's paper. Exactly like the one I answered a month ago. I've got a right to work the same as anybody else. Sure you have, but the man who does the hiring, he's got a right, too. It's his money. He can hire anybody he likes. Try jumping over that high stone wall. Well, I've heard that ever since I can remember. And it's still like that. No, Joe, it isn't. Not in our state. We've got a law now, a law that says different. Honey, the books are full of laws, but sometimes the bad things the laws are supposed to stop go right on happening. Not this law. I heard that this law makes it illegal to refuse jobs to people because of their color, their religion, or the country that their parents came from. Sure. Sure, that sounds good. I'll give you that. But what's to make a man tell the true reason when he don't hire you? The law set up a commission against discrimination. It's their job to find out the truth. It's their job to make the law work and to show people how to make it work. I've heard they've got results, too. Yeah, sure. Joe, why do you say it that way? Alice, don't try to change the world. There's no rest in it. I don't want to change the world, Joe. All I want's a job. Maybe this law can help me, and I'm going to find out. That evening, Alice Pardee set about finding out whether the law was merely a few thousand words on paper, like her husband said, or whether it was a real law that could help her. Alice filed a complaint at the nearest office of her state's commission against discrimination. And furthermore, every day since I applied, the company has been advertising in the newspaper for switchboard operators. I believe that the company has discriminated against me because I am a Negro. From the moment Alice Pardee filed her complaint, it was no longer merely the lonely concern of a young woman looking for a job. It now became the concern of all the people of her state through the commission representing them, which now would determine whether her complaint of active discrimination was in fact true. As personnel manager of the company, I'd like to say that there's been no discrimination against Alice Pardee. We do not discriminate in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin. You can test an article for short weight pretty easily. You put it on a registered scale and you have your answer. But how do you test a short weight of liberty? Where are the weights and measures for words and motives? To uncover discrimination takes time and tact and patience. Justice must be served, but carefully, without shoving, so that no injustice may be done. Discrimination in employment is a violation of the law of the state in which Alice Pardee lives. But how can that violation be proved? Please understand my position, Miss Phoenix. I do, Mr. Bowen. You're an investigator and you'll not rest until you've proved a case of discrimination against this company. Not at all. My job is to find out the facts. The commission will decide whether or not the facts prove discrimination. Very well, then. What do you wish to know? Uh, is there any Negro girl or woman employed by your company at present? Uh, no, there isn't. We had one working on the assembly line for a short time, but she quit. However, that has nothing to do with our refusing a job to Alice Pardee. Ah. Uh, why was she turned on, then? She's married. But your advertisement didn't say that only single women need apply. Well, sometimes we make exceptions, but it's been my experience that married women don't stay with the company for any length of time, particularly as switchboard operators. I see. Uh, why is that? You know how it is. Sometimes they have to work the night shift and they kick about it. Pretty soon that's followed up by, uh, my husband wants me to quit my job. Uh-huh. Then, uh, Alice Pardee was turned down because she was married. Yes. But, uh, well, that's only part of the reason. She's had three years of college. Wouldn't that be in her favor? Oh, no. Girls with a college education usually don't stay on as telephone operators, Mr. Bowen. Uh-huh. Is there any other reason, Miss Phoenix? No, I guess that's about it. As you can see, it's simply a case in which the applicant's background is such that, well, I know she won't make a good employee. And furthermore, she won't stay long with the company. It has nothing to do with the color of Alice Pardee's skin. As vice president in charge of personnel, I can tell you, Mr. Bowen, it would be inadvisable to employ Negro girls as telephone operators. Now, on the switchboard, they'd have to sit close to white girls and, uh, touch them as they reached across the board. Now, the white girls would resent that, and then we'd have an even greater turnover in employment than we have already. You see, Mr. Bowen, in a big plant like this, the switchboard is vital to our flow of production, and we want people to stay on their jobs. I see. And then, of course, there's the question that they're having to use the same dressing rooms and restrooms. It's a rather touchy problem, you know. You've, uh, had experience with this, Mr. Lawrence? No, no, but I've been here ten years, and I think I know my employees. I see. And another thing, Mr. Bowen, we try to consider the safety of the girls. Safety? Oh, yes, yes. Since, uh, Negroes usually live in the poorer neighborhoods, anything might happen to them after they leave the plant late at night. And, of course, we wouldn't want that. These are the first steps toward answering the complaint of Alice Pardee, the complaint of discrimination. The words of the company representative are carefully and fully reported and added to the file. The search for the truth goes on. Time, tact, skill, and understanding. These are the tools with which to seek out discrimination. Every phase of the corporation's employment procedure is carefully investigated. Job applications are studied. Reasons for rejections are noted. Conferences are held with all who can shed light on the facts. The file is again carefully studied by one of the commissioners, and piece by piece, a pattern begins to emerge to become clear, and it is a pattern of discrimination. The company's president is asked to call upon the state commissioner. Mr. Larkin, I want to make this point clear. The anti-discrimination law is an instrument of justice, not a weapon of revenge in the hands of someone who has been refused a job. We've heard hundreds of cases since this commission was set up. The greatest majority of them have been settled through investigation and conference and conciliation. Very, very few have gone to a public hearing or to the courts. I understand, Commissioner. Since it's the law, can we get down to cases? Very well. Now, the commission has made a thoroughgoing investigation of your company's employment records, and we have spoken to several of your executives. And all the facts that we have accumulated show that your company has a definite policy of discrimination against Negroes. Well, all right. I admit that we have not hired colored switchboard operators. We felt it was for their own good. I see. Now, I suppose we'll have to hire every colored girl that applies. No, no, no more than you have to hire every white girl. I don't understand. Well, you see, it is not the commission's business to question the qualifications that you have set up for the job, educational or any other, but to see that they are applied equally. If a girl meets your qualifications, the law says only that she should be considered for that job without regard to her color, creed, race, or national origin. All right. That's fine in theory. But suppose we hire Negro girls and our white girls refuse to work with them. Then what do we do? Mr. Larkin, we've heard the same objections in many other cases. But believe me, in no case so far have these fears materialized. I hope you're right in this one. Now, what about the woman who started all this, this Alice Pardee? Do we have to hire her, too? Oh, no, no. Alice Pardee has gotten another job. When did this happen? Oh, several weeks ago. Why wasn't I informed? All this fuss and the woman's already gotten a job? Why didn't you drop the whole thing? Mr. Larkin, because there are more people than Alice Pardee involved. In your files are two applications from Negro girls who apparently meet all your requirements. There are? Yes, yes. Here are their applications. We ask you to reconsider them. Well, uh... Mm-hmm. Yes, these two seem to be all right. Our interviewer gave them good rating. All right, Commissioner. If it's the law, we're going to obey it. But I'm telling you, next Monday, it's going to be a real red-letter day for us and the responsibility will be yours. How do you mean? We'll start these two colored girls working and I'll bet you dollars to donuts half the white girls quit their jobs as switchboard operators. I'd like to read you an excerpt from a letter written by Mr. Larkin, president of the company, two weeks after his red-letter day. It is addressed to his state's commission against discrimination. It says, I want to express my sincere thanks to you. Our white switchboard operators did not object to working with the Negro girls and they did not quit. They welcomed those girls and helped show them around. Although at first we felt grave doubts about how this would work out, those doubts no longer exist. You've opened a new labor reservoir to us and I can assure you we intend to make full use of it. Our employment records in the future will show you how completely this state's employment law has become our own. final entry in the case of Alice Pardee. Excerpt from a letter to Alice Pardee. In the name of the State Commission Against Discrimination, I want to assure you that you have performed the most valuable service in reporting to the commission that you had reason to believe that you were discriminated against. Your services have been of value not only to the people of your race, but to all the people of this state. The case of Alice Pardee is closed. But the case against discrimination is not closed. It is still open. Its file is still large and active. And whether you are an employer or employee, whether your state has a law against discrimination in employment or relies upon voluntary cooperation to remove this blight of inequality and prejudice from the American landscape, this problem is your problem. It is you who stand to lose or gain. For discrimination threatens not only the inherent rights and proper privileges of the people of the United States, but at a crucial period in our history, it menaces the foundations of our free democratic institutions that today must be firm and strong if we are to retain our leadership in the creation of a free and democratic world. Edward R. Murrow was the narrator in the case of Alice Pardee. The script was prepared with the cooperation of the New York State Commission against discrimination. The people and incidents in the script are real. The names are fictitious. Listen in again next week at this same time for another tale of our times on the new frontier of human freedom, a lest we forget presentation of the Institute for Democratic Education. Your announcer, Nelson Case. who speaks on the Sap ici and the part on theIDE if not you have to think of it.