Thank you, Mr. Cowan. Today, set aside as the official Manhattan Day at the inauguration of the New York International Airport, or better known as Idlewild, is another great day's celebration of the golden anniversary of the consolidation of the city of New York. The man who planned and looked forward to be here with you and celebrate with you, the Honorable Hugo E. Rogers, Borough President of Manhattan, has asked that I convey to you his sincere regrets as his commissioner, and at his request, I shall do my best today to be the acting Borough President. His unavoidable absence today leaves too great a void for me to fill. So, with your indulgence, permit me, therefore, to say that this mammoth expression by a free people, by way of an air show, is only possible, and 8 million New Yorkers are grateful for the opportunity to thank the greatest mayor this city has ever had, our city's 100th mayor, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. He is truly the embodiment of the golden opportunities presented by a free and democratic people to every person willing to work. He, not too many years ago, an immigrant, became a laborer, policeman, magistrate, district attorney, county judge, today our beloved mayor, tomorrow governor, or even better. Thanks are also due to that tireless showman, Honorable Grover A. Whalen and his committee. Thanks are also due to the military for their incalculable health, particularly the senior service, the Coast Guard, the Police Department, and the Fire Department. Years ago, at the time of consolidation of this great city into the greater city of New York, it was feared that those sacred rights of community representation would be lost to a centralized city government. Then, the citizens of each borough, to have a local officiant of their own choosing, elected an office of borough president. In effect, he is the mayor of his borough. Since then, there have been merry borough presidents. Some have achieved more than others. Julius Miller, now a Justice of the Supreme Court, gained merited recognition by increasing personnel, motorizing equipment, establishing an emergency staff, which even by today's standards compares favorably in quality and quantity with the best. The office was later occupied by Samuel Levy, Stanley Isaacs, now councilman, and Edgar Nathan, now Supreme Court Justice. On January 1st, 1946, Captain Hugo E. Rogers became the president of the borough of Manhattan. He, a veteran of World War I, also served with distinction in World War II. He brought to the office a wealth of experience as an engineer. He is a lawyer, and as an administrator, his ability was proven when he was served as chief of the port of embarkation. The office now has changed for the better. The spirit, morale, efficiency, and record of achievement is at its highest. This by streamlining of antiquated procedures and methods and instilling military efficiency. All this without losing the necessary humane touch. He has, in other words, converted a city department from the war's inactivity to the increased tempo of post-war conversion, lethargy and inefficiency into action and accomplishment. He has, too, converted from patches, patch can repairs to a planned construction program, which includes highways, skyways, tunnels, and sores. I have the pleasure of serving as commissioner of borough works by his appointment. Manhattan, with its 5,000 acres of streets, 3,000 city blocks, and 500 miles of streets, presents at once the most beautiful streets in the world and some of the ugliest. The first street was paved in 1658 and is still called Stone Street after the manner of paving it with stones. Then came Church, Pearl, and Broadway, all once modernly paved with stones. Over these bumpy streets, our forebears bounced happily around in horse and buggy. The city adopted street maintenance as a community responsibility just before the Civil War and after it experimented with asphalt or tar. This was not a phenomenal success. The public was quick to criticize. By 1900, less than 10% of our streets were paved with asphalt. Today, 95% of our 500 miles of streets are so paved. The asphalt is now laid over a substantial concrete bed. This makes riding over its smooth, satiny surface safe and comfortable. BPM, that is, Borough President of Manhattan, maintains an asphalt plan, making asphalt to our own specifications and concededly the best and most economical. Sewers are not a pleasant topic of discussion and rarely, if ever, spoken of in polite circles. Nobody ever sees the sewers and nobody thinks much about them, usually, until they fail to operate. Then the inconvenience is felt at once. 550 miles of our sewers form the bloodstream of life in Manhattan. Too few realize that if these sewers should stop, life in Manhattan would cease. Only disease and pestilence could remain. Our sewer repair gangs and maintenance crews working 24 hours a day keep our sewer system running smoothly for your health and your convenience. Borough President Manhattan has a division of design, a division of inspection and permits, and many other divisions. Few know that Borough President Manhattan has a complete chemical and physical testing laboratories, testing the products that go into repair and construction work, road surfaces, and so forth. Borough President Manhattan has an advisory planning board and a local school board in each school district. Borough President Manhattan is also a member of the Board of Estimates. The Borough President of Manhattan is also the leader of all borough activities. With two million neighbors, he shares the responsibility of making our streets safer and living more comfortable on the busiest little island in the world, which was first seen in 1524 by an Italian navigator. In 1613, where 41 Broadway now stands, was built the first house. When the price for this island was $24, that is, before inflation, there were only 200 people living there. The first church was built at 39 Pearl Street. In 1693, the first printing press was set up, and in 1725, the first newspaper printed. Soon thereafter, a first city library was founded. In 1762, the streets were first lighted at public expense. On the present site of City Hall, General Washington first read the Declaration of Independence to his troops. Later, he became the first president of our United States and took his office, his oath of office, in Manhattan on the site of the present City Hall. New York, too, had the first horse car, the first elevated railroad, the first subway, the Brooklyn Bridge, the first skyscraper, and many other firsts. Twenty years ago, Lindbergh flew from New York. Floyd Bennett Field was the first municipal airport ever to be built. New York, and when we say New York, we mean Manhattan, the very name tingles the imagination. It was the first capital of our country, the first capital of our state. Today, it is the host to many nations of the world, truly the capital of the world. And now, New York has the New York International Airport, the world's largest and best-equipped airfield. May it stand out forever as the symbol of a free and democratic people. A lesson to a troubled world that as Americans, we have no hate, except oppression and injustice anywhere. But instead, we love our neighbors of all creeds, all colors, and all religion. And because we have nothing to hide, and because we have nothing to be ashamed of as Americans, we have no iron curtain. And above all, being a God-loving people, we love peace. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Commissioner Zichello. Commissioner Zichello represented Borough President Rogers of the Borough of Manhattan. When we look at the island of Manhattan, it looks like the slender fuselage of a B-29. And of course, when we wanted room for such a movement of ships as aviation requires, we had to go out to the other boroughs, particularly the Borough of Queens that harbors the two great airports now of LaGuardia Field and now Idlewild, New York's International Airport. And when we speak of ships, we think of one of the most valiant group of men who are concerned with the sea, with mercy, and with service. Because today is Coast Guard Day along with the Borough of Manhattan Day. And it's our distinct privilege to have a representative of the Coast Guard here in its higher branches to speak to you. We know the motto of the Coast Guard, Semper Paratus, always ready, and the spiritual quid, you must go out, but you need not come back. But either way, they make history and their names and their bravery is blazoned in the hearts of every American. We have the distinct privilege of presenting at this time Admiral Edward H. Smith, Commander of the Third Area of the Coast Guard, directing that activity, and Commander of the East Area of the Coast Guard as well. May we now present with the background of the planes which are going over at this time, the helicopters to be exact, Admiral Smith of the Coast Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcer says that the program goes on regardless of the helicopters and interference. It's a pleasure on behalf of the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard to greet you here today at the inauguration of New York's huge new international airport. Today is Coast Guard day, 4 August 1948, marking the 158th anniversary of the establishment of the United States Coast Guard. Organized originally as the Reverend of Marine in 1790, the Coast Guard today encompasses a widely varied field of activity in connection with safety at sea, maritime law enforcement, the maintenance of a constant state of military readiness for future national emergency. The present-day Coast Guard consisting of the original Revenue Marine or Revenue Cutter Service as it was sometimes called, also includes the former Life-Saving Service, the former Bureau of Lighthouses, and the former Bureau of Marine Inspection and Navigation. Each of these organizations perform duties of great responsibility in the overall concept of safety at sea, and these tasks are now being continued by the United States Coast Guard. You may be interested in some of the figures for the past year. During 1948, a great year in its history, the Coast Guard rescued more than 5,000 persons from danger and saved or protected vessels and other properties valued at more than $160 million. And by that, I mean those lives, that property, was saved from imminent peril. It maintained the vital weather patrol in the North Atlantic Ocean. It aided stricken families in the flood areas of the Middle West and the Pacific Northwest and in the hurricane areas of the South and Southwest. It helped evacuate people stranded and surrounded by forest fires in Maine, rendered assistance to hundreds of vessels in a great many cases during raging winter storms, patrolled the Great Lakes and open traffic for ice-bound ore steamers many days ahead of schedule, maintain the expansion and supervision of safety measures in our American Merchant Marine, helping to eliminate disaster and danger by supervising construction, inspection, and examining the personnel that man, our great American Merchant Marine. One of the outstanding rescues made by the Coast Guard in 1948 was affected by the Coast Guard Cutter Bibb, which rescued 69 persons from the North Atlantic. This has been referred to as one of the greatest Marine rescues in history. during the year, the Coast Guard also continued to operate some 36,000 aids to navigation, the International Ice Patrol, law enforcement on the high seas and the navigable waters of the United States, the Bering Sea Patrol, and kept ready for every call, is 300-odd cutters and less than 20,000 officers and men for emergencies afloat and ashore. Now, it may be of particular interest, and it so happens, that right at this very moment, while we are here, and looking at the marvel of these feats of modern planes, a more serious aspect, there is an extensive search by Air and Sea is being conducted for a missing French seaplane, last heard from Sunday night, out over the Atlantic with 52 persons on board. The French government, through its Washington Embassy, has requested the United States aid, and several B-29s of the United States Air Force have been dispatched from this country and from Germany. The nearest surface vessel, which has raced to the scene out there in the North Atlantic, is the United States Coast Guard Cutter Campbell, now searching in conjunction with the aircraft, in the hopes that we will be able to save 52 persons, which, while we are enjoying ourselves here, may be anxiously waiting rescue from imminent death. this afternoon, Coast Guard helicopters, as you see, are demonstrating a former rescue which represents one of the new tools of this air age turned to the Coast Guard's humanitarian saving of life and property at sea. let us all celebrate August 4th, when in 1790, Alexander Hamilton established the United States Coast Guard. Thank you very much, Admiral Smith. Your speaker was Admiral Edward H. Smith, commander of the Third Area Coast Guard District, and commander of the East Area as well. It was a remarkable fact that we couldn't bring you because we didn't have the television facilities, that while Admiral Smith was speaking, a helicopter of the Coast Guard descended, an ambulance rolled in, a man was taken out of the plane, a helicopter, and placed in an ambulance and taken away. The actual rescue of the Coast Guard was demonstrated, and then a little later, a burning ship was simulated. Again, a helicopter with its great adaptability of landing under great difficulties in a small space, came down to the simulated deck of the ship, and we saw cable let down, a man attached to it, and brought up into the ship and taken away from the ship under any other circumstances. Of course, the situation would have been fatal, but the Coast Guard was there, and now, this program would hardly be complete without the anthem of the Coast Guard, and we hear Semper Paratus. Semper Paratus. Congresswoman ninety thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and whirling propellers. Now turn the microphone back to Tommy Cowan at WNYC. Because of the splendid loudspeaker system, which is a feature of your municipal broadcasting system, WNYC AM and FM, we've been able to completely cover the mile and a half of seats here at Idlewild Airport so that no matter where you're located, you will hear as well as see. The hearing is important because of the descriptions given by those familiar with the different types of plane, their type, speed, performance, and all the other interesting factors. And the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, said that everybody who comes to Idlewild, because of the size of the stage and the miles involved in the visibility of this spectacle, must also be able to hear. And for that reason, your municipal broadcasting system, WNYC, has completely covered the field with the audibility feature, while the wonderful air show and pageant here, in its visibility aspects, has been splendidly demonstrated and taken care of. It's a very fine day here, one of those days where you're getting sunlight strained through a fair amount of clouds, but you're not getting the sun in your eyes, and you can see very wonderfully. So if you're planning to come out to some wonderful events here this afternoon, and from time to time, the Coast Guard Band and other features will entertain with music. So come out to Idlewild, get your vitamin D and sunlight, and realize you're part of a great city in New York, celebrating its golden jubilee, by demonstrating the advance of travel, commerce, industry, through aviation. And now there'll be a slight intermission before we come back to Idlewild, with the chance of picking up the Tribune airplane, and conducting an interview with John Savage, who is aboard the plane. And now a short intermission from Idlewild. You're listening to the Municipal Broadcasting System. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy. Good boy.