Mutual continues its coverage of the war. Late news bulletins from Singapore seem to indicate that the Japanese blitz on Singapore has begun. Among the many reports is the information that Saturday's double-wave Nipponese attack on the city assumed greater dimensions than hitherto believed. The British High Command has revealed that no less than 230 civilian casualties were suffered among the city's populace of 750,000. Of these, 130 were killed and 100 wounded. Today, large formations of Japanese bombers struck anew at Singapore itself, succeeding in igniting fires in the naval base zone on the northern shore of the island, adjoining the Strait of Johor. From Moscow comes news that the Russians today fought their way back into the highly important city of Mojais, the last remaining Nazi stronghold on the Moscow front. The entire city is in flames. And that's the news from here. WOR will broadcast 15 minutes of news at 11 o'clock with Frank Singheiser. Remember Pearl Harbor. Keep them rolling. The Office for Emergency Management presents another half hour of information and entertainment dedicated to America's united war effort. Your master of ceremonies, the well-known radio personality and book reviewer of the New Yorker magazine, Clifton Fadiman. Good evening. Tonight's program is dedicated to those who have found here a refuge from the blight of that Nazism which we're fighting, and they're fighting with us. Fighting with every ounce of energy and with every dollar they can scrape up the defense bonds. A few of these anti-Nazis are our guests for tonight. Here to tell us about the growing underground movement in the occupied countries is the distinguished foreign correspondent and author of the best-selling book, Days of Our Years, Pierre Van Passant. Also on hand to entertain you are... The great German stage and screen star, Elizabeth Bergner. The popular French song stylist, Jean Soblanc. The talented young American composer-conductor, Morton Gould and his orchestra. You know, in the occupied countries, those who still have the heart to sing must sing the horse vessel song or its equivalent, but not here. Tonight we're going to have songs that would make the Gestapo scream like Donald Duck. Songs like the touching modern ballad sung for us now by Jean Soblanc. My sister and I remember still A tulip garden by an old that's near And the home that was old A home and here But we don't talk about that My sister and I Recall once more The fishing schooner And the dogcat we drove In days before But we don't talk about that We're learning To forget the fear That came from a troubled child Come on We don't talk about it But we don't talk about it Now we try But we don't talk about it My sister and I Recall the day We said goodbye And then we sailed away And we think of our friends Who had to say But we don't talk about that We're learning to forget the fear That came from a troubled town We're almost happy over here But sometimes we wake at night and cry And we think of our friends Who had to say But we don't talk about that That song That song was inspired by a simple little book Written by a boy who saw the beginning of the Nazi terror in Holland It was the pathetic story of two children And it was also the story of thousands Yes, millions of children and men and women Tonight those people are in slavery Hitler's slavery Their misery is deep But deeper still is their hatred of the brown shirts And all they stand for And we hear echoes of the growing unrest every day Now from one land, now from another The little stories of secret organizations Hints of the awful retribution Awaiting the oppressors Mr. Van Possen You know we seem to hear more about the unrest in France Anywhere else Is the underground anti-Nazi movement stronger there? Well, the underground movement is very strong In all the occupied countries And how large are their secret organizations, Mr. Van Possen? Nobody knows But they are everywhere And they are growing all the time And so is their war of nerves Hmm, I thought the Nazis had a copyright on that Oh no It is the chief weapon of the secret organizations Non-cooperation is the basis of it Passive resistance They simply ignore the Nazis Throw their pitiful daily rounds Just as though the despised Germans were not there That gets from the Nazi nerves eventually It hurts their pride It eats into their morale And they never know which canal they may land in some dark night They don't seem to care for those canals But how can one ignore the Nazis completely? Well, I'll give you an example There was a dance in the little town where I was born A German dance And the young people had to go A pretty Dutch girl whom I know Was asked to dance by one of the young Nazi soldiers She did not even hear him She walked away He followed her and asked again And again she did not hear him Why do you ignore me? She demanded You see, the war of nerves You act as though I do not even exist He explained And still she did not see him But she said You are just air And she walked away Hmm But tell me, Mr. Van Parson How do they communicate with each other? We hear about secret radio stations Yes, but they are very hard to conceal But receiving sets They are something else again They can be hidden in the attic Sometimes or under a heap of rubbish in the yard And each block someone is delegated To listen to the foreign broadcasts A different person each week The news gets around But to get caught means death And are many caught? Not so many as the Nazis wish In Holland, for instance There are 35,000 secret aliens Who mingle with the people and live with them They always try to worm their way Into the secret council And when they do Well, somebody faces the firing squad The time will come when things will be different Given half a chance They'd rise against the Germans, of course Given a tenth of a chance A few weapons and they would rise But now they have nothing The Nazis took most of their food Much of their clothing Their blankets Even their kitchen knives What have they left? Hope Hope in America For years they have looked at this country As the great nation of the world Now they look to her As the great hope of the world You'll see pictures of this chalk V On the walls over there Draw another dash to the middle of it And you have not only the symbol of victory But the inverted symbol of America Mr. Fadiman Millions of people see the A As well as the V And Mr. Van Possen 130 millions over here See the V As well as the A We're going to win that victory We've heard an echo of the heartbeat of Europe The Europe that dreams of freedom And hope and praise for us The drums are rolling over there In the hearts of millions Listen to Morton Gould and the orchestra play Drums in my heart Drums in my heart Thank you To You You You You You You The End The End The End The End The End The End One of the most gifted and spirited of the European anti-Nazis to have found refuge in America is the great German actress, Elizabeth Berkner. For years, she's devoted her talent and energies to our fight for the liberation of oppressed peoples all over the world. For the screen, she's just completed an exciting story of the growing underground movement about which Savannah Parson was talking just a few minutes ago. And for the radio, she's made a trip all the way from Hollywood to appear on this program in an original radio play which was especially written for her by Bernard C. Schoenfeld and is directed by Arthur Curlin. Ladies and gentlemen, in this strange land. This is the first time I ever got into trouble with a customer. I get sore every time I think of the way she looked. She was awfully pale and tired and heaven knows I know what it means to be tired, but she wore her clothes well and she seemed like a lady. I didn't feel much like smiling, but I did anyway and I waited on her. May I help you? I'd like this lamp, please. Will that be a charge? Oh, I haven't an account myself, but the lady I'm buying it for, she has. Oh, one minute, please. Why, what are you doing? Oh, it's just routine. I've got to get the floor walker. Mr. Casey? Yes, Miss Ball? This young lady wants to charge this lamp to one of our customer's accounts. Well, that's quite all right. What name is the charge count on her? Mrs. Henry Walker. And your name? Why? Why must you know my name? We have to have your name and some kind of identification. Identify? Oh, it's just routine. Never mind, I'll pay for it in check. Please, wrap it up for me. Here it is. But Mrs. Walker's account is in very good standing and there's no reason to pay cash. Have you any card to identify you? Oh. Oh, I dropped it. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, the year's five dollars. That makes it all right, doesn't it? Goodbye. Young lady, young lady, won't you wait a minute? It's about time, Miss Forbes. You learned how to handle customers. I don't know what it was all about, but she certainly got me into a lot of trouble. And yet the funniest thing, I felt sorry for her. I saw this girl the week I got to New York to take a summer course at Columbia. It was a rainy afternoon and I had nothing to do, so I went to the Museum of Art. I saw her in one of the galleries. She looked up at me kind of frightened and I... Well, I was so lonesome, I made up a question in my head just to start a conversation. Oh, wonderful paintings here, aren't they? Yes. Oh, this is a great experience for me. I've never been in a museum like this before. Oh, haven't you? No, I... I come from a small town in Nebraska. Have you been in New York, law? And why do you want to know? Well, I mean, you're a European, aren't you? I mean, it must be nice to be here. I mean... Well... Well, it won't do you any good asking me any questions. I know you, you see. But I've never seen you before, really. Oh, you know you're very bad at your job. I'm surprised they send you out. You think I'm an idiot, don't you? All alone in this museum, just by chance... Oh, just by chance you talk to me. But you are a little fool, you know. Why, I knew you the moment you opened your mouth. All right, if you want to follow me, go right ahead. But don't think I won't watch you, just you like watching me. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. I just stood there like one of the statues. I felt lonelier than I've ever been in my whole life. And I began to cry. A guard passed me by, but I didn't care. I just went on crying. Somehow or another, I keep on thinking about that girl I met last week. It was a hot day. My feet was killing me. So I put my slippers in a paper bag and I walked down Riverside Drive. Well, you know how it is when you get to be 60, you ain't young anymore. You like to sit on the bench and look at the Hudson, the people walking by. Maybe you meet somebody your own age. You talk. You find out he plays a good game of Pinochle. Well, when I got to 85th Street on the drive, it was crowded. Then I saw there was room on a bench next to a young girl. She was skinny and awfully pale. She was reading your book. Mind if I sit down here? No. No. It's all right. Thank you. Sure hot today. Mm-hmm. Say, when you're young, you got good feet. I got the worst feet in New York. I stand on them from nine in the morning till seven at night. Uh, do you mind if I put my slippers on? No, of course not. I've been waiting to do this all day. Ah, I wouldn't sell these slippers for a million. I feel cooler already. Uh, you mind if I talk, or, uh, or do you want to read? Ice cream. Well, it's too hot to talk here. Well, I can see you're not a New Yorker. Everybody in New York likes to talk. Ice cream. Mr. Ice cream. Yeah, ice cream would be cool. Have some? No, thank you. Sure you will. Sonny. Yeah? One of these. Bella? Chocolate? Strawberry? What will you have? I won't have any, thank you. Oh, of course you will. Sure you will. It's cooling. Give us two chocolates. Two chocolates. Coming up. There you are, Sonny. Thanks. Here, miss. Now, why do you insist I talk to you? Why do you insist I have ice cream with you? Why do you insist playing a game with me? You think I don't know what you are after, do you? Oh, no. No, I don't mean anything like that. Why, I got a daughter your age. I just thought ice cream would be cool and... Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm so sorry. Forgive me, please. Just I... Sure, sure, I know. It's hot. I lived in New York 45 years and every summer is terrible. My wife and daughter are down at the seashore. Asbury. Lucky dogs. They're swimming right now. Ever been in Asbury? No, I... I've only... I've only been in this country two weeks. So? You talk English pretty good. I landed at school over there. I sent my wife and daughter to Europe three years ago. But now, who goes to Europe? You got relatives over there? What? Why do you want to know? Oh, I didn't mean to be nosy. I'm just talking. I like to sit on a bench like this and talk. So I just asked you if you had relatives over there. I see. Well, I have no relatives in Germany. No one at all. I'm all alone. You see? There is no one left but me. And you won't get any names or addresses out of me. Oh, no. You are wasting your time. For Pete's sake, young lady. What are you talking about? I don't understand you. Well, maybe you'd rather I left. Maybe you want to sit here by yourself, Rita. Well, it doesn't matter. Another one of your kind will come up. And your kind is everywhere. All right. Go back. Tell them. Yes, I'm reading. Tell them I'm reading this. Look at it. See what it is? Tell them I'm reading this. But I can't read that. That's just not English. Oh, lie. I lie. I lie. Oh, see. Here. My dear. You're sick. The heat's got you. You ought to... Hey. Come back here. Listen, miss. You left your... Look. I was doing my beat with a flashlight when I see this girl standing alone on the dock. She looks decent. I can tell. She seems kind of pretty, too, but skinny and scared. Well, it's part of my job to keep people off the dock late at night. So I walked up to her and said... Sorry, miss. You can't stay here. What do you want? You'd better go home. Did they send you to take me back? No need starting an argument, miss. You can't send me back. Orders are orders. I don't obey their orders. You can't take me back to Germany. What are you talking about, miss? I won't. I say I won't. You know what I'd do sooner than go back to Germany? Just watch. Hey. Don't. Don't. Why, you little dope. Here. Hold on. Zoom in. Let go. Let go. Not on your sweet wine. It's coming around now, Mac. Those blankets and the coffee did the trick. Say, you know, you better not go out again or I'll be treating you for pneumonia. Nah, that water was warm. I'll beat it now. You ought to get a raise for this, Mac. Eh, I needed that bath. Well, so long. So long, Mac. What's it? Who are you? I'm Dr. Clark. This is the watchman's room. He brought you up here. I want you to drink this. No. Drink it? That's right. I'd like to help you if you'll let me. What's your name? Oh, I'm just Anna Weber, who never did anything important. And still they send people out here to America to get me, to spy on me and to take me back. How long have you been here? Three weeks. Three weeks. Three weeks. Three weeks. Three weeks. I come from Freiburg in Germany. Your parents alive? Well, when I left them. My 65, Papai 74. They sent them to Poland as laborers. Are they still alive? It is very improbable. And so you're alone. Yes. You're frightened of me, aren't you? Yes. Why? You're an intelligent girl, Anna. Now look at me. I'm your friend. You can see that. Come, Anna. You know I'm not lying to you, don't you? Look at me, Anna. Yes. I believe you. But the others. The others who spied on me. What others? Surely you don't mean Mac the watchman. He saved your life. He... He saved my life? Yes. Don't you remember? He jumped in the water after you. It was a wonderful thing to do, Anna. Yes, it was. But why did he do it? And where is he? I want to thank him. He just wanted to help you. All of us, Joanna. It's the way we are here. Yes, I see. But the others. The girl in the store and the girl in the museum. The man in the park and all asking me questions. Just being friendly, Anna. Believe me. Oh, but they wanted to know all about my relatives in Germany. Well, of course. People here have a way of asking questions of each other. We're curious about our neighbors. Oh, you mean they... You mean they say this? Yes. Oh, but... How can I believe it? You must believe it, Anna. We're like that here. We like to sit on park benches and we like to talk. We like to watch children sailing boats on a pond. We like to talk with strangers about baseball scores and recipes for cooking. Believe me, Anna. Oh, but what kind of a strange land is this? You must believe that, Anna. Oh, I want to. That's good. Doctor. Oh, doctor. Help me. Help me forget the past. Help me become one of you. You must help yourself. But how can I? Work with us. Live with us. Fight with us. Oh, please let me help. What can I do? Something, anything. Well, tomorrow you can begin to help. But now you must sleep. Will you try to sleep, Anna? Yes, I will. But tomorrow, you said. Tomorrow. Tomorrow. Tomorrow. No reason to be frightened. Not an American. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. And I guess we've gone on record about that. And now our friend from France is going on record with a song that every Frenchman in the world, and a good many middle-aged Americans, too, will recognize and remember. Jean Saint-Blanc singing Madelon. When Madelon comes to us to drink, under the tunnel, we're the sound of the wind, and everyone tells us a story, a story of his way. The Madelon, for us, is not severe. When we take her the size or the sleeve, Madelon, elle rit, c'est tout le mal qu'elle s'est fait. Madelon, Madelon, Madelon. Next week, at the same time, we'll be back with another half hour dedicated to what we in these United States are fighting for and why. With us will be the star of Sage and Scream, Brian Donlevy, and we'll have a talk with an American that we're going to greet as Mr. Average Defense Worker of 1942. Until this same time next week, this is your master of ceremonies, Clifton Fadiman, reminding you to remember Pearl Harbor, and now, more than ever before, to keep them rolling. Thank you. for making this evening's broadcast possible. Also, Clifton Fadiman, Morton Gould, Elizabeth Bergner, Pierre Van Passen, Jean Sablon, and Bernard C. Schoenfeld for contributing their services tonight. The OEM also wishes to thank Universal Pictures and the Hollywood Coordinating Committee of Stage, Screen, and Radio for bringing Miss Bergner to New York. Miss Bergner is currently appearing in the Universal Picture Paris Calling. Frank Dunn speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm sick. Thanks. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.