Instructions to the Uniform Force for this evening's Civilian Defence Test. One. Two units are signed to apparatus for actual display on Metropolitan Avenue and Rodney Street, Brooklyn. All officers and members assigned shall carry out instructions issued at the scene by the Chief of Department at pretest on Sunday, October 27, 1951. Two. Pumpers assigned to the remaining segments shall respond direct to a central location on the segment to which they are assigned. The segment commander shall respond on this pumper due to the scarcity of Battalion Chief's cars. Duties of these units at the scene. Hook up large size suction to a hydrant on greatest capacity water main at the location in the segment to which assigned. From the hydrant pressure on the pump gauge, deduct 30 pounds. This deduction of 30 pounds is to allow for an assumed pressure drop. The Battalion Chief assigned to segments shall assume the following conditions. A. That he has 10 pumpers at his compend instead of the actual one per segment. B. That he is facing in the general direction of ground zero. C. That all the buildings in front of him are on fire. C. Based on these assumptions, he shall immediately evaluate the condition and report to his area commander if it is possible for him to prevent the extension of the fire. Or, if not, what additional help or equipment he needs. C. This report he shall transmit by direct liaison to his chief, to his area chief. That is the deputy chief assigned to the immediate area. C. Deputy chief shall immediately report this information to the borough commander through the borough central telegraph office. C. Battalion chief shall not use the fire department radio in connection with this incident, C. Except that in the event that, should any unit discover a threatening fire, they will take action in accordance with existing department rules. C. No unit shall respond to civilian defense test incidents, except those who are actually called by the dispatcher by telephone, or directed to respond as indicated on overlay blueprints. C. Companies that have been selected to respond should be notified to anticipate to respond immediately after the transmission of the signal 13313. C. Attention is called to paragraph 9 of special order number 185 of November 9th, 1951, which provides that alarms for actual fires and emergencies during the period of the test will be received, transmitted, and responded to in the normal manner as provided in general order 1 of 1936 as amended. C. All units not actually operating at a display scene shall return to quarters without undue delay. C. All division commanders, send a messenger immediately to municipal building in Manhattan. Office of chief of department for typed copy of this talk. By order of chief of department, Peter Loftus. Hehش! Sooye by populai.