We are fortunate to have with us today Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of New York State, and Frank M. Totten, Grandmaster of Masons in this state. The occasion is the launching of the third Masonic Brotherhood Fund Campaign. This is a campaign for funds to support the charitable works of the Masonic fraternity, as well as those of all races, color, and creeds who are not Masons. And Governor Dewey has graciously agreed to endorse it for the third time. Governor Dewey. Thank you, Captain Witherspoon. Grandmaster Totten, as you know, I am very happy to support the Masonic Brotherhood Campaign for several reasons. As a Mason, I understand how broad the Masonic concept of charity is. I know, too, that this Brotherhood Fund Campaign supports the Masonic Foundation for Medical Research and Human Welfare, which has already devoted half a million dollars to research in the cause and cure of rheumatic fever. Yes, Governor Dewey, I know you have long been interested in the pitiful victims of rheumatic fever, and your strong support has been helpful in aiding all research into the cause of this vicious disease. I say pitiful victims because this disease strikes when a child is utterly defenseless between the ages of five and ten. And so far, the experts do not know why it chooses one child rather than another, or how it may be avoided. There was a theory that underprivileged children were more susceptible than those who were well cared for. But I guess that theory is discounted today, isn't it? Yes. Doctors have found that children who have every advantage may be stricken with rheumatic fever almost as quickly as are the children from the other side of the tracks. But there is great hope for our research program in the future. And that is why we are so anxious to continue our support of the Medical Foundation. What is this hope? Well, you know that rheumatic fever is considered by most scientists to be related to rheumatism and arthritis. Yes? Just recently, they have found two wonderful drugs that have given almost miraculous relief to the sufferers from arthritis. This new treatment is still in the experimental stage. But fresh hope is given to the victims of arthritis. It is possible that the cure for rheumatic fever may be just around the corner. That is great news, isn't it? You can see why we are so anxious to see that the seven experimental programs which we support in seven medical colleges and research laboratories throughout the state are given sufficient money to forge ahead. And this year, too, we have other objectives in our drive for funds. I am sure as governor of the largest state in the Union that you are quite aware of the increasing number of persons who live to a ripe old age. Yes, I am very much aware of it and it is showing up increasingly in all of our institutions throughout the state of every kind. And we are happy about it and very proud that the life span of the people of the state is extending so rapidly. And we are gladly meeting the increased financial burdens that come with it. The state has accepted great and very broad responsibilities and I think they will expand over the years ahead. But you know, government at best can't meet the human needs of companionship and friendship or even the physical needs of people, which can only be met by the private care of people who are really interested. No, it cannot. That is why, Governor Dewey, the Masons of New York State are making this drive a three-point program. First, we want to support the research we have already started on the cause and cure of rheumatic fever. Secondly, we want to take care of our members and their families who may be in distress. And we plan to do that either in the Masonic home at Utica or in their own communities. I am very much interested to hear you say that. I think the aid that fraternal organizations can give to those who are old and in need has a far greater value than the money that is expended. These men and women then have the assurance that somebody cares, that their health and happiness are important to somebody else. It's a great lift to their spirits and an incentive to others in humanitarian work of all kinds. All of us as individuals will have to realize our responsibilities to those who are older, more and more as time goes on. Of course, in 1900, when the Masonic home at Utica was quite new, that was the accepted way of taking care of those who could no longer take care of themselves. Oh, surely. And it's a beautiful spot and the men, women and children who are guests there seem to enjoy it as much as they would their own home, which of course it is. Yes, it is beautiful, isn't it? I have some very happy memories of the home and the wonderful work that is being done there. But like ourselves, the home is getting no younger. It needs modernization and repair. It needs to be reestablished, as it were, with a different idea of the type of care to be given. When the home was first opened, about half of those who came to us were children. Today, in a population of about 600 guests, relatively few are children. That is an amazing change. Yes, and in addition, the average age of the guests at the Masonic home is 78. For that reason, Dr. William Clark, our superintendent there, is conducting a study, a study of the needs and possibilities of those who are three score and ten. We must face the fact that, even with the little we know of the changes age can bring to the body and mind, we have found a way to live beyond the biblical span of three score years and ten. I see your point in reorganizing the home for emphasis on the older age group. I'm confident that your studies of age in the home will be of interest and value not only to the home, but to the state and the nation. Now, the third part of the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign interests me a great deal, too. As I understand it, it is to take care of those who can't be admitted to the home or who prefer to stay in their own communities. You know, as we grow older, we get a little set in our ways. We like our homes, our friends, our neighbors and relatives, and we like to be with them. Therefore, when we do not think it would be in the best interests of older members of the fraternity, even though they need aid, to be taken into the home, we have arranged to take care of them in their own communities. Last year, we set up a committee called Masonic Benevolences, and this committee, working together with the individual lodges, can give assistance to those who need it without making any radical changes in environment. That's a wonderful idea. And as a matter of fact, it's the modern idea, the trend away from large central institutions and toward individual care in the community. Yes, it is. Of course, there will always be need for institutional care in some cases, but as you say, the trend is away from it. At any rate, those are the three purposes behind the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign this year. First, to support rheumatic fever research. Second, to modernize the home at Utica. And third, to expand our Masonic benevolences. To return to this research study for just a minute on rheumatic fever. The research is not concerned only with the children of Mason's who have rheumatic fever, is it? No, indeed. Rheumatic fever strikes those of every race, color and creed. And our concern for the victims of this disease is equally without discrimination. We are anxious to save every child. I repeat, every child from the ravages of rheumatic fever. That's the way it should be. I think every public-minded citizen in the state should endorse this drive to rid childhood of this terrible scourge rheumatic fever. For my own part, I am very happy to hear that the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign will be conducted again this year for the support of vital research into this disease and for your other very worthy causes. I hope you have a grand success. Thank you, Governor Dewey. And thank you for the time you have given us. It's a great pleasure. Thank you, Grand Master Totten and Governor Dewey. And now, may I present David R. Cunison, Chairman of the Masonic Brotherhood Campaign for 1950. Thank you, Brother Witherspoon. As you have heard, the Masonic Brotherhood Fund Campaign has three vital objectives this year. First, support of the Masonic Program of Research on Rheumatic Fever, currently being conducted in seven medical centers and research institutions in New York State. Second, support of the new program of Masonic Benevolences, which cares for those who are in distress in their own communities. And third, support of a program that is planned for the modernization of the home at Utica. Brother Ellis, as President of the Masonic Foundation for Medical Research and Human Welfare, will you tell us something of what has already been done on rheumatic fever research? Brother Connison, I should say we have made a good start. We have made grants of a little over $400,000 to seven medical colleges and research institutions in New York State. This is from the funds collected during the first two previous campaigns. The research groups are composed of top-flight scientists, each attacking the problem of the cause and prevention and cure of rheumatic fever and allied diseases from a different angle. We are sure of their ultimate success. But research must have continuity and our program must go on. Brother Ellis, will you tell our listeners why we as Masons of New York State undertook this difficult research program? We were motivated by two factors. First, rheumatic fever is the most vicious diseases known to childhood. It kills five times as many children as all the other known diseases of childhood combined. Second, there has been little or no continuous research in the field of rheumatic fever and someone had to do it. There is no one known cause of rheumatic fever, is there? No, that is why our research program is divided into seven different parts. There are theories that diet circulation, muscular reactions, throat infections and other factors may bring about an attack. But as of today, physicians do not know what causes this terrible disease. Thank you, Brother Ellis. I am sure everyone who has heard you realizes the need for continued support of the rheumatic fever research program, which is one of the objectives of the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign. Now, Brother Dr. Lowey, will you explain the second objective, which we call Masonic Benevolence? This is really a program for taking care of the aged, the widow, and worthy brothers requiring financial assistance compounded with sympathy and understanding. I understand this program was established only last year. Yes, a committee was appointed to inquire into the need for this type of help. It was found that the economic picture had changed so sharply during the last quarter of a century that many men who had planned to live comfortably within a retirement income were in need of material aid for themselves or their families. It must be a heartbreaking experience for a man who has taken care of himself and others all his life to find that he is without the means to do it when he is old. Yes, it is quite depressing, and many of those whom we help financially get as much comfort from the thought that someone cares as they do from the material aid they need. Of course, too, some are too proud to ask for help. One of those instances occurred recently. Our committee called on the widow of one of our brothers and found that she was living on tea and toast and had been for days. She would never have asked for aid, yet she was slowly starving to death. We must help those who need our help. I imagine that very often your committee is called upon to help in an emergency. That's so. We do not know when illness may strike, and then it may take more resources than a brother has to meet the emergency. I have been interested in seeing the statistics that have been published recently on old age. I think there are about 16 million persons over 65 in this country today. There are at least that many, and the number is growing. We must make some provision for these men and women. The government can and does try to help in some cases, but that will never be the entire answer. The responsibility for those who are aged and in distress rests upon us as individuals. We must set up and maintain a program for their care, which we are doing through Masonic benevolence. Thank you, Brother Dr. Lowey. This, then, is the outline of our campaign for the Masonic Brotherhood Fund. We will support the program of research into the cause and cure of rheumatic fever. We will help those brothers who are in distress in their own communities. We will modernize and expand the home at Utica. The committee for the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign will do its best. That is my pledge to you, Grand Master, and to the fraternity. Thank you, gentlemen. Our listeners have just heard a discussion of the three objectives behind the Masonic Brotherhood Fund campaign, presented by Grand Master Frank M. Totten, Governor Dewey, and four leading Masons. This has been a public service presentation by the Masons of the New York State.