The General, he is responsible for this himself. One of the newspapers, he forgot to tell us all that verse that he referred to about the old soldier. I have it before me and I'm going to read it. It's a lyric that was sung by a very beautiful girl during the First World War. Old soldiers never die, they simply fade away, even as you and I upon the summer's day. That's why they never die, they simply fade away. Well, I'm sure that if all of us could fade away the way the General faded away today... I think most of us had to take heart pills after we got back to the Waldorf today. He just tore all the heartstrings out of us, the people did, on the sidewalks of New York. They were so marvelous, so real, even the children. Steps or stairs that were there. Last night, I don't know whether the General saw this, we met him at the airport, and there was one father that had a youngster with his legs around his shoulder and a rope tied to the end of his leg so he wouldn't fall off. He was asleep and cheering. The father was. And I saw one young mother with her child on her shoulder, fast asleep. I don't know whether it was a boy or girl, but his mother someday will say that he was present when General MacArthur passed along the line. I wish there were words that could be found that could adequately express the feeling of those that were present today and last night on the 54-mile ride with General MacArthur. It was so real, so wonderful. And if you wrapped up all of the celebration that New York ever had, they couldn't compare with what happened today and last night. We're all so happy that the General is with us and is going to be here for a little while. I heard a story a moment ago from Mrs. MacArthur, and it's so wonderful about the little family that they have that I think it should be repeated to you. You've all met Arthur. Where is Arthur? Looking at the television upstairs. Oh, he's looking at the television upstairs. Well, young Arthur was in the Philippines when he was very young when his father promised to come back to the Philippines and free it one day. And then he came back after the triumphal victory of General MacArthur, and he heard guns, and he said to his mother, Mommy, I can't sleep. Why, he said, Mother said, You must go to sleep. He said, I hear those guns. He said, The guns are ours. And young Arthur went promptly to sleep. Thank you. His Honor, the Mayor, the Honorable Vincent R. Infeliteria. The Wayland, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I think at this late, very late luncheon hour, it'd be superfluous for me to say anything to General and Mrs. MacArthur, and to Arthur, who's not upstairs at all watching television, The fact of the matter is that Mrs. Impeliteria presented him with a football this morning, and he's up there right now taking part in football practice. General, there's nothing that I could add by word of mouth that you haven't already seen demonstrated by the people of the city of New York. From the moment that we met you last evening at Idlewild Airport, and on a long, but very pleasant ride, rather a cold ride, but the General said, you haven't seen anything yet, because only a week ago, I was fighting in Korea, and it was 23 below zero. But from the moment General MacArthur entered our city last night, I don't have to tell him today in formal language that the people of the city of New York extend to him, to Mrs. MacArthur, and to Arthur the very warm welcome that is officially proclaimed at a ceremony like this, because if I were to say that, it would be unnecessary because the General, from 920 last night until the moment he arrived at the Waldorf, the people of the city of New York waited for hours, and it was a rather cold night, to extend a very warm, a haughty, and I would say a spontaneous message of welcome and greeting. And when that was repeated today, all over the city of New York, by millions of the people of the city, and I would say that a great number of people who came from without the city to participate with us in this magnificent, welcoming ceremony, the police commissioner of the city of New York, who is a very conservative gentleman, tells me that over 7 million people witnessed this parade today. And I... I've been with the General ever since he came in, and I frankly think that the commissioner's estimate is an underestimate. I think it was much larger than that. But it only demonstrates, General MacArthur, that the people of the city of New York want you to know through me that they're happy indeed that you decided to visit our city. In all the years I've been in New York City, I've never seen anything as big or as spontaneous or as warm as the welcome that you received last night and today. May... May... May I say to you, General, that we hope that your stay in New York City is a brief stay. We don't wish for that at all. We hope that when the time comes for you to select a warm-hearted city, a generous city, a city that believes in fair play, that... That you and Mrs. MacArthur and Arthur will decide to make New York City your prominent residence. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, not that I wish to disagree with you or your distinguished police commissioner, but the exact count of the people along the way was 10,567,000. The acting governor, acting Governor Moore of the state of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, General, and Mrs. MacArthur, ladies and gentlemen. Governor Dewey, who is presently in Bermuda, recuperating from a serious virus infection, has given the Attorney General, Mr. Nathaniel Goldstein of this city, and myself, the happy privilege of taking his place today. I am especially grateful for my participation because of my only son, served as a sergeant in the 1st Cavalry in the South Pacific under the leadership of our distinguished guest of honor today. It is my honor on this occasion to express the admiration, affection, and gratitude of the 5 million people of the state of New York who, according to Grover Whelan, did not participate in the celebration down here. It is my privilege to express the admiration of the 10 million down here and the 5 million who couldn't make it. For one of the truly great Americans of all times, an indefatigable leader in war, and a real builder of the peace, General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur. We have not forgotten those disheartening days of less than 10 years ago. Then the Nazi invader had overrun almost all of Europe. The Japanese warlords had won victory after victory in the Pacific and were pushing us ever backward. The fortunes of our country seemed to be at their lowest end. The profits of gloom filled the air with their predictions of despair. The ultimate conquest of the Japanese aggressor, so they said, might be a conflict and an exhausting conflict lasting many years. some said the task was an impossible one. Flushed to their success, the Japanese confidently believed that they could hold and consolidate their gains and build a new and far stronger Eastern Empire. But in the Pacific Theater, we had as commander a man of destiny who had the will to win and who refused to give up. His promise, I shall return, gave hope to us and the conquered people alike and returned he dead. A grateful America remembers that day upon which he received the surrender of the Japanese in Tokyo Bay. It is fitting today that we pay homage to that great commander who led our armed forces to that magnificent and overwhelming victory. But having won that victory, our distinguished guest of honor continued to serve his country and the cause of world peace with extraordinary success. In the brief period of five years, this great American has inspired an eagerness for the freedom of democracy in a people who have been trained for centuries to accept total despotism. Moreover, in so doing, he won not only their respect but the warm and affectionate gratitude of our former foes. Today, sir, you have seen in this truly remarkable reception by the people of the city of New York a token of our respect, our affection, and our gratitude to you and for your deeds. On behalf of all of the people of the Empire State, from Montauk Point to Buffalo, from the southern tier of the St. Lawrence, I extend to you, to Mrs. MacArthur, and to Arthur wherever he is, a hearty welcome home, and our thanks to you, sir, for your great services to peace-loving people everywhere. May I add, General, all soldiers like you never die, nor do they fade away. you will live forever in the imperishable memory of a grateful and free American. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Governor Moore. We'll now have a prayer by Rabbi David DeSola Poole. Lord God of the spirits of all flesh, we ask thy blessing on all of us here today, and on General MacArthur, whom we honor for his lifetime of devoted service to this nation and to all the world that loves liberty. Mayst thou be with him and be with us all and inspire his heart to work with the leaders of this people and with the leaders of all freedom-loving peoples, that they may work together as one for peace on earth, that thou mayst then judge the peoples and arbitrate among many peoples from afar off. And the nations shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. And nations shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more. But each man shall sit under his own vine and fig tree with none to make him afraid. May this day dawn soon for us and all men. Amen. Amen. Our next and final speaker before the benediction, the only way that I know of properly introducing him today or forevermore is to say he came, he saw, he conquered. General McArthur. Thank you. Just before entering this beautiful banquet hall, Mrs. McArthur said to me, now don't you try to make another speech. Although many of you may doubt it, I do most meticulously obey my Commander-in-Chief. Thank you. There is little that I can say except to repeat the thanks and appreciation which both Mrs. McArthur and myself feel at the tremendous welcome that has been given us by this greatest civic community in the world. You have etched on our hearts a memory we shall never forget. But you have done more than that. You have done what an enemy in the last ten years in savage campaign in the Pacific has been unable to do. You have forced us to capitulate. At long last, we do surrender. algorithm power status responsibly astronaut woman There are some appropriate statues that we took out. lubricated Peter one of ナ No music. No music. No music. Music. We're leaving. That's the music. See you later. The music. Bishop Horace Dunmigan. Bishop of New York. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, we give thee hearty thanks for this thy servant whom it has been our privilege to honor this day. For his many years of devotion to duty in the service of our beloved nation. For his unflinching loyalty to the cause of freedom, our hearts are profoundly thankful. Endue the leaders of our nation with wisdom and understanding and inspire us all with calmness and self-restraint in these dangerous days. Keep us united that our nation may give courageous leadership to all the world. and may the blessing of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost be and abide with us all this day and forevermore. Amen. Amen. The last and final public formality in tribute to the General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur. Just a minute, Mr. Whelan speaking. We cannot find words or adequate words to close this ceremony. So I have asked Charles Coleman, tenor of the Metropolitan, to sing God Bless America as our conclusion for this afternoon's meeting. God bless America Land that I love Stand beside her And guide her With a light that will shine from above From the mountains To the prairie To the oceans White with foam God bless America My home sweet home God bless America My home sweet home And so with the voice of Charles Coleman, young American tenor of the Metropolitan Opera Association and all the other guests who participated in this wonderful tribute to the General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur, in the Starlight Room of the Waldorf Astoria in New York City, we may say that this concludes the formal public acclaim to the General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur. However, there are many plans, no doubt privately, to make General MacArthur, Mrs. MacArthur, and Arthur feel at home. And we feel that Arthur's had a wonderful time this afternoon up there with the television men getting his first ideas of technique. And as Acting Governor Moore in paying his tribute set and to Arthur, wherever he is, that is what he meant because he's had a wonderful time looking over the technical apparatus of communications here at the Starlight Room this afternoon at the Waldorf Astoria like a real kid, curious and anxious to know. God bless him, God bless the General and his Lady, and God bless America. That is all from the Starlight Room of the Waldorf Astoria. We return you now to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System.