Dr. Goldwater, in this interview I should like to give the radio audience a bird's eye view of the achievements and purposes of the Department of Hospitals as they have become clarified under your administration. I think it would be fair to begin with a portion of foreword that you address to the Mayor on the publication of the Department's annual report for 1936. Yes, Mr. Pack, I remember the passage very well. At that time I had just begun to see the light after plowing through the rubbish of years of maladministration. And this is what I said to Mayor LaGuardia. When I accepted your invitation to become Commissioner of Hospitals three years ago, it was evident that the conditions in the city's hospitals and institutions were so deplorable that to raise them in all respects to a desirable plane in the short space of a few years was practically impossible. Many of the existing hospital buildings were antiquated and unsafe. Practically all were inadequate to the demands of the service. Scientific, domestic and sanitary equipment was lacking. Staff and other appointments were dictated by irresponsible outsiders. Clinical attendance was often lax. Nurses were insufficient in numbers. Many employees were wretchedly paid. Powerful officials, devoid of professional or administrative training, unblushingly used their offices to promote personal or partisan ends. Earnest workers received scant encouragement. At the home for dependence on Well Fair Island, chaos, callousness and corruption scandalously ruled. To change all this was a task requiring vigorous effort over a long period of time. I estimated that in ten years of hard work, with wholehearted official and public support, one might hope to make a substantial showing. That was three years ago, Dr. Goldwater. We know that the city's hospital system has progressed decades in that short time. What would you say have been the fundamental changes made? I should say that the greatest single factor has been the new progressive attitude of the entire municipal administration in every department. In the Department of Hospitals, it means specifically that the hospitals are run for the benefit of the patients, and not by or for politicians. In other words, the Department of Hospitals is an independent public department, independent of politics and of other municipal agencies. Well, the Department is free from political control, but it is not an independent branch of the city government. Because of provisions of the city charter and the governmental system of the state, the Department of Hospitals is subordinated to many other agencies, such as the Board of Estimate, the City Council, the Budget Director, the Civil Service Commission, the Department of Public Works, the Department of Health, the Department of Purchase, the State Legislature, and even the courts. In other words, the building and administration of hospitals in the city depends not upon the Department of Hospitals alone, but also upon all these other agencies. Nevertheless, in all fairness, I must say that these agencies have not arbitrarily exercised their power of control, but that they have been most sympathetic to our needs, and that substantial progress has been made. There's a great deal of interest in the great new welfare hospital, which is now beginning to admit patients. Could you tell us something about that, Doctor? Yes, and I'm glad you asked me that, Mr. Pack. Welfare hospital is one thing of which our department is particularly proud. Yesterday, we opened the new hospital for chronic diseases. It replaces the old central and neurological hospital on Welfare Island, and replaces as well a number of antiquated sections of three other hospitals. The new welfare hospital has a capacity of 1,600 beds. It is modern in every respect. The buildings themselves are original in design, and they are so constructed that every window is directly exposed to sunlight and faces the river. The buildings are shaped like a series of wings, each one of which is bent in a V, so that even on the shortest day at this altitude, when the sun is at an angle of 25 degrees, one wing cannot possibly shadow another. And what is to become of those vacated hospital buildings? They are all old and dilapidated buildings, and most of them will be demolished immediately. One or two may be left standing temporarily to relieve overcrowding in some of our hospitals. Does the welfare hospital differ in function from any other city hospitals? It does indeed. In 1939, the old central and neurological hospital was treating hundreds of patients, mostly adults suffering from organic nervous manifestations and from conditions generally known as psychoneuroses. The new welfare hospital will take over the care of all of these patients, and they will form a substantial portion of its population. But welfare hospital will treat and study besides many puzzling diseases of long duration. The Research Division for Chronic Diseases, which has been functioning on Welfare Island for several years, will soon be transferred to welfare hospital and will continue its highly promising investigations of arthritis, of diseases of the heart and circulatory system, of diseases of the blood, diseases of the nervous system, as well as the study of problems of physical degeneration. I understand that another recently completed project in Welfare Island makes provision for younger patients of an entirely different kind. I mean the Convalescent Day Camp. Yes, that's true, but the Convalescent Day Camp is not intended for children exclusively. Adults, too, will be benefited. Could you tell us something about the nature of that camp, Dr. Goldwater? Well, it's a kind of landscape park, covering about 13 acres. The space is divided into eight separate sections, and in each section there is a shelter or shack for the group that will be cared for in that section. The camp as a whole is large enough to accommodate between 300 and 400 convalescent patients daily. And what will be done for these patients there? Well, a great many things. The treatment will vary with the groups of cases according to their needs. There will be the greatest possible opportunity for all of the patients to get the benefit of fresh air and sunshine. For the children, we have constructed a waiting pool, and they will have playgrounds where directed play and graduated exercise will be supervised by department nurses and occupational therapists. Then there are supervised diet kitchens and a large centrally located dining hall. And the dining hall is large enough, so large that in case of rain, it can quickly be converted into a shelter for the whole population of the camp. Are there any other unique features about this camp, apart from those you've already mentioned, Doctor? There are several. One of the most important is occupational therapy under expert supervision. Well, could you tell us a little bit more about that, Doctor? Well, it means simply that a patient can be helped along in his convalescence a great deal if he is given something interesting to do, something appropriate to his physical condition. For example, a boy recovering from an acute disease may be sped to his recovery if he can be assisted to take his mind off his sickness and to get his muscles reaccustomed to activity, say, by woodworking or some such occupation. There must have been some special need that the new convalescent camp was designed to fill, Doctor. Is that right? There certainly was in our public system of medical care. We have extensive provision for the hospitalization of patients during the actual duration of acute sicknesses. But between that time and the time when the patient is well enough to resume his normal social or industrial activities, there has been a gap only partly filled until now by a limited number of convalescent homes. The convalescent camp on Wilfair Island is designed to fill that gap. Doctor Goldwater, you have told us very graphically of some of the more recent advances of the New York hospital system. You have built many new and beautiful hospital buildings, you have more under construction. Perhaps less apparent to the public eye is the fact that in recent years the staff of the municipal hospitals has increased 60%, that the nursing staff has doubled, and that there were about three million clinic visits alone in New York's public hospitals in 1938. Dr. Goldwater, to what conclusions have you come concerning the future in the face of these and other facts? One conclusion is that as we improve the service, the people place more and more confidence in their city hospitals, and that the corporate city of New York, which today bears fully three quarters of the present burden of organized medical relief in this city, will be called upon in the future to bear even a greater proportion of a much greater total load. This seems inevitable unless, by an extension of the principle of cooperative group hospitalization on the periodic payment plan, the great mass of regularly employed workers can be induced to undertake to meet all or a considerable part of the cost of hospital care required for themselves and for their dependents. As Commissioner of Hospitals, I would welcome the extension of voluntary group hospitalization or cooperative hospital care, because I know of no other means of relieving the existing pressure upon the city's hospital system, a pressure which has become almost intolerable and which seems destined to grow in intensity from year to year. Thank you very much, Dr. Goldwater. Thank you very much, Dr. Goldwater. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.