This is Clark Eichelberger, the UN is my beat. President Truman, in a State of the Union message on January 4th, said, We shall continue to give our wholehearted support to the United Nations. We believe that this organization can ultimately provide the framework of international law and morality, without which mankind cannot survive. And that's what I want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. And now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. President Truman, in saying, We shall give our wholehearted support to the United Nations, was referring to the total government of the United States and the people. Now, the test of the President's pledge is to be found in deeds. And some of these deeds will be the way in which Congress passes certain legislation concerning the United Nations at the present session. Indeed, there will be about 15 pieces of legislation dealing with the United Nations. Obviously, there are too many of them to cover in this review. But at least I thought it would be good today that we look at as many of them as possible. One international agreement before Congress means a further move toward a completion of the United Nations structure. Perhaps I should now say completion, because I think that the United Nations is like a house to which additional wings will always be added as the family grows. In the eyes of many people in Washington, the most important room that should be added to the United Nations house now is that of the International Trade Organization. The treaty establishing this organization is a highly complex one. And instead of trying to describe it in detail today, I propose that later on we'll have a speaker on this program to give the details. But briefly speaking, the agreement adopted by the Havana Conference provides for the establishment of an international trade organization of the United Nations. Its purpose would be to reduce barriers to trade and stimulate a wider exchange of goods between nations. Hearings on it will start almost immediately and is hoped that the Charter will pass the present session of Congress. Thus another room would be added to the United Nations house. But now let us examine for a moment some items of legislation calculated to make American membership in the United Nations more effective. Something that we have talked about a good deal on this program is the legislation authorizing the President to set up the Point Four program, the program of technical assistance to underdeveloped areas. This is the program which the President summarized in his inaugural address a year ago and reaffirmed in his address on January 4th of this year. The President proposes that there be given technical assistance to underdeveloped areas, particularly in Asia, so that the people in these areas may, primarily by their own efforts, develop their resources, improve their agriculture, have better medical attention and standards of diet, so they might enjoy some of the good things of life known to the Western world. I think this legislation will pass more readily as the result of certain events in Asia in the last few weeks. It is becoming evident that if Asia is to be saved from totalitarianism and revolution, it will not be through military containment, but rather through helping the poverty-ridden masses of people enjoy some of the standards of our world within the framework of democracy. There are several .4 bills before Congress. Hearings on them in the House of Representatives will take place Thursday and Friday, this January 12th and 13th. It looks as if various points of view might be harmonized. Obviously, business wants to know that its investments abroad will be guaranteed, and the people generally are anxious that the program be done as much as possible through the United Nations. A survey of opinion among the non-governmental organizations supporting the United Nations indicate an almost unanimity of opinion that .4 be as much as possible a United Nations program. Well, the hearings take place January 12th and 13th, and then we shall see the congressional trend. But, as the showman says, this is only the beginning. One of the most important tasks of American security, of American sincerity, rather, and support of human rights, will be the Genocide Convention. It remains for our generation to witness mass murder on the part of the Germans for racial and religious reasons on such a scale that a new word had to be coined to define it. Genocide means the mass destruction of a people because of their religion, race, or culture. Hitler sent six million people to gas chambers to eliminate a faith he hated and of which he was jealous. An international agreement was passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations a year ago and sent to the various governments for ratification. It would outlaw this hideous crime. Can anyone believe that the American Congress will refuse to ratify it? If legal hair-splitting is permitted to prevent the passage of a resolution to eliminate mass murder, it will be very difficult for the United States to preach human rights to nations in the world that are now violating them. Now, some of the bills before Congress pertaining to the United Nations will cost this country money. Not a great deal. If all of the bills before Congress appropriating money for the United Nations were totaled up, they probably would not equal the cost of one battleship. The most expensive item is that of the Palestine refugees. Some hundreds of thousands of Arabs fled from Palestine and the Arab states attacked the Jewish part of Palestine, which has now become the independent state of Israel and a member of the United Nations. Israel cannot settle all of these refugees because she has too many Jewish refugees from Europe to settle. Recently, Gordon Clapp, one of the directors of the TVA, had a United Nations mission to the Middle East. He reported a program of public works, etc., and to make the Arab refugees as nearly as possible self-supporting while they are awaiting relocation in the various Arab countries. Last year, the United Nations recommended approximately $32 billion to take care of these refugees. $16 million were authorized for the United States, about $6 million was spent to the Arabs, $4 million from the British, and $2.3 million from the French. Not all of these nations paid in dollars, of course. Some of them paid in goods and services. But the figures I have given are the dollar equivalent. This year, the United Nations recommended, the Assembly recommended $54,900,000 to take care of the Arab refugees for the next 18 months. The United States will assume, it is expected, about one-half of this. It is hoped that the British, despite their great financial difficulties, will contribute $13 million, the French $6 million, and so on down the line. It is hoped that about 25 states will contribute to the Arab Refugee Fund. Of course, the United States, Britain, and France have vast oil and other industrial interests in the Middle East. So stability in that area is not only humanitarianism, it is self-interest as well. Another financial matter that will be before Congress is an effort either to raise or to eliminate the ceilings on United States contributions to some of the specialized agencies of the United Nations. For illustration, Congress has placed the ceiling on the amount of money which the United States will contribute to the Food and Agriculture Organization budget. Congress said that we would pay 25% of a total budget of $5 million and not more. But they said 25%, had they said 25% of any reasonable budget, the figure would not be quite so paralyzing. But if the Food and Agriculture Organization feels that it needs a budget of more than $5 million, the United States is technically in default because it cannot pay more than 25% of a ceiling of $5 million. Congress also placed the ceiling on the American contribution to the World Health Organization and the International Labor Organization. I think in the case of the International Labor Organization, it limited the American contribution to $1 million and $91,000. Now American labor and business realize that they have a very great stake in this organization, the purpose of which is to raise the standard of labor in other countries nearer to that of the American standard. Labor and business may feel that the United States ought to contribute several million dollars more to this budget. The ideal thing would be to eliminate the ceilings altogether. If not, then the ceilings should be raised so that we would be paying our proportionate share of the cost. One appropriation bill will be withdrawn. A resolution had been prepared authorizing an interest fee-loan of $7 million for construction of headquarters for the Food and Agriculture Organization and the offer of a site where it was to be located in the United States. But the soft currency countries wanted the Food and Agriculture Organization located in a country not dependent upon dollars. And as sometimes happens with parliamentary action, they finally took a decision which a good many of them would like to forget. They decide the Food and Agriculture Organization would be located in Rome. Many people feel that this is a mistake. Many of the best personnel will not follow the organization there. The logical place for the FAO is at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York City are second at the branch office of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland. But at least the United States will not be faced with the problem of the loan. One of the most tragic matters to come before Congress is the revision of the displaced persons legislation. According to the present legislation, only 205,000 displaced persons are allowed to come into this country during a two-year period. The law provides that of this number, 50% must be agriculturalists and 40% must come from territories now under Soviet domination such as the Baltic countries. The law as it stands discriminates against certain people of certain religious faiths. Many national organizations, especially labor and church groups, have urged revision of this discriminatory legislation by liberalizing its provisions. Certainly a country of this size, with its vast resources and heritage of freedom, should agree to take a large number of these persons. It would not only be a humanitarian act to cooperate with other nations in clearing the displaced persons' tents, but it would be to this country's interest many of these people are skilled workers. Their hatred of totalitarianism is a proven fact, for otherwise they would not be in the DP camps. Their skills and their love of freedom could make a contribution to this country, as refugees and freedom-loving people have done in the past. And so there are many other items that I wish we had time to take up on this review tonight. I will scarcely have time to discuss the question of taxation for United States personnel working in the United Nations, nor other problems such as the resolutions that are now being introduced in Congress and on which Senator Thomas will hold hearings beginning in a few weeks, various plans that have been put forward to strengthen the United Nations. but I hope to have as my guest speakers on these subjects later on. Fundamentally, the issue back of all this United Nations legislation before Congress is how strongly committed are Congress and the American people as to a strong United Nations. And the way Congress faces up to some of these legislative issues will be the best test of our support of the United Nations. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger. This has been another in NBC's new University of the Air program series, The UN Is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in United Nations affairs. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN Is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN Is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.