to find living accommodations has been asking. Now, gentlemen, I understand that you want to talk about veterans' housing progress. Is that right? It surely is. You see, Mr. Cowan? Yes, Mr. Sobel. Well, OPA has a new job to do, a job given our agency by Wilson Wyatt, the man delegated by the president to get homes for our veterans. I thought that this was the season when jobs were being taken from OPA, not given to it. Most controls are off now, even those on lumber and building materials. True enough, but the veterans' need for housing is so acute right now that Mr. Wyatt selected a team of federal agencies to put that program across. OPA is on that team. Well, anything we can do to get decent homes for veterans certainly should be done. I'm sure that our listeners, veterans and the families of veterans, go along with that 100%. Well, what is OPA's specific job on the team, Mr. Sobel? Is OPA the quarterback? No, that's Mr. Wyatt's job. He's the field general. I guess you could call OPA the safety man on this football team. Our assignment is the enforcement task. We're to see that homes built for veterans are sold or rented to veterans, that the sale price or rental set by another member of our team is one charge to the veteran, and to see that priorities granted for veterans' housing doesn't wind up in the construction of something else. That sounds like a big order, Mr. Sobel. Yes, it does, Mr. Cowan. But it's no bigger say than the job of controlling rents in New York. I've been on that job now for several years. That was a big order, too, but we did it. And using the same simple techniques that were successful in rent control, we'll polish off this latest assignment, too. You can put me down, too, as saying it's a big order, Mr. Cowan, but the order is no bigger than the need. I'd like, if I may, to sketch a little of the urgency of this task. Go right ahead. Do. I sit at my desk day after day and listen to some really touching stories. A veteran with five children with no place to live. His wife living with her mother. Two of the children with her. Three of the children sent to Pennsylvania with the veteran's family. The veteran living in a rooming house in New York. This wasn't an isolated instance, either. It is happening all the time. I am a veteran, and I don't feel, this is my personal opinion, of course, that I deserve the world on a silver platter simply because I serve my country. But I do believe that one debt a grateful country does owe the veteran is a place, a decent place, for him to live with his family. Unfortunately, many, many veterans can't find such a place. What are the reasons for this, Mr. Hasmer? There are a variety of them, Mr. Cown. I think the big one is that most cities, including New York, were bulging at the seams when the veteran came back. Often, the veteran was just married and had a small family. But there were no vacancies. The answer was to build homes for the veterans. That's what Mr. Wyatt is doing. Well, you said it, Mr. Sobel, and that Mr. Wyatt chose a group of agencies to do this job. Well, what are those agencies, and, well, what are their jobs? First, the Civilian Production Administration is charged with keeping scarce building materials in this housing program to put them into homes for our veterans. The Federal Housing Agency is authorized to grant priorities for the building of homes for sale or rent to veterans. The OPA will do the enforcing. And I suppose your machinery is ready to roll? It certainly is. I think we would make this very clear if we gave, well, say, a specific example. Say I wanted to build a home for veterans. What do I do? You'll have to obey local building laws, of course, but your first stop in our program would be at FHA. There you would apply for authorization to build and for priorities aid. OPA would be in the background doing its job of channeling materials into such construction. Well, what if I had my material lined up and didn't need any priority assistance? You still have to go to FHA. All construction has been frozen so that nothing can stand in the way of homes for veterans. So I go to FHA and my application's approved. Where does OPA come into that picture? Right then. If you're going to sell the house, FHA will set the sales price. Top figure, except in most unusual circumstances, will be $10,000 for a one-family unit and $17,000 for a two-family unit. FHA, as a matter of routine procedure, will notify OPA that your application has been approved and tell us the sales or rent ceilings. Well, now, how, say, I'm actually working on the house. What does that do? Within five days after you start building, you must put a placard at the site. That placard will say that the construction is for veterans. It'll say what the ceiling sales price or rental is. If you don't put it up, you'll get in trouble with us. Well, I don't want to stay. I want to stay out of trouble, but I want to get the house built. And, of course, trouble with you would hold it up. Well, what's the next step, gentlemen? Finish that house and then sell or rent it to a veteran. And you have to know before you start which you want to do. Well, I'll say I wanted to sell. But, for example, say, after I finished, a good friend of mine, well, a non-veteran, really needs a home. So I sell it to him. Now, how does the OPA know about it? FHA inspectors will pay at least two visits to the site of your new home. When construction is completed, they send a routine form letter telling us that project such-and-such at such-and-such an address is finished. Now, under the law, you must report your sale or rental of that house to the nearest OPA rent office within 30 days. We'll wait a reasonable time. And if we don't get it, we'll ask you, how come? One other thing, Mr. Kahn. Those placards I talked about say in good big type that the house must be held for sale to a veteran for 30 days. If your priority application was approved before August 6th of this year and for 60 days if your application was approved after that date. With homes as scarce as they are, you'll have no trouble selling to veterans, but you will have trouble from Mr. Sobel if you sell to non-veterans. All right. Let's see you handle this one. What is to prevent a non-veteran going to a veteran and getting him to purchase the house from the builder and then having his straw man turn right around and sell it to him? I'd say it was a pretty nasty trick. Well, so would I, gentlemen, but what can you do about it? Mr. Sobel. We think we can do quite a bit about it. Subsequent sales must be offered to veterans for the same period as the original, for 30 or 60 days. Well, that seems to indicate that you have simple machinery on this sale to veterans. Well, I hope it works. Well, the veterans themselves are the ones who can really make it work. If they hear of anyone circumventing the law by one method or another, they should come to us at OPA and let us check. After all, this program is for the benefit of the veterans. It's up to them to help us keep these houses for the men who deserve them, the veterans. Well, now about the ceiling you were telling me about. You say that FHA sets the sale price or the maximum rental. I thought rents were an OPA job. Naturally, FHA and OPA will work closely on maximum rents. The FHA always has had the authority to set the rent on these new homes. We in OPA will abide by their decisions and enforce them. Now getting back to this house I'm supposed to be building, say FHA allows me a total of $8,500 for house and ground. How would you catch me if I charged more? I'm sure, Mr. Cowan, that you, like most of our real estate people, would charge only the legal price. But we'll find the ones who charge more than that. Well, the question, how? Well, after you built your house, as I said, you'd have to report the sale to us. The sales price must be on the form. We send one copy of that to the purchaser. He knows what he paid. And if he paid more than you say you charged, he'll tell us. Then we'll try and get the overcharge back for him. I frankly think, Mr. Cowan, that we'll find most veterans extremely willing to report any overcharges. After all, by that time, the veteran would own the house, and there's no reason in the world why he shouldn't complain of an overcharge. He's a mighty foolish feller if he doesn't. We're set up to see that he only pays the legal price. We'll see to it if we get his help. Well, that sounds like a very important program, gentlemen. Oh, well, one question on this business of selling or renting. Well, say I built a house for rent and then decided to sell it. Could I do that? Yes, you can. There is one but attached, however. If priorities were granted under Mr. Wyatt's housing regulation on the basis that the home was to be rented, any subsequent purchaser must agree to offer it for rent 30 days to a veteran. Well, we've been talking for a long time about veterans. Now, supposing you tell us just what a veteran is, Mr. Hassman? Now, that's a good question, Mr. Cowan, because the definition of that word does vary. Before I define it, let me explain just one thing. Priorities granted before August 10, 1946, were granted under one regulation. Those granted after that date came under another. The word veteran is defined just a little differently in each one. The earlier regulation permits sale or rental to anyone who served in the armed forces after September 16, 1940, if he didn't get a dishonorable discharge. A person now serving in the armed forces or merchant marine, a spouse of a serviceman who died in service, or of a deceased veteran, if the spouse is living with any children of the veteran. An American citizen who served with one of our allies during the war is also entitled to the benefits of this regulation. And how does that definition differ from the newer one? It covers all the same ground and adds a few more categories. Some merchant sailors and some civilians who were interned or held prisoner by an enemy during the war. Well, that clears up the definition part of the program of a vet what is a veteran. Tell me, Mr. Sobel, will you, will the New York rental office handle this whole program for the city of New York? Yes, we have offices at Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx, and Staten Island. Each office will handle its own complaints. Well, with this program as big as it is, Mr. Sobel, won't it interfere with your rent control activities? No. We'll do our rent work just the same as ever. We are in changing jobs. We're just adding one. Well, are you ready to roll on the new program now, Mr. Sobel? Yes, indeed. We already have the necessary forms, and we are rolling along right now. More forms, huh? Let me answer that, Mr. Cown. Yes. The new regulations will entail the filling out of some more forms. But anyone who objects to those forms should sit at my office for a while and listen to the terrible housing plight of so many veterans. If a few forms will expedite the housing of veterans, I don't think anyone should mind. Well, that's a very fair answer, Mr. Hasmer. Tell me, gentlemen, how is the overall housing program going? Have you got an overall picture? Do you know? On that, Mr. Cown, I have the figures used in a recent broadcast by Mr. Wyatt. He said that in the first eight months of 46, more than 708,000 housing units for veterans were started. I'm sure that starts, uh, aren't what count. How many units, uh, well, let's say how many are completed? Mr. Wyatt's figures are 350,000 units in the first eight months. This, you know, is a two-year program. You don't build houses overnight. We still have a lot of work ahead. Well, we all agree on that, I'm sure, but I think we all know that a law is just as sharp as its teeth. What teeth are there in the OPA's new enforcement program, Mr. Sobel? I am confident, Mr. Cowan, that voluntary compliance will do most of the job. The builders in this area have promised us their support and wholehearted cooperation. However, if we do get a report of a possible violation, we'll call the seller in. In most cases, that conference will turn the trick. And if it doesn't? We can revoke priority privileges, and criminal penalties are provided for some violations of these regulations. Believe me, these penalties will be used only as a last resort. But if that last resort is necessary, they will be used. Take my word for it. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Sobel and Mr. Hassner, for your outline of this very important question. I see that our OPIA time is just about up. And again, thank you for your splendid outline of the steps being taken in this particular case. It looks like a big one, this job. And our guests this morning were Mr. Jack Sobel, OPA Deputy Rent Executive for the New York District, and Mr. Erwin Hassner, OPA Veterans Advisor. You've been listening to your OPA and Veterans Housing Program, presented by the Office of Price Administration, in cooperation with your city station. And tune in weekly on Wednesdays at 1145, when the official answers to these misunderstood questions will come to you through your OPA program of your United States government and what your OPA is doing for you. New York City's own station, WNYC. 830 on your dial. 830 on your dial. 290 on your dial. 190 on your dial. 930 on your dial. 190 on your dial. 930 on your dial. 190 on your dial. Then we've got the holler. 930 on your dial. 1030 on your dial. 1030 on your dial. 830 on your dial. 1035 on your dial. 1135 on your dial. 1135 on your dial. 11 cierto on your dial.