Oh, there and to see thy wonder delight, What the sound is we then, What the twilight's last gleaming, To the bright and bright stars, To heaven's light, O'er the land of the twilight's last gleaming, And from the twilight's last gleaming, The twilight's last gleaming, Gave proof through the night, That our flag was still there. O'er the land of the twilight's last gleaming, O'er the land of the twilight's last gleaming, And the land of the twilight's last gleaming, And now we'll have the invocation by the Reverend George Lockwood, Chaplain for the disabled American veterans. God of our fathers, We offer to thee our most humble thanks, For all the blessings thou hast bestowed upon us, For life and health, And for the pursuit of happiness. We pray thee for the good estate of our country, That she may be guided and governed by thy good spirit, That she may cling tenaciously to the highest ideals and concepts of democracy, In which our dreams for a sensitivity to the rights of all men may be pursued. Grant us, O God, a life of security, In which we may desire nothing so much as justice and harmony and happiness. Awaken us to the grim reality that there are sinister forces now at work, Seeking to destroy the high ideals on which this nation was founded. May we ever stand fast in the faith, Quit ourselves like men, Be strong and be vigilant, So that all that have been gained through sacrifices may not be lost, And America be the land in which democracy will have fulfilled its highest obligations. We thank thee especially for those men who nobly gave up their service and sacrifice in the course of freedom. May we ever reflect on their great contributions, And may this nation never fail in her obligation to them. Amen. On behalf of the New York City Veterans Service Center, It's my privilege to welcome you here today for this memorable occasion. The number two million has a particular meaning for us at the center. It means that during the eight years that we've been in existence, We've assisted over two million veterans during their period of rehabilitation and readjustment, And perhaps help them to a better life. Particularly gratifying to see so many representatives from our fine veteran organizations. The word veteran to me has always been synonymous with a man's name. It's an identity that's carried with him throughout his life. It can never be taken away no matter what. Veteran organizations go a long way toward furthering that spirit, Sometimes in the face of obstacles. When I say veteran organizations, I include the gold star mothers and the gold star wives. Certainly they are veterans in every sense of the word. Our two millionth veteran, the man that we are honoring today, William Radigan, is a typical Korean veteran. Not only for his deeds on the battlefield in Korea, But because of his conduct while subjected to the cruel and inhuman treatment At the hands of the communists, While a prisoner of war. Mr. Radigan is 22 years old. He's done a lot of living in those 22 years. But it's deeds that we can be proud of. He's a native New Yorker. I believe a true American. We at the center today are faced with what we consider to be a grave problem. While the Korean War was on, There was a terrific amount of public apathy toward it. Some have said that the only ones who knew anything about Korea Were the men who were fighting there and their relatives at home. Perhaps that's too harsh a statement. At any rate, I'm sorry to say that the apathy toward the Korean War Has carried over to the Korean veterans. And I don't know the reason for this tragic situation. Surely these men were called on to do a job, And they did it to the best of their ability. At the end of World War II, as we so well remember, The returning G.I.s were literally the toast of the town. They were given assistance at every turn. And well, it should be. The Korean veterans are coming home virtually unnoticed. They say they performed a job, they were given a task, and they performed it. If there was anything politically remiss, it is not of their doing. Their average age is 22, Mr. Roddigan's age. That's considerably younger than their World War II counterpart. And they're in need of guidance. Guidance and counseling. We can do the job here at the center. We're doing it every day. But we need help. We need help from the public. The public must assist these men. We must educate them. We must tear down this public apathy. These Korean veterans are the citizens of the future, the leaders. And the guidance they receive now will determine how they'll assume their responsibility tomorrow. We must all make them realize the importance of their GI benefits, education, either in a trade or a profession. The continuation of GI insurance. And we must give them the opportunity of employment so they may have a career. And above all, we must make them realize that we appreciate the fine job that they've done. This we must make them understand and this we can do. The New York City Veterans Service Center is set up by the municipal government of New York to assist veterans and their families with any problem they may have. We're not competitors of the Veterans Administration nor do we duplicate the service of that fine agency. The Veterans Administration is limited by federal law to certain phases, particularly hospitalization and medication for the disabled. We, on the other hand, assist the veteran in his everyday problems. And there are many. At the center, we have experts in every field. Medicine, legal, education. And we run through the whole gamut. We can do everything but give the veteran financial assistance. But we can make it possible for him not to need that financial assistance. And now, we must change our schedule because of time. And it's my privilege and honor to present a man who was a radio man on a destroyer in World War I. And he's never forgotten that in his approach to veterans and veterans' problems. It's my honor and privilege to present the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletieri. Thank you, Mr. Brickman. Mr. Brickman and our guest today, William Rattigan, Board President Lundy, members of the armed forces who are here at this ceremony, members of the various veteran groups, ladies and gentlemen. I'm happy to participate in this ceremony today because I fully appreciate the tenor of the remarks made by the director of this center, Mr. Brickman. What he says is true. But I want to point out that from the standpoint of the service that's lended here by the city of New York, there's been no apathy on the part of your city government. We realize the great need for this kind of a center. We fully realize everything that has already been said here. And to that end, I want to point out that the veterans who run this center, four veterans, do a perfectly wonderful job. And the fact is that every single veteran who returns from Korea receives a pamphlet, and it's a very well documented pamphlet, that points out the services that are available to the returning veterans at this center, free of charge. And in addition to that, every single veteran who returns not only receives that pamphlet, but he receives a letter signed personally by the mayor urging them to avail themselves of the facilities of this center. And it's not a facsimile sent signature. Every one of those letters is prepared at my own office and signed by me. So that from the standpoint of the office of the mayor, this center has received my wholehearted cooperation at all times. And when some misguided people at times have said that this agency should be abolished because it duplicated the work of other veteran groups, it's not at all the case. And I have vigorously opposed any such proposition, and my judgment would be the most foolish kind of alleged economy. And whether I'm mayor of the city of New York or not, I assure you that if anybody proposes that kind of a ridiculous economy move, I'll be in there fighting as a veteran and even as a private citizen. So of course today, I'm happy to be here as mayor of the city of New York, because I'll still be mayor for the next two and a half months. And I'm happy that my colleague on the Board of Estimates, the distinguished borough president of Queens County, is also present at this ceremony, because your guest today hails from Queens County. Mr. Brickman has already gone into the record of your guest today, Bill Reddick. So I won't go, I won't delve into it at all. But this is a little different kind of a twist to this ceremony today. You know, ordinarily, the mayor on an occasion like this would give the guest a scroll of some kind. And they're very nice, a nice piece of paper, certainly something that a lot of people would highly treasure. But we decided to do a little something different today, because he just is a lucky fellow. He happens to be the two millionth veteran who has come to this center to seek help and advice. So today, Bill, instead of awarding you a scroll, we're going to do something just a little more tangible. We feel that there's something that the city ought to do for you, and so that you, in turn, can do things for other veterans who are similarly situated. So today, it's my pleasure not only to tell you, you probably have already been let in on it, but to tell this audience that his scroll will be a job in this agency as a veteran's aide. So may I congratulate you, Bill. I'm happy that you've returned to us in good health, and may I extend to you the congratulations of all the people of the city of New York that I'm privileged to represent on this occasion. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. And on behalf of the Veterans Service Center, we sincerely appreciate everything you've done for the center and veterans in New York. You say you'll be the mayor for two and a half months. That's not true. I believe to us, you'll always be the mayor. It's my pleasure now to present a wonderful woman from a wonderful organization. Mrs. Eleanor Holmes, the president of the Gold Star Mothers of New York State. I mean, I'm sorry. Thank you. Your Honor, your mayor and Pelletary, distinguished staff and Bill. We are certainly very happy to see you home. On behalf of the American Gold Star Mothers, Inc., I welcome you. I know that you have had a trying job in Korea, and we're very, very happy to know that it ceased. I mean, the war had ceased over there. I know we had not called it a war, but still, all our boys that went over there were in danger of death. And we are very happy to have you here with us. So, on behalf of all our mothers, I say have a happy time home and enjoy good health from now on. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Holmes. And I have said the Korean War because with over 140,000 casualties, I hardly think it should be called anything else. And it's my pleasure now to present the Deputy Commander of the United States First Army, Major General Seabree. Mr. Biglin, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Stringer-Chef, Mr. Radigan, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very honored to be able to represent my Army Commander here today on this occasion. I know very well what this organization has done. I know what New York City has done for people in uniform for a long, long time. When I was really commissioned in 1918, I came to New York for perhaps a second time. I was here about 89 days. Like all people from the country, and any place outside of New York City as the country. I didn't know anybody. I didn't know anybody. I didn't have anything to tie to. I wanted to see the town, but I missed a little tie, a little warmth. And so I visited the service center, which was operated at that time. And I realized then, I believe I began to realize, that this great city has real warmth and real good fellowship. It's been my privilege to be the Deputy Army Commander at Governor's Island since last January. And in that intervening period, I've had an opportunity to see a little more of New York, and more or less feel the pulse of the situation. And I realized even more, that New York is not only the greatest city in the world, it's the greatest, and the accent is on the word great. It's great in its warmth. It's great in its approach to everything. Despite the fact that I come from the South, I'm putting in New York. I would like to take this occasion, not only to congratulate Mr. Radigan, but to add to some of the things that have been said about Mr. Impelitari. We in the Army have had many contacts with him, many close contacts. I've never met a man for whom I had greater respect, and who has been more wholehearted and warm in his dealings to service people. I certainly hope that if he's no longer in an official position, that he'll still be able to help us. Thank you. Thank you very much, General. I think it's a tribute to our democracy that we have, along with the General and the next enlisted man in the Navy. I don't want to tell you what I was. But, uh, our next speaker is the Borough President of the county in which Mr. Radigan lives. And somehow or other, it seems that quite a few of the heroes that are coming home are also residents of that county. That county, I wonder what you, how you breed them out there. It must be something special. But I want to present the Honorable James Lundy, President of the Borough of Queens. Mr. Brickman, our very distinguished Mayor of the City of New York, Vincent Impelitari, our honored guest today, Bill Radigan of Richmond Hill, our many distinguished representatives of the military services, the veterans groups, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy and delighted that I have an opportunity to participate in these activities this morning. And before so doing, the preceding speaker referred in very kind overtones to the Mayor of the City of New York. I would like to also make my record clear on that. Even though that Mayor Impelitari and myself are from parties of different political philosophy, there's always been my consistent position, privately and publicly, that Mayor Impelitari has been and is a great Mayor. And in that connection, we do have the Borough of Queens, from which our guest of honor comes and will return. And that Borough of approximately 1,700,000 people, a great and growing Borough, has had immeasurable help and support in each and every one of its problems from our truly great Mayor. And on their behalf, I do want to thank Mayor Impelitari. And now, ladies and gentlemen, our guest of honor, a young man, 22 years of age, coming from Richmond Hill, Long Island, part of Queens. And today, as we pause and meditate on the occasion of the honor of him being the 2 millionth veteran to receive benefit, guidance and counsel from the city center, one could not help but think that the true representative of the Republic of the United States, a young man, has safely come back to us. Has safely come back to us that even though there were trying and hard times, that he had, particularly during the 27 months serving as a prisoner of war, we are happy to have him back, have him back as an individual, and also as a symbol of those that he represents. And so the people of our borough, very briefly, very sincerely, would have me say to Phil Radigan, that on their behalf, I extend to him, and to his fellow colleagues, as they come back to us, the sincere hand of fellowship and friendship. Thank you very much, Borough President Lundy. And a tribute to you, sir, that though the Board of Estimates made up of two different political parties, at all times you were ready and have assisted the center. Mr. Payne, I've heard a story, and it pertains to Mr. Radigan's fiancé. She wrote him a considerable number of letters, and I'd like at this time to call on Mr. Payne, the Vice President of the National City Bank. I think you'll be interested in what he has to say. Mr. Payne. Mr. Brickman, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Bill Radigan, and I'm a guest. This is an unusual thing for a private citizen and a banker to participate in such ceremonies, but, uh, yesterday morning, uh, Mr. Brickman called me and said that this ceremony was going to take place. And would we, the National City Bank from New York, allow Miss Theresa MacDonald to time off? Well, I said, sure. What's it all about? Well, he told me about this two million, uh, veteran up at the service center. Well, I said, uh, now Theresa, Theresa, that's the girl up in the bookkeepers, uh, has a claim to fame. I told him this story, and I always ask me to tell it to you. I think it's, it's a great thing, and we're proud at City Bank that one of our girls had the spirit to outwit the Reds. Uh, Theresa learned that her letters weren't getting through. So, uh, instead of wasting all that, uh, paper and all our thoughts, all that Theresa did was wrote 400 letters, each one consisting of the words, I love you. But then at the same time, she snitched a roll of tape from the bank. Oh. One of these long rolls of editing machine paper. And, uh, she started to write her letters. Well, when Bill was released, service, uh, the, uh, the news services heard about this in Korea, what's it all about, find the girl. So they found the girl. And they took a picture of her, at the bank, with this tape all round and round her. And we got a big kick out of it. Well, now this is nothing new for us to work with veterans. Uh, down at City Bank, we put out the welcome mat for the returning veterans, and, uh, uh, we made some 55,000 loans under the GI Bill of Rights, for a total of $115 million. And the, uh, loan guarantee officer in, uh, Washington recently wrote and told us that it's a remarkable record, not only the size, but the fact that we have only claimed fifteen hundredths of one percent on all those loans. So the veterans of New York know how to take care of their obligations. At the same time, while we were doing that, we've made some, uh, billion, seven hundredth-five million in loans to all sorts of people. Mostly veterans. Because, uh, uh, during the war, the volume went down to almost nothing. And we know that, when it picked up after the war, it must have been the veterans. It couldn't have been from any other source. So we feel that we have a joint responsibility with the service center. And we're merely an extension of the service center, uh, with our sixty-eight branches and, uh, our, uh, some twelve thousand employees around the world. It's a great pleasure for me to be here and add my words to this occasion. And now, uh, I'd like to bring another branch of the armed forces into the circle. And we have the honor to have with us Captain Lankanew, Chief of Staff of the Third Naval District. Captain Lankanew. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Questioner? Mayor, honored guest. Congratulations to the New York City Veterans Service Center upon their honoring the two millionth veteran served at the center since its establishment. Now, we in the armed forces are appreciative of the service rendered by New York City Veterans Service Center. We consider these services as a necessary continuation of similar services given by the various branches of the armed forces. It is a help that would be difficult for the federal services to give. That is, a service that is so personalized and tailored to the individual's needs. In a transition period between duty in the armed forces and establishing oneself in a community, the problems faced are civilian in nature and naturally better handled by an organization such as this center. We are aware that the Veterans Administration, a federal agency, is of great assistance to the veterans in becoming established in civilian life. However, the assistance given by this center in advising the veteran on how to take full advantage of the benefits offered by his government is extremely important to him. The services rendered by the center is, to some extent, an indication of this community's appreciation to the returning veteran for services rendered to his country. I am sure that the veteran in return is appreciative of the motivation behind an organization such as this. Again, I congratulate the service center on the important services they have rendered to the veterans of this community. Thank you. Thank you, Captain. We in New York City believe, and it's a policy laid down by Mayor Impeletteri, that the readjustment and rehabilitation of a veteran is a community problem, and should be, he should receive assistance from the community. And we firmly believe that a veteran of New York City, a veteran or his family, by not coming to the New York City Veterans Service Center, is losing a great deal. I think that today, Korean veterans have an opinion, and based on what I don't know, that if they apply for benefits, they have their hand out, they have a guilt complex, and this is wrong. They, it should be converse, that if they don't apply, they should feel guilty. And we want every one of these boys to come through the center and have the benefit of our guidance. They won't, I'm sure they'll appreciate it in later years. And now, another branch of our armed forces, I have the privilege of calling on Colonel Ausman of the United States Air Force. Thank you. Mayor Impeletteri, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I hadn't expected to speak here today. I was asked to come down and represent Lieutenant General Leon W. Johnson, who is Commanding General of the Continental Air Command. He has asked me to extend congratulations and wishes, best wishes, for a long, extended, successful operation of your service center. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Colonel. Colonel, I didn't mean to put you on the spot, but you had spoken so eloquently in my office this morning that I didn't want to miss the opportunity. And now, if I might, I'd like to call on a representative of a branch of the service, and it's said that when there's any fighting to do, they do it all. Of course, that's, that's debatable. But Colonel Hoffman of the United States Marines. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Brickman, Bill, distinguished guests. I certainly won't fight Mr. Brickman if he wants to say nice things about the Marine Corps. Because, of course, the Marines are noted for liking to hear about themselves and liking to talk about themselves. And we're not noted for modesty, necessarily. But I would say that it's a happy occasion here today. It's a real pleasure for me to be here, uh, to share with you this happy occasion for Bill Radigan. And also to emphasize what's been said by the other gentlemen up here this morning. The appreciation of the regular establishment of the armed forces for the assistance given us by centers like this one. Certainly it's important to our men in uniform to know that when they leave the service, they won't have to go it alone. They're going to get some guidance, advice, help, and assistance. That means a lot to us. It helps our morale all the way through. And, uh, certainly it's an impressive record here that this New York City service, Veterans Service Center has. And we as the Marines want to thank you for the job you've done. And we want to congratulate Bill Radigan on being back with us. Well, Colonel, let's thank you very much. And you know Bill Radigan wasn't a Marine. But, uh, we try to help the morale in the armed forces. And we know that by helping the families of the men who remain at home, we're doing that. We're helping the morale. And by helping the men, the veterans, when they come out, we're contributing to the defense effort of our country. And I think that that about concludes it for this morning. I'd like to thank all the veterans' organizations. I think they're doing a wonderful job. And I'd like to thank you for attending and thank our honored guests.