With all the pageantry that New York City can evoke, the Mayor's Reception Committee, at the orders of his honor of the Mayor, William O'Dwyer, has arranged for the reception today at City Hall in this historic building which has seen so much of the development of our own country, the reception to His Excellency, Liakhat Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan. He has now made his entrance into the Aldermanic Chamber. Mr. John A. Coleman is the Acting Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception and he has just presented his guest in the Council Chamber here in City Hall. A very interesting commentary on this reception is some of the very interesting costumes, particularly, that the ladies are wearing. And now there's just a few moments for courtesies, introductions. Mr. Coleman is ready to speak. Mr. Coleman. The reception to His Excellency will open with the playing of the National Anthem of Pakistan by the Department of Sanitation Band. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The Star-Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The Ladies and gentlemen, the welcoming lady, members of the entourage, we welcome you both to New York City with a hearty welcome that it is our privilege to be bestowed on personages of such importance and as friends. We congratulate you, sir, as your country approaches the third year of freedom, freedom for the nation. And I thank you, sir, freedom for its 80 million people. New York City, traditionally the home of democratic people from every country in the world, has watched with deep interest the growth and development of the movement brought freedom to Pakistan. Your career, Mr. Prime Minister, as a major part of that movement has for many years been close to our hearts. We know of your great experience in government administration which helped Pakistan to emerge as a state. as a state. We know of the confidence with which you look to the future because of the well-considered plans your government has made. All of us hope that Pakistan and the United States, separated as they are by half the circumference of the globe, still will be close and the international feeling because of the common desire for peace that governs the minds of both peoples. Yours is a new nation which has arisen from an ancient culture. Ours is an older nation whose culture is new but the desires for freedom are common to us both. Our mutual confidence and our work for its fulfillment will help save the world for the future. With all our hearts we hope that you and your charming lady will have a happy visit and that as you learn more of our nation we too will learn from you. On your return to the great Indo-Pakistan subcontinent we ask that you favor our single request and that is this. We request you to tell your people emphatically with all the great powers at your command that we are their admiring friends and that we join them in their every hope for future peace. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, His Excellency the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Your Honor, Mr. Mayor, my wife and I are overwhelmed by the reception you have given us and by the general words you have spoken. This is my first visit to New York and indeed to this continent. I was looking forward to this visit because I wish to see with my own eyes not only the colossal progress that your country has made but what it was that made this rapid progress possible. already I have seen enough to admire your vigorous spirit of enterprise your optimistic outlook and the opportunity which your country gives to every individual man or woman to rise to the best of his or her capacities. I am even to the best of his or her capacities. I am even more impressed by the kindliness and simple affections of your people of which I have received much wonderful proof today. Your city has endeared itself to the world by its great traditions of hospitality and welcome. Of the guests that you have received in the past and will receive in the future I regard myself as amongst the humblest but also amongst the proudest. You have not only honored me but more so my country Pakistan. May you prosper and by your wide and liberal sympathies continue to bring honor to yourself and to your great nation and country. Thank you. Thank you. Your Excellency. And I would be very happy if the wonderful woman who has done so much for the people of her country the Begum would acknowledge an introduction. The Begum would acknowledge an introduction. The Begum Leocard has just stood to acknowledge the applause in a traditional costume and she's very beautiful indeed. Very short, very dark and beautifully dressed in the costume of Pakistan. the Department under the direction of Sergeant Dillon. the Begum and the Begum have done good times. We're all pals together. Some has words of a feather. Rooms and pals, in the rain or sunshine. Pals say their brother for each other. You're old, you're old, you're not alone. for when you belong to the Lone Star, Rangers Man to Man. We're all pals together. Birds of a feather. When you're old, you're old, you're not alone. For when you belong to the Lone Star, Rangers Man to Man. To the Lone Star, Rangers Man to Man. defining a theme of , Yahoo! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, Mr. John A. Coleman, acting chairman of the mayor's committee. His honor, Mayor O'Dwyer, will now present the scroll of the city to His Excellency, the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we're listening in. We're now about to make a presentation to His Excellency, the Prime Minister, of the scroll, signifying the deep appreciation that the people of this city have for all that he has done. The great interest of the public, which affects not only his own people, but the future of the world. The office of the mayor, City of New York, know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, the Honorable Leokit Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan, whose public benefactions in leading the people of the world's fifth largest state in their new freedom, and guiding the forces of the nation, and guiding the forces of the nation with caution and high intelligence, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the City of New York. It is my honor, sir, to make this presentation. Now the camera, newsreels, and television are busy taking pictures of this historic moment when the mayor handles the scroll of the city to His Excellency, Leokit Ali Khan. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll have to wait on the listening end for the comments of His Excellency while the newspaper photographers take pictures of this presentation and mark it for posterity. Might we describe the charming lady, the Begum of Leokit? She's dressed in a deep blue satin gown, richly embroidered in gold and different colors and jewels, and then she's wearing about her head, and which drapes around her shoulders as well, a cinnamon brown mantle, beautifully embroidered in gold. She's very dark herself, jet black hair, very charming, and is an interested spectator. She's been around town a great deal since she arrived, and many people have met her, many women's organizations have met her. Mrs. Gannon on the markets report spoke of meeting her this morning, yesterday afternoon rather, she actually met her. Mrs. Gannon was speaking of it this morning, and said what a charming woman she was, and what a grasp she had of the scene. And now here's His Excellency. I do not know how to thank you for presenting this role to me. I do not consider this as a compliment to my person, but as a compliment to my nation of 80 million people of Pakistan. Pakistan, you have been good enough to say kind words about me. I think that was on account of the generosity of your heart. Pakistan, you have been good enough to say kind words about me. But the fact of the matter is that whatever progress Pakistan has made during these last two years and eight months is not due to the effort of any individual. It is due to the determination of my people and their courage and the spirit of self-sacrifice which they possess. I have no doubt in my mind that Pakistan will continue on this road to progress so long as the people of Pakistan continue to possess those qualities which have got them out of the many difficulties in which they found themselves after the attainment of their freedom. It is the determination of the people of Pakistan to make their humble contribution towards the maintenance of peace in this world. And Mr. Mayor, the object of my visit is to this great country of yours, is to know and to learn how countries become great. Because undoubtedly yours is indeed a very great democracy. We are determined one day to become great like you. That is our determination and we have confidence in ourselves. And I have no doubt that one day we shall be with the cooperation and help of our friends like your country, as great as any country in the world. And the sole object of achieving that greatness would be to serve humanity and to serve the cause of peace. Thank you. Thank you, Your Excellency, for those magnificent sentiments expressed to the people of this city and of this country. The formal reception will now come to a close with a review of the armed forces who participated in the parade of welcome by His Excellency and the Begum and the official party and our official party. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, now escorts his guest, His Excellency Lyakad Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan and his charming lady, down the aisle of the Councilmanic Chamber in City Hall, which was beautifully decorated today with palms and spring flowers and presented a very beautiful sight with our own stars and stripes, the flag of Pakistan and the flag of our city. Tomorrow at the same spot, the Mayor of the City of New York will act as host to Dr. Fernando Casas Aleman, Governor of Mexico City, at 12.30 tomorrow. And now as the Mayor escorts his guests down the aisle of the Councilmanic Chamber, they retire to the front of City Hall where the military forces are drawn up for a grand review for His Excellency Lyakad Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan. That is all now for radio from the Council Chamber in City Hall. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . .