I'm delighted to welcome you all here today to this beautiful stadium for this our first annual Police Department Athletic Club track and field event. I think God was with us today and he gave us a beautiful day in which to hold these games. I want to take this opportunity to pay my thanks and appreciation to his honor the mayor for making these games possible. We spoke about it some time ago and he said go ahead it's a grand thing and we'll certainly pay dividends because of the physical training that we'll benefit by. I want to tell those who participated in the training of our men. I want to tell them how grateful I am for their help. That is the coaches of the colleges, the high schools and the retired men who assisted us. Also want to pay tribute to the athletes themselves for the fine way they have responded to this call for the track and field game. To the AAU who have given us so much time I too express my gratitude. I do hope that you will have a good time today. I'm sure the athletes will do their best. They are well conditioned. And now may I present our mayor, our booster and great friend, really a great mayor, William Odeweil. Commissioner Wallander, athletes, officers, relatives, and our little friends from PAL across the way. I'm very happy that you have a good day. I'm only sorry that all of the people of this city could not be in this stadium and be able to see the splendid parade of athletes who passed by the stand a few minutes ago. The men that we are looking at now. Trained and trim and ready to give as the police department always is the best that they've got. When we spoke about this, the commissioner and I, we went back, gentlemen, about 30 years to a day when the police department of the city of New York, as athletes, were known throughout the world. There were great days and the police department was a great department. It wasn't as good as it is today. And now we will find out if the athletes are better too. We want, again, we want, again, we want, again, the police department of the city of New York to be known in the world of athletics as the tops. We won't settle for less. Now, boys, it's been our experience, the commissioner and mine, that only one can win. So if you lose today, stay with it. You might win tomorrow. And if you don't, at least you have taken part in a great tradition. We'll all be proud of you, even if you don't win. Good luck to you. God bless you. Thank you. You have just heard an address by the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer. Also, police commissioner Arthur W. Wallander. Commissioner Wallander has just signaled on with the meet. And we see that from our schedule of events here. The first event will be the pole vault. We have been expecting the initial event to be the mayor of the mile. However, we will describe as best we can the events taking place here. And you might point out that we'll try to do the best we can because of the fact there are quite a few events going on at the same time. The mayor and the police commissioner spoke to you on the occasion of the opening ceremonies relative to this afternoon's track and field games made possible by the police department athletic club. The broadcast coming to you from the well-known Tri-Burris Stadium on Randall's Island. Scene of many important sporting events, not only for city departments, but for many other outstanding sporting groups. Just now, the parade of athletes is filing into the stands, taking their place. Getting ready for the first event, which we told you would be the pole vault championship. Getting back to our list of athletes here today. We'd like to point out, as we said before, that Pat McDonald, the great shot putter of yesteryear, Bob McAllister, the one-time flying cop, and Jack Ella, the superb hurdler, have aided in the coaching of these men. It has been going on for weeks and not entirely with novices. Tom Garland of the 14th precinct, Fred Sickenger, 13th precinct, and Herb Hurkle, Traffic C, stars in their pre-finest days, are among the favorites in the 29 events. We might point out that this boy, Fred Sickenger has really burnt up the tracks, not only in his days at Manhattan College, but also at La Salle Military Academy out in Oakdale. As Manhattan College men, Garland rated among the best hurdlers in the East, and Sickenger was one of the outstanding tops at 601,000 yards. Six years ago, Garland clocked 14.9 for the highs in taking the Met AAU title. Sickenger won innumerable titles, and was an indoor standout as recently as 46. Here at Tri-Burrah Stadium in Randalls Island, we're all set for the O'Dwyer Mile. Competitor number four, patrolman Francis Daly of the 18th precinct. Competitor number 21, Francis Murphy of the 6th precinct. Number 35, Thomas Bramrick of the 15th precinct. Number 68, Fred Sickenger of the 13th precinct. Number 91, Arthur Meverett of the 48th precinct. Number 92, Edward Mehe of the 40th precinct. Number 126, James Hibbert, patrolman James Hibbert of the 70th precinct. Number 147, Patrick Sullivan of the 120th precinct. Number 155, patrolman William F. Clements of the 75th precinct. Number 173, Walter Richardson of the 79th precinct. Number 210, Charles Jones of the 103rd precinct. Number 14, Gerard McNulty, 1 4th precinct. Number 256, detective William H. Disco of the BSSI. Number 259, Thomas J. Gleason of squad 76. Number 297, patrolman Edo A. Romagne of the 76th squad. Number 284, Gerard J. Lane of traffic F. The first quarter of the O'Dwyer mile is over now, as you know. And leading at that turn was Thomas Bramrick. They're coming around the far turn now, way over on the other side of the Tribura Stadium. It's a very hot day for racing, and these boys are pacing themselves very nicely. One of the favorites in this race, you know, is this boy from the 13th precinct. Fred Sickinger, number 68. A boy who has really done great things in sports world, that is to say as far as track is concerned, in Manhattan College. Here they are coming down for the second turn now. BAMRICK still setting the pace very carefully. Fred Sickinger now leads, goes way out in front of BAMRICK. Two more laps is signaled by the public address system. Fred Sickinger leading at the half mile. Pacing himself very nicely, very cleverly. Has plenty of kick this boy, Sickinger. On the far turn, we can't see too well. It's way over on the other side of the Tribura Stadium. It's still Sickinger though. One man has dropped back. These boys wear numbers on their backs. And it's sometimes very difficult to see. It's still Sickinger going around on the far corner, the far turn. Sickinger coming down, facing himself very nicely. This boy is a favorite today out here. One of the great Harriers of Manhattan College. Now with the 13th precinct of the New York City Police Department. Very carefully paces himself. And now coming down for the three-quarter. It's still Sickinger. Sickinger going out ahead. The crowd really going up in arms now. Number 173. Patrolman Walter Richardson of the 79th precinct goes out ahead. And now it's only one more turn to go. Find a lot of these men are falling way behind. Not being able to keep up with the pace of Sickinger and Richardson. Richardson still out ahead. Leading by a half. Half a length. Sickinger starting to pace himself now. He kicks. He's coming alongside of Richardson. He goes up to him very closely now. Both boys neck and neck coming down now. About a half a turn left. Sickinger is showing that great kick that made him famous in college. And Richardson too is kicking. No wasted effort as far as Sickinger is concerned. He's coming now. He kicks. He opens up. He's making his final turn now. He's coming into the home stretch. Richardson is way behind. Couple of boys running along the side there to coach him. It's Sickinger coming all the way and he really opens up. He's coming down there very quickly. He's leading by four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight lengths. Richardson is coming down there. Eight lengths. And he's coming down there. Eight lengths. He's coming down there. Eight lengths. And he's coming down there. Eight lengths. Fred Sickinger. And then the 13tharmers. So, both is first and the 13tharmers. That's the 13tharmers. Now, he's coming down there. He's coming into the home stretch. Richardson is way behind. Couple of boys running along the side there to coach him. It's Sickinger coming all the way and he really opens up. He's coming down there very quickly. He's leading by four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight lengths. Richardson is second. Just about made it. There's a very tiring distance. And number 35, Thomas Bamrick of the 15th precinct is third. of the 13th precinct, number 68, number 1. He won the O'Dwyer Mile. Walter Richardson, number 173 of the 79th precinct, was second. And Thomas Bamrick, Thomas Bamrick of the 15th precinct, number 35, was third. And so goes the O'Dwyer Mile out here at Triboro Stadium at Randall's Island.