In just a moment you will hear the voice of the governor of New York State Thomas C. Dewey. But first let me introduce to you Frank M. Totten, Grandmaster of Masons in New York State, who will tell us about the Brotherhood Fund campaign that the Masons are now conducting. Will the Masons again support research in the cause and cure of rheumatic fever, Mr. Totten? We certainly will, Captain Witherspoon. We have just started our fight to track down this vicious killer of children. Why would you believe it? Rheumatic fever kills five times more children than all the other diseases of children combined. And that includes polio and scarlet fever and diphtheria, all the childhood diseases. More than that, rheumatic fever, where it does not kill, cripples a child, sometimes for life, by striking at his heart. When we Masons decided to attack the problem of rheumatic fever, we were really asking for trouble. But something must be done to save the lives of children who are already suffering, and some, one, must supply the funds for research into this dread disease. With the establishment of our Masonic Foundation for Medical Research and Human Welfare, we have done just that. To date, we have issued grants totaling over $200,000 to seven laboratories in accredited medical schools and colleges throughout New York State. In these laboratories, the problem is being attacked from every angle. You know, when I visited Irvington House last spring, it was one of the most moving experiences of my life. The children in that convalescent home are there because they were discovered in city hospitals suffering from rheumatic fever. They are not able to pay for the expensive shots of sulfur and penicillin that they require. Yet even when they are confined to bed or to a wheelchair, they think that this is a big, wonderful, beautiful world. It is impossible to visit Irvington House and not feel a lump in your throat at the bravery of these youngsters of every race and color and creed. Thank you, Mr. Cotton. I know the interests and health of children everywhere have always been your first concern. And now, Governor Dewey, you are known as one of the pioneers in the movement to trace the cause of rheumatic fever. What do you think of the Masonic campaign? Captain Witherspoon, I think it's magnificent. In fact, it was about a year ago now that I started off the campaign of last year, and I've been tremendously impressed with the way it's taken on. How has it gone lately, Mr. Totten? Very well, thank you, Governor Dewey. You'll recall that last year we raised over $730,000, and this year we hope to do as well or better. That's fine. I'm awfully glad you chose this particular disease, because it's a sad fact that rheumatic fever is particularly prevalent here in New York State and in the New England states. We need to discover the cause of rheumatic fever, not only for the sake of our children, but also for the rest of us. Rheumatic fever is often hard to discover, and sometimes it isn't discovered at all. You know, sometimes a child has a little attack, and it's thought to be only a cold, and he gets better. But the doctors tell me that in later years, 60% of those boys and girls, when they've grown up to be men and women, will have a return of rheumatism or arthritis. And you know how painful and crippling those diseases are. As a matter of fact, you know, it's very important that the people of the state take a real interest in this problem. There are great areas where the state has taken over the responsibility, such as in mental hospitals. But in the exploration of new fields of cure and improvement in all of the newer diseases, in the great fields of cancer, rheumatic fever, heart disease, there's a tremendous opportunity for all our people, and I believe our Masonic lodges have taken the right path. When they inquire into the cause and cure of a disease that strikes down so many of our children, and then strikes and cripples again as we grow older, it's a great work you're doing, and I hope it'll meet with a great success. Thank you very much, Governor Dewey, for your support of the program, and for taking time out of your busy life to come here and talk with us. It's a great pleasure to be here. Gentlemen, the children of the future, of every race, color, and creed, will owe a debt of gratitude to the Masonic Brotherhood Fund Campaign. Thank you, Mr. Totten. Thank you, Governor Dewey. Thank you.
