Well, there's the cheers for Eamon de Valera, which has been escorted into the council chamber here in City Hall by the Honorable Grover A. Whalen. He's posed right on the roster now where ordinarily Mr. Impelitieri, our Honorable President of the Council, presides when the Council of the City of New York is in session. The cameramen are having a few innings. They're inducing him to wave his hand in sort of recognition to the ovation here in City Hall. And there's a musical program. We've heard all the Irish airs and everything that had warmed the heart of any Irishman has taken place here in New York today. And now Mr. Whalen is coming up. In just a moment, we'll hear the familiar voice of this great New Yorker, chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Greater New York, welcoming as he does the president and former prime minister of Iraq. And now as soon as Mr. Whalen can get quiet, he'll make the opening introductions and present his guest to Mr. Impelitieri. Mr. Whalen. Thank you. Welcome to the K-라고 podcast, Mr. Philhipanges. Our country has promised and created the guidance of the American Gal황alt international and thriving of convenience. His guest to be joined by his鍵langđu немножко by bearing his promise tovar and his pitch set to the priests that created the grand喜 model. GISHOP GISHOP When the flag was still there Oh, say the national angels That all yet wailed For the land of the free And the home of the brave Mr. Frank Ryan of the police department now sings the soldier's song. Eddie Dillon at the piano. In valley green and towering craig Our fathers fought before us And come come meet That same old flag That proudly floating o'er us Dear children of a fighting race That never yet have known distress And as we march the foe to face We will chant the soldier's song Soldiers are we Whose lives are pledged to our land Some have come From a land beyond the web Sworn to be free No more a rich and sour land Shall shelter the despot of the slave Tonight we man the bar of will In air in stars come war our way Meet cannon's roar and rifle's dead We will chant the soldier's song And now Mr. Whalen will make the necessary introduction To his chairman of the mayor's committees on reception To Eman de Valera Here at City Hall, New York Mr. Whalen Mr. President Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen Yesterday morning at 4.55 a.m. A plane dropped in from Ireland And had on it a boy from Manhattan, Ireland Who had made good overseas As well as at home I was glad, very glad For the benefit of the borough president of Brooklyn That the matter was cleared up as to where he was born Of course our distinguished guests Showed the same sort of great courage That he did In his struggle for freedom for Ireland When he announced that he came from one Of the five boroughs of the city of New York He was just as truthful on that occasion As he has been all through his life And I might say in passing Before I turn the rostrum over To the president of the council in Paltteri That in many years I have never seen Such a demonstration As was given To our guest of honor today As we came down here From the Waldorf Astoria Hotel Park Avenue 34th Street East River Drive The Fish Market The Battery And Wall Street All united in paying honor To our distinguished guests I know Mayor O'Dwyer is listening in And it will warm the cockles of his heart I'm sure when he heard the cheers That you gave our guest of honor As he entered this room I don't even recall ever hearing Such cheers before In this great chamber Mr. Impelteri It's a great privilege for me To present to you This distinguished son of Manhattan The former president and premier Of Ireland Eamon de Valera Mr. Whalen Your excellencies Eamon de Valera And Frank Aiken Ladies and gentlemen It is indeed my profound pleasure And privilege On behalf of Mayor William O'Dwyer To extend the official greetings Of our great city In a most cordial fashion To our very distinguished guests On this distinctly historic occasion As we are gathered here In the cherished council chamber Of New York City Hall I am acutely aware Of the honor which this event brings to me And I can read In the faces of all those who are present The thrill which at this moment Courses through all of our hearts Only one factor Detracts from our genuine happiness And that is the absence Of Mayor O'Dwyer For whom this day Would have been more Especially memorable If he were present I know however That he is listening Very attentively At Gracie Mansion To these proceedings And as far as he himself Is concerned He is just As much A part of this event Hot and so As if he were here In our presence In greeting Mr. De Valera And his associate Frank Aiken I want to Officially convey To both of them That the citizens Of New York Are indeed Proud And joyful That they have come To visit with us I know that I express The feelings Of all New Yorkers When I say That I hope They will stay long To enjoy The genuine hospitality For which This municipality Is so renowned And that they will Return Again And again After all These famous visitors Are no strangers Here in New York They have been here Before In fact In felicitating Mr. De Valera New York is fully aware That this function Has a unique aspect In that Our honored guest Is actually A native son Of Manhattan I doubt That there was ever before A symbol More expressive Of the affectionate Relationship Obtaining Between this Metropolis And Ireland Than the fact That the peoples Of America And the peoples Of Ireland Chose chief Executives Born in the territory Of the other And for those Listening in Who do not Believe in the Democratic way Of government Let them try To match that This moment Requires An expression From me However Of a deeper Character What memories Are evoked By the very Mention Of the name Of Amon De Valera Among the lovers Of liberty Everywhere His almost Miraculous Progress From the Disaster Of Dublin's Revolutionary Easter week Of 1916 And I saw That in person In 1917 Through Countless Dramatic Vicissitudes To the Presidency Of the Council Of the League of Nations In Geneva Some 20 Years later Emphasizes That history Sometimes Outbids Romance The voice Which once Called the Commands of Battle at the Barricades Was to be The very Same voice Which was To later Appeal from The chair Of the Greatest Political Council Among the Nations Of the Earth In behalf Of peace If the Powers of Aggression Had weighed The logic And prophecy Of that Mighty Flee What woe Mankind Might have Been spared Wise in Counsel Serene in The face Of seas Of unjust Criticism Determined In advancing National Ideas Foremost In sending Material Aids To broken Hearted Peoples On a Starving Continent Mr. De Valera You have Been the Bearer Of a Torch Of gallant Spirituality Through a Period of Dark Materialism New York Through me As president Of the City Council In the Name of Mayor O'Dwyer Confers Upon you Your Excellency Eamon De Valera This Embellished Scroll Symbolizing The Municipalities Abiding Appreciation Of your Tireless Struggle To extend The boundaries Of human Freedom Not only For the People Of your Own Nation But for All the Liberty Seeking Peoples Of the World This Citation Mr. De Valera Is an Indication Of the Very Great Esteem In which You are Held By the People Of the City Of New York It Reads As Follow Know All Men By These Presence That I William O'Dwyer Mayor Of the City Of New York Do Hereby Cite For Distinguished And Exceptional Public Service Honorable Eamon De Valera Whose Public Benefactions In the Advancement Of human Liberty And in The Example Of his Enlightened Statesmanship For the Promotion Of peace And Happiness Among All People Have Enlisted The Heartfelt Gratitude And The Deep Affection Of the People Of the City Of New York Mr. Impeletary In the Name of Mayor O'Dwyer Is shaking Hands With Iman De Valera And the Cameramen Are insisting That they Have a Picture Of this Historic Event Mr. Valera Is a Curious Man Because He Insisted On Opening The Scroll And Reading It Not Knowing Of course That Mr. Impeletary Was going To read It as Well And now The Cameramen Are having A few Innings Because This is A historic Event And it's A mighty Grand Thing Indeed That we Can refer Back To these Pictures And to The Faces And the Historic Moments And those Who Participated Through The Medium Of the Pictures That these Cameramen Are always Is quite Surprising To look At Because His Face Looks So much Bigger In the Pictures We see And yet He has A small Face But he Has a Rather Long Neck And which Is accented By a Very high Collar He's Wearing The Glasses And he's Partly Boy Now Mr. Whelan Excellency Eamon De Valera He He He He He He Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I need not tell you with what pleasure I have received this scroll. The knowledge that I have been made an honorary citizen of this wonderful city is so overwhelming that I find it very hard to find words to express my feelings. I have on every occasion in which I have come to this city received such a warm welcome that I assure you it would have touched a heart which is much colder, I hope, than mine is. I know that the welcome that has been given me on these occasions has not been a personal welcome, although I have been always greeted as a boy from Manhattan. It is a welcome that has been given to me because of the people and the cause which I represent, or have represented anyhow for quite a number of years. The people of the Irish race who have come to this country have, in all testing times, proved themselves amongst the most devoted sons of the United States. They have played their share in building up the greatness of this country. I have been practically in every state and in every large city here. And in no state have I been, and in no city have I been, in which I have not found Irish men and Irish women occupying positions of the highest importance, whether it was political or in business or in any other activity, human activity in the country. Our people then are respected here in the United States because of their worth. And when I come here, have come here as the representative of the people of that land, the land from which they have sprung, it's no wonder that I should have got a welcome. On the other hand, the people of the people of Irish blood or not, have played a remarkable part in helping us to win our freedom. During the whole of our struggle, you have recognized in Ireland, in the struggle of the Irish people, really a symbol of liberty. Being a great liberty-loving people, you naturally were anxious to help a small nation that was striving to win for itself the freedom which you believed all nations were entitled to. Some eight or ten years ago, it would have been a great pleasure to win for me, had it been possible for me to come here, and, as I could have on that occasion, given thanks officially on behalf of the Irish people to you for the wonderful assistance you gave us in our struggle. At that time, that's about ten years ago, we, the Irish people, had been able to enact, so far as 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland are concerned, had been able to enact a constitution which was framed by their own freely elected representatives and freely enacted by themselves. When they had done that, they had established their freedom so far as that part of the country was concerned. And when we had got back our ports, as we did at that time, from Britain in that area, then I could have come here and officially thanked the people of the United States for the assistance which they had given us and which had been so helpful to bring us to that happy consummation. Today, as I have already said to members of the press, we have, in 26 counties of Ireland, a freedom as complete as the freedom of any country in the world. And I am delighted because nobody knows, I think there is no living person who knows as well as I do, the part that the friendship of the United States has played in that happy victory. However, we haven't got the victory which we set out to achieve. No Irishman, as I said yesterday to the press, and no Irishwoman, even more than Irishmen, no Irishman or Irishwoman will be satisfied until the whole of that Ireland is as free as the 26 counties are free. And that we will yet have that complete freedom. I am as certain as I was when I came here first that we were going to achieve it. I am just as certain today. And if we have on the part of our people at home, and on the part of our people throughout the world, the same determination that we had in the past, then I think the day will come when either I or somebody else in a position that will be able to entitle them to speak for the Irish people will come here to this city, I hope. And that Ireland now, from sea to sea, is completely free. I would like to be... I will admit that I would like to be that person. But whether I should be privileged to be that person or not, of this I am absolutely assured that that day will come. And I hope that whether I am here in person or not, that I will be here in spirit to hear it announced by the person who will be on this platform, telling the people of New York that Ireland is at last completely free from one part of it to the other. I am very grateful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just heard Eamon de Valera in his reception by the Honorable Impelletary, President of the Council of the City of New York, as he's been received here in City Hall. And now Mr. Whalen is to make another introduction. Mr. Whalen. I'm going to ask the President of the Council to interpret the last remarks of the primal... Mr. Impelletary is going to interpret the Irish, the ancient Irish language, the Celtic language. Mr. Whalen. Grover has asked me to interpret the remarks. I might fool him because I did spend a year in Ireland, but in those days they were prohibited from teaching Gaelic, so I can't oblige. I do have one word. Mayor O'Dwyer was listening in to this program, and he heard the remarks made by Mr. de Valera, and I recall the citation that he signed yesterday. The citation merely gave recognition to Mr. de Valera on behalf of the people of the City of New York for his distinguished and exceptional public service. That's all this citation did. But the mayor felt, after hearing what Mr. de Valera said, and he's asked me to convey to Mr. de Valera the fact that although the citation did not make him officially a citizen of the City of New York, he's asked me now to make that pronouncement in his behalf. The Honorable Vincent Impelletary just conferred the citizenship in the name of Mayor O'Dwyer on the Honorable E. de Valera. I'll be looking for that extra honor. But there was a time when I had that honor, quite independently of the fact of having it, namely at the time in which I suppose I would have been regarded as an American citizen and a citizen of New York in any case. I am very grateful, however, more than grateful to the mayor, who has already shown his more than usual hospitality to me. And I am very, very grateful to him for adding that extra and very much appreciated addition to the scroll. The Police Queer Club will render several Irish melodies. The Police Queer Club Beauty wanders everywhere For French leaves on many strands For the home is surely there Angels hold their wings and rest In that evening of the West Beauty song Beauty song Dear Lani Can't reflect Dear Lani Oh Chora, Lora, Lora Chora, Lora, Lai Lora, Lora, Lora Lans and Irish Lala, Lai Come back to where you The morning, the morning, the morning Come back again To the land of thy birth Come back to where you The morning, the morning And its dear body Waiting hogyあme Shall we win our birth? Tis a great day tonight for the Irish For the cause we fought for a dime And the time is so true when you'll see the light again In the land of our love and pride We despise and defy our oppressors And the tyrant laws we will find On this battle we can make up In battle we can make up Sure the Irish have a great day Good night! Sure the Irish have a great day Tonight! Thank you Thank you Police Glee Club for its services today And we now hear from the fire department band Who will play the processional march Will everybody remain seated until our distinguished guests leave this hall The Mayor of the City of New York The Honorable William O'Dwyer Unfortunately, and how we regret it Being too ill to be president on this historic occasion And represented by the Honorable Vincent Impeletere President of the Council of the City of New York We all know of course That Eamon De Valera Former President and Prime Minister of Ireland Has been received by the Mayor of the City of New York Under private circumstances Without putting unnecessary strain on his health Under the circumstances And there is no question about The loving welcome that New York has tendered To Mr. De Valera today Born as he was at the corner of 42nd Street And Lexington Avenue Where the Chrysler Building now stands We can well realize in this very affectionate welcome That the heart that has truly loved never forgets But as truly loves on to the close As the sunflower turns on her God-wantish face As the same look which she gave when he rose And the minstrel boy can restring his harp Because he is no longer a slave We take leave of you from the Council Chamber in City Hall In the termination of the reception By the Mayor's Committee Headed by the Honorable Grover A. Whalen To the Honorable Eamon De Valera Prime Minister and former President Of the ancient land of Ireland A nation that has brought the cultures To all the nations of the world Until the Great Wall of Steel descended from the North And because of her geographical position Isolated that culture to the great loss of the world Because previous to that it had penetrated as far as the very Alps itself Long live Ireland and long live wonderful New York That knows how to greet those who have achieved Whether they're from Ireland or anywhere else in the world For the good and benefit of all mankind Represented as it is in this quality of goodness and greatness We return you now to our studios We return you now to our studios I think the oldest Thomas Where is a clockwise room point? Where is it being brought to Spain Who will be present As for its wide part of the world He will find which星 has not had been These days are probably almost the greatest options Of all lost losses New York run The greatest touchdown Of all lost losses In this various places Trusting which means The time of spring The chances of entrenation