Ladies and gentlemen, we're having a telephone conversation with Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, who is talking to you from his desk at City Hall. Mr. Mayor, I understand that you have a statement to make to the people of this city about how the city's agencies have been handling this storm emergency. Yes, Mr. Siegel. I have been informed that the United States Weather Bureau now forecasts improving conditions in our weather. With this unexpected but welcome change in conditions, I wish to extend my thanks to all our citizens for the cooperation they gave during the height of the storm. As you know, I am primarily concerned with the safety of our citizens and their homes. It was for this reason that I urged all of you to stay home or return to your homes when the weather forecast predicted winds of hurricane force. Now that there has been an abatement, I wish to thank all of you for heeding our suggestions, and I wish particularly to extend our appreciation to the police, fire, and hospital departments and other municipal agencies for their splendid and untiring work during the height of the storm. I wish also to thank the members of the Civil Defense Organization for standing by in readiness to assist our regular police and fire forces. On the basis of the weather information now in our possession, and with assurances that the winds will diminish, will diminish, I feel that the Civil Defense Organization members who have held themselves in readiness to assist the city's regular forces should no longer consider themselves on the alert. The manner in which the people of our city cooperated with municipal agencies during the past few tragic days, notably during the rescue work at the scene of the Long Island Railroad Rack, and again today during the frightful storms that threatened to grow even worse, is a remarkable demonstration of community spirit and harmony. To those many businessmen and department store owners and others who today so unselfishly heeded our request and sent their employees home early to get them out of possible harm's way, I extend the deep appreciation of the city. Now there is just one caution I would like to add to that of the weather here. The sharp drop in temperature has been forecast. The prediction has been made that the rain is going to turn into snow and sleep and then freeze to ice. This is going to make our streets and highways very dangerous. I do hope that those of you who must drive your automobiles tonight will exercise every care so that you and others on the roads and pedestrians will arrive at your destination safe and sound. Thank you again and good night. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Is there anything further you'd like to say? No, that's the message. Very well said. Our message will be broadcast over all the stations in the city. Thank you very much, Mr. Segal. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We're speaking now to Mr. Lee Landis, the city editor of the Staten Island Advance. The hardest hit area in this emergency was Staten Island by all reports. Mr. Landis may have some further news for us now. Hello, Mr. Landis. Hello, WNYC. Well, do you have any late word for us? Flood and wind are still buffeting the island pretty hard. On the south shore, meanwhile, that's the hardest hit section of the island, is getting ready for a new high tide, which is due at about 8.30 p.m. Of course, there's no indication what that new high tide will do, but we're afraid that it will repeat this morning's picture, when thousands were forced to evacuate their homes on the south shore, and hundreds of bungalows were isolated by water. We've had one death reported to us thus far, a fire lieutenant who apparently died while attempting rescue in a flooded home. He is Lieutenant Robert M. Riley of Shackleton Corners, who was found drowned in the first floor of a home in South Beach. His comrades had last seen him as he was attempting to aid a family marooned by the flood, and it's believed that he drowned after rescuing them and while attempting to go to the aid of still another family. The toll will probably run into several million dollars. Hundreds of homes have been virtually ruined. We've had at least five tugboats reported sunk off our water. Several buildings collapsed. And the stores of bungalows torn loose from their foundations and floating out the sea. How bad it will be tonight, we have no idea. Well, we have some word from the both private and public agencies that have been working out in your area, as well as throughout the city of New York, from the Red Cross and the Commissioner of the Department of Welfare, Mr. Hilliard. And we wonder if you might give us your impression of what's been happening out there in terms of their help in this rescue operation. It's difficult if it's time to give any comprehensive picture of the rescue operation so far as the persons rescued are concerned. Every report we have received indicates that throughout the island the tempest being made found shelter and food for the people who have been forced to evacuate. They are finding temporary homes throughout the island and churches, community centers of all sorts. Every state, every political group, every veteran safety, every welfare group is standing together to make life as comfortable as possible for these people who may not have homes by sunrise. I see. As I say, no really organized work. It's just something that is stung up voluntarily and spontaneously and indicates, I think, a high spirit on the island in regards to the welfare of fellow islanders. I think that checks with other reports we've received. I wonder if we can count on you for further reports, possibly eyewitness accounts of what you've seen out there later in the evening. I doubt that. I don't think we'll have the manpower or the facilities for that. We're doing our every effort here to get the story together for tomorrow's payment. I see. And we'll try, of course, to give you what we can, but it is hard at this time to predict us what we can do. Well, it's a general impression around here that some of the finest reporting that's taking place thus far in this emergency situation has come from your telephone. Well, thanks. There's really no time to be winning praise, but I am glad that it has been concrete, and I hope it has helped give the rest of the city some picture of what has happened here on Staten Island today. All right. Thank you very much. You just heard a conversation with Mr. Leadlander, city editor of the Staten Island Advance, Richmond being the hardest hit area in this storm emergency. I think I did a better plan for my منطerness, Mr. Dick and this Station on Staten Island Advance. It was a kick, and you're going to jump in. If you can see any shots from which you're planning to temporarilyとか corner and have seen in the 1970s, then you just don't sink in that, but you have know if you can come from getting better and you current, you're going to ask yourself.