Your Eminence, Reverend Fergie, Mother Superior, Distinguished Guest, fellow Americans all. As Acting Governor of the State of New York, I esteem it a great privilege to come down here to the metropolis of our state and bring the greetings and solicitations and good wishes of the State of New York. Particularly am I happy in doing this in that this addition, this wonderful hospital, is being erected in memory of one of the greatest governors this state ever had, Alfred E. Smith. Some men have their memories engraved in granite. Some have them erected in bronze. And some have them inscribed upon tablets of stone. But the man whom we honor this afternoon, in naming this addition of the hospital after him, our beloved Governor is enshrined forever in the heart of the American people. He is an inspiration and has been to all of us who knew him. And to me, Your Eminence, it's very fitting that a hospital, a hospital, an institution that took care of people, an institution built for the help of humanity, should carry his name on its honor roll. And the medical skills that's being used day after day in the care of those who need it. A hundred years is a long time. A hundred years of history and achievement. A hundred years of advancement. A hundred years of confidence and of help and of assistance. Many have come, labored, passed, and died. But the glory of their achievements goes on. I do not think we can ever realize, much less retain, that debt we owe to those who minister to the body, to the spirit, and to the soul. And I would really remit, as Acting Governor of this state, if I didn't at this time express my gratitude on behalf of all the people of the state of New York, that His Eminence, Cardinal Spellman, is now starting anew, another year of achievement in this great metropolis. One of the... One of the world's citizens and ecclesiastical statesmen to whom we all rejoice. So I pay my tribute this afternoon to those who have made this Edith's Archivist. And I want to congratulate them that they have seen fit to pay honor to one of the greatest men I ever knew. And a man who's been an inspiration to me ever since I started serving in Albany some twenty-four years ago. Alfred E. Smith. A great senator. Alfred E. Smith. A wonderful husband and father. Alfred E. Smith. A devout churchman. And Alfred E. Smith, our beloved universal citizen. May God rest his soul and may we always emulate his acts and remember his appeal. Thank you. Thank you very much. And now Mr. Rice, chairman of today's proceedings at St. Vincent's Hospital's cornerstone lane, and I'll introduce you to the next introduction. Mr. Rice. Thank you, Lieutenant Governor Hanley. It's very kind of you to come here and say those words today. The work of the sisters of St. Vincent's Hospital is important to the state of New York. It is particularly important to the people of the city of New York. Hospitals are essential to the life of any community. We never know the day when the full facilities of the hospital will be called upon. Sometimes they are called upon to rapidly take care of a child who might be hit by a car on 14th Street. In other instances, full and immediate facilities of the hospital will be attacked by an unknown calamity, similar to what the Holland Tunnel disaster might have been. The works of the hospital during these past 100 years have been known to the mayor. And this is particularly true to the present mayor of the city of New York. Because in his daily activities and in the grounds of the city, he sees the living activities of St. Vincent's Hospital. It is because of this that it is a particular pleasure for me to introduce your next speaker, his honor, the mayor of New York, William O'Dwyer. and his honor, the mayor of New York. I am proud to introduce your son. I am proud to introduce your son. I am proud to introduce your son. I am proud to introduce your son. Sir Rice, your eminence, your excellency the governor, the Excellency the Governor, clergy, nurses, doctors, friends of St. Vincent, and especially today, the sister, the children, and the grandchildren of the man whose name has been honored by his eminent government. St. Vincent is 100 years old, but it is ever new. The Sisters of Charity who founded this great hospital have by their works of mercy kept it an ever-growing institution. The helpless sick, the injured, the victims of disaster, victims of war, all have found refuge here. The Sisters of Charity have cared for the humble, and the poor of all races and fates. Their only question has ever been, do you need help? St. Vincent has grown with our city. As immigrants from every nation and the hopefuls from every corner of the United States streamed into this island of ours, this hospital extended its noble work to care for all of us. St. Vincent has grown with the science of medicine. Great discoveries for the saving of human life have been made here. Great physicians have devoted their entire careers to serving the patients of this institution. Mercy here has ever been the companion of science. Today, in keeping with the tradition of growth, His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, has laid the cornerstone of a new building which will become part of St. Vincent. The building is named after one who was a friend to this hospital. It was a friend because he, too, all the years of his life, was a friend to the poor. Alfred E. Smith was of the poor. He never forgot their needs or their aspirations. As chief executive of this state, he used all his powers to see the government came to their aid. How his heart would be moved to see this great building rise from the sidewalks of New York in his name. The time celebrating the laying of this cornerstone, we mark today the opening of St. Vincent's Centenary Drive. That's important. I hope we all remember that one. Any institution that serves the community deserves the support of the community. Within the area to which this hospital offers the hand of health and mercy lie crowded tenements, fine hotels and apartments, the center of the huge rail and water system of the United States, the largest garment-making center on Earth, the fur industry, the giant mercantile establishments of every kind. This is St. Vincent's community. This was Al Smith's community. Let us hope that the friends of this hospital here and all over the world will support this centenary drive. In so doing, they will be aiding the whole city of New York, its sick and its injured. St. Vincent's is part of the great network of voluntary hospitals. Without whose help, the city could not carry on the work of caring for the thousands upon thousands of its people who need medical care. 21 of these hospitals are under the supervision of New York Catholic Charities. As we offer our hopes and prayers for the support of the centenary drive, let us remember that today is a special anniversary. Just ten years ago today, his eminence, Cardinal Spellman, is installed as Archbishop of New York to succeed with the late Cardinal Hayes. Let us pray that under his leadership, God may grant continued prosperity to St. Vincent's and to all the charitable institutions of the Archbishop. Let us also pray for the continued prosperity of our city and its people that they may continue to live and to work in the spirit of harmony that has made them an example to all the world. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor O'Brien. St. Vincent's Hospital is known as a Catholic hospital. It is not known as a Catholic hospital, however, because of the religious belief of those who enter the hospital for care. Its prominence as an outstanding hospital in New York is due to that something extra in kindness and in spirit that the nuns are able to give to the patients. It is only known as a Catholic hospital because it is operated by the Sisters of Charity, and they have no immediate concern when a person enters the hospital of their origin, their faith, or their position in the community. All of the Catholic institutions of the city of New York look to one as a spirit and as a guiding influence of their work. In this particular case, the Sisters of the Hospital of St. Vincent look to the Archbishop of New York. And today, after this ceremony, it is hoped that they will have a birthday cake for him because it marks his tenth birthday as being designated by the Holy Father as the Archbishop of New York. It is my pleasure to introduce his eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York. Raymond Wright, Governor Hanley, Mayor O'Griar, Mother Berkman, St. Cisner, other brothers, sisters, doctors, and nurses at St. Vincent's Hospital, my brother priest, and friends of St. Vincent's, family of Governor Smith, and friends of Governor Smith. I am very grateful to Governor Hanley, to Mayor O'Griar, for coming here this afternoon, and for speaking to us on this occasion, and for speaking to us as they have spoken, with sincerity and with truth. and it is with gratitude that I acknowledge their addresses. With gratitude also, I thank all who have cooperated in this enterprise, the greatest single endeavor that I have undertaken in these ten years to build this living monument to the memory of Governor Smith. And I believe there are very few monuments in the history of the world as great as this monument will be, entirely, or erected entirely by voluntary subscription to a man without the help of any family fortune, any great single gift, just the gifts of those who knew, either personally or by reputation or by service, the man whom we honor today. Just four years ago, over a quarter of a million people in all walks of life formed a steady stream of human grief and patiently waited in line for hours throughout the day and the night to pay one last minute a personal tribute to Alfred Emanuel Smith. During these past four years, thousands of his friends throughout the city he loves, friends from every state of the nation he revered, have contributed nearly four million dollars to build the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Hospital. and today, proudly, gratefully, we lay the cornerstone of this living tribute to perpetuating service to mankind the charity of Governor Smith's great and understanding heart. Al Smith's faith was charity to humanity. He believed in the cradle that each man is his brother's keeper, that service, compassion, charity, and mercy recognize no boundaries of prejudice. He worked and fought, lived and died, in the belief that the sacred responsibility of every American is love of God in service to his fellow man. And this hospital will be an enduring testament to that sacred trust in fulfillment of Al Smith's devoted service to his neighbor, his country, and to human beings. Al Smith was happiest when he could reach out his friendly hands and bring close to his merciful heart his needy neighbor. Never did he fail his God, his country, or his fellow man. Never did he turn away his needy neighbor or anyone who from him sought solace or succor. This hospital, his hospital, will be a 16-story addition to St. Vincent's, which he loved deeply and all his life served devotedly, the doors of which, like Al Smith's heart, have ever been opened to the afflicted of all classes without distinction of color, creed, or country. These very words, chosen from St. Vincent's Constitution, will be imprinted in stone over the entrance to the Smith Memorial Hospital. In its constant service to the community, Governor Smith himself once said, St. Vincent's is a living monument to my creed as an American citizen, my belief in the common brotherhood of man under the common fatherhood of God. Al Smith's influence is dramatically, sincerely, and simply expressed in a letter which I recently received. A letter which expresses a sentiment that, modified a thousandfold, have made possible today's ceremony of the laying of the cornerstone of this building. The letter reads, Dear Archbishop, I am closing my small contribution toward the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Hospital. I have been thinking about my reasons for wanting to do this, trying to rationalize the response to my heart. I would say first that I want to help because I believe in America, and all of us, of all creeds and races who make it, have learned something that the rest of the world sorely needs. It is implied by such words as humanity, kindliness, compassion, and a rather awesome feeling of the oneness of all of us who are Americans. The boot black and the taxi driver, the fellow who runs the corner store, the president of my company, and you, sir. I am filled with wonder when I think of the contributors who will follow the promptings of their hearts. There will be great men and little men, the rich and the poor, the old and the young, saints and sinners. And each one will follow the progress of the erection of this memorial as though it were his own personal project, something concrete to which he may express his faith in America and in the unchanging values that are obscured in this changing world. We shall all be making our own private pilgrimage past Al Smith Hospital and will feel proud of another symbol of the underlying unity and greatness that binds us all together, humble people for whom the golden rule has become a way of life. This letter, my dear friends, expresses the spirit of America. That was the spirit of Al Smith, who understood men as well as governments and who gave his life to their service. And one of the most urgent needs of our state and nation, as has been stated by Governor Hanley and Mayor of Dwyer, is for hospitals, voluntary hospitals. For the voluntary hospital is the truest expression of man's love and affection for his fellow human beings. and this spirit of Al Smith will forever be reflected in the service within this hospital, his hospital, the Alfred E. Smith Memorial. And the other thing, here we go. Thank you. Меня up. To the strains of the Te Deum, holy God we serve, praise thy name, and serve as well. We have brought you the dedication ceremonies of the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Hospital on West 12th Street in New York City. In the presence of the Lieutenant Governor of the State of New York, now Acting Governor Hanley, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and finally the closing speech by his eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman. With the familiar faces of the neighborhood in West 12th Street here and the Greenwich Village section, in the presence of distinguished citizen and clergy, we have brought you this ceremony from St. Vincent's Hospital. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.