This is John Bosman in New York, and here is my Portrex report, recorded on the scene of the largest sea, land, and air exercise undertaken by the Armed Forces in peacetime. Portrex, short for Puerto Rican exercise, and Portrex stands for an all-out training maneuver in which 80,000 men, 5,000 planes, and a giant naval fleet took part. Now to the scene of Portrex, a tiny dot of land in the Caribbean called Vieques Island. This is early morning on D-Day on Vieques Island. And the Navy is sending in jets. They're sweeping the beach here. I'm sure you can hear them in the background. I'm here on the airstrip, the temporary airstrip, which is just inland from the beach. I understand that over the hill on the beach, which I can't see from this vantage point, the landing craft are beginning to come in bringing the first waves of assault troops who will come through those beach defenses if they can make it through the barbed wire entanglements and the machine gun emplacements and come over the hill. Now those Navy jets coming off the carriers are sweeping this airstrip, really cleaning it up. Here comes another. Listen. Coming down out of this sparkling Caribbean blue sky, sprinkled with white clouds in the early morning sunlight over this coral airstrip. This is flatland here between the first hills down by the beaches and the higher hills inland, including VIP hill, the hill with the grandstand, which will be occupied later on today by Defense Secretary Johnson, by the commanding generals and their guests, and by the other military and civilian observers. We're here to see this invasion. We're here to see portraits in action. Now the jets are climbing far off, making this big circle. They make it in a short time, of course. They're so fast, and they'll probably be back to sweep this airfield again. The airfield here, this landing strip, is cleaned of planes. Actually, you might say it's pretty well out of action by now, theoretically. Here comes the jet. And off in the background behind me, up in the hills, you can hear anti-aircraft fire popping away. This is the beginning of D-Day on VAK's island. Now to turn the clock back. A few minutes earlier, aboard a troop carrier plane bound for VAK's, paratrooper lieutenant Tom Price, who once upon a time modeled dress shirts here in New York, told me how the Navy offshore was preparing that island for invasion. The ACUS is being shelled by the Navy. One part of the Naval reservation is used for Naval impact area with targets that are the same as on the regular maneuver area. The Navy shells those targets are the same as on the regular maneuver. My staff and several other airborne officers will go up at 4 o'clock this afternoon. We will fly in a helicopter over that area, check the targets that have been shelled that day, return to G3 section, and assess casualties to be placed on the actual maneuver area. And that way, we are assessing casualties and knocking up pill boxes and all defense installations of the aggressors. Aggressors, that's the mythical enemy. The mythical enemy force holding VAK's island, from whom the United States will seek to rest control of this strategically important bit of land. I remember well my first glimpse of the VAK's. Now we're landing on VAK's island here in the Caribbean, my first landing here on VAK's, the island held by the mythical nation known as the Aggressor, the island which will be which will be seized tomorrow by the forces of the United States. Rolling green hills of sugarcane, as far as I can see. Now we're just touching down in this C-47 troop carrier, green canvas bucket seats. You can probably hear the motor slowing down. We're just over the airstrip, which runs east and west. We're heading into the west. Now we're down. First touchdown on VAK's. Still back on D-Day minus one, I stepped from that troop carrier. And I spotted the red insignia and crossed rifles, the odd insignia, that mark a general of Aggressor. And hence this impromptu interview with Brigadier General E.L. Seibert, commanding Aggressor ground forces on VAK's. Well, we view with icy calm the threat to retake this island from the benevolent protectorship of Big Brother. And we will know how to deal with these invaders when they get ashore, you may be sure. Tomorrow you anticipate the invasion, is that right? Yes, every indication is that we'll be invaded tomorrow. The hostile fleet is offshore and they've been firing on our defenses for several days now. Have you suffered much damage? Yes, we have. We've, getting down to facts rather than fantasy, we have actually detonated within the defenses that we constructed. Explosive charges equivalent to the hits it may, might reasonably be expected upon such defenses firing from naval vessels standing offshore at the approximate range that have to stay offshore. I see. The only other question I can think of right now, General, is a brief opinion from you on Portrex as a whole, its value as a peacetime maneuver. May I hold this in just a little bit closer? What's the answer about fear? That's hardly a proper thing for me to express a public opinion on. At my low level, it probably wouldn't be worth a great deal. But I know that our troops have had the first opportunity, I believe, of any American troops in time of peace. They had the time and the freedom of action to produce a real defensive position, just as though we were to be attacked by a real enemy. We've done that here in Vieques. As I've indicated before, we have partially destroyed these defenses to assimilate the results of naval gunfire. It'll be very interesting to see what maneuvering troops will do against these obstacles. So that tomorrow dawns and now D-Day's here. And I'm back again on the coral airstrip as jet planes thunder overhead. Flight after flight of these jets coming over now. Flying so low that they disappear in these small valleys between the hills here on Vieques Island. Then climbing up so high and so quickly that they become silver dots lit by the sun. All but lost in a matter of seconds against this brilliant blue sky. They dive into these fleecy white clouds, then come back down at us so quickly that we hear them almost before we can see them. Earlier this morning, before dawn, the Navy lying offshore, the ships began shelling this area. And this area, of course, theoretically, is softened up now and ready for the troops to come ashore. The final runs are being made by the jets as well as the Navy Corsairs. Some of these jets are Navy ships, some are Air Force. The Air Force is pretty well divided between the forces of Aggressor, the mythical nation occupying this island, which the United States is going to recapture today, divided between Aggressor and the United States forces, as we're going to call them today, the forces who are coming ashore. So the Air Force is represented on both sides. And some of these jets we're hearing are Air Force planes, others are Navy, and the Marine Corps is represented with its jet fighters too. The Marine Corps, however, has done most of its work with its two-place night fighters. The radar ships that seek out targets in the dark fly when practically everything else, including butterflies, are grounded. Here come the jets again, a little farther off this time. They're pretty well down at the far end, the southern end of this Coral airstrip here. This airstrip was put in as a temporary installation for four tracks. It's the only usable one, factually speaking, remaining on the island now. There was one other temporary airstrip, but that's gone. In a few minutes now, the airborne troops will begin to land in this same area. The paratroopers will come over. We're anticipating something like 1,000 of them out of scores of transport planes. Just as the first invasion waves hit the beach, over to my right as I stand here, at about that same time, these paratroopers will begin to drop through this same area. And here comes the airdrop right now. I'm walking down a broken Coral Road. We just dashed over here in a three-quarter ton troop carrier. We had to get out from under them. It was only a moment ago that I was describing the last of those jet flights making their run on the airstrip. And now, over that same airstrip, and right over my head, come these troop carriers. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. I can count. 21, 22. 22. They're coming in slowly now in Bs. 22, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 30, 1, 2, 3, 4. It looks now like 35 or 36 of these planes. They are these troop carriers that I'm sure you're familiar with. The designation doesn't come to my mind right now. The huge bellied aircraft with the twin tails. They're going across now. I know you can hear the motors. Twin engine aircraft. There's a C-47 in among them. Seems to be the lead plane. And an amphibian over there. This is probably their first pass. They're flying at, oh, possibly 2,000 feet. Going right overhead now in V formation. Three planes to a V. Shining in the sun. Silver. Red-tipped tails. Red-tipped wings. C-47 in the lead. And the last plane in the formation is a C-47. Cruising slowly over. Remember that this is aggressive here ashore, the mythical enemy nation. And of course, those jet runs and the bombardment from the sea this morning theoretically wiped out most of the defense elements here on the airstrip, the defense elements here on these invasion beaches. Now this is the big moment. There they come by the score. These paratroopers dropping down. A beautiful sight against the sky. These nylon umbrellas swaying in the breeze. And they're landing now. They're dropping on that airstrip. I almost lose sight of them. There's high green underbrush between me. You can hear the ground fire here directed over there against the airstrip. Yellow and green, red parachutes. Probably equipment of various types. Now there's scores of them. It's like like as if thousands of kids balloons all at once were set free to float in rainbow-hued colors against this blue sky. Because of course there are, as I said, probably a thousand men coming down as well as uncounted parachutes laden with equipment, weapons and supplies. Dust is rising from that dry coral airstrip as these men hit the deck over there. And still they're falling from those transports, pouring out like bees from a hive. Coming down by the score. I'm standing here alone, but I'm going to try now to find some of these ground forces who are set to repel this airborne invasion. As I said, most of the ground defense has theoretically been wiped out by the softening up process that always precedes an invasion of this type. At the same time, from behind me, the first landcraft or landing craft are coming ashore. There from my rear as I stand now between the landing strip and the sea itself. The troops from the landing craft will come up behind me, and these paratroopers will seize their weapons and go on inland up the first series of hills leading inland on the Acase Island here. The four tracks are certainly in action now. Those troop carriers are reforming, gaining altitude, and flying back in the same direction from which they approached. They came over from the direction generally of Puerto Rico, the vehicle, which is only six miles, six nautical miles from the Acase here. And of course, by plane, that's hardly a matter of taking off and landing again. The jets are still in action. Still the jets pour overhead at higher altitude, covering this operation. The jets are still in action. I see now, not far from me, the white flags of two empire stations. There are hundreds of them here under the chief empires. And it is their job to decide how casualties are inflicted, where they are inflicted, how many men are to be listed as wounded or killed out of action, how much equipment is destroyed. This operation, of course, is a peacetime maneuver designed for training primarily to acquaint men in every command, sea, land, and air, with the weapons and methods that are employed in actual warfare. The point is not so much to decide which side wins as simply to decide what tactics, what methods can best be applied to a given situation. I see now, not far from me, the white flags of two empire stations. There are hundreds of them here under the chief empires. And it is their job to decide how casualties are inflicted, where they are inflicted, how many men are to be listed as wounded or killed out of action, how much equipment is destroyed. This operation, of course, is a peacetime maneuver designed for training primarily to acquaint men in every command, sea, land, and air, with the weapons and methods that are employed in actual warfare. The point is not so much to decide which side wins as simply to decide what tactics and what methods can best be applied to a given situation. For instance, if a certain number of aircraft of a certain type or a certain number of men in a certain particular category are for a moment listed as out of action, they are, after a short time, at the decision of the empires restored to action so that this operation may progress without undue interruption. In that mass airborne assault, more than 60 men were injured, and 14 of them seriously. In the meantime, back in the radar plotting room at headquarters of Aggressa, you may be able to follow some of this communication between that nerve center of Aggressa's air defense screen and his planes as they locate, pursue, and put out of action those fighters from the Navy fleet offshore. Listen carefully now for Tally Ho, their signal that an aggressive plane has made contact with one of the invaders. I have a very high control group at all times where they are in charge of the air. I have a case that's in front of the air. I have a case that's in front of the air, 5-11 miles intercepted. Understand, 11 miles intercepted. Roger. Contact, 08-170-3-1-8-0-3-5. Roger. Showcase, 1-0-3-5. Roger. Showcase, 1-0-1-0-3-5. Showcase, 1-0-3-5. Showcase. Showcase is copyed. I got a telly-hole. Got a telly-hole. Roger. I understand you have a telly-hole. Go and get him. Contact boogie. 172. Range 22. Correction. Range 30. Showcase one-on. Roger. Range 22. Range 22. Range 22. Range 22. Range 22. Range 22. Two. Showcase is copyed. Flash 4. Two smoking, over. I understand. Flash 4. Two smoking. Roger. Showcase one-on. Two smoking. So another carrier-based fighter or two go down in mock warfare and before those radar-plotted defenders of the A. Case Island. Now let's leave headquarters and get back to the front lines. Riding uphill now in convoy on our way to the invasion beach to see them coming ashore from landing craft. We're in a three-quarter-ton carrier behind two Jeeps. It's a long convoy of maybe 20 trucks and Jeeps winding up this white dusty road between this green brush on each side of us, a steep, turning, climbing road. Up this range of hills that lie between the airstrip which we just left and the beach which is just ahead over this next crest. Out of that bouncing truck, which was really bouncing, through a maze of barbed wire and defense barricades and down to the invasion beaches. Now here I stand on beach red and they're coming ashore. You can hear the gunfire. I'm right down on the beach. Half tracks are coming in. Waterborne tanks. You can hear land mines going off to our right cannon barking here ashore. The wind is blowing off the sea. There's a smoke screen. Guns are firing to my rear from the aggressor defending this beach as these caterpillar tread vehicles crawl ashore. You could call these seaborne tanks because that's just what they resemble. They mount machine guns and cannon. It's their job to come ashore first to crawl over this mined beach and into this almost impregnable wilderness. Up and over the dunes they come. Rocking, all but turning completely over. Their crews bounce around on top. I just fell through a hole in the sand with one leg. Not hurt fortunately, but I dropped the recorder. This tape recorder is really taking a beating today in the sand and wind. When these simulated land mines go off, they release various colored smokes. One of these invaders was just put out of action as he landed here. Declared out of action because he simultaneously hit land mines with both threads. These are armored vehicles. There's one just in front of me now having a great deal of difficulty in getting over the first steep sand dune. He's backing off back into the surf briefly. Then he'll try again. Behind out to sea we can see the first of the landing craft. Crowded with troops. Their steel helmets green in the sunlight. You probably heard then the sound of Navy Corsairs sweeping the beach as more half-tracks come ashore. Machine gunners standing behind their steel shields. And here come the first invasion troops. They're a little too far down the beach for you to hear them. They're coming in through the surf. One just fell a hundred yards or so from here. Sprawled in the surf, rolled over and over as a wave broke on top of him. Now he's up and running on. They're burdened down with full gear. Following these half-tracks in. Now I'm going to see if I can get right down on the beach and pick up more of the sound. Down on the beach now, plowing through the sand. There's a stiff wind coming in from the sea. It's blowing sand in my face and into this recorder. Now I'm over the dune and down right on the water, which you can probably hear. Walking up behind this first wave of assault troops. And you can hear much of the gunfire from shore. This beach is pretty much of a cove. And both sides, both extremities of the beach, are lined with gun emplacements, machine gun nests. And they're sounding off rapidly now. I'm sure you can hear them. Some of the gunfire is coming from this first wave of troops. We're right here, just two feet in front of me, too busy to talk right now. More troops coming ashore now. I'm kneeling down here in the sand to get out of the mythical line of fire. An officer just waved me down most arbitrarily because it isn't proper to shoot through a civilian. Not during four tracks. These latest troops are passing me right now. Practically lying in the sand to get out of the way as they come by. You may be possibly able to hear their slithering feet in this deep, damp sand here. Here come two, a sergeant and a corporal, both with walkie-talkies. Getting a face full of sand because I'm too close to them. Plane's going over. Here's a casualty just ran by with a red tag to designate the fact that he's wounded. I'm kneeling just behind this line of fire now. This first wave of assault troops to my right. A bazooka, two-man bazooka crew. There's a flamethrower just down the line to the left. They're running back and forth here on the beach. Here comes some heavy gear. It's a radio transmitter, portable because it has a handle on it. Three men attempting to carry it through this deep sand. It fires you down because we're right on the edge of the surf. And obviously this sand was underwater not many hours ago. It's impossible to get in any closer just now. Because as I say, there's a line of fire between this first assault line and the aggressor defending this island just behind his own barricade. A momentary lull now. Just at this time these troops here ashore are busy opening equipment, setting up their communications and supplies. Stretcher carriers down there opening stretchers. Life jackets are strung along the beach here, wallowing in the surf, floating out a bit and then floating back again. Black life jackets these troops wore when they jumped from their landing craft into water, which was fortunately shallow but could have been full of deep holes. I turn now and look out to sea as this hand-to-hand fighting continues here, this small arms fire. And here comes another wave of landing craft. And out behind them I can see the silhouettes of one, two, three, four transport craft, assault transport craft. There are destroyers out there, what appears to be possibly a battleship. If it's a battleship, it's the Missouri. Of course the whole Pacific fleet, augmented by parts of the Atlantic fleet and the Caribbean naval arm. They're all here. Taking part in four tracks. And it's as lifelike, as warlike an operation, as ingenuity and effort can make it. Because these fellows are not having much fun, it's hard work. And they're just beginning now to send squads into that barricade, demolition bombs. We'll probably hear some louder explosions from over there on the other side of these sand dunes. And right now at this moment here come half a dozen landing craft in. APA 45-8 reads the first. LST 115-43, number two coming in. The troops are bowed down behind those steel sides. You can't see them at all until these craft hit the beach. Then the front ends come down. That's about to happen now. Down the line there goes ashore. A detachment near nearest to me. Here comes another. Had to duck away then. I'm a little too close to the water. Down they go. Three of them fell as they came out. Took a bit of a dunking. Now they're up struggling ashore. Here they come and they don't stop at this first row of dunes. They're going right over this first row of dunes and on the run. Running right by me at this minute. Mounted bayonets. They're kneeling here on the beach all around me now at this moment. Stumbling by through this heavy wet sand. A little bit out of breath. Walkie talkies already up. Ariel's sticking up against this blue sky. A beautiful day. A day before bathing on the beach rather than taking one the hard way. Well they took it the hard way and tonight Portrex is history. And from Vieques Island comes the armed forces own opinion of their giant operation. Navy commanders who agree that Portrex proves dispersal of ships in any invasion fleet is the best defense against atomic or other bombs. Air and land commanders who find that guerrilla fighters ashore as well as broken communication codes are severe hardships for the invasion. And the forces of aggressor defending Vieques who realize now they needed better supply lines. Reinforcements should have had more guards on secluded beaches to prevent small hidden landings there. And on the plus side Portrex is hailed as a masterful demonstration of land, sea and air combined operations. Forceful proof that armed forces unification can and does work. And there you have it my Portrex report. This is John Bosman back home in New York now with a rapidly peeling sunburn. Along with me for, Naras at both тоже. We'll see how youitaire educates us for getting forward like our brothers make exceeded the term. Remember where youutzers are a clamor you better Market to use an air balloon. And whether you caveat your wings aotype, Thank you.