Beware and close pronto. We're going to have another rally, and soon. And the next time, we'll put handcuffs on the weatherman. We've got to have a good day and a good rally. I want to present Mrs. Roosevelt. Today is Mother's Day. Today, the home needs the mother. When Papa and the children go haywire, mother takes a hand. And our nation is just in as great a need today of a mother. And God has given us a mother, and I am going to present her to you now. Our first love, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry if I cut the mayor's speech short, because I have very little to say. Perhaps you'll be glad of that, because it looks as though the weatherman might still be against us. For the next rally, perhaps we'll suggest that we have two possible dates, and then he may find one or the other convenient. There are just two words today that every American should keep before them. One is production, and the other is price control. It's not just for ourselves that we want production. We want production because it matters to the whole world. We want price control because if we don't have price control, the great mass of our people are going to suffer. The people with small, fixed incomes, the returning veteran who's starting out again, the young people, the workers, they make up the mass of our people. And I'm old enough to remember very well what happened after the last war, when we had no price control. Your dollar was not worth a dollar, as the mayor said. And it doesn't matter, really, if you get a dollar or two more, if it won't buy what it used to buy. So that it seems to me, we the people, should tell our congressmen, in no uncertain terms, that they did us a disservice when they tried to cripple OPA. And we should ask our senators to hurry and to do a better job than the members of the House of Representatives. And I think we should also remember long enough what happens during a congressional session to use our votes wisely in the next election. Most... Most representatives think that we, the people, have very convenient memories. We will forget before the time comes when our votes are important to them. Being a democracy means that people have to be politically conscious. They have to use their votes. And for that reason, I hope that the great mass of the people of this country who need OPA and who want OPA are going to register their desires now and register them again come election day. someone asked me the other day if I believe in government control of business. That's a tricky question. But there's just one thing I do believe in. That is in using your government. Just now, I believe in asking your government to give you price control. The argument that's used against it is that it keeps down production. It's quite true that during the war it didn't keep down production, but then circumstances were perhaps a little different. I wonder if we can't expect the same amount of production in order that we may be back actually doing a good job to win the peace at home and abroad. Even if we ask our government to give us price control. I'm a little weary of having so many people seem to believe that we are not patriotic enough to have production and price control. I think it can be done and I think it should be done. When we have full production and the needs of the world are met, we will not need price control. And now I want to congratulate you for coming out this afternoon and wish you good luck in the results of today's meeting. Mrs. Roosevelt has just spoken and now once again ladies and gentlemen Mr. Roosevelt. I would like to read just one of many telegrams that have come in to the mayor. At membership meeting May 7, 1946, the Washington Heights Chapter 32 of the disabled American veterans voted to send greetings to your meeting in support of your efforts to stop inflation and to stop OPA without crippling amendments. We wish your meeting every success and offer our cooperation in further action to continue price control. and now after these inspiring speeches I ask you to give this committee a job to do by passing a resolution which the committee would like to put before you now. We, the citizens of the city of New York, assembled in the Lewison Stadium in the city of New York on Sunday afternoon, May 12th, realizing the misery and the tragedy which confront us and the people everywhere in our country from the effects of the inflation which will engulf us if the OPA bill as passed by the House of Representatives is enacted we hereby demand one, that price and rent control as authorized in the existing price control act be continued for one year from June 30th without amendments. Point two, that Congress provide the OPA with sufficient funds to make possible more effective enforcement of price and rent control, and that Congress appropriates adequate funds to provide necessary subsidy payments in order that price ceilings may be maintained. I ask you to pass this resolution by a vote of applause. Are there any who say nay? The motion is carried unanimously. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we conclude this rally brought to you by the Mayor's Citizens Union or Committee to Save OPA which has featured the following speakers. Mr. Franklin Eleanor Roosevelt Jr., Mrs. Roosevelt, Mayor O'Dwyer, Russell Nixon of the CIO, Lewis Hines of the AFL, and Mr. Chester Bowles, the director of the Stabilization Board whose words were brought to you from Washington. The introductory remarks were made by the Mayor's Secretary, Paul M. Ross, and we also heard from Mr. Hugo Rogers, Borough President of Manhattan. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is Cecil Brown speaking at LaGuardia Airport. I'm preparing to take off on a trip on TWA to Europe. my itinerary if I can talk over the roar of that TWA plane taking off. I think that's on a domestic flight although we're at the Marine Airport at LaGuardia Field. As I mentioned in my broadcast on Friday, I'm about to take off on a two-month tour of Europe. I am speaking into a recorder, a new special type recorder that weighs about 16 pounds and operates on batteries. I hope to be able to make records on tape not only here at the airport but also on the TWA trip across the Atlantic. In addition, I'll be able to go out into the field in England, France, into workers' homes, into farms, and also to interview leading personalities of not only France and England and Germany, Switzerland, Czechoslovakia. Again, I must say if my Czech visa comes through which up until this moment of departure has not come through, I hope to pick it up overseas. On to Austria, then into Yugoslavia where I haven't been since 1941 when I was in Belgrade at the time of the German invasion and was later captured by the Germans near Sarajevo. Then we go over to Italy. Again, I must say I haven't been to Rome since I was expelled by the Italian government in April 1941. Then from Rome we go on to Israel, the newest nation in the world. We'll be there about 12 days. And again, with this special type recorder, I'll be able to go out into the communal farms, into the holy shrines in Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and then also to study the economic and political and sociological developments of Israel. Then we fly back on TWA to Rome. We are there a few days and then go on to Madrid and study things in Spain and then go on to Portugal and all this will take about two months. Now, before continuing this broadcast from LaGuardia Airfield, I'd like to switch you to the mutual newsroom and John Bosman has some late-minute bulletins. We're now back at LaGuardia Airfield and I have here with me, of course, my wife Martha who is going with me. She looks very beautiful today. She's wearing two orchids as a gift from an admirer. I won't mention the name, but Martha, are you pretty excited about this trip after this hectic preparation of packing? I'm very excited about the trip, but I would like to add something that you said that you hadn't been in Italy since 1941 when you were expelled by the government. You better explain that you were expelled by Mussolini's government. Yes, I think that's important because the official reason they gave at that time was my, quote, continued hostile attitude toward fascism, unquote. I must say they were quite accurate about it. And now, darling, we have a very good-looking man here who says he's going to fly us on this beautiful TWA constellation I see. Oh, right here, standing right beside me is Captain Black, one of the outstanding pilots in the aviation industry as well as the assistant chief pilot of TWA. And I understand you know how to operate this machine because I understand this stuff up there is pretty thin. Is that right? Well, it's thin. We'll be on top of it at 15,000 feet going up to Gander today. I see. Well, is there any advantage in going at this time of the year as far as air travel is concerned? Well, as far as the weather is concerned, there is no what you could call bad time of the year. The advantage of going this time of the year is that the tourists seem to have left Europe and the hotel space and the people over there are just waiting for us to come on over. Well, that occurred to me, too, that perhaps at this time of the year you don't have as much trouble with hotel accommodations. I'm sure everyone over there is a bit more courteous because they're not as harassed as they are during the height of the summer tour season. And that actually is one reason why Mrs. Brown and I wish to go at this time of the year. And it's a wonderful thing for women to travel by air seasonally because then you don't need to take the clothes from spring to summer or summer to fall or fall to winter. You can travel with one suitcase and that's one of the disadvantages to traveling around except by air because you always have so many suitcases to look after. Now we are traveling with one suitcase apiece and as I mentioned in my broadcast on Friday my wife Martha is an expert packer and she's done a formidable job in getting ready for this trip. And now standing also with me is John Bosman who is going to give you about three minutes of, three to four minutes of news every day. That wasn't a shot, it was just a backfire out here at LaGuardia Airport where we're preparing to take off for Europe on TWA. But standing here beside me is John Bosman who will give three to four minutes of news each day and then bring you my recorded reports from abroad. These reports from various countries of Europe will run six to seven minutes and Bosman will give you those recorded tapes along with the news. John, what do you have to say about the prospects of this trip? Do you think we can give some real good shows from Europe? I'm sure we will, Cecil. I was going to say when we heard that backfire that I'll be just as happy if you don't send us back any gunfire from over there. Well, I'm kind of fed up with that. I've been through too much of it and I hope we have a very serene and pleasant trip. Seriously, Cecil, there are two things that I admire about this departure. First of all, Mrs. Brown who is up at the crack of dawn but she looks as if she were dressed for an evening out on the town almost. Well, that's very sweet of you, John. The second thing, Cecil, let me say this, is your determination to, you might say, picture and sound the voice of the people of Europe, the farmers, the tradesmen, the man on the street. I think you're going to do a great job in bringing home to the people here in this country, to all of us, just what Europe really thinks and believes and is happy about and unhappy about today. That's precisely what I want to do, John, because there isn't all misery and poverty in Europe. There is gaiety going on there and in addition, we Americans have a tremendous stake in Europe, not only a financial stake but our security is definitely tied up to the stability and the prosperity and the survival of Europe. Our own survival is there too and I hope to find out how the individual people in these various countries feel toward us. You know, Cecil, I believe too that you will be the first correspondent, of course, the first one who will be recording on the scene to visit Europe since the Russian atomic explosion. Yes, I think that's true. I hope to find out whether people in Europe are as concerned as we are about the Russian possession of what seems to be the atomic bomb. There are so many important factors in the news today that you will be able to find first-hand European impressions of, I'm sure, for instance, the Paris conference that Acheson has just hailed. Yes, well, we'll be in Germany and I want to find out what the program is for the integration of Germany into the various councils of Western Europe and the Western world. But I wanted to ask Captain Black here what our route is. This, I know, is going to be the TWA route for the pilgrims for the Holy Year. We expect to be in Rome the week before Christmas and for the opening of the Holy Year celebration, which is 1950. The opening celebration is at the Vatican on Christmas Eve. Now, TWA, as I understand it, goes on that route from New York to Paris to Rome. Now, where do we go to between now and Paris? Well, between now and Paris, we go out Long Island to the tip of it, out at Montauk, and then take up to Boston. From there, we go over the Gulf of Maine to Yarmouth and over Nova Scotia. Is there good fishing up there? We don't have time for that. We don't have time for that. The fishing is excellent in Gander. Oh, I see. I know because I've tried it. Okay. Then, the hunting is excellent up in Nova Scotia. Martha has something. I saw Captain Black nodding his head when you mentioned about the courtesy of people now, the advantage of traveling in the fall and winter. And I think it would be interesting for Captain Black to tell some of your listeners what he's observed because certainly he flies all year round. Would you do that? I think Martha has a good suggestion. I think so, too. And in the last two years, you know, I've noticed a marvelous change in France and Italy. They've, they're well on the road towards recovering their pre-war status and normalcy again. That sounds good. Now, could we continue that trip from Gander? Surely. From Gander, we go across the North Atlantic. It's 1,980 miles, but it doesn't take long at all. We land in Shannon. And when you see Shannon from the air, you'll see why they call it the Emerald Isle. Then from there, we go over Land's End in England and on down to Paris. From Paris to, uh, uh, Geneva, and then Geneva direct to Rome. That sounds very exciting. I'm sure we're very excited. I don't know whether you've been able to hear this background noise. Our TWA plane Flight 902 is just about to take off. The motors are being warmed up and you can probably hear it. This is Cecil Brown speaking from Guardi Airport. We're just about to shove off. My first report will come to you in a day or so from overseas. And now, good going to you and I'll see you from Paris. And the best of luck to you and Mrs. Brown. Cecil, have a wonderful trip. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.