Ladies and gentlemen, we're quite grateful for the small attendance here, realizing the weather condition was the cause of the poor attendance. But this particular day happened to be an important day to both the borough president and myself. Of course, it has no bearing on the dedication program here today, but I'd just like to let you know and let you in on a little secret. Today was the day that we proved to our own satisfaction the result of a program that eliminated one of the greater floods in the entire county of Queens. And it was both to the satisfaction of the borough president and myself to witness it performing to perfection an accomplishment whereby a certain area of Queens County had always been flooded out to the height of four, four and a half feet of water, where this morning we had no more than possibly a half of an inch of water. Therefore, this particular day is mighty important to the borough president of Queens. Also important in the fact that we're now accepting a building that we shall be mighty proud of. And I may say the same thing goes for the people of Rockaway because this is one of the most beautiful buildings in the entire Rockaways, keeping up with the progress of the program that has been carried out through the entire Rockaways the past years. At this time, it gives me great pleasure to present to you the borough president of Queens County, James A. Lundy. Mr. President. Mr. Snyder, our distinguished reverend members of the clergy, Commissioner Zumolin, President Ward of the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaways, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on the occasion of the dedication of the Rockaway Corporation Yard, I want to say this. We realize that weather conditions are rather inclement, and therefore, many people who had planned to be here are not here. But to those that are, this is indeed a very happy occasion to say to you that, for example, in connection with Commissioner Zumolin, our Commissioner of Public Works, that the City of New York is indeed fortunate that he and his associates in that great department are to be highly commended for the preparation and drafting of the plans, first, that made this building possible, and secondly, to arrange for the construction of it. Certainly for this type of a building and for the purpose that it is to be used for, all of the qualifications have been met, and Commissioner, I think that it is a very beautiful edifice that we are dedicating today. today, there is something more important than just the dedication of a building as part of a program or as part of an institution, and that is, it is the service to the community that the building in and of itself represents. certainly one of the great organizations of this borough, and there are many, who has believed from the time of its inception to argue and present the problems of the Rockaway Peninsula from a business-wise viewpoint, it should be a happy occasion for the Chamber of Commerce for the Rockaways and for all of the civic groups that are represented. I don't know how many are here today, but I know that Somerville is represented and perhaps others, because it is again a service to the community, and for that, I'm gratefully happy to have but a small share. I might also say that in passing words of commendation, that certainly we must not overlook nor forget the architect, the architect who, through imagination and applying the imagination to practical terms, presented the architectural drawings of this building, Mr. Heller. and last but in no measure least, I wish to take this opportunity of not saying alone to the people gathered here and to those that you would represent, but to the entire borough of Queens, and for that matter, the entire city of New York, that I feel that here in Queens County we have a great institution which is known as the Sewer Maintenance Division of the borough president's office. And from the top of that department to the bottom of that department, organizationally wise, I am very proud to say that I think that we have the finest group of men and women that it would be possible to get together in any one division. The men that work on the streets, the men that come in contact with the public, the engineer in charge of that particular division, in my opinion, one of the outstanding engineers of our city administration, Mr. Harry Fitz, and then headed by a member of my cabinet, Henry Snyder, I am very happy to say that I am proud indeed of each and every member of that department. It's also my considered judgment that with no disparity on any previous borough superintendent of Sewers that in my opinion your present commissioner, Henry Snyder, is certainly the outstanding man who has ever held that office. For all of those things are part of the service that the people of this area, the people of this borough, are entitled to receive. So I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am proud indeed to have these few moments in saying those words of commendation to all who have had a part in the construction, the initiation of this building, and to those who will use it as their home from this point hence. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. And our next guest speaker, ladies and gentlemen, is Mr. George A. Ward, the president of the Rockaway Chamber of Commerce. The gentleman that I'm proud to call a friend, and I hope he doesn't do any ribbon in his remarks to you this afternoon for the simple reason he took me aside before and told me about some complaint of a sewer in front of one of his buildings. But I also realize that George is a practical man. He understands our problems in the Sewer Maintenance Bureau, and he's the kind of a person I like to have come to me and discuss his problems because he understands the seriousness of them, and he also understands that at all times we're going to try our very, very best to help him out and those he represents. Ladies and gentlemen, with the greatest pleasure, I give you Mr. Ward, the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Rockaway. Commissioner Snyder, Borough President Lundy, Commissioner of Public Works Zumaan, members of the clergy, ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaways, I'd like to express the appreciation of our members in being asked to participate in these dedication ceremonies of the Rockaway Corporation yard. Completion of this yard should help to eliminate much of the problems that we have had in this local area, and we have many, and for good reasons. One, our sewers are old and they're inadequate. Some of them were built prior to 1900 and then by individuals and are very difficult to maintain. Two, our sandy soil down here makes it difficult for drainage and only tends to clog some of the sewers that we already have. Three, we're a resort area, and the population fluctuates from winter to summer very heavily and overloads the present facilities when they're needed the most. Four, the surface water conditions on a day like this are of gigantic proportions to cope with. These are just some of the problems as I see them. I think the gentlemen who have been responsible for maintaining our sewers have done an excellent job. I think Mr. Snyder, Mr. Volkmar, the superintendent have been more than cooperative with our local problems. They are many and they're difficult. In addition to this, this building will eliminate one of the eyesores of our peninsula at 111th Street in one of the main thoroughfares. This is progress, gentlemen, and it's a pleasure for the Chamber of Commerce to have been asked to play a part. Thank you. Thank you, Judge. And now for the main event of this occasion, I shall now introduce to you the gentleman that will act in twofold. He will represent himself as the commissioner of public works and he is the representative of the mayor of the city of New York in Palataria. I am honored in presenting to you the commissioner, Commissioner Zemele. Mr. Chairman Snyder, Reverend Clergy, Mr. Borough President, ladies and gentlemen, as your chairman told you, it is my privilege this afternoon to speak first for his honor, the mayor, Vincent Aron-Polatari. As the chief executive of the world's greatest and largest metropolis, the demands on his time and on his energy are enormous. As I have often said, why any man wants to be mayor of the city of New York is beyond me. The demands on you are so enormous that it's literally and actually impossible for him to fulfill all his engagements and that's why we of his cabinet are sometimes called upon to represent him at occasions of this kind. And in his name, I want to express to you his regrets that he cannot be with us. While this may be a small building, it is an important building and he would have liked to have been here to have his say in the ceremonies. To a great many people, a utilitarian project like this one, which we call a corporation yard, no doubt creates far less interest than would be felt for certain other projects such as, for example, a new branch library or a new health center. There is naturally more appeal in a project of that kind than there is in one of this kind. There is, in a library, one can walk in and become familiar with and friendly with the books. In a health center, he can get fine advice for his personal and his family's health. It is not hard, therefore, to understand the viewpoint that this building is not too important to many people. And yet, let us think of the other side of the picture. In this complex life of ours, the modern life which we live, a large share of the utilities, services, and the facilities which enable us to live comfortably and conveniently in our homes in all parts of this city and to do our daily work are not very glamorous objects or projects, nor do they arouse any special or particular spark of interest if someone is talking about them. For the most part, they are usually just taken for granted. That is, of course, unless something happens to upset their routine service as not too long ago happened in your own borough and disturb your immediate comfort and convenience. Let us take our water service here in New York City. Most of us New Yorkers take it for granted. It is the finest water enjoyed by any city in the entire world. We seldom give much thought to what becomes of that water after it is used in our homes and in our factories and in our offices. The spent water or the water that has been used is ordinarily called sewage and a good many of us don't give much thought to what happens to that until we dedicate a sewage disposal plant such as we have recently in your particular neighborhood and a building of this kind also in your neighborhood. This building is to serve the sewer system of the area in which it is built. The sewer system serve you every day and every night and every hour of every day and every night. They are not glamorous but they are enormously important. They must be kept in operation and it's buildings of this kind that are necessary to service those conveniences which many of you take for granted but which are most important in our comfort and in our life in the city. Now, this building while constructed under the supervision of the Department of Public Works originates in the office of your borough president. We are a service organization to all of the city departments. I like to consider myself and my office and my organization in that office as servants of all the other city departments. We act as architects and engineers for those people. They are our clients and we get our gratification from the expressions such as given here today by your borough president of appreciation of our efforts in presenting him with a completed and well constructed building. Now, in doing this work we naturally haven't organized a tremendous force of people so we very often give some of this architecture and engineering to private practitioners. In this case the job of designing this building was given to one of your own people a man who lives in your county Mr. Simeon Heller and I think he's here he's the architect of this building which I think everyone will agree is a well designed and well equipped project. And now Mr. President if you will come to the roster my wish with the pride in my department as the builders of this facility and as a representative of the mayor I wish to turn over to you the key to the building and wish you the best of luck in operating. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Zamolin I very gratefully accept the designation of the key as a symbol of the acceptance of this building. As I have stated before in my earlier remarks I again would like to reiterate and commend the Department of Public Works under the able leadership of Commissioner Zamolin. Ladies and gentlemen in my officially accepting this key of the door as a symbol I accept that in trust but in actual reality I must now present it to the person who will be specifically entrusted with the responsibility that goes with a symbol of this key and that is your superintendent of sewer maintenance Henry Snyder. Thank you Mr. Mbira President. I'm very mighty happy in accepting the key to this wonderful building and as part of an important faction in the operations of my bureau and I am assured in the fact that with such a building we can give better service to the people in Rockaway its ideal location and the fact that we can equip ourselves in such a manner that better work can be accomplished better services can be rendered to the people and I can assure you both Commissioner Zamolin and Borough President Lundy that I'm mighty proud to be the head of this bureau and again my many many thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.