Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Queen's College Forum, which comes to you regularly on Tuesday evenings with discussions of topics of interest to all of us. Tonight we have with us three professors of English from Queen's College, whose discussion will concern itself with poetry today. It gives me pleasure to introduce to you Professors... Phyllis Bartlett. Dwight Dirling. John Decoff. Miss Bartlett and gentlemen, the microphone is yours. All during this century, poetry seems to have had a hard time finding its way. It doesn't have to be in meter anymore. It may be in free verse, or it may be in something that can only be called off-meter, something irregular and sometimes rocky to read. It is often rocky in its content, too. Poetry has been trying new forms, like music and painting, and it's hard for the reader to understand it. Wouldn't you agree, Mr. Dirling? Well, the arts always offer difficulties, don't they, when anything new is being tried. The innovations of Beethoven and Wagner or Wordsworth and Whitman were met with choruses of doubt and disapproval in their times. Last fall in the New York Times, Stanton Koblenz called modern poetry idiotic. He said half of it couldn't be read because it was too shredded on the page, that it didn't make sense when it could be read, that it had nothing to say except to voice complaints of a disappointed man. I can't agree with that wholesale indictment. I see you think he has a case, Dikov. I certainly think he has some case. He draws the line too soon, but it has to be drawn somewhere. Of course the artist has to be given his head to try out things. But more artists fail than succeed. And I don't mean that the reader must have everything explained to him. He doesn't. Most writers are sometimes difficult to understand, if they're any good. We still don't know what Shakespeare was trying to say many times. But a lot of writers don't seem to me to be worth bothering with, because what they have to say isn't worth saying, and because they are trying to hide what they do have to say. I'll give you a line. It's in prose. But it's the kind of line I've been thinking about. The yellow warmth in her side turned to stone. What does yellow warmth in her side convey? Since when is warmth yellow? And how does yellow warmth in her side turn cold and heavy like a stone? Why does she say it that way? Do you know it, Erling? Well, I'm not much troubled by yellow warmth, really. It's a kind of transfer from one sense vocabulary to another, the kind of thing we all do when we say we fall into a brown study, or a blue mood, or a red rage, or have a dark brown taste in our mouths. Shakespeare and Keats play this game. It's more economical and effective to say the yellow warmth in her side turned to stone than to say the warm, mellow glow that she had felt became a cold, heavy weight. Poets think in metaphors. Let them find fresh ones, not worn smooth with overuse. I think you'd agree, Miss Bartlett. Certainly it is clear that the 20th century, like every preceding century, I imagine, has opened up a whole new vocabulary for poets. W.B. Yeats said surprising things like, Decrepit age that has been tied to me as to a dog's tail, comparing old age to a sort of battered kettle at the heel. T.S. Eliot was more surprising, speaking of a certain hour, when the evening is spread out against the sky like a patient etherized upon a table. A startling phrase for a dull, foggy evening. I've heard such writing called a deliberately ugly kind of speech. If it is ugly, it is still highly imaginative. It has intensity and suggestion in it. Of course poetry doesn't necessarily have to be conventionally beautiful. The modern poets have not yet touched Dante's Inferno, or even some of Browning in nightmare effects of intense ugliness or of grotesque suggestion. Gargoyles, even if they are hideous, can be imaginative, and they have their own kind of beauty. But what about the puzzle writing that some of the playboys of modern poetry are now so fond of? People who want puzzles buy crosswords or anagrams. Puzzle making is on a different plane from poem making. A lower one, if you ask me. I suppose you're thinking of E.E. Cummings, among others, when you speak of puzzle making. He wouldn't object, by the way, to being called a playboy of poetry. He has a whole bag of tricks, typographical hijinks, that he uses with great gusto and humor. He cuts words up, sandwiches them together. He uses either no punctuation and no capital letters, or whimsical, unexpected semicolons, sudden capitals exploding in the middle of words. He uses prefixes like un as nouns, relative pronouns, adverbs as nouns. And he likes ideographs, as someone called them. That is, arrangements of type on the page in a way that helps to project or suggest his idea, as you might split up words and toss in surprising punctuation to suggest a rickety jalopy coughing and sputtering to a stop on a rough road. This is something that can't be illustrated over the air, because it has to be seen on the page. But you wouldn't say, would you, Mr. Durling, that he's merely making puzzles. Well, Cummings throws some wide curves, but I'm sure he isn't merely trying to puzzle us. Kid us, yes. Himself, too, oftentimes. That you can't illustrate many of his devices over the air, because they are visual and typographical, is a limitation, no doubt. Poems are meant to be heard, not merely seen. Here's a short poem, more serious than many, from his book One Times One. It's a not very irregular sonnet, by the way. It says that love is a free world of imagination, not held within limitations of day-by-day reality, that it's useless to reason about it, that in it true lovers grow to at first unguessed heights of experience. These are the lines. Nothing false and possible is love, whose imagined, therefore limitless. Loves to giving as to keepings give, as yes is to if, love is to yes. Musts a schoolroom in the month of May, life's the death-be-death board, where all now turns when. Love's a universe beyond obey or command, reality or un. Proudly depths above why's first because, faith's last doubt, and humbly heights below, kneeling, we true lovers, pray that us will ourselves continue to outgrow, all whose most, if they have known an eye, only we our least begin to guess. The idea of that poem is far from new, and for my money, Cummings loses more than he gains by wrenching and distorting the language as he does. He can write better lines than all whose most, if you have known and I've, and if he can, he ought to. He is standing on his head and kicking his heels to attract our attention. We can still look the other way. And what about the writers who use street-corner vernacular and go primitive on us? The 8th Avenue barroom primitives. Johnny Brown was a Lollapalooza. We gotta make a noise, if nothing more than get drunk and stand on a street corner and yammer. You choose your horrible examples well, but they don't prove that there is no poetry on 8th Avenue, or in pool rooms, or bar rooms, or at racetracks. Kenneth Fearing, for one, knows how to find it. So does Cummings. After all, Kipling found poetry in barracks rooms and Macefield in a bar room. And harsh vernacular is often a good weapon for satire, where one often finds it today. Probably it is necessary to go back to simplicity in common speech sometimes, when poetry tends to become over-literary and traditional. Recent American poets often use simple words with rather complicated ideas, like McLeish writing, America was west and a wind blowing. America was west and a wind blowing. That's a fine line, Miss Bartlett. But as we've been talking about these matters of style and manner, I've been wondering if readers of modern poetry aren't really more often troubled by other things than occasional deliberate ugliness and the folk idiom, or by what Decaf thinks of, rightly or wrongly, as puzzle writing. Frequently content and organization offer more difficulty, I imagine. I propose that we leave out of discussion for a while the poetry that follows normal development of formal logical sequence. That would leave out not only Fearing and usually Cummings, but men as different as Frost and Auden and later McLeish. That's all right with me, but I'm sure you will both agree that you leave out some fine poetry if you leave out Frost and Auden and others like Delamere, Carl Shapiro, and the Benets. Let me read you a good example of poetry of logical statement that follows a normal thought progression. It is the octave of a sonnet by Santayana. As in the midst of battle there is room for thoughts of love and in foul sin for mirth, as gossips whisper of a trinket's worth spied by the deathbed's flickering candle gloom, as in the crevices of Caesar's tomb the sweet herbs flourish in a little earth, so in this great disaster of our birth we can be happy and forget our doom. There is logical progression. If you rule that out and poems like it, you rule out the poems that are most worth discussing. But I'm willing. Perhaps we can learn something about the other kind. Your example shows perfectly the more conventional mode of poetic communication, but we ought to remember that poets who use different, maybe newer, kinds of logic are not trying merely to talk with a small circle of friends. Even a poet talking to himself wants to be overheard. Otherwise, he wouldn't be quite so eager to corrupt his amateur status and consort with the professionals like the printers and publishers. Wait a minute, darling. What do you mean by a newer kind of logic? Has someone improved on Aristotle while my back was turned? Well, Decoff, his foundations are certainly still there, but other building has been going on. Don't turn your back too long. Maybe 24 centuries is too long. There was a man named Freud on the scene not long ago. He's the hero or the villain back of a different kind of logic in poetry. Many poets have tried to bring in a kind of associative logic and to explore what you might call sublogical processes. All poetry goes beyond normal logical sequence. It keeps verbal magic and incantation alive and dips into wells of the unconscious. It uses connotation, rhythm, and tone color, fresh association. The deal of modern poetry plays up those qualities at the expense of logical meaning in the ordinary sense or it implies a meaning by these means instead of stating it directly. One modern poet, for instance, Robert Lowell, speaking of a dying man, has him say that the Lord watches me for mother and will turn the beer and baby carriage where I burn. One should be able to surmise without being told explicitly that the man is dying still in the throes of a mother fixation. This kind of thing is not entirely new. Blake wrote with free associations of imagery. Yes, Blake certainly did a good deal. Coleridge too, Kubla Khan for one. But in the more conscious, calculated, contemporary use, this kind of thing hit most of us first in the early poems of T.S. Eliot. For example, the first lines of Rhapsody on a Windy Night indicate the technique illustrated by the rest of the poem. These are the lines. Twelve o'clock. Along the reaches of the street, held in a lunar synthesis, whispering lunar incantations dissolve the floors of memory and all its clear relations, its divisions and precisions. Every street lamp that I pass beats like a fatalistic drum, and through the spaces of the dark, midnight shakes the memory as a madman shakes a dead geranium. In the rest of the poem, the logical links of consecutive thought are broken. Memory throws up high and dry, a crowd of twisted things, the floatsome and jetsome of a mood of intense weariness, frustration. I see what you mean by departure from conventional logic, all right. I'm not sure the substitute is clear. Can you make a unified poem out of a collection of images pulled up like mixed weeds from the garden of memory? Surely you'll need some unifying principle. I should call it an idea to hold the whole thing together. The images poets said no. Their movement was soon spent, as true, though its influence has been assimilated into modern poetry and lives on in a changed form. What you find nowadays is much more likely to be an associative method used for the purpose of exhibiting an experience or suggesting, not outlining, an idea. Yes, that's it. The experience unifies the poem in the Rhapsody and in longer poems, Eliot showed later poets how the same method could be used in a more ambitious way. In the love song of J. Alfred Prufrock, a man's character, the background of his life, his identity as a social type, are all conveyed through the apparently, but not artistically, disordered fluctuations of associative reverie. And in the Wasteland, Eliot went still further, giving the character of an era and even a commentary on it, all presented wholly by implication. Isn't any good lyric poem unified because it's a record of an experience? But the older lyric poets and a good many contemporary ones arrange their material in a logical pattern in order to communicate their experience. what is the principle of organization that a modern poet uses if it isn't logic? Well, in poems like those we're discussing, the organization is not a progress from logical statement A to B to C, but rather the relation of all the parts to one center or purpose. One might think of the relation of the spokes and tread to the hub of a turning wheel. The center or the hub may be the quality of an experience. It can be psychological revelation, social comment, any one of many things. Can't we appeal to the practice of novelists who use stream of consciousness or free associations of reverie? Virginia Woolf did, Faulkner and Dospasso sometimes do. Above all, James Joyce successfully used organization, more psychological than logical in the sense of the word understood by Aristotle. The poets in their very different ways are exploring similar levels of consciousness that could not be conveyed by rigid, categorical, logical progression of ideas. Conrad Aiken has been doing this for years. The early McLeish did. Alfred Hayes and Hart Crane and Muriel Rukaiser would show other examples of it. I'm not too much enlightened. If images are put together because they occur simultaneously or consecutively, the relationship is temporal. If because they are like or unlike, it is logical. The organization must depend either on a time sequence or on some kind of logical progression from point to point. When a traditional poet begins a sonnet, he knows where he's going to end up and the reader knows the poem is finished when he's read all of it. The point has been made. How does a modern poet know when to end his poem? Well, I might read a short poem by Dylan Thomas on the death of a man aged 100 who was killed in an air raid, which I consider a successful example of what we have called a new method of organization. Here it is. When the morning was waking over the war, he put on his clothes and stepped out and he died. The locks yawned loose and a blast blew them wide. He dropped where he loved on the burst pavement stone and the funeral grains of the slaughtered floor. Tell his street on its back he stopped a sun and the craters of his eyes grew spring shoots and fire when all the keys shot from the locks and rang. Dig no more for the chains of his gray-haired heart. The heavenly ambulance drawn by a wound assembling waits for the spades ring on the cage. Oh, keep his bones away from that common cart. The morning is flying on the wings of his age and a hundred storks perch on the sun's right hand. In this poem, Thomas had the job of taking an old man's spirit out of his gored body buried in rubble right up into the realms of light. The arrangement of images does it. Nevertheless, I think Decauffe's difficulty about organization is one the poets often feel too. There's really no easy answer to his query. Eliot has a sure sense of organization. John Gould Fletcher, though, didn't and still doesn't. Conrad Aiken doesn't either. Reverie is by nature streamy and unruttered, but good poetry requires organic unity and always has it. How does a composer writing variations on a theme or an associative poet writing modern poetry of Aiken's kind know when to stop? Well, the answer would have to vary with every new creative undertaking. In general, he ought to stop when the whole that he has conceived has finally come to birth as a complete organism, every element and part fulfilling itself expressively in the whole. But there are poems that are born prematurely and some, of course, are manufactured rather than created. Perhaps a good many readers are bothered not only by unfamiliar organization, but also by experiments with the things they are already familiar with, like meter, rhyme, and imagery. These experiments are found in many kinds of poetry, not merely in the kind we have just been discussing. Metrical experiments ought not bother us. Neither should new kinds of rhyme, off-rhyme, slant-rhyme, half-rhyme, and the rest. If MacLeish likes to use hidden rhyme words like dead and meadow, or others want to follow Wilfred Owen and rhyme blood and blade or wound and hand, I can go along, maybe with reservations. But the new imagery is as confused as the new organization of poems. What does Edith Sitwell mean when she says that the morning light creaks down again? When I find light creaking or street lights sounding like drums, I need help. Can you explain one of those, Miss Bartlett? Edith Sitwell once explained these lines herself. She is simply trying in the most economical way possible to describe the quality of a hard morning light. Or wouldn't you admit the adjective hard for light? Well, I'd like it defined, but I think we all know what a hard light is. You'll take hard light, won't you, darling? Yes, hard light is all right, but I wonder if that is all that Edith Sitwell meant. Doesn't this illustrate the danger of taking lines out of their context? The poem begins, Jane, Jane, tall as a crane, the morning light creaks down again. Jane is a kitchen drudge, awakening to a monotonous routine of daily toil and trouble. The figure in the verb reflects her state of mind. She's looking with a jaundiced eye at the light and at what it means for her in the way of monotony and dreary repetition of daily chores. The figure is less objective than subjective. But I hadn't finished. Of course, it is subjective. The lines are really the poet's interpretation of what might be in Jane's brain or what might be in Edith Sitwell's brain if she were Jane. But the poet realizes the distinction and even, Mr. Decoff, acknowledges that light can't really harden. Well, I'm grateful for the logical acknowledgement. It seems to me enough that light should creak and that coxcomb hair on the cold wind hangs limp, turns the milk's weak mind. Isn't the whole thing really, Edith Sitwell, being clever? The father fetched the images, the wittier the author. Hasn't she, to some extent, in her cleverness, failed to communicate? I really don't think she has, if only for this reason, that the little poem has for years remained in my memory as an indelible, clear impression of a disagreeable early morning, a clever mistress looking with sympathetic but unsentimental eyes at the early duties of her somewhat dull kitchen maid, whose frame of mind was so sour that it even curdled the milk. But Miss Sitwell called this last a joke. Not a very funny joke. She plays it on the reader. I hope you're right about the explanation. I once explained the composition of a watercolor in the presence of the painter, who observed when I finished that what I said was very interesting and almost as good as if it were true. I get the impression Miss Sitwell's after, and I suppose that means she has succeeded in communication. In the same way, I think I get a good deal of what T.S. Eliot means in his lines in the Proofrock poem. I should have been a pair of ragged claws scuttling across the floors of silent seas. But I feel as P.G. Wodehouse's Smith did about the line, across the pale parabola of joy. He said the poet had put too much topspin on it. I think Eliot has made what he's saying more difficult than he need have. Here we are, up to the old trick of yanking lines out of context again. P.G. P.G. P.G. walk has passed what he calls sawdust restaurants with oyster shells, the kind that often have lobsters in tanks in their windows. When he says he should have been a pair of ragged claws, he's adding one more image to project his inability to participate in normal human life. I've measured out my life with coffee spoons, he says a bit before. He has always lived in an atmosphere of fastidious artificiality. He's so full of inhibition and disillusionment that he's unfitted for the love he feels but can't bring himself to declare. Is that lobster symbol pertinent to his feeling of frustration? Lobsters are purposeful, not frustrated. So Prufrock might have been if he had been a lobster. You might as well say that the old ballot metaphor read as a rose where she is bad because the maiden didn't in fact grow on a bush. Mr. Decoff, must you have everything explained literally? Yours seemed to want to translate suggestion into statement, poetry into prose. This Christmas I was given a copy of Dylan Thomas' poems. I've read them all two or three times and I'm not sure I yet fully understand any one of them. I start out by enjoying them and as soon as I know them well enough I'm sure I'll probably get quite as much understanding of them as I shall ever want or need. Miss Bartlett, I take poetry more seriously than that. A poem is not a piece of candy to be rolled on the tongue. If a poet only wanted to make a noise, he'd buy a horn. Milton objected to the poetasters of his time who lapped up vicious principles in sweet pills to be swallowed down. I want to be sure that there are principles in these sweet pills and that they are not vicious principles. It seems to me that a great deal of the current distrust of poetry stems from the general opinion that its value lies in its vague suggestiveness and lack of content. But some of the things that are most worth saying have to be suggested. They can't be diagrammed. They go much deeper than logic. Who was it who said that poetry tries to utter what cannot be said? Human nature and experience never could be represented adequately by syllogism, scientific statement. A poem is not vague because it is suggestive. If that were true, there would be very few good poems. Yes, and there is often value in the surprise or shock of strange poetry. Doctors sometimes use shock therapy. Poets sometimes surprise or shock us into new awareness of a world we tend to glaze over with a film of custom. Painters do that too. Of course, when poets experiment, many of them fail. Some of the experiments don't pay off. But artists must push out the frontiers of their art. They can't be carbon copies of the past. In spite of those who say, it's art, decline, my son. They have to push on. The best poets always, in the end, learn from all the experiments. Those that fail as well as those that succeed. It's the reader's job too to learn from the experiments in art. And to play intelligently the part of a good audience must play in singling out what is to survive and what is to perish. Whitman said, To have great poets, we must have great audiences too. Thank you, Professors Phyllis Bartlett, John Decaf, and Dwight Derling for a stimulating discussion. If you have anything you would like to say to us about the program you have just heard, please write to Queens College, Flushing, New York, or to this station. We will be happy to hear from you. This is Herbert Shuler speaking for the Queens College Forum and bidding you good evening. This, this three, this, this결 back to the goal.