New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce, a new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, the story of the Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen on New York, Queen of Commerce. The End Distant voices from the past echo and re-echo through the narrow lanes of old Manhattan. These were the sing-song bids of hucksters, the hailing cries of tinkers, tinsmiths, toilers and tradesmen, selling their wares and services to the inhabitants of the city. For more than 150 years, man strove almost singly to harness the power and utilize the resources of this great land. People were poor, only the land was rich. During those early years, workers joined together much in the same way and for the same mutual benefits as the tradesmen of Europe formed their guilds. Eventually, the profits of commercial success led to many refinements and advances in the cultural and social life of the city. New York has had many gifted, successful and wealthy names. But down through the years, regardless of name, those who were the rites, the couriers, smiths, carpenters, the turners, sawyers, potters, glazers and similar artisans have always been among New York's first families. By 1785, it had become apparent that the old guild system of the individual trades had become outmoded. One day, a meeting took place. Gentlemen, if you will kindly come to order, we shall proceed. Or incidentally, I might acknowledge here and express my deepest satisfaction in the loan of this very unique and effective gavel. It is, as you probably recognize, the small anvil and hammer peculiar to the trade of our colleague John Blakely, who represents the workers in zinc and other white metals in our fair city. Now, each of us here is a representative of the respective crafts and trades of New York. I trust that the solemn resolutions proposed by this committee of mechanics and tradesmen will meet with the unanimous approval of your individual groups. Our purpose of providing charitable assistance to each other and our families and our proposal to institute an educational course of study and training for members and apprentices seem altogether worthy. To set and maintain high standards of workmanship and skill is in the best tradition of honest endeavor. Let us hope that here in Walter Hiers Tavern, the ideals to which we have dedicated ourselves on this, the 17th day of November, 1785, will live and grow stronger with each future generation of honest workmen. And whether by wood, iron, stone or white metals, I'm sure you will agree that by hammer and hand, all arts do stand. Bob, Bob will have a good new name in the Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen, and now I do declare you've hit upon a good slogan. And thank you, Mr. Post. Gentlemen, if you wish, so be it. Before adjournment, Mr. Chairman, may I propose a toast? By all means, Tony. Let us join in expressing our sentiments with this fine Madeira, the favorite beverage of our greatest general and leader. Gentlemen, the United States of America. I give you His Excellency, George Washington. To the land we live in, may it ever be free. May we breakfast with health and dine with friendship. May the mechanics of the United States discover ingenuity in their professions and honor in their dealings. So it was that the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen was founded. In an old tavern on Pine Street, then known as King Street. Chartered by the state in 1792, the society and its membership soon became a powerful influence for the encouragement and protection of the various crafts and trades. The city began to expand northward. The old city hall in Wall Street, after more than a century of continuous use, had long since become inadequate to the needs of the city government, and it was hopelessly out of repair. Plans to replace it were completed in 1803, the greatest year of construction and improvement that the city had experienced up to that time. The site chosen for the new city hall was in the Commons, or what we know today as City Hall Park. Of the many designs and plans submitted, those of John McComb, Jr. and Joseph Mangan were accepted by the Common Council. Excavation and preliminary work were commenced. Mr. McComb was appointed the supervising architect. Many members of the Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen were assigned to construction jobs. The Society's own mechanics hall was built across the street at the northwest corner of Park Place and Broadway. Among the members assigned to the construction of City Hall were Joseph Newton, Chief Master Carpenter, Abraham LeBeau, Master Stonecutter, and Anthony Steenback, Master Mason. This project was an important step in the fulfillment of the ideals formed by the reorganization of Manhattan's old guilds into the Mechanics Society. Early in the spring of 1803, it was announced that the cornerstone of the new City Hall would be dedicated by Mayor Edward Livingston, assisted by John McComb, Jr. on May 26. A grand parade was to be formed in front of the old City Hall in Wall Street. The line of march was to be down Broad Street and over Beaver Street to Broadway, then up to the Commons. At just about 6 p.m., surrounded by a milling, expectant, and good-natured throng, Mrs. Joseph Newton and her daughter Amanda, the family of the Master Carpenter, along with other families of the workmen, eagerly awaited sight of the marching columns. Both sides of Broadway were jammed with throngs of people. There was increasing excitement as the parade came closer. Mother! Mother! Oh, Mother, here they come! Now, child, they aren't even in sight yet. Oh, yes, they are. Look over there and see. Oh, yes! The mayor is leading the parade! Darling, isn't that Mr. McComb beside him? Yes! Oh, yes! Oh, look! Those beautiful horses! Oh, isn't it a wonderful parade? Oh, yes! But where's Daddy? Do you see him? No, I don't. Oh, yes, there he comes with the other society men. Oh, my! Doesn't he look dignified? Oh, Mother, look over at Murray Street. The teachers and the men from Columbia are cheering as the parade passes in front of the college. I know it's lucky for us that Mr. Provost put us into the stand and we'd never be able to see so well. Oh, isn't it wonderful? Oh, look! Look, see all the cannon and the big horses. Oh, yes, that's General Stevens' regiment of artillery. Oh, and there comes Colonel Morton and the 6th Regiment. Oh, I never saw so many soldiers. Now, what are they doing now? They're coming into the commons. Battalion by the flank! March! March! Battalion! Ho! Ho! Ho! Oh! Mother, they formed a square! Oh, don't they look nice? One, see, the artillery is all lined up over by the almshouse. Oh, now, now, it sure comes the officials for the ceremony. There's Mr. Steenbach. He's the mason with the trowel standing by the cornerstone already. Oh, now, now, listen. Mr. Provost's going to say something. Mr. Mayor, I believe everything is arranged properly. Will you and Mr. McCormick step over here to my right? That's right, right there. Mr. Newton of the Mechanic Society, I see that your rig is ready for lowering the stone. Please stand by. General Stevens, will you kindly fire the Federal salute when the stone is at rest? I shall raise my arm as a signal. Oh, gosh, I hope nothing goes wrong now. Daddy looks so nervous. It's bad enough waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, attention, please. His Honor, Mayor Edward Livingston. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Provost. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, you're all too aware of the purpose of this ceremony for me to dwell upon it at length now. This is indeed an important milestone in the history of our great city. Here upon these foundations will arise New York's fairest and most beautiful edifice, and it is my most profound hope, as it is yours, no doubt, that its halls will resound with honor, prosperity, and freedom. And while this is a bit out of center of business activity now, the passage of time will probably see more building in this vicinity, even perhaps beyond this new city hall. In any event, I wish to express thanks in behalf of all of our people and the members of my staff, as well as to those public officials, officers, and men of the military, the fire officials, the bandsmen, workmen, and others who have done so much to make this so distinguished an occasion. And now, Mr. McComb, if you'll assist me, we shall dedicate this handsome cornerstone of our new hall. Throw her away, Mr. Newton. Steady now. Easy. There. I guess that does it, eh, Mr. McComb? Congratulations, gentlemen. Well done. Oh, Mother, isn't that thrilling. Your father looks relieved. Oh, look, they're getting ready to shoot the cannon. Well, I personally can do without the cannon. I've had enough noise and excitement for one day, and so have you. Now, come on. Oh, no, they're going to fire the cannon. Oh, Mother, I'll remember this always. And New York's present City Hall was dedicated. Today, City Hall, together with the other municipal buildings which have been since added, are serving the greatest city in the world, a city built by the enterprise and energy of its merchants and businessmen. The Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen, whose early members had so much to do with the construction of City Hall, still carries on with its fine organization and school. And their many members throughout the years have contributed much toward making New York the queen of commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce. Today, the Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alfred Israel as Boyd, Alan Feinstein as the mayor, Joy Seligson as Amanda, and Marilyn Arms as Mrs. Newton. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunshee. The next voice you will hear is that of Andrew G. Hagstrom, president of the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen. The General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen celebrated its 167th birthday a few days ago, on November 17th. During its many years of existence, the Society has been a leader in educational and philanthropic public works here. The Society today maintains headquarters, free school, a free public library at 20 West 44th Street. This building, known as the Mechanics Institute, contains an assembly hall, offices, museum, 38 classrooms, and a library of 135,000 volumes, free to our students and the general public. It is interesting to note that among our 110,000 graduates are included. This city's present Director of Civil Defense, the former Police Commissioner, R.T. W. Wallander, and the recent National Director of Defense Mobilization at Washington, Charles E. Wilson. Among the donors through society can be included two famous New Yorkers, the late Andrew Carnegie, who gave $527,000, and the largest gift in society's history was received during 1924, $2,432,000 from the estate of Amos F. Eno. Thank you, Mr. Hagstrom. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York Queen of Commerce. New York City of Commerce. New York City of Commerce