We conclude Music on the Wing in order to bring you the following special broadcast. WNYC, in keeping with its policy of presenting various phases of subjects in the public's interest, brings you now a talk by Justice Meyer Steinbrink, Justice of the State of New York. This past Sunday evening, we presented Justice David Peck, who spoke on the consolidation of the courts. Tonight, Justice Steinbrink will give his views on this subject. And now here is Justice Steinbrink. At the outset, may I, in the name of the unanimous Board of Justices of the Supreme Court of the 2nd Judicial District, thank Mayor O'Dwyer and those in charge of Station WNYC for lending their facilities for the discussion of a question which vitally affects the people of the City of New York. And while expressing my thanks, may I also voice my regret that there should be public debate among the judges over the controversy which has arisen over the so-called Court Consolidation Plan. The inadvisability of trying to rush through the legislature, a constitutional amendment which aims to reorganize the entire judicial system in the metropolitan city of New York, will be immediately apparent when attention is called to the fact that the proposal was originally introduced on January 31st of this year, and when it met with a storm of opposition from many quarters, it was amended. That proposal is still before the legislature, but since then the proposal has been emasculated, and two new proposed amendments were introduced on February 23rd, 1949. I shall speak of these on the assumption that their authors or sponsors have either abandoned the earlier one or that they will materially amend it. Recently, the legislature granted to the justices of the City Court a well-earned and deserved increase in compensation from $17,500 a year to $20,000 a year. No one has yet told you that under the proposals now before the legislature for merging the municipal court and the court of special sessions with the City Court that there is contained in the proposed constitutional provision an automatic increase in the salaries of these justices. That means that 68 municipal court justices who now receive $12,500 a year will, upon merger, receive $20,000 a year. Simple mathematics tells you that this item alone would add to the City budget $510,000 annually. The 17 judges of the Court of Special Sessions now receive $14,000 a year, and they will be automatically increased by $6,000, which means an additional $102,000 a year. The clerks, deputy clerks, attendants, stenographers, and interpreters in the municipal court do not receive the same compensation as in the City Court or the Supreme Court. How long will it be under the provisions of the proposed amendments before they will be equalized, which would be entirely sensible if they were to become employees of the same court? And I minimize it when I say that the cost of operation under such a system would be not less than $2 million annually over and above what it now costs. The only reason that I discuss the question of cost is because one of the sponsors of the proposed amendments has said that the cost of administering the courts under the new system would be lessened. The municipal courts have always been regarded in civil matters as the poor man's court and as a neighborhood court. Now they're to be swallowed up in one city court, and I've heard it publicly stated that there would be a saving in the maintenance of courts in the various parts of the city. How would the residents of Coney Island, who have a $100 case, or those of Greenpoint like it, if they would have to, in some way or other, come down to the Borough Hall? Will the people of Queens, especially from the Rockaways, Springfield, Laurelton, or the settlements bordering on Nassau County like it, if they would have to go to a central city court in Jamaica? How will the people in Upper Manhattan on the west side like it if they're called down to where the present city court sits? These are matters which the public is entitled to know. Likewise, I heard the statement made that now, when through accident there is serious injury or death, that there is much delay in reaching these cases. Well, of course, our Practice Act now provides for preferences when such preferences are justified by the facts. No one would take this away. And also, I heard it said, that the municipal courts now are busy mainly with landlord and tenant cases. Well, these are just as important to the tenants whom it is sought to dispossess, as is the recovery of money damages for injuries. Under present circumstances, what can be more serious than taking the roof from over the head of a man with a family? Again, I heard it said that the majority of the 272 judges in the city of New York favor this proposal. Who is the majority? Does this include the magistrates' courts who are not touched by these amendments? Of course the 68 municipal court justices favor it, and why shouldn't they? Will any of the proponents of this hybrid consolidation say, that the justices of the Supreme Court in the 1st District, which includes Manhattan and the Bronx, have ever been consulted? Have the members of the appellate division in the 1st and 2nd departments been consulted, or the judges of General Sessions? The county judges of Kings County are almost unanimous in their opposition, and those of Queens County and Richmond County and the city court justices of Kings County are unanimous in their opposition. The Board of Trial Justices of the Supreme Court in the 2nd District, without regard to politics, are unanimously opposed. The Brooklyn Bar Association has gone on record in opposition, as have the Queens County Bar Association and the Richmond County Bar Association. Now let me point out to you another fundamental fallacy in one of these proposals. It relates only to the 1st Judicial District, which comprises Manhattan and Bronx, but to please somebody, there is frozen into this constitutional provision the requirement that of these consolidated courts, 14 of the Supreme Court justices shall at all times be residents of and be elected from the county of Bronx, and the remaining 35 shall be residents of and elected from the county of New York, though they serve in the 1st District comprising both counties. Let me analyze this for a moment. This means a total of 49 Supreme Court justices in Manhattan and the Bronx. Manhattan and the Bronx combined have a population of 3,464,000. Kings and Richmond, which are in the 2nd District, have a population of 3,074,000, a difference of less than 400,000. And yet, the 1st District will have 49 Supreme Court justices against the 2nd District with only 16. How can this be justified on any basis of reason? And why should justices in the 1st District, any number of them, be elected only by those within the county of Bronx or only by those within the county of New York when they are required to serve and perform duties in both counties? There is not another place in the state of New York where any such anomaly can be found. Now keep in mind that I am speaking about the highest trial court in this state and one which has always been regarded not only as important but as one of dignity. What is the reason for the surrender of basic principles in the drafting of this hurried constitutional amendment? We of the 2nd District are as anxious to be helpful as is any proponent of this constitutional crazy quilt. It is a patchwork and it should not be. Call into being by a legislative enactment a judiciary convention made up of representatives of the legislature, of the justices and of the bar associations such convention to meet promptly and study the whole of the judiciary article of the Constitution in order that a sane and sensible solution of the difficulties may be found. There have been offered in the legislature proposals to increase the jurisdiction of the municipal court to $3,000 and the jurisdiction of the city court to $6,000. This should be done and done promptly. Give to the Supreme Court the power to relegate to the present city court or municipal court cases that should never have been in the Supreme Court and that properly belong in these respective courts. Delay in our court is due to the fact that too many worthless or trivial cases are brought there. What is proposed in the present constitutional amendment is not a solution for the evil and does not even begin to reach it. Let me ask again, what reason can there be for giving to the justices of the appellate division of the first department the authority to designate one justice who shall be charged with administration of the Supreme Court in that department alone? This appears in various forms in the proposals before the legislature. In one of them it applies only to the first department. In another it applies to both departments and in still a third to neither. It is wholly unnecessary for we of the trial bench are now governed by the rules made for us by the appellate division and likewise we are governed in our assignment to duty by our appellate division. Again, with respect to appeals in criminal cases which now go to the court of special session why should there be a difference created by constitutional amendment between the so-called appellate terms in the two departments both of which function within the city of New York? To the justices of the trial bench in the second judicial district these proposals are wholly unacceptable. We favor not a hurried revision but a study of the whole problem. I perhaps can speak of this more unselfishly than anyone for now I am the senior in age and in service on our trial bench and no constitutional change that may be made can possibly affect me for before it becomes operative I shall have reached the age of retirement but I have an interest in the work of our court and always have had from the time of my admission to the bar 47 years ago. Change is not always progress and I cannot help but repeat what my dear friend the late Dr. S. Parks Cadman once said in the course of a sermon. Quote It is all very well to talk about progress but when you are going downhill toward hell it's better to have a little less sail and a little more anchor. End quote. And if in this instance we are being led into a perfect quagmire of constitutional complications then let us pause and see where we are being led. Within the perfectly proper limitation of the time allotted to me it is impossible to detail all of the faults fallacies weaknesses and errors in the pending proposed constitutional amendments but I would welcome the opportunity to meet the sponsor of these before any legislative committee or before a gathering of all of the bar associations within the city of New York in a discussion on this subject. We favor a cure and not a temporary palliative. Let the representatives of all interested associations or organizations and representatives of the bench sit down together counsel together and find a permanent cure. You've just heard Justice Meyer Steinbrink Justice of the State of New York in an address concerning the consolidation of the courts. The subject was presented on Sunday past by Justice David Peck presiding Justice of the Appellate Division First Department and this evening's address by Justice Steinbrink was brought to you in accordance with WNYC's policy of presenting various phases and subjects of public interest. And now we invite you to stay tuned for a special transcribed program featuring Bob Hope prepared for the benefit of the American Red Cross Drive. We remind you that music on the wing regularly scheduled at this time will be heard as usual next week. The following musical interlude is recorded.