The answer is not simple. Answers to big problems seldom are. Here is an enemy that takes the lives of 180,000 Americans every year. Next year, will you or someone you love be numbered among that 180,000? You can't say no to that question if you know anything at all of the enemy I'm speaking of. An enemy we call cancer. And yet, because of the story you're about to hear, there should be no cause for fear in that fact. This is the story of all of us and what we are doing to find an answer. And in its unfolding, you'll find cause for hope. Hope for the living. For the Living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Michael O'Shea. Our tale begins on a bright spring morning in a large Midwestern city, in the bedroom, to be exact, of a little white house on Pine Street. The bedroom of Patrick Farrell, newspaper man. Pat's having a little trouble getting dressed this morning. Can't find the particular shirt he wants. You know how it is when a man has a favorite shirt, a shirt that really fits, a shirt that, uh... Now, where in the world is that... Oh, Martha! Hey, Martha! Yes, dear? Martha, where's that white shirt of mine? The one I got in San Francisco the day I got out of the Army. Now, what's the matter, dear? Breakfast is getting cold and Jimmy won't eat until you eat with him. He'll be late for school. Yeah, but that white shirt of mine, you know, the one I like, where is it? The one with the frayed collar? Yeah, that's the one. Best shirt I ever had. I gave it away. Well, who'd you give it to, Martha? You know how I like that shirt. Now, Pat, it was nearly worn out. I gave it to Mrs. Hall. You mean Dr. Hall's wife? Mm-hmm. Now, what in the world would she want with my shirt? Pat, if you're so set on that white shirt, I only gave it to her yesterday. Mrs. Hall is probably in her office, in the Cancer Committee building downtown. Go down and ask her for it on your way to work. Ask her for it? Now, wouldn't I look silly trying to reclaim a shirt? Martha, sometime... Pat, it's not silly at all. Hey, wait a minute. You know, I might get a feature story out of this. Something maybe with a humorous twist. The man who lost his shirt. Say, you know, this might be... Mom, my leg hurts again, like it did the other day. Do I have to go to school? Now, Jimmy... Jim, you must have gotten cracked on the shin with a baseball. It'll go away. But I didn't, Dad. I would have remembered. It hurts. Oh, well, forget it, son. You'll live. Martha, I'm going to stop by and see Mrs. Hall. Now, if I can get a story out of this, maybe it'll be worth a good shirt, huh? And there you are, Mrs. Hall. Now, I don't want the shirt back, but I thought I might get a little story out of what happened to it. Something maybe with a humorous twist. Mr. Farrell, how much do you know about cancer? Why, about as much as anyone else, I suppose. It's a terrible disease, kills a lot of people, but I understand that nobody knows too much about it, not even the doctors. True, but if everyone has what knowledge we do have of cancer, we've proven this much, that knowledge can save a lot of lives. That's why we have three information centers in this city. Yeah, but, uh, what's that got to do with my white shirt, Mrs. Hall? Mr. Farrell, you were a captain in the army during the last war, and as a newspaperman, you probably know that almost 300,000 Americans were killed in that war. Why, sure, but... Did you know that twice that many Americans were killed at home by cancer while you were fighting that war? You mean 600,000? You did something about making Americans safe from the human enemies of our way of life. We're trying to fight an enemy that's potentially within each one of us. Yeah, but, Mrs. Hall, how can you? Well, I mean, well, isn't disease a job for the doctors? That's the whole point. Our doctors can cure a lot of cancer now if we bring those cancers to them early enough. That's the educational part of our job, and it takes money. If you tell people what the symptoms of cancer are, you've got to provide the means for them to find out for sure whether they have cancer when they notice those symptoms in themselves. Well, Mrs. Hall, this is big. I never knew. So that's why you raise money with the campaign each year, huh? You spoke of how little doctors know of cancer. Well, part of that money goes for research to make it possible for our scientists to one day discover the secret of the riddle itself, the real why of cancer. I don't know. I'm amazed. I had no idea at all that all this was going on. You wanted a story. Here it is. And there's much more. Come in. Oh, Lieutenant Trell. Uh, Carol in the office said you have the schedule. Yes. Station wagon's gassed up and ready to go. How are you, Al? Well, Pat Farrell. Well, how are you? Is this no good newspaper man here for a story, or are you going to put him to work? Both, I hope, Lieutenant. They don't tell me the police department is in on this thing, too, Mrs. Hall. Entirely unofficial, Pat. This is my day off. Here's the schedule, Lieutenant. Five patients. Uh-huh. Uh, let's see. Old man Parker, Mrs. Santelli, Mrs. Webber. Well, the doctor at the clinic said this is the last trip Mrs. Webber will be able to make. I know. We've arranged with the visiting nurse service to drop in on her from now on. Mrs. Harper has some dressings for you to take to her. Uh, Mr. Farrell, come with me. Well, now let me see. You mean there's more? Mrs. Harper, those, uh, dressings for Mrs. Webber ready? Oh, yes. You are now watching what happened to your shirt, Mr. Farrell. Say, uh, these women, they're all making bandages? All volunteer workers, making dressings, bed gowns, slippers, bed jackets, and other comforts for patients. You see, there are dozens of terminal cancer patients in our city, people who came too late. Many of them are destitute. Cancer does that to them, too. Uh-huh. But, uh, what about Lieutenant Treff? We have several station wagons to carry patients to the clinics when they can't make it themselves. Lieutenant Treff drives one of them on his day off. Has for two years. Yeah, but why? Lieutenant Treff's wife died of cancer, Mr. Farrell. There are a dozen of the 8x8s here, Mrs. Hall. If she needs more during the week, we can send one of the other drivers. Thanks, Maggie. Here you are, Lieutenant. Okay. I'll drop the report by on my way to work tomorrow. Oh, Mrs. Hall. Oh, so long, Pat. Yes, Carol? Uh, there's a young man here who complains of pain in the upper bone of his arm. It's not a usual symptom, and you know how crowded the detection centers are. We won't take a chance, Carol. We don't get many bone cancers, but get him an appointment at Gray Hill as soon as they can take it. Thanks. Bone cancer? Pain in his arm? Cancer can strike anywhere, Mr. Farrell. Here. Here's some of the literature that we hand out. And teach in the schools, too. Take it home with you. The pamphlet on the seven symptoms... Oh, excuse me. Yeah. Yes? Oh, yes, Mr. Fitch. Yes. Yes, blood donors can make appointments at Trott Memorial any weekday or Saturday afternoon from 4.30 to 6.30. That's wonderful. I'll put you down. And thank you. You, uh, have a blood donor service, too, huh? We have to fight cancer every way we know how, Mr. Farrell. Have you ever given blood? Sure. During the war. This is war, Mr. Farrell. Yeah, I... I can see it is. You came here for a story about a white shirt. I think you've gotten it. I think I've gotten a much bigger story than that, Mrs. Hall. Write it, then. But give us your help in other ways. Our campaign starts soon. I think the committee would like you to head up the campaign group in your neighborhood. How about it? You should have been a general, Mrs. Hall, but... Now, let me think it over a while, huh? Just... just let me think it over a while. So, Pat Farrell, newspaper man, thought it over. It amazed him that he hadn't realized something so big was going on right beneath his nose. As he read the literature on cancer Mrs. Hall had given him, he began to realize how little he knew about a terrible disease which might menace him or his family someday. And then the small pinpoint of an idea began to grow in his brain. Until that night at dinner with his family... Pat, what's the matter with you? Hmm? You haven't said a word all through dinner. Well, I've... I've... Say, Jimmy, how does that leg of yours feel now, son? It still hurts, Dad. Look, Martha, we're going to take Jimmy to Dr. Carey, and we're going to do it tomorrow morning. I'm going to phone him right now and make an appointment. But, Pat, you're not telling me everything. What is it? What's wrong with Jimmy? Yesterday in Dr. Carey's... Yes, yes, I... I know. I know, Martha. It's a shock to you to have him here in the hospital, but, well, we should know soon. Dr. Carey said he'd come down... Dr. Carey. Pat, Mrs. Farrell... What is it, doctor? Have you found out anything? I'm... I'm afraid we have. It's not... It's fantastic, but when I examined Jimmy yesterday, some of the symptoms and blood count... It's, uh... It's cancer. Cancer? Pat! Cancer of the bone. I'm sorry, but we're positive. Yeah, but... But what does that mean? What are you going to... I wish I could tell you I could cure it. I wish I knew how. I wish any doctor knew how. Someday we will know how. But right now, we can't wait. Can't wait? I feel sure you've brought Jimmy to us in time to save his life, before his cancer has spread to other parts of his body, but... But what? We'll have to amputate Jimmy's leg. Jimmy! I knew it. I knew it. Time has a way of dulling the edge of the sharp knife of human tragedy. A few weeks later, Pat Farrell made a very particular call on Lieutenant Al Treff at his office in the police department. Ever since what had happened to Jimmy, Pat had had a kindred feeling for Al, and now he wanted to talk about it. Oh, sit down, Pat. Sit down. Thanks, Al. I, uh, heard about Jimmy, Pat. Kind of kept tabs on him through Mrs. Hall. I hear he's doing all right. Yeah, yeah, Al. Well, Martha took it hard for a while, but the kid's got a big heart. When I told him it had to be done to save his life, he... He said he understood. How do you like that, a kid saying he understood? Well, he... He was lucky. Well, I mean, if it had to be... Yeah, I know what you mean, Al. You're thinking about your wife, huh? Pat, if I'd known then what you know now about cancer, she would have been alive today. It hurts me every time I think I... What I know about cancer, huh? Everybody ought to know the facts about cancer, Al. Everybody. Those facts can save their lives. That's the way I figured it when Mary passed on, Pat. I'm doing what little I can, or it's not much, and there's a lot more to do. Yeah, I know, Al. You know, I didn't know how dumb I was when I asked Mrs. Hall if cancer wasn't the doctor's job. When I sat there in that hospital and heard that doctor say he didn't know how to save Jimmy's leg. Well, Al, they're looking for an answer, and it's the job of all of us to give them the money to help them find it. That's the stuff, Pat. That's it. You know, I started out to get a story about a white shirt. And what I got's the biggest story in the world. The story of man's crusade against the enemy of all of us. Cancer. Someday, every American will realize that we've all got a part to play in that fight, Al. And, brother, I'm starting to play my part right now. And what about you? At this moment, you may be on the outside looking in, but tomorrow or the next day or a year from now, you or someone you love may come face to face with cancer. Today, it strikes in one out of every three American families. When that time comes, will you be able to say to yourself that you've done everything in your power to give our men of medicine the weapons they need to save your life? All over the nation, there are men and women who can take pride in the part they're playing against cancer as members of the women's field army, the cancer committees, the state organizations, the American Cancer Society. Join them. Learn about cancer from them. Work with them. Give them the money they ask to fight this most terrible of human diseases, cancer. Because we have begun to fight together, we know that there is cause for hope against cancer for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Michael O'Shea, written and directed by Hugh Chain, with music by David Rackson, conducted by Lynn Murray, has been presented by the American Cancer Society and your local cancer committee to show you your part in the fight against the disease that took the lives of 180,000 Americans last year. Your cancer committee needs your help. Find out how you can join this crusade and save lives. flame-iness. Canción speak with Eugene Rackson, can you? l Thank you.