Tonight your city station takes the air to bring you complete speedy and accurate returns on the national presidential election and a tally of the ballots in New York City and state as well. We have an elaborate setup here. Here in our studio we have a battery of editing machines and calculators. I think you'll be hearing those shortly. We have large boards all set up giving us the lineup of the states together with the electoral votes, the total districts of each state, the vote needed to carry in each state, the number of votes which would be necessary for Mr. Wilkie or Mr. Roosevelt to carry this national election. We know we're going to be on the air here until the small hours of the morning. We're staying on the air until final returns on the presidential counter in. In other words, until one candidate or the other concedes defeat. We have a hunch that thousands of you are going to keep your radios at 810, so we'll start the ball rolling by telling you what to expect during the course of this marathon broadcast. Between 50 and 60 million Americans went to the polls today. No one knows the exact figures yet, but there's bound to be a new record since there's been a record registration. In some sections of the country, polls are already closed, and early returns are pouring in over our press room wires. Here in New York, due to the tremendous registration, polls are going to remain open until 9 p.m. Those of you who have not voted yet, you have exactly three hours in which to vote. Remember, in some states in this United States, the opportunity of voting for the presidency in 1940 is all over. Here in New York, you still have approximately three hours to get online to cast your vote. The polls are already closed in some strategic states here on the eastern seaboard. In Connecticut, Alabama, and Delaware, for instance. But on the far west coast, where a three-hour time difference comes into the picture, polling places don't shut down until 10 or 11 o'clock New York time. Thus, the very important tally from such states as California and Oregon won't be known until much later in the evening. Now, if we may, we'll give you a few details on the manner in which WNYC is set up for this election night, so that you'll get a picture of the returns that will be coming through on your home radio, the points from which these returns are gathered. First of all, we have elaborate setups at the Hotel Biltmore, which is the Democratic National Headquarters, at the Hotel Commodore, which is the Wilkie National Headquarters, and at police headquarters here in New York City. We have representatives in the fields at the different county headquarters in all the five boroughs in Manhattan. We have the tremendous facilities and resources of the Associated Press and the International News Service. And in addition to all of that, we have some 300 to 400 radio amateurs. Amateur radio in the United States is working tonight to bring us returns from the eight or nine pivotal states throughout the Union. In other words, such states as New York, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey, these returns will be coming in via amateur radio and received by W2HXQ, that's Kay Kipling, who many of you may have known as conducting the World's Fair programs for WNYC when the fair was open, and they'll be phoned in to us direct over private wire. Now, here in the studio, we have that excellent young political analyst, Mr. David Lazar. Mr. Harry Comer, the chief statistician and market analyst for Payne Weber & Company, is here to tabulate and analyze the returns for us as they come in. And so before we go further, before we give you some of these early returns, we'll take you on a little run around town, and we'll find out how things are going, although very little, of course, is happening in New York City. We'll first take our little run around, so we take you now up to police headquarters. Come in, Joe Fishler. This is police headquarters speaking. Of course, as Dr. Siegel has just told you, there's nothing happening as yet because the polls in New York City do not close until 9 o'clock this evening, which means that voters who have not as yet used their democratic privilege have something like three hours in which to do so. And remember that your vote is secret. No one need fear publicity in voting. When you leave the voting booth, your vote is a secret. Because on registration day you enrolled as a member of a party, you do not have to vote that party's ticket. Vote for the candidate you want to win. Now, here is approximately the setup at police headquarters. We're located on the balcony overlooking the lineup room at police headquarters in Manhattan. Immediately at the polls close at 9 o'clock, a policeman located at each poll, together with a representative from each of the two major parties, will open the back of the voting machines. They will then take down the totals of votes cast for each of the candidates, and the policeman will then phone in their reports in this order. Manhattan policemen will phone them in directly to police headquarters in Manhattan. Members of the police force in the other boroughs will phone them to their own borough headquarters, who in turn will phone them in here to Manhattan headquarters. Then a tremendous staff of tabulators will take these figures, and upon checking them, will hand them to City News, who in turn will hand them to us. We incidentally have a basket here on the end of a rope, which we will haul up as fast as these tabulations are sent in to us. Now, we don't expect to have any figures for quite some time to come, and I believe that our other points of vantage may have something to say from their own particular point. So we return you now to general headquarters. Back in the municipal building, ladies and gentlemen, and we take you now to the Democratic National Headquarters at the Hotel Biltmore. Come in, Mr. Balbo. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee at the Hotel Biltmore on East 43rd Street in New York City. This has been the center of campaign activities for the past several months. The committee occupies the entire fourth, fifth, and sixth floors of this vast building. The various offices and committee rooms give off from a single corridor laid out as three sides of a rectangle, and each side of this rectangle is an entire block long. We ourselves are stationed here on the first floor, which has been especially engaged for this evening. And on this floor there are special rooms engaged for the press and for publicity. In this publicity room, Mr. Michelson, who is Mr. Edward J. Flynn's personal representative, is stationed and is preparing statements for Mr. Flynn. Here also is a special private room where Edward J. Flynn, who, of course, as you know, is the National Democratic Chairman, will spend most of the evening listening to returns by radio and over his private wires and directing the activities of his men in the field by means of a half a dozen aides or so who are seated before telephones that have been especially installed. Later in the evening, WNYC will bring you several statements by Mr. Flynn directly from the spot where he is in command. Just outside the window of our radio room here, we can see the huge Grand Central Station looming up in the evening. It's getting quite dark now. We're just above that traffic ramp that most of you know that circles the building. Just beyond Grand Central, not even one city block away, is the Hotel Commodore, headquarters of the Republican National Committee, where we understand Mr. Wilkie and his followers are watching and waiting to see the outcome of this historic election. We're back in the municipal building now, ladies and gentlemen, and there was some mention of the Hotel Commodore, so we're going to take you to that point, which is the Wilkie headquarters. Come in, Mr. Ward. Another good evening, everyone. We're speaking to you from the Hotel Commodore, 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue in the city of New York, the headquarters of the Republican Party, and the New York City headquarters of the Republican candidate, Wendell L. Wilkie. We're speaking to you now from the Grand Ballroom. Here directly on our right in the ballroom is a huge board, the National Election Return Board that has been erected here by the Republican Party, flanking this board on the immediate left as you face the stage, the enormous photograph of Wendell L. Wilkie, and immediately on the right as you face the stage, Charles L. McNary. The board here lists the various states and the electoral votes, and also the total election districts for each state. Three huge step ladders are placed for this board. The board is so large that this is necessary. Now, immediately in front of the board, this huge ballroom here is devoid at the present time of chairs and people, just last-minute activity of the various technical people connected with the broadcasting of this. All the necessary steps are being taken to make this top-notch broadcast show. Every network station and many of the local stations who have no network affiliations are here and all busy as bees. Immediately facing the board, in the boxes, are at the present time no less than 40 people who have been sitting here for possibly a half an hour waiting for things to start humming. At the present time, there's nothing humming here, no other activity than that that we have just mentioned. We'll be back here a little bit later to bring you the news from this particular point, the Republican headquarters. We return you now to our headquarters in the municipal building. We're back in the municipal building, ladies and gentlemen, and before we give you some of the fragmentary returns that have come in, we ought to possibly tell you something which may help you to follow the vote as the evening progresses. Assuming that each state will cast an estimated number of votes, more than half of that number of votes will necessarily throw the total electoral vote for that state to the candidate for whom the votes are cast. Therefore, we are going to give you what we estimate to be the vote needed to carry every state. Therefore, as the evening progresses, you can possibly figure out for yourself the possibilities of the candidates in the individual states. Alabama, with 11 electoral votes, if you don't have any list, you might mark this down now, Alabama, with 11 electoral votes, 140,000 votes are necessary to carry the state. Arizona, with 3 electoral votes. Arizona, with 3 electoral votes, we estimate that 70,000 votes will carry the state. Arkansas, with 9 electoral votes, the estimated number of votes necessary to carry the state is 82,100. California, 22 electoral votes, 1,702,000 votes needed to carry the state. Colorado, with 6 electoral votes, an estimated 246,000 votes necessary to carry. Connecticut, 8 electoral votes, 387,000 votes necessary to carry. Delaware, 3 electoral votes, 65,000 votes necessary. Florida, with 7 electoral votes, 181,000 votes necessary. Georgia, with 12 electoral votes, 154,000 votes necessary to carry. Idaho, with 4 electoral votes, 110,000 votes necessary to carry. Illinois, 29 electoral votes, 2,125,000 votes will carry the state. Indiana, 14 electoral votes, approximately 862,500 votes will carry the state. Iowa, 11 electoral votes, approximately 625,000 votes necessary to carry the state. Kansas, 9 electoral votes, 451,500 necessary to carry. Kentucky, 11 electoral votes, 477,000 votes necessary to carry. Louisiana, 10 electoral votes, 192,500 necessary. Maine, 5 electoral votes, 155,000 votes necessary. Maryland, 8,000 votes, 341,500 necessary. Massachusetts, 17,000, 1,050,000 necessary. Michigan, 19. Michigan, 19, 972,500. Minnesota, 11, 616,000. Mississippi, 9,89,000 votes. Missouri, 15, 981,500 votes needed. Montana, 4, 120,000 votes needed. Go ahead, go ahead. Go ahead, studio votes. Nebraska, 7, 307,500 votes needed. Nevada, 3 electoral votes, 23,500 votes needed. New Hampshire, 4 electoral votes, 115,000 votes needed. New Jersey, 16 electoral votes, 1,012,000 popular votes needed. New Mexico, 3 electoral votes, 97,500 votes needed. New Mexico, 3, 97,500 popular votes needed. New York, 47 electoral votes, 3,101,000 popular votes needed. North Carolina, 13 electoral votes, 437,500 popular votes needed. In North Dakota, where there are four electoral votes, 137,500 popular votes are needed to win those four electoral votes. In the state of Ohio, with 26 electoral votes, a popular vote of 1,625,000 votes will carry those 26 electoral votes. Q3 forchte are no applause for this election, in the states of Ohio, wanted to repay those 25,000 votes to help this, be in the state of Ohio. Correct? Veeyys.arel, if you know all your information. 2,101, nerede zeroES, where there are four votes for us, we're going to cassands. And now, this is going to return.
