Democracy on the job. In New York State, your chance to get the job, to keep the job, to grow on the job, is protected by law. To eliminate and to prevent discrimination in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin. That is the mandate given by the legislature of the State of New York to the Commission Against Discrimination. To protect the qualified worker. To protect the fair employer. These are the daily tasks confronting the five-man commission. What can they do? How do they operate? The answers to such questions are found in the weekly meetings of these five commissioners. At these meetings, Chairman Edwards presides. Next on the agenda, a report from Commissioner Simon. Thank you, Chairman Edwards. I'd like to tell you and the other commissioners about a certain case, because I believe that it illustrates the most important aspect of the law against discrimination. Though it gets, perhaps, the least attention. You might say that this case began with two girls walking down the street of a business section of a certain city, about noon of a pleasant, bright day. They stopped in front of one of the stores, and one of the girls consulted a slip of paper, which she took from her purse. She looked at the other girl and said... Well, this is the place, Rose. Oh? 320 Plainfield Avenue. Why, it's the Everton Dress Shop Incorporated, Mr. Russell's store. Who's Mr. Russell? The man who owns this store. That isn't what I mean. I mean, how do you know him? I don't really know him. I just met him once or twice. His daughter and I went to the same secretarial school, and I met him on the street a couple of times. And did she introduce you to him? Why, yes. Oh, he's very nice, Elsie. Do go in and ask to talk to him. I bet he'll give you the job. Don't be too sure. Oh, Elsie, you're always looking for trouble before it even comes your way. And you're always looking at the world through rose-colored glasses. Okay, you wait here. I'm going in, but I'll be out soon. Very soon, I'll bet. Good morning, young lady. Can I help you? You can if you'll tell me where I can find Mr. Russell. I'm Mr. Russell. What can I do for you? My name is Elsie Newton. You had an ad in this morning's paper. For a sales lady, yes, but... I want to apply for the job. I see. I'm sorry, but the job's already been filled. Filled? That's right. But I would like to... Same old story. Friend of the Negroes. Say here, young woman. Why don't you just say it right out, Mr. Russell? You won't consider me for this job because I'm a Negro. Now, wait a minute. Come back here. Come right back. I want to talk to you. I've done all the talking to you. I have to do, Mr. Russell. Goodbye. Goodbye. You said he was such a nice man. He'd give me the job, you said. Well, it shows how much you know. Oh, Elsie, I'm sure you misunderstood. If Mr. Russell said the job was filled, it has been. How could it be? The ad was in the paper this morning. Well, someone might have come in early. Oh, a likely story. You've just got your old rose-colored glasses out again. It's about time someone made you wake up to what's going on in this world, and I'm the one to do it. Come on. Where are you going? Over to that drugstore. To prove to you that Russell didn't already hire someone for his old job. You'll see. Elsie, don't do anything foolish, please. Oh, you'll find out how foolish it is when I... Uh, hello? Hello? Uh, is this the Everton dress shop? Yeah. Well, uh, I just saw your advertisement in the newspaper, the one for the sales lady, and I was wondering whether that position is still open. I see. Yes, I will. Thank you. Well, now maybe you'll believe what I say. Why? What happened? I was just told by the girl who answered that phone to come right down and be interviewed. And what do you think of that? I don't know. Well, I can tell you what I think of it. And I can tell you this, too. Mr. Russell isn't going to get away with this. I've got a few tricks up my sleeve, too. And I'm going to start playing them right now. I'm very upset at what you tell me, Elsie. Very upset. You're just like Rose, Mr. Matthews. You refuse to believe facts that are as plain as the nose on your face. Oh, I believe facts, Elsie. I don't believe anything but facts in my business. But you see, I've met Russell a number of times at various civic organizations, and he never made me conscious of the color of my skin. No, no. I'm sure he's very nice to you. After all, you're a newspaper editor, someone important. Hardly that, Elsie. Ours is just a small weekly paper. Look, I didn't come here to argue, Mr. Matthews. I came here to give you a story to print, a story that's of interest to everyone. I don't expect to be questioned and cross-examined. You're making a serious charge, Elsie. I must be very certain it's a true one. You mean you can't take my word for it? People who believe themselves to be injured aren't always the best judges of the actual facts. Come back tomorrow morning, Elsie, and we'll talk about it again. Elsie, I saw Mr. Russell yesterday. I had a long talk with him. And of course, he denied everything. You told me yesterday he looked at you in horror and actually drew back when you told him you wished to apply for the job. That's just what he did, too. No. He says he certainly did feel antagonistic to you, but not because of your color. It was because your attitude from the very first word you spoke was unpleasant and harsh. That's a lie. Russell says you had a chip on your shoulder. That's another lie. Why did he tell me the job had already been filled? It was. He showed me his records, proving it. The girl on the phone told you to come in because she knew Russell wanted to see everyone who applied for the job because he wanted to interview them and have them make out applications for future work. You believe that story? It's true. You believe it if you want to, but I don't. I'm going to fix that, Mr. Russell. And if you won't do anything about it, I know who will. All right, there it is. The complaints you want, all signed, sealed, and delivered. Mm-hmm. What happens now? A field representative will be assigned by the commissioner to whom this case is referred. That representative will make a thorough investigation of the charges you make. Investigation? What for? Why, to determine whether the facts are correct as you state them. You mean you won't take my word for them? I mean that in order to be perfectly fair to all parties, the commission must conduct an impartial investigation. Well, it sounds like a lot of red tape to me. This man refused to hire me, and the law is supposed to do something about that. Why don't you go out and do it? Action will be taken, Miss Newton, on the basis of what our investigation reveals. You'll be kept informed of developments. Investigation of the case of L.C. Newton disclosed that, one, the advertised position had, in fact, been filled before Miss Newton presented herself as an applicant. Two, Miss Newton was told on the phone to come in for an interview because Mr. Russell wished to interview salespeople for future employment and to file application of those qualified. Three, Miss Newton had no previous sales experience and was therefore not qualified for the position for which she applied. It is my determination, on the basis of the facts adduced by the investigation, that probable cause does not exist to credit the allegations of the complaint. The complaint is hereby dismissed. Signed, Carolyn K. Simon. Oh, come in, Elsie, come in. Sit down. Well, Elsie? You sent for me, Mr. Matthews. You do the talking. Mr. Russell was in to see me. Suppose he wants you to publish the fact that he was whitewashed. Whitewashed is hardly the proper word, Elsie. He was cleared. You may say the law is supposed to protect people like me. It does. But not if you're wrong, Elsie. The commission's investigations proved you were wrong. The commission is just on his side and so are you. The commission is not on anyone's side. It is out to get the facts. No. And it acts only on the basis of those facts. It protects qualified workers who are refused employment because of discrimination. But equally important, it protects fair employers against unjustified charges. However, Mr. Russell didn't come here to ask me to publish anything about his being cleared. He came to me because he knows I have some influence in the Negro community. Mr. Russell didn't want me there, I tell you. I could tell by the way he looked at me. Elsie, let me tell you something. We have been the victims of much persecution. And under the best of circumstances, we live our lives under difficulties. There is nothing more natural than that we should become bitter. But bitterness is our most dangerous enemy, Elsie, for it blinds its victim to the truth. We must each of us be so careful that bitterness does not make us see enemies where stand our friends. He didn't act like a friend. Did you give him the chance? Or did you leap to a conclusion and act accordingly? Well, how do you know he would have been my friend if I had given him the chance? Elsie, no one in this world is obliged to be your friend. You and everyone else must earn friendship. You don't want to be discriminated against because of the color of your skin. You mustn't expect special consideration because of it. If we are ever to achieve our proper place, it must be on our merits as individuals. As it must be with all people, whatever their color or their religion or anything else about them. And yet in this case, I know that Mr. Russell would have been your friend because I know what his record has been. Well, maybe. Maybe. Will it convince you, Elsie, when I tell you that Mr. Russell has recently employed a Negro sales lady? What? One that was qualified for the work and who applied with dignity on her merit? Yes. You must learn to stand on your merit as an individual, my dear. You must not allow the bigotry of others to warp your own outlook. You must not let prejudice poison and embitter your life. Think it over, Elsie. Think it over carefully. Mr. Matthews told me of the way he'd spoken to Elsie, and I, too, have had conversations with her. Between us, we've convinced her that it is not the function of this commission and the law against discrimination to automatically pin the blame on an employer. Her understanding brought about a change in her attitude, and I'm pleased to say that she's now happily employed. Incidentally, the firm with which Elsie got her job was one whose employment policy had been changed by the action of this commission. So, in truth, in this case, the law worked as all laws must for the protection of all. It protects the qualified worker and the fair employer. The facts are real. The name's fictitious in the case of Elsie Newton. And now, I'm happy to introduce to you Commissioner Caroline K. Simon herself, to be interviewed by Harold C. Zuloff, Chairman of the Commission's Westchester County Council. Mr. Zuloff. Thank you, Mr. Tillman. Commissioner, as an employer, I was particularly impressed by the fact that this case, unlike the previous episodes, is concerned with the need for cooperation by the employee as well as the employer. I'm glad to see that your commission recognizes that it's a two-way proposition. Indeed we do, Mr. Zuloff. If either party in a case does not show a fair attitude, we attempt to correct the situation through conference and persuasion, and to encourage a deeper understanding of the whole philosophy underlying the law. That new understanding has many values, hasn't it, Commissioner? Yes, Mr. Zuloff. To name a few, it spikes false rumors, it makes for happier working relations, and, if properly handled, it helps the emotional adjustment of the worker to life as a whole, when he realizes that he, too, has a responsibility. Of course, this calls for infinite tact, as you know from your own consultant experience with the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations. Yes, and I know, too, that you are giving employers, trade unions, and workers the right kind of guidance. Thank you, Mr. Zuloff. Our councils help us materially in this task, and in giving this law its maximum meaning in our communities. Thank you both for bringing out the full implications of this case. Friends write to this station or the New York City Office of the State Commission Against Discrimination at 270 Broadway for a special pamphlet called An Equal Chance. The commission also has offices in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and White Plains. Remember, this is your law. It protects you. Use it. Listen in next week at this same time for Democracy on the Job. Democracy on the Job. In New York State, your chance to get the job, to keep the job, to grow on the job, is protected by law. To eliminate and to prevent discrimination in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin. That is the mandate given by the legislature of the State of New York to the Commission Against Discrimination. To protect the qualified worker. To protect the fair employer. These are the daily tasks confronting the five-man commission. What can they do? How do they operate? The answers to such questions are found in the weekly meetings of these five commissioners. At these meetings, Chairman Edwards presides. The next item on our agenda, a report from Commissioner Pinto. Thank you, Chairman Edwards. It's always seemed to me that the activities of our community councils, more than any other single factor, prove that the will of the people of this state is truly behind the law against discrimination. I'd like to offer in proof of this statement the operation of a certain council in one of the state's larger cities. I'll tell the story as a lady who took a large role in the proceedings told it to me. It would seem that an important meeting place for ladies is the big public marketplace at the edge of our town. Women come there from all over the city, and in time we get to know each other in a casual sort of way. There was one woman who interested me particularly. On a certain Tuesday, I think it was, I found myself standing next to her in line at the meat counter. Good morning, Mrs. Tracy. Oh, Mrs. Brock, I didn't see you. Terrible crowd today. Isn't it? It's the specials they advertise, I suppose. Yes. We women are terrible bargain hunters. What choice do we have? That's the truth. Oh, tell me, are you and your family getting settled? Oh, yes, thank you. We're doing very well. You found an apartment? Oh, we did as well as can be expected. Well, that doesn't sound too exciting. We are very comfortable. I see. Have you made all your purchases here? Yes. Then how about coming over to my house now for a mid-morning cup of coffee? Oh, that's very nice of you, but I don't think it would be wise. Well, good gracious, what's wise or unwise about it? Oh, do come, please. And half an hour later, we were seated in my bright breakfast nook, steaming cups of coffee in front of us. And Mrs. Tracy smiled at me. You're quite an overwhelming woman, Mrs. Brock. That's one way of putting it. And my husband says I can't mind my own business. Well, I just can't seem to be any otherwise. No reason why you should be. You have a lovely home. It's quiet since the children left, but peaceful. How many children have you? Just two. The girls married. The boys at school. Have you children? Three. And all of them still at home. Although our eldest boy had been planning to go off to school next year. Had been planning to? It may not work out quite that way. Oh, my goodness, why not? It really isn't important, Mrs. Brock. But it is, Mrs. Tracy. Oh, please don't think I'm intruding on your privacy. But you've told me you're new here. You've come from another city, different surroundings. You may have many new adjustments to make here. Many more than... More than white people would have to make. That's true. But then we're used to making more adjustments. I'd like very much to be able to help you. That's kind of you, but there isn't anyone who can help. Oh, nonsense. Something can always be done about everything. I wish you'd tell me what your difficulties are. It's very simple. My husband heard of a job in one of the big industrial plants in this city. It was a higher paying job than the one he held, and he found that he was eligible for it, so he applied and got it. But these days it sometimes takes the work of two people to send boys through college, Mrs. Brock. And my husband and I intend to see our children educated. I see. Then you're planning to go to work here, too? Oh, well, in the city where we used to live, I had quite a nice position in a large department store selling. Of course, I took it for granted that I would do the same when we moved here, but that doesn't seem possible. You haven't found work? I've been in every department store in the city, Mrs. Brock, not asking for work, just looking around. In not one store have I seen a Negro saleswoman. The elevator operators are Negroes, but the saleswomen? No. All right. Oh, but that doesn't mean... You must take my word for what that means, Mrs. Brock. It means it is the policy of the store not to employ Negroes as salespeople. I know that without asking. But they can't do that. Can't they? Not if you're qualified for the work. And you are. You've had previous experience. There's a law you know, Mrs. Tracy. If you apply for a sales job and you're refused because of the color of your skin, that's discrimination. And discrimination is against the law. You can complain about it and something will be done. Perhaps so. I'm glad to know there is such a law. I'm sure it's doing much good for many people. But each of us must solve our problems in our own way. I can't complain to anyone of the treatment I receive. It isn't my nature. I can't force myself where I'm not wanted, no matter how just my cause. People get caught in these things. Not only people of my color. My son will simply have to postpone his schooling for a few years. Others have done it, too. He shouldn't have to do it, and not for such a reason. Don't worry yourself, Mrs. Brock. Please don't worry yourself over us. But of course I worried. And the more I worried, the more I wondered. Was it possible that Mrs. Tracy was jumping to conclusions? Negroes are so often discriminated against that they often see prejudice where it doesn't exist. And I, for one, don't blame them. However, it seemed to me the situation bore looking into. So several days later, I attended a meeting of the local council of the Commission Against Discrimination. I addressed a question to the chairman. Yes, Mrs. Brock? Mr. Chairman, I'd like some information. I haven't been a member of this council very long, and I don't know exactly what power the councils are given under the law against discrimination. But can we look into a whole pattern of employment, one that seems to be discriminatory? I mean, if there's no definite case? Yes, Mrs. Brock, I think so. What do you have in mind? But I think... I think the department stores in this city are refusing to employ Negroes as salespeople. I mean qualified people, of course. And you'd like this council to look into it? We can do that. Oh, how? How do we do it? The most direct way is to ask the department store managements what their policy is. Will they tell us? I think they will, if we go about it right. I'll have certain businessmen, members of this council, contact the heads of the stores. I'll phone a few of them myself. Then we'll have a meeting and talk it over. Two days later, I had a letter from the council chairman informing me that a meeting was scheduled for the following Thursday. Representatives of the department stores had agreed to attend the meeting. I could hardly wait for Thursday. I was so curious what the stores would say. I was hardly prepared for what they did say. This thing is very simple, ladies and gentlemen. I know I speak for all the stores, not only my own, when I tell you that we have no desire to discriminate against any minority group. Nor do we want to violate the law. But we're in a bad spot. The law says we must employ people on merit only. Our customers, on the other hand, won't stand for service from Negro salespeople. Where did you get that idea? It's true. It's an accepted fact. Women don't want to be served over the counter or in the dressing rooms by Negroes. It's Mrs. Consumer who sets the policies, not us. Well, look here. If I proved to you that you were wrong about that, about Mrs. Consumer, would you change your policy? We'll do anything you want us to do, if we don't endanger our business by doing it. So, Mrs. Brock, you're going to prove that women customers aren't prejudiced, are you? And just how do you think that can be done? Oh, I had no idea how it could be done. But by the time our council met again, I had a plan. I submitted it to the council, and within a week, we put it into operation. At a meeting of a local woman's club, I posed a question to the membership. When you go into a department store, if you were to be waited on by a Negro, would you refuse to buy in that store? The reactions I received were most interesting. Well, I'll tell you this quite frankly, Mrs. Brock. If I had my choice, I'd rather be waited on by a white person than a Negro. I wouldn't walk out because of it, though. If I did that, I'd be cutting off my nose to spite my face. I go to certain stores because they have what I want at the price I want to pay. So he said we won't buy from Negroes, did he? He blames it all on us, just like a man. Well, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll write every store a letter telling them that if they want my patronage from now on, they must hire people on merit, no matter what their complexion. And what's more, I'll send them that letter when I pay this month's bill. When they see the size of my bill, they'll know they stand in danger of losing something if they lose me. There are about 150 women's clubs in our city, big and small. Our council members covered almost all of them. We got letters, we got statements denying that they would refuse to buy in stores, employing Negro salespeople. We faced our department store men with the statements. Well, of course, this is fine, fine. We hadn't dreamed the ladies felt this way. Well, you ought to learn more about women. Yes, yes, no doubt. Well, now to the practical side of the problem. We will, of course, consider Negroes for such positions. But I doubt that we'll be able to take on any for some time since none of us are expanding our staffs right now. You understand that, Mr. Chairman? Naturally, we're not asking you to take on people you don't need. Well, you'll need more staff at Christmas, won't you? Yes, of course. Then don't you think that Christmas would be a very nice time for you to begin? It really is a matter of goodwill to all men, you know. I'm happy to conclude by saying that one of the Negro saleswomen employed by a store for the Christmas rush was kept on the regular staff, and that person was a certain Mrs. Tracy. The pattern of employment has been changed in the department stores of that city, thanks in part to a woman who couldn't mind her own business, but thanks also to the activity of our entire council, and thanks to the cooperation of the store owners in that community. These councils are invaluable in stopping trouble before it becomes serious, and also in educating the entire community. And so we can say once again that people of all races, creeds, colors, and national origins can work together harmoniously. It can be done. It has been done. The facts are real. The name's fictitious in the case of Mrs. Consumer. We're happy to have here in our studio today Commissioner Robert H. Thayer to be interviewed by Judge George J. Beldock, stalwart supporter of the law against discrimination and founder of Youth United. Judge Beldock. Thank you, Calvin Keech. Tell me, Commissioner Thayer, are there really people like Mrs. Brock on your councils? She seems almost too good to be true. Actually, Judge Beldock, she's both good and true. Do you know there are a great many Mrs. Brocks, not only on our councils, but in private agencies too. People who take it as their own personal responsibility to fight for a true democracy. Well, Commissioner, I guess Mrs. Brock was right in her contention that we don't give Mrs. Consumer enough credit, do we? Yes, but it's more than that, I think. It's not credit she's asking for. What we need is more faith in Mrs. Consumer. It turns out that she's a pretty fine American when you come right down to it. Well, that's right, and it's important that this should be known throughout the world, isn't it so? Yes, it's how we all live. It's the way we act, the laws we pass, and the way people get behind our laws. These things tell the real story of our democracy to the world. Yes, and the way employers cooperate voluntarily, as they did in this case. That's an important part of our freedom and our sense of citizen responsibility in America. Thank you, Commissioner Thayer, for pointing out the world significance of this story. And thank you, Judge Beldock. Ladies and gentlemen, write to this station or to the New York City office of the State Commission Against Discrimination at 270 Broadway for a special pamphlet called An Equal Chance. The commission also has offices in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and White Plains. Remember, the commission stands ready to help the aggrieved. Now, this is your law. It protects you. Use it. And listen in next week at the same time for Democracy on the Job. Un homme'sérence to Center University of li橘 Advisory ofQL, Shin, diciendo 사진 wall are similar to what about Knight and final