Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From the auditorium of the New York City Veterans Service Center at 500 Park Avenue, we bring you the ceremonies honoring the 250,000th veteran served at the center. A number of distinguished guests and principal speakers are gathered here today. Bernard Baruch, General Graves B. Erskine, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg, former regional director of the War Manpower Commission, and now executive chairman of the New York City Veterans Service Committee. Now we take you to the speaker's platform and Mrs. Rosenberg. Ladies and gentlemen, when President Roosevelt sent me to Europe to talk with our men overseas, to do what could be done for them over there, and to find out what were their hopes and their ambitions, and what they expected to do when they returned home, I spent long hours on the many memorable nights, listening to the men fresh from the front. I tried to get their vision of what this America, which way they were so eager to return to, was to be. From some of them, I got the cynical questions about how many weeks it would be before they were forgotten, and whether the promises of the GI Bill of Rights would ever become a reality. They wanted to know what the future held for them, whether there were going to be opportunities to get into business, into jobs and schools. And above all, they wanted to know if the hearts and minds of America would be open to them, whether we at home would make the return of those who would return an easy one. I so honestly believed that the people back home understood what they've endured, what they suffered, what they've sacrificed, and above all, what they needed, that I silenced the cynics, I heartened the doubtful, and I agreed with the optimist, because I could not but believe that an America which united to defeat its enemies and accomplished miracles would not even accomplish greater miracles and a greater unity to help its own. But today, ladies and gentlemen, I am facing some of these same men who fought their battles in war and thought their battles were done and who now must again battle for a lack of understanding and a lack of opportunities which should exist or be created for them. They even have to battle a lack of clothing, a lack of housing, and in all too many instances, they even lack a place where they can go to get sympathetic advice to which they are rightfully entitled. Here in New York, through the concerted efforts of our people of business and labor, the city administration, and with the help of the federal and state government, we have such a place dedicated to their needs. We hope it symbolizes to the quarter of million who have come through our three centers the great and honest desire of all New York to be of service to those who spend the best years of their life being of service to us. What we have done here is only the beginning. It is a big job. It calls for a lot of giving, giving of time and of energy, and not of trying to escape or forget that we do owe a debt. It is a big job, but I honestly believe that New York will do it. We must open more than a veteran service center. We must open the city, the hearts, the minds, the storehouses of energy, the resources of New York's grateful and generous citizens. Our first speaker, ladies and gentlemen, is often introduced as America's eldest statesman. He has the experience of an eldest statesman, but he has much more than that. He has the vision and the flexibility of thinking that younger statesmen should have. He has often spoken of as the advisor of presidents, but he is much more than that. He is the champion of people. In this center, we have tried to carry out his ideas and his philosophy and to achieve for the serviceman, as he so aptly said, a human demobilization and not a human disintegration. Ladies and gentlemen, our great American, Bernard M. Barone. applause, congratulations on this veteran service center, and primarily, congratulations to you, mother of the idea, Mrs. Rosenberg, and the governor of Dewey, Mayors of Dwyer and LaGuardia, and federal and local agencies who brought this about. It approaches what has been advocated for two long years, one place where veterans need to go in dignity, not in charity, to learn all of their rights and how to get them. If every community had such a veteran center, scaled to its size and needs and some other communities have, we could cross off information and service from the two long list of veterans problems. GI legislation is of no avail if the veteran cannot readily find out how he can get its benefits. There is no excuse for veterans not receiving their rights and privileges, but intelligent community cooperation is not always present as it exists here. Frequently, it is caught in the maelstrom of local and political bickering, battles over jurisdiction and interagency jealousy. Much has been done, but much more is yet to be done. Generals Bradley and Erskine should receive all the assistance necessary for their important tasks made more difficult by their delayed appointments. I am particularly gratified at General Hawley's progress in the veterans medical service. I would like to see greater progress in other problems. Excessive delays in payment to veterans can and must be eliminated. Servicing of benefits must be speeded up. The present pension system, both in administration and legislation, should be examined and brought up to date. The laws should be codified, the administration streamlined, and the real purchasing power of pensions and allowances should be maintained. Personalized job guidance and vocational testing should be greatly accentuated, particularly for those who have not previously had jobs. A replacement program for artificial limbs must be kept functioning constantly to provide all amputated veterans for the latest improvement. While it is a duty of younger men to take over the prime burden of war, a duty a duty from which from time immemorial they have assumed, those forced to stay at home must see that what has been granted veterans is ready for the asking. I am with you, veterans, in every endeavor to get your rights. But beware of those who try to set you apart from the rest of the community. Because you are such an important part of it, you can help to weld it into that unity which is as necessary in peace as it was in war. The very first need in the present situation still is to end the no man's land of neglect of the human problems of the changeover from war to peace. That means work for all, both veterans and civilians. It means a searching, running review of demobilization plans so badly fumbled and so bitterly complained of. Let us put into action, not in words, the rights of these men and women. We must show that our political and economic system, which met the test of war so magnificently, can be turned as effectively to the solution of the human problems in the return to peace. applause Thank you, Mr. Baruch. The youngest, our next speaker is the youngest general officer in the Marine Corps, who won the Distinguished Service Medal for his brilliant command of the 3rd Marine Division in Iwo Jima. Wounded in France during the First War, he knows the point of view of a wounded veteran. At Guam, on VJ Day, he did not wait for a directive to tell him that his Marines would need training for post-war jobs. He set up a vocational training school on the island immediately. A veteran veterans, he represents the Secretary of Labor with retraining and re-employment administration, a leader where the fighting was toughest. He's now a leader in the national effort to make readjustment easier for our veterans. I present Major General Graves Erskine. applause Thank you, Mrs. Rosenberg. It is a great privilege for me to be here today to participate in this ceremony, celebrating the first quarter million New York veterans assisted by those who now combine to administer this consolidated center. It is fitting that you, the largest city in the nation, should have the greatest opportunity to influence the founding and management of advisory centers in every other community in the country. New York's veterans with their varied backgrounds and ambitions represent every problem and its solution to be found among ex-servicemen and ex-servicemen anywhere. For us at the Retraining and Reemployment Administration, 500 Park Avenue is a mint of information to pass on to every other advisory center whatever its size and whatever its scope. For instance, New York has already proved that advisory centers far from being complicated by numerous contributing groups are actually assured of success by the cumulative force of specialist agencies concentrating their goodwill on one target. This city has made the most of its 700 private agencies who cooperate with governmental units in the administration of this center. The lesson is unmistakably clear. If a city with the most numerous private agencies can work out a successful one-stop system for veterans then every community in this nation can do the same thing. Meanwhile, private agencies have learned that in cooperating with others they lose neither identity nor influence. On the contrary, their influence and usefulness increase immeasurably beyond the results obtained if each agency worked alone. the immediate result of an intelligent referral system such as the one employed here is the great reduction in the number of veterans who go to the wrong place for the right information. Now this has been called by veterans in every war in our history as the runaround. The secondary result in this economical system is an increase of efficiency within the private agencies an increase in the number of people they can help and a demand from other cities watching the success in this city for the branches of private agencies not already represented in their cities. An advisory center like this one is nothing more than an investment an investment which is guaranteed to pay high dividends. The young people whom you serve are the bone and senior of your future. All they need is stimulation of the experience which you have to offer. They need help to help themselves. They have no time to waste on experiments. They have already had too many months and too many years subtracted from the all too few that we are given. They do not want shortcuts nor schemes to avoid normal responsibilities to live useful lives. They only want help and to be shown the right path. Dividends from sound counseling of veterans do not stop with the veterans. This should be an inspiration to every public spirited counselor from every government and every private agency in every community of this land. In the end it is the community itself that will take the profit from this investment in good counseling. What the veteran learns of good health practices for himself will be passed on by him to his own family and thus lessen the future demands on public health funds. What he learns of good business practices will help him influence his associates and thus the community will prosper through the reduction of business failure. What he learns of good insurance principles will guarantee his security for the rest of his life and the future of his family after him. What he learns of educational opportunities open to him will raise his own standards and through him the standards to the whole community. and of course what he earns and learns in his new job will immediately benefit the entire community. I am deeply concerned about reports of unrest among men who are still overseas. These reports should increase the zeal with which we prepare to reintegrate these men into community life as soon as they return. and it should dispel the cynicism and the apathy of those community leaders and officials who still have not awakened to their plain responsibilities. Proper and wholehearted assistance to men upon their return will quickly make them forget their temporary grievances whether these grievances be real or whether they be imaginary. if I had to select as most important one benefit to be expected from an advisory or service center I would say that a veteran who can talk and be talked with intelligently who knows that the community understands his problem and in turn is made to understand the problems of his community who knows that somebody everybody cares enough about him to provide a streamlined cooperative all-embracing service such as this center will never be bitter he will never be antisocial and he will never be undemocratic. This is true even if there is no perfect immediate solution for his problem. And centers like this one a cooperation of federal state and city governments and all of the local private agencies what problem is there that cannot be solved? thank you very much General Erskine all of our many distinguished and honored guests here will agree with me I feel sure that our most distinguished and most honored guest today is the representative of the men and women we've been privileged to serve a young man who happens to be the 40 millionth veteran to receive help and guidance at our New York City Veterans Service Center here and in Brooklyn he's one of the many to whom we also must before him 249,999 ex-servicemen and women each with individual problems and questions have passed through these doors the fact that all these veterans have been served as individuals is a tribute to all the agencies and individuals in the city of New York who have contributed to the success of New York City's Veterans Service Center we do not think of him as the quarter of a millionth veteran but as of George Loomis an individual for we do not gauge our service here by numbers our achievements are reckoned in the peace of mind the satisfaction and the happiness that we give to you and your fellow buddies ex-Sgt. George thank you Mrs. Rosenberg ladies and gentlemen when I went into the army three years ago you civilians made speeches to me now I'm back and even though I never dreamt it I'm making a speech to you I happen to be the 250,000th veteran who received help at this center I heard about this place from a buddy when we hit the states he had heard it from somebody else that's what we call a grapevine in the air we were a pretty happy bunch of guys when we hit New York but as the days went by and one had to begin to think of taking up where we left off well I began to worry a little and I know a lot of my pals did too I know what I wanted but I didn't know how to get it I wanted to get into editorial work but I had no experience no specialized training I had an offer of a job with a publication and to me it looked like a choice between that and schooling I thought I'd hit the colleges first I tried to enroll in a graduate school of journalism but I got the brush up overcrowded they said I didn't know what to do then I remembered what my buddy said about this veteran service center I wasn't too optimistic but I decided to give it a try I talked over my problems with the vocation and education consultants explained the situation and asked for advice on what I should choose school or a job after listening to them for a while the picture became a little clearer they said I could do both take the job and take special extension courses at Columbia in other words I could learn while I was earning on my job I found out that all I had coming to me under the G.I. Bill of Rights and they helped me straighten out my army insurance I feel ready to go out on my own now I don't know if I'm going to be another Horace Greeley but if I'm not it isn't because I haven't been given a lot of information and sound advice up here and it's for that boost given me and all the other veterans that I want to thank the people and all the agencies in New York City who made a place like this veteran service center possible thank you I wish those of you of the radio audience could see this handsome young George Loomis I'm sure that all the other things such as dates no center will have to provide for him ladies and gentlemen mayor Edwire I'm sure you'll agree with me that we cannot meet in this center today without paying a sincere tribute to former mayor LaGuardia whom we owe much in the vision and helping in helping us establish the service that today we extend to the quarter millionth New York veterans since the day you came into office mayor Edwire and said to me that one of the most important duties that New York City has is to make sure that every returned serviceman gets the best possible start in resuming civilian life and that no one and nothing must interfere with that your every action has proven that you more than meant what you said you brought warm hearted sympathy understanding efficiency and you cut all the red tape to make it possible for us to function for George Loomis and the many who will follow him after all Mr. Mayor you're one of our returned servicemen and I doubt if any other veteran in this face would fight as many problems as you are I wish we could set up some facilities here to help you meet some of your problems but I'm certain of one thing that the whole community is ready to help you and stand behind you as our number one serviceman of New York the Honorable William Mayor of Wires applause applause applause applause applause Rosenberg Ruth General Eston George Loomis ladies and gentlemen I do join with Mrs. Rosenberg a hearty thanks to Mayor Forman Mayor LaGuardia for what he has done in establishing this service Mrs. Rosenberg I'm grateful to you for offering to help me in the few little chores that I have undertaken to perform down at City Hall but you are helping you have helped and here in this building you are giving the kind of help that I know the whole city is grateful for and that I am grateful for and that I know the veterans will be grateful for and to you sweet lady I thank you for that it's particularly gratifying to speak to the people of New York on the occasion which marks the visit of the 250,000 ex-serviceman to the newly combined New York Veterans Service Center nearly a third of the approximately 900,000 New Yorkers who found their way into every branch of the armed forces have returned to their city to their boroughs to the homes for which they fought those young men and the many who will not return represented the cities greatest asset very young vigorous filled with ambition New York needs that vigor the nation needs their ambition we cannot afford to let them become disillusioned the home front must not let them down today in effect they are asking us if America is ready to take them back to that better way of life for which they fought in pledging our continued service while honoring the quarter millionth veterans passed through New York City Veterans Service Centers we have a partial answer to that question New York City was the first community to establish a veterans service center in the country and with the consolidation of the original center at number 10 east 40th street and the center Maryland Guardia initiated here it can also be said we are rededicating the largest veterans service center in the country but merely dedicating a building isn't enough after the last war the people made the mistake of erecting handsome but useless war memorials today our people want living memorials not symbols living tributes to living men who fought for us New York City Veterans Service Center we think is a living result of community action this is a clearing house of information and health for the veterans as a building it doesn't mean very much the extent of its meaning will depend on the extent of community cooperation in making this a working veterans service center since April 1944 Mrs. Rosenberg realized the need for a New York Veterans Service Center she and the members of the New York Veterans Service Committee have been marshaling the resources of the community to serve the veterans under this one roof here at 500 Park Avenue we have a working producing organization representing an entire community at work with the sole purpose of aiding our veterans making sure that there is no painful reconversion period for them now most people know me as Mayor of City New York but I have another job one that is also important the title of that other job is Honorary Chairman of the New York City Veterans Service Committee those people who know me know how I feel about the veterans know also that I mean to make more of that job than just a title I mean to see to it that the veterans of New York receive every possible complaint and I pledge to you and your committee Mrs. Rosenberg that I shall back your work to the limit and to you George Loomis and to the thousands of veterans who will follow you here I pledge to continue the tradition of service that has been so well established here thank you will everyone please remain we're not through with the program governor dewey has hoped to be present we deeply regret that previous commitments made it unable for him to be here yet however send the message which asked to be read to this and the radio audience I'm going to ask Mr. Bernard Davis who is the director of this center and who with his staff are the people really responsible for this center working so efficiently I'm going to ask Mr. Davis to read Governor dewey's message Mr. Davis I'm very proud to read this statement from Governor Thomas E. Dewey as governor of the state of New York I am happy indeed to join with Mayro Dwyer Mr. Peru Mrs. Rosenberg General Erskine in exercises rededicating this great veterans service center here in this center New York state New York city and federal agencies will work in complete cooperation to bring to all veterans their rights and privileges and in addition a warm hearted helpful service of all units of government and of men of good will this job of helping the men and women of our armed forces to resume their place in our community cannot obviously be tackled effectively and intelligently by any single branch of government but through cooperation and teamwork by the city state and national government all of us will be able to concretely and practically express the gratitude and love of the American people for the veterans of this world war I am confident that the finest of service will come from this joint effort the gathering today is an expression of our firm resolution to work together in harmony to one great end the job of assisting each returning veteran to find his own fitting and happy place in a grateful progressive and prosperous nation ladies and gentlemen from the auditorium of the new york city veterans service center at 500 fork avenue we have brought you the ceremonies honoring the 250,000 veterans served at the center the speakers you have heard were Bernard Baruch General Gravesby Erskine the Honorable William O'Dwyer and Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg former regional director of the Warman Power Commission now executive chairman of the New York City Veterans Service Center and Mr. Bernard Davis who read Governor Dewey's message we return you now to the studios ladies and gentlemen new york city's industry have been most helpful in our joint committee effort of helping the veterans as an industrial representative our next speaker since the inception of the veterans committee has aided us with his knowledge and his enthusiasm he is a man who has never spared himself or his time in the prosecution of the war effort and is now doing the same in aiding the returned servicemen and women he is a business executive who has made the veterans problem part of his business I take great pleasure in introducing to you Mr. Claire Francis chairman of General Post every employer whether he operates a large company or a little country store feels a responsibility towards the veteran for it is business large and small which provides the all important job as a matter of fact these are not easy times in which to discuss reemployment because the immediate future is so uncertain I think we must recognize the difficulties which beset us currently but I feel we must look beyond them first of all it is work which results in production and it is production which results in jobs and more jobs when we really get down to work we will begin to produce when that happens there will be jobs and plenty of them at best the manufacturing industries employ only about 25% of the working population but when factories are busy opportunities will open up in sales and service where most of the jobs reside we may begin for a rather trying period I am simply being realistic in calling attention to that fact because I think veterans are realistic too and I hope that they will realize that I am still being realistic when I say that the long range outlook is bright meanwhile I don't know of a single progressive employer who hasn't made plans and taken as much action as he can to work the veterans smoothly back into civilian life as a matter of fact I don't like to hear the veteran discussed as a problem the great majority of veterans are not problems they are assets all they need is individual consideration and placement some training and thorough supervision a good many of them will need more time and tolerance before they become adjusted to the industrial routine again a few will have disabilities which will require special care and placement we owe a special debt to these men we must realize above all that when the disabled individual is placed in the job in which he can produce he is no longer handicapped as far as business and industry is concerned a lot of thoughtful preparation has been given by employers to these questions and I think that most of them are ready to meet their obligation as soon as they possibly can that's one note of hope here's another as fast as it can industry will expand it will build new plans launch new products develop new materials seek new markets this is definitely in the minds of the top management men of the major industry I am not talking of idle dreams but a concrete plans of blueprints drawn of money appropriated of job making machinery all ready to get into high gear as soon as materials become available that is a thought I would like to leave with the veterans lest they become temporarily discouraged the job of course is just one aspect of the many services which we as a people must render to returning veterans services which are being so ably performed by mrs. Rosenberg and her staff at this senate but the job comes first and I hope that none of us will lose sight of the future employers will want will not only want veterans they will need them and they will put them to work just as fast and effectively as they can meanwhile let's remember that today's problem is often tomorrow's opportunity the very things that worry us most are often the gates to the future which are opened by thoughtful cooperative hard work thank you Mr. Francis ladies and gentlemen we're still on the air we simply changed stations the role that labor played in our program of service to the veterans in New York City has been outstanding no request we have ever made produced anything but speedy and effective action much of this we owe to the efforts of our two representatives on our executive committee one of these is Mr. Louis Hollander president of the New York State CIO and a member one of our labor members of our committee he brings to the solution of our problems a great warmth and depth of understanding possessed by few men this gives me great pleasure to introduce to you Mr. Louis Hollander givekh Tfti 295 Psalm H Wash 305 Jenna Rosenberg I've lost my speech so I'll have to do without a script these days when so many people taught veterans and so very few do anything for veterans it's indeed a privilege to be here and to participate in this remarkable dedication of this fine institution that I imagine after the veteran has their own arm looking for an apartment running around looking to buy a suit of clothes or a pair of shoes or a white shirt and even furniture and if he can get it he'll find a house of refuge to come in the evening spend an hour and calm his nerves and get a good account it's indeed a good thing and because so many you are among the very few that really do things I'm happy to be here labor is doing it's share and I speak for CIO we have we are not doing for veterans because we consider them as a separate class or separate and part we consider the veterans as part of us part of labor part of the community part of our life and it is our aim to give the veteran all the protection that he deserves whether the protection as a human man on his job to get a decent wage yes I have nothing against the management they always try to get cheap labor whether veteran or no veteran and you have read the newspapers time and again that 25 dollar job were always offered a veteran even Assad now we are laborers here to protect the job of the veteran to protect him while he works to protect him while he's on strike as well we believe that he's entitled to earn a striker to get his unemployment insurance and not be rewarded with discrimination because he's a veteran he should strike without receiving aid and help in the form of unemployment insurance I can I don't need to assure the veterans of course we don't consider veterans problems I agree with my good friend Francis no one the unfortunate thing that we create problems we wouldn't create problems but we no need to solve the problem let us not create them first then let us not get a brain for us to solve the veterans of human beings we fought for the democracy that we claim to love so fighting all of us fighting for democracy for our great country he shall get the reward the only reward he can get is give him a good job to make a living give him good housing decent housing so he can have a warm home for himself and his family he lived in foxholes long enough give him a decent home to live in give him a decent environment the labor movement will give to the veterans that's what I've said here thank you thank you Mr. Hollander our next speaker is the other labor member of our executive committee in calling on him I'd like to express through him to all the union members he represents our deep felt gratitude for the marvelous cooperation that they have given us just as I want to express it to Mr. Hollander through to Mr. Hollander to his men you know Louis whether we're on the air or not if there were no problems there'd be no union leaders either the next speaker ladies and gentlemen a member of our executive committee is a real champion of labor and of veterans both through the war and since he has shown high courage leadership and ability to get things done for the veterans it gives me great pleasure to introduce the regional director the American Federation of Labor and my good friend William Collins thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you Mr. Rosenberg Edward Dwyer General Eskin English guest ladies and gentlemen I'm very much deemed it a privilege to be here today having watched this operation since it was just an experiment and now is a real functioning organization I'm very much in tune with what General Eskin said the part I've played in here as far as I can give my service is the poor fellows who come around with three or four pieces of paper when they land with me and they are really on the run around my job is to stop the running around I think Colonel McDermott who was the head of the selective service during the period told me one time he was willing to make a public statement there wasn't a case of the returned veteran which so far as our operation was concerned wasn't settled mutually to the satisfaction of all concern the American Federation of Labor in the City for the past year has been developing in each unit its own committee Central Trades and Labor Council that is the branch of the American Federation of Labor and the City have a standing committee to take up various problems that come with the returned veterans our biggest problem of course is the changeover from a war to a peacetime economy those who went through the changeover from a peace to a wartime economy found that we had to have unity that is the main factor in the changeover now from war to a peacetime economy every contribution to unity will make the reconversion period much more easier and it will give the veteran the things that he's looking for so far as I'm personally concerned and representing the American Federation of Labor the veterans are no problem to us at all we have this particular situation awaiting materials we still have men who are entitled to jobs who have not been demobilized but in each committee from each union that committee is charged when the veteran goes down of course if he's a member there's work he goes right to work and there's no question to that he is not a member he's told the best way for him to either go to school get a part time job or what are the best facilities for him to resume where he feels he can do the most good in the community so I say that if that unity is maintained and the purpose and spirit behind the service center that grew out of an experiment into a splendid organization such as is functioning now the burdens are not going to get any less they're going to be heavier but I feel that with the staff and with the cooperation of the mayor and all and the state and the federal government through the leadership of Mrs. Rosenberg of course who is the dynamo we're not afraid of the future and I'm sure that the the Veterans Service Center will continue to do the job that was set up to do thank you for your time thank you for your time Mr. Mayor ladies and gentlemen this concludes our program and I feel that all the private agencies city state and federal and all the many individuals who've made this service possible should feel that this day is really their day of satisfaction because they have been able to contribute something to help as Louis Hollander said with sympathy and understanding and sometimes a little more to you George Loomis and many others believe me if we had a stock of shirts we'd do even better it's a great day of satisfaction today but I assure you tomorrow you will receive no praise and no thanks you the people of New York from this center but you members of industry will receive requests for jobs you members of labor will receive requests to train men young men so that they may follow in the crafts that you've been in in the industries you've been in you colleges of New York to receive men till the seams burst of your buildings we are not going to hand out only praise in the city of New York we are going to ask all of you to keep that promise which many of you made deep down in your heart and many others made publicly to the men when they went overseas George Loomis may the great wine travel may many of your bodies hear of this place and our pledge will be to you and those who will come in here after you that never if we can help it will in this place a serviceman or a servicewoman receive no not run around applause Thank you.