Have you given serious thought to the possibility of an atomic attack? In the event of such a disaster, would you know how to help yourself and members of your community? We suggest that you listen attentively to the program which follows. This is the 11th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Network. For this program, this network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. To bring you essential information and instruction, to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done, to protect us in the event of atomic attack, and what you can do to help, each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here's Bill Leonard. I've called this week's program The Question Box merely because I wish to have a number of miscellaneous questions answered which we've received recently. I've therefore invited Martin Caden, Technical Specialist for the New York State Civil Defense Commission, to be with us to answer some of them. And then later on the second portion of the program, local stations will have an opportunity to answer questions pertaining to their individual communities. First, Mr. Caden, I'd like to have you answer a question which was brought up once before, but Mr. W. N. may not have heard it. He says, Plan for Survival is such an important program that it should reach as many people as possible. Why is it broadcast at so late an hour when most people have retired? I think I should first explain that this network is one which New York State stations organize voluntarily. Getting all these stations to broadcast simultaneously involved considerable difficulty due to long-term commitments. The 11.30 p.m. broadcast time was selected so that Plan for Survival could be broadcast by all simultaneously. And many stations rebroadcast the program at another hour during the week. Mr. M. B. from Putnam County writes, I've just witnessed the British film Seven Days to Noon, and it makes me realize what might be ahead for all of us. If there should be an atomic war, it would appear that efforts should be concentrated on evacuation. How are you set up for such evacuation? Unfortunately, the center of this question has missed the Civil Defense objective completely. Evacuation is not the primary purpose of our Civil Defense. Our goal is to maintain normal conditions and the maximum possible production of military goods, and to care for our citizens through organized self-help in the face of an enemy attack. The film Seven Days to Noon posed a unique problem, that of an atomic bomb hidden by a fanatic in the heart of London. Because the threat consisted of just a single bomb, because the fanatic had advertised the time it was to explode, and because there was no danger of a sustained attack, it was possible to interrupt temporarily the normal life of the city through a wholesale evacuation scheme. In wartime, this would be impossible. No community can exist as a productive force without its workers. It thereby loses its value to the nation if it undergoes wholesale evacuation. We can no more abandon our great cities under the threat of bombing than our sailors can abandon their ship when an enemy submarine is reported nearby. If severe and repeated attacks occur, none essentials will be moved away. These would include the aged and infirm, hospitalized persons, and mothers with preschool youngsters. But the men and women needed to keep the life of the city going must stay at their posts. Well, thanks, Martin. Your explanation was clear and really defined the Commission's policy on evacuation. Now, our next question, Miss E.D.B. wants to know, if there is a long-range program for providing food, should planting and harvesting become impossible due to the possibility of an all-out war? She asks, why can't women have canning bees and have the government store the food in country areas? Miss B. is incorrect when she assumes that all-out war will make planting and harvesting impossible. There is no conceivable reason for this to happen, although our food production might be somewhat impaired in the event of total war. The government always maintains considerable reserve food stocks so that, in a disaster, this reserve stock will be used for emergency feeding. Miss B.'s suggestion for canning bees, however, is an excellent one. Canning bees and similar projects, like the Victory Gardens of World War II, are an enormous saver of foodstuffs. Miss Pauline P. says, your program plan for survival intrudes on my peace of mind. She goes on to say that she thinks there's still time to negotiate with the North Koreans, Chinese, and Russians, and so put an end to the threat of World War III. What do you think of her point of view? What Mrs. P. overlooks, unfortunately, is the sad fact that it does not take two to start a war, only one. The civil defense task is not to start wars or to fight wars. It is to protect the civilian population and to maintain continued support of our fighting forces in the event of war. Civil defense is insurance. Insurance for survival, just as we maintain insurance for fire, theft, storms, and other activities detrimental to the general welfare. I would like to answer Mrs. P. from the bitter lessons of history, which have taught us time and time again that military unpreparedness, and that includes civil defense, is the surest way of inviting national suicide. The diplomacy of a helpless nation cannot be successful. In this era of swift and undeclared warfare, our only reliable means of survival is the fact that we are physically able to defend ourselves and inflict disastrous defeat upon any aggressor. Mrs. P. champions, and rightly enough, the cause of diplomacy to solve our international problems. But we dare not forget the lesson of history. Diplomacy is worthless without strength. In civil defense, we are providing insurance for our country and for our way of life, if and when disaster should come. Martin Caden, the next question is somewhat similar. Would you reply in the same vein to the physician who recently phoned to complain about the plan for survival program, this program, saying that it engendered fear in the minds of listeners? He went on to say that this program, as well as the instructions in case of attack, which are given over the radio, make people unnecessarily fearful and nervous and implied that we were warmongering. I believe the answer given previously answers this question. I might add one point, however. If we are to adopt a line of reasoning that the doctor proposes, then we might as well get rid of our firemen because they keep our children erotic with fear of their homes burning down, of our policemen because they remind people that they might be robbed and murdered, and so on. The analogy is the same. Thank you, Martin Caden, Technical Specialist for the New York State Civil Defense Commission for answering all these questions. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of the Civil Defense Program. This is Bill Leonard again. In our studios, representing the New York City Civil Defense Organization, is Mrs. Austin Tobin, wife of the Executive Secretary of the Port of New York Authority, and a volunteer on Commissioner Wallander's civil defense staff. Our first question, Mrs. Tobin, which came from Mrs. C. N., who lives in Queens, is this. Supposing an attack should be made on New York City that'd naturally be much property damage, industry would therefore be crippled. She'd like to know how people who depend on New York City for a livelihood would manage without money. Mrs. C. N. is right. An attack on New York City would certainly cripple business, at least temporarily, and cause a great deal of property damage. The Office of Civil Defense has based its emergency food and housing plans on the assumption that thousands of people will be left without homes and without food. The city is prepared to feed and lodge all these people, and if necessary, to provide transportation. The Emergency Welfare Division has developed shelters to feed and lodge people who will be taken care of for just as long as necessary, without paying one cent. Here's a letter from an elderly couple who say that they're living on the second floor of a private house and don't have access to the basement. Would you be good enough to tell them what they should do in the event of an attack? People who do not have access to basements or people who live in houses where the basements would not be suitable shelters should plan to use a central hallway without windows on a lower floor. If this couple live on the second floor of a two-story house, they should plan to use the hallway of the first floor as a shelter. We still receive many inquiries about how elderly people, the bedridden and the infirm, will be taken care of if they are alone at the time of attack. Would you be good enough to make that clear once more for the benefit of those who may not have heard some of our previous programs? Yes, indeed. For it is important for all to know that elderly people, the bedridden and the infirm, will be the special problems of the air warden. Each air warden will know his own district thoroughly and will know which people require this special attention. Wherever possible, families, neighbors or wardens should try to help these people to shelters. If that is impossible, they should be placed under their beds, safely removed from the windows. All handicapped people should procure double protection by arranging to have their neighbors make sure that they are all right. Mrs. B.B., Miss B.B. of Manhattan, complains about the way in which volunteers are treated. She says, The civil defense people here tell me that girls are not wanted as messengers. Your previous broadcast said they were. They also told me that there was no need for aircraft spotters. Your broadcast said there was. Would you answer, Miss B.B., please, and again enumerate various kinds of work for which volunteers, particularly women, are needed? Would you also repeat, particularly, where to go to sign up? Girls between 16 and 18 are wanted as messengers. The air warden service is anxious to have messengers working inside the report centers, and the medical emergency division also needs their services. Miss B.B. is right in thinking there is great need for aircraft spotters. I'm glad that I have the opportunity to say that there are more than 40 civil defense posts which women can fill. Volunteers should sign up at the nearest police station, fire station, welfare center, borough recruiting center, or at 500 Park Avenue. Here's another question from the same letter. What plans, if any, have been made to cope with traffic, Mrs. Tobin? The Office of Civil Defense has made detailed plans to cope with the traffic situation. First, all civilian traffic will stop immediately after an emergency. Only authorized vehicles performing emergency service will be permitted to move. Trains, buses, ships, and planes will all be mobilized for emergency service, bringing food, equipment, and medical supplies into the damaged areas and evacuating the injured. All of these means of transportation are already organized and trained to follow the carefully outlined procedure. Now to the next letter, again one with two questions. First, how can we obtain identification tags for our children? I understand the Board of Education is to issue them for all school children, but will they be issued to children of preschool age also? Yes, the Board of Education will issue identification tags to school children and children of preschool age. These tags will be issued just as soon as they are available. Mrs. PMC's second question is, I understand we'll be able to get information in first aid classes about what to do immediately following exposure to atomic blast. Will these classes give instructions for other injuries also? The first aid classes will provide instruction about all types of injuries that could be expected during an emergency. This will include not only the first aid procedure immediately following exposure to an atomic attack, but first aid handling of burns, concussions, and fractures. Now a final question, Mrs. Tobin. Mrs. ABF of Brooklyn says, I've just heard about Plan for Survival. As I know very little about the program or about civil defense, won't you please let me know where I can get some literature dealing with the subject of atomic attack? I think Mrs. ABF and everyone should know that there are two excellent booklets available. One called Survival Under Atomic Attack is published by the federal government and can be obtained by sending 10 cents to the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. I repeat, for Survival Under Atomic Attack, send 10 cents to the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. The other booklet is called You and the Atomic Bomb and is published in cooperation with the State Office of Civil Defense and can be obtained by sending 10 cents to Department E, Life Magazine, 9 Rockefeller Plaza. Thank you, Mrs. Austin Tobin, for giving your time to answering these questions directed to the New York City Civil Defense Commission. Next week, our topic will concern hospitals and institutions. This is Bill Leonard reminding you again that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the 11th program in a series called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, especially those dealing with hospitals and institutions. Please send any questions based on that topic or any questions bothering you about the problems confronting us in the event of an emergency. All mail should be addressed to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. We'll see you next week.