This is Eleanor Roosevelt, ladies and gentlemen. I want to talk with you about something that is very close to my heart, the Boy Scouts. It was 22 years ago that my husband first became actively associated with Boy Scout work. Since that time, more than 20 years ago, I've been constantly in touch with the Boy Scout organization and its program. I've seen the camps around New York City grow in size and in number. I've had an opportunity to know many of the Scout leaders and much of the overall program. But most significant of all, I have seen many times the fulfillment of the Boy Scout program in the boys themselves. That is why I'm asking you to cooperate wholeheartedly with the 76,000 Boy Scouts of Greater New York in their $2 million drive. Aim to help maintain Scout camps, improve facilities and equipment, organize new Scout units, and provide training for adult leaders. Thank you. This is Catherine Cornell. Sometimes it is hard to believe that the boys you and I see every day playing on the streets of New York will be the you and the me of 10 and 20 years hence. It is our responsibility to help these youngsters of today to become thinking men of tomorrow. We can fulfill a part of this responsibility within the next week by giving dimes and dollars to help maintain the program of the Boy Scouts of Greater New York. It is a program to serve 76,000 boys with trained leadership. Botany, camping, home repairs, aeronautics, art and soil conservation are only a few of the hundred plus activities that the Boy Scouts enjoy. But they need your help today to make these things available. So, give wholeheartedly to the Boy Scouts of Greater New York. This is Robert Montgomery speaking. Whenever I pick up a newspaper and read of another robbery or another crime against society or of people who are leading their youngsters into the paths of crime and wrongdoing, I think of a boy I once interviewed when I visited a reformatory. His story was like all the others we classify as delinquents. Improper guidance, lack of decent leadership, and no one who actually cared where he was or what he did. And then in that same paper I read another story. A story about some Boy Scouts greeting a group of newly arrived boys and girls in this country. Welcoming them in our land and helping them to make it their land. Scouting is a helping hand that molds our youth and defines citizens for the future. With your help. Here in New York City, the melting pot of the world, scouting wells all nationalities and races into a gigantic team. That's why I say that all of us must support New York City scouting in its present campaign for $2 million. Do your good turn today. Give to the Greater New York Council's Boy Scouts of America for a better tomorrow. This is Jackie Robinson. Baseball is a great game, but it requires skill, judgment, and good sportsmanship to be a good ball player. It's the same in the game of living. Our youngsters have to be taught self-reliance, skills, and how to get along with others. That's why I want to say a word about the Boy Scouts of America. Scouting teaches our young men these things. Here in New York City, the scouting program is doing this job by giving them experiences out of doors. Adventure. The opportunity to meet community leaders. That's why you should support the Greater New York Councils in their present drive to raise $2 million. Without your help, no scout camps can be built. No scout leaders can be trained. Don't let the New York City boys down. Give now. This is William Jansen, superintendent of schools in New York City, and happy to testify to the fine work being done by the Boy Scout movement. By helping boys to grow into the kind of men America must have, the Boy Scout movement is rendering an invaluable service to our entire country. Next year, the Boy Scout organization will need $2 million for its ever-expanding services to the boys of New York City. I know that every New Yorker will want to give our boys their chance to grow up in the happy and wholesome atmosphere of scouting. Send your contributions to the Greater New York Council, Boy Scouts of America, 120 West 42nd Street, New York City. When you give to the Boy Scouts, you are investing in the future of your boy and your neighbor's boy. In fact, in the future of all the real boys in your community. This is Quentin Reynolds. I want to tell you some reasons why you should support the $2 million finance campaign of the Greater New York Council's Boy Scouts of America, an organization serving your boys. During my experience as a foreign correspondent, I've had many opportunities to know boys throughout the world. A boot black in Italy. A kid scavenging in the streets of Greece. Boys in every starving European country. Boys without leadership, without any chance for a future. We must not let that happen to our boys. It is up to you and me to actively aid the Boy Scouts so that the boys of New York City will have a chance that the others miss. Give them leadership, outdoor adventure, wholesome fun by giving to the Boy Scouts now. This is Ed Sullivan, ladies and gentlemen. As a veteran newspaperman, I volunteered to aid the Boy Scouts of Greater New York to raise $2 million, and I'd like to tell you why. I've seen the miracles of good citizenship accomplished within the framework of the Boy Scout organization. Because, you know, it is a miracle to reduce juvenile delinquency. It is a miracle to teach youngsters to live together and understand each other's viewpoint in the American way. It is a miracle to permit boys to develop their skills. And it is a miracle to see youngsters become self-reliant. So that's why I'm asking you to give today to the Boy Scouts of Greater New York. There are, well, there are two million reasons they need two million dollars. So please give today to the Boy Scouts of Greater New York. This is Raymond Massey. I have an important message for you. It is a message concerning leadership. During the past 12 years, the increasing need for exceptional leadership in all fields, political, business, military, and spiritual, has served to demonstrate our lack of competent executives. We must rectify this. In the theater, as in all professions, we are constantly called upon to make decisions, to work with and guide our associates. I am, therefore, acutely aware of this need for training leaders from boyhood. I believe that the Boy Scout program is one of the best youth leadership training grounds. Our leaders need the Boy Scout ideals of integrity, judgment, enterprise, and self-reliance. By all means, contribute today to the finance campaign for the Boy Scouts of Greater New York. Help them reach their two million dollar goal for 1950. Thank you. Hello, nice people. This is Horace Hite. You know, there probably isn't a person listening to me who hasn't invested in his future in one way or another. Maybe your investment was in life insurance or in education or perhaps a home. Sure, we all invest for the future. But the other day, I saw something that would make the finest investment of all. I was crossing the Hudson River on the Alpine Ferry. And there was a bunch of kids at the front of the ferry, eager and excited, bursting with anticipation. It didn't take me long to find out that they were off for a weekend camping trip to one of the five year-round Boy Scout camps in the greater New York City area, the Alpine Scout Camp. These camps are the backyards for 76,000 New York boys. That means they serve one-fifth of New York City's young men. An investment far more important than dollars and cents. An investment in men. For remember, a real boy makes a better man. A very good man. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment. An investment.