Manhattan Center for the General Session of the American Public Health Association, the 72nd such annual meeting to take place. This is the largest gathering of public health leaders and personnel ever to be held. Outstanding figures in the public health movement from the United States, Canada, Cuba, and Mexico are here, as well as representatives of the United Nations World Health Organization, and special speakers from Britain and Norway. The Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of New York City, is expected to address the welcoming address to the association. Presently presiding is Dr. Charles Walensky, President of the American Public Health Association. And now over to Dr. Walensky. I'm not only influenced by our memories of the splendid hospitality of the citizens of this great metropolis, but also by the historic knowledge that it was in this city, more than three quarters of a century ago, exactly 77 years ago, that ten men assembled, and in an exceedingly visionary way, laid the foundation for this organization, which concerns itself with the protection of the health of the people. How well this organization has met its responsibility is closely linked up with the history of the epical development of public health, not only in the United States, but in the country and in the world. I shall not burden you all with statistics which are familiar to most of us who have assembled here, except to emphasize one or two fundamental factors which prove the value of organized health service as standardized, recommended, and developed by this organization of public health workers. We are reliably informed by one of our great historians that the general mortality rate of the city of New York at a concurrent period with the founding of this organization was about 28 for every thousand of its inhabitants. Today, it is slightly over ten per thousand. This representing in this community alone the saving of thousands of lives every year. And for this, and for this continuing program, we are indebted to the ten men to whom I have already alluded. In the structural development, ladies and gentlemen, of our public health organization, we are concerned with the efforts on the local level, the state level, the federal level. In this pattern are involved the earnest efforts of all who work together shoulder to shoulder for the common good. We are privileged tonight to have with us a representative of the state, the state health officer of the Empire State of New York. We know something about Dr. Hillibow's magnificent performance as head of the tuberculosis division of the United States Public Health Service, and citizens of New York City and of New York State are familiar with his leadership in Albany. It is with a great deal of pleasure and pride that I present to you Dr. Herman Hillibow, the state commissioner of health of the New York State. Dr. Hillibow. Mr. President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, the Empire State is proud to welcome the visit of such a galaxy of stars to its universe because New York State, and New York City included, are as complex as Einstein's general theory of relativity, and a special one for that matter. And yet, in their daily course, they seem to go on as if they were controlled by the same immutable force. And I think perhaps this is true, particularly in the field of public health, because it is the force to maintain and improve the well-being of all of the people. And certainly health forms the true foundation of this continued and improved well-being. It is rather a remarkable thing that in New York State, public health knows no political boundaries nor hindrances. It is a great credit to the governor of this state and to the mayor of this first city of the world that political policies do not dictate the content nor the course of public health in this great community of over 15 million people. So it would appear to be particularly fitting that the 77th meeting of the American Public Health Association is held in such a place, where the past is held in great respect and not just in retrospect, where the present is carefully studied and evaluated as only public health workers can evaluate the social and economic aspects of public health, and even more important, where the future health of the nation can be made secure by diligent application of the orderly array of public health knowledge accumulated by public health workers from all over the world. With these few simple words, I have great pleasure in welcoming you in the name of Governor Thomas E. Dewey to the Empire State for your very important meetings. Thank you. Thank you. And now we see that Mayor O'Brien has arrived, and he is being led to the podium by Dr. Charles Walensky for the welcoming address. Shaking hands now with Dr. Walensky, and in a moment we shall hear an address of welcome. Mr. Mayor, I know I reflect the sentiment of this audience in expressing to you their very deep appreciation for taking off the time at the culmination of what I would perhaps reasonably consider an accurate political campaign to come here and place the stamp of approval upon the efforts of an organization which is concerned with the health and the welfare of the American people. And I want to also avail myself of this opportunity to express to Mayor O'Dwyer the very deep appreciation of the public health workers of America for his continuing, staunch, and solid support of an adequate health program best reflected in his magnificent interest and in his appointment of Dr. Mustard about two years ago. We share with him in the regrets he expressed and the words which I borrowed from one of the great newspapers of the Metropolis in which he said that his shoes are not going to be easy to fill and therefore you're going to take time about it. For that we thank you too. And at this moment it affords me much pleasure to present to you the chief executive of the largest city of the world faced with administrative responsibilities second only, we are informed to that of the president of the United States. I have the honor and the pleasure to present to you Mayor O'Dwyer of New York City. He is rising now to greet Mayor O'Dwyer who is turning around looking healthy, suntanned and well, ready to greet in this assemblage the American Public Health Association. The Mayor. Mr. Mustard, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply regret that I have a prepared speech. I'll frankly tell you someone prepared it for me. If you don't mind, I'll read it because it has been distributed to the press and if the committee will give me a few minutes I'd like to talk sort of off the shoulder to you about public health. You mind? All right. I tried to make a deal with the newspaper men outside to please take my word for her that I read this thing. No dice. Of course, it has basic truths in it. Among others, it said that New York City is an eternal host. Well, we just got finished hosting yesterday. That's true, isn't it? United Nations was open. We had the president here. We had everybody around. Each day, it says, we greet many thousands of visitors. Interest in this wonder city, they say, never diminishes. That's true. You see, all these things are filling in. People come here for reasons as varied and diverse as their individual tastes. To the decencies of human living. Well-being in mind. Well-being in body. Well-being in surroundings. Well-being in human relationships. Well-being in functioning together as society. Viewed in this light, the horizons of public health are unlimited. The greatest resource of our city is our people. Their health and well-being is its basic strength and power. I conceive it as the principal task of the government of the city to maintain a healthy and wholesome and wholesome atmosphere in which the creative talents of our people can grow in achievement of our collective happiness. Public health includes the homes in which people live, the neighborhoods in which their children grow up. children born in slums have little chance to escape illness. Slums are breeding places for disease. Treatment for disease is not enough. The root cause is often the slums themselves. The first public health task of a city is to get rid of its slums. public health requires playgrounds and parks and recreational facilities. The schools which the children attend play a great part in their health. Well-equipped hospitals are manifestly essential to the public health program. Health centers and health services are needed for the detection and the prevention of disease and for the preservation of health. Our aged, the infirm, and the injured must be cared for. A neglected child is neither a healthy child nor a happy one. We must see to it that our children are not neglected. There are a multitude of other health activities which are the day-to-day concern of a city government and although regarded as routine are of immense importance to public health. They have everything to do with the well-being of a city's people. During your stay in the city, you will have an opportunity to see the work of our health department and our department of hospitals at first hand. You will observe the tremendous housing, parks, school, health center, and hospital construction which is changing the face of our city. I know that you will have an experience in the city which will be both instructive, pleasant, and at times when you see the heritage of 50 years unpleasant. I have paid my debt to the press. Now may I talk? Ladies and gentlemen, we are a city of 8 million people. You've been listening to the address of welcome tendered by His Honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer, to the participants in the American Public Health Association's 77th annual meeting. Earlier, we heard from Dr. Herman E. Hilleboe, Commissioner of New York State's Department of Health, and Dr. Charles F. Walensky, President of the American Public Health Association. We return you now to the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria for the Herald Tribune Forum. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. 7th passion of public health αυτastic 25 could have been blessed by Mission Head to theoch 4 6 6 I would be less, I would be colder than cold, did I not appreciate the compliment that your president paid me in referring to the appointment of Dr. Mustard as Health Commission. I would be less than grateful if personally, and on behalf of every man, woman, and child in this city, if I didn't take this opportunity to express our united gratitude to Dr. Mustard and to Dr. Rappoli for his having accepted one of the hardest tasks in this city. And now that circumstances make it necessary for him to leave, he has given me plenty of time to select his successor. But I have returned that compliment. I have given him plenty of time to select his successor. Thank you. No one who understands how important health is to our city would look upon this appointment as anything less than one of the most important things that we could do. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to take you for a moment out of the periphery of your thinking. Maybe I'm wrong. Perhaps you're dedicated to those rules and regulations of the health department. Perhaps you think that is awe that a city needs to attend to in order to guarantee healthful surroundings to its people. I have tried to cover the subject lightly in this official document, which posterity will undoubtedly read with a great deal of interest. I like to tell you this. Of course, as we're going along, every health measure of the health department is important. But, I say, that is not enough. There is a broader stroke of the brush that enters into the picture of city government if we're going to guarantee the health of the people, things that are more fundamental than even the best laid plans and programs of your health department. How, for example, can you hope to have health? No matter what you do in the health department, if you're going to have slums in a city, if you're going to have children born in these awful places called homes that dot not only our city but every city of a century or a century and a half old. How can you possibly expect health to come out of these homes? There's only one thing to do with the slums, and that is to hit them with an iron ball and build decent housing where the little ones and their grown-ups can have a chance to breathe decent air, have a chance to live. And all the health programs in the world cannot take the place of that program. Those of you who come into the city temporarily on a visit, take a look at what we're trying to do in this city in the field of slums. We have a program almost completed that will house 193,000 persons in new, low-cost homes. Slums torn down, slums torn down, new homes in their places. That, in my way of thinking, is a necessary health program. How many cities in this state have 193,000 persons as a population? More than that, our further program, if we get the federal money which is promised to us, means that we will build 80,000 units more. And both combined will mean housing, decent, low-cost housing for a half a million of our people. Schools, the children have to spend a good portion of their time in schools. They don't like it. You and I didn't either. But they've got to go. New York City, in three and a half years, has built or planned for 58 new schools. Only this afternoon, I broke ground for the 45th new school in the last three and a half years, and they cost us $2 million a copy. We have 77 old schools that are unfit for children in their present condition. We have a program running into many millions of dollars to fix them up temporarily until such time as we take care of places where we have new schools. Then we'll come back and hit them with the iron ball and get new ones. One of the worst conditions around this city affecting health is the frightful condition of the public waters around the city. Now, we have more than 200 miles of shoreline, and the waters that lap those shores are so polluted that it's not a healthy condition. At least in this room, at this meeting, you will understand what the surge of 8 million people in our public waters, less what is cleaned up by a few handful of sewerage disposal plants that don't take care of more than 20 or 30 percent of it. Together with what happens in New Jersey and the upstate towns, you'll easily understand that if that has gone on during all these years when New York City has gone into growing pains, that your health department can be tops. But something might happen in the hot summer's day that all the health departments in the world couldn't prevent. There is just one way to prevent that, and that is by a program of sewerage disposal. Our program, ladies and gentlemen, which will start, has started, and which will continue, will last between four and five years until we've finished it. The cost, including three interceptor sewers, will be $98 million. I won't go into other programs that are intimately within the functions of the health department at all. Dr. Mustard will tell you about that. I merely point out, in a few items, that there are many things in the management of our city that are not specifically within the functions of the health department that are still most important to the health of the people in it, even though they are not included in the programs of your thinking in health department work. And they're expensive, and every one of them lead towards one objective, that is the health of the people. Now, we here in New York have tried our best to meet the needs within the health department that was not considered in the early days, nor was it considered four years ago when we were talking about it. One of them had to do with what we're doing for our children. I asked Commissioner Potter, Commissioner Hilliard, and Mr. Beam of the Budget Director's Office to actually make a list of what we've tried to do in three and a half years for children. And when we spoke, when we finally dug out the records of day-by-day activities of, shall we say, the park department programs, of health department programs, of welfare programs, of youth bureau programs, when we, and even the police department and its police athletic league programs, when we dug them all out, it was intended to be a speech in connection with the matter of great public interest in this city that your president referred to, that is, the election of a mayor on November 8th. I found that the program was so extensive I couldn't possibly cover it in a half an hour, so we decided to make five or six separate releases. Now, why do I tell you this? You're not voting in New York? There isn't a vote in the House. They, the chances are ten to one that if you did vote, I wouldn't get it anyhow. I tell it to you because I want to show you that modern thinking in government is thinking in terms of health and happiness of the people. And I want to, at this moment, to again stress that government alone without great support from people who are interested will find it difficult to get these programs across. You don't think for a half a minute that when I talk about $98 million for sewerage disposal that my opposition which says I'm entirely too expensive a commodity to run New York isn't thinking of that $98 million. you know that in times of stress, political stress, when they'll use anything under the sun against you, that you need help among the populace to support your program. there is such support in abundance and there is no team of citizens in our city that has given me for three and a half years more support in health programs than Mr. and Mrs. Albert Lasker Lasker and I wish now to thank them both in your presence for all they have done in the field of health in this city. Good luck to you. So long. Thank you. The planning for an annual meeting of the American Public Health Association with an enrollment of approximately 5,000 who come from all sections of the North American continent and from the Latin Americas involves much detail which the association must necessarily share with local community leaders particularly the health commissioner of a city for which the convention is planned. I have already spoken of the gracious hospitality of the people of New York and the very fine conventions we have been privileged to hold in your city. No one has worked harder and more fruitfully for the success of this convention than the chairman of the local committee Dr. Harry Mustard. But we appreciate him not only for his devotion and willingness to the end that this convention may be a success but for his magnificent contributions to the cause which are so close to his heart. A great public health worker a man with magnificent social consciousness a man who both as an administrator and as a teacher has demonstrated his ability to the end that a description of him best appeared in a recent editorial which I shall take the privilege of reading from one of your great dailies. It says that the resignation of Health Commissioner Mustard after two years in city service is a loss to the city. He has ably administered a large department with more than 4,000 employees with a budget of almost $14,000,000 a year and executive of broad and diverse qualifications. He must also and does possess a professional background subject to the most searching examination. We wish him well as he moves on to a new field which offers a large opportunity for service. We share with the opinion in this editorial of the great loss to the city of New York and of the difficulty that it's going to be to find an equally competent successor. I present to you the chairman of the local committee, the Health Commissioner of New York, Dr. Harry S. Mustard. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, I should say, distinguished guests, as far as were Lion, двّ出去 with a ot organization, to join us to help and go and to have gone on phone with people take away the home and can seem to him don't anyone unt as