Officers and men of the Fire Department of New York City and friends of the Fire Department, His Honor, Mayor Impeletari, is slightly delayed. He'll be here presently. In the meantime, it gives me pleasure, as Commissioner of this great Department, to address this fine multitude of people. We're gathered here today to pay our annual tribute to those brave members of the Fire Department who have made the supreme sacrifice in the performance of their duty in the past year, and to our comrades still with us who performed deeds of valor above and beyond the call of duty. Few people in this city realize that every time our firemen respond to an alarm to protect the people and their property in this great metropolis, that the firemen literally take their lives in their hands. And it is with profound regret that I announce that four of our heroic firefighters were killed in the line of duty during the past year. Besides these four brave men who have joined their fathers, 430 others of our dauntless firefighters were placed on the roll of merit for bravery during the year 1950. Having only a handful of medals to go around, a bare 20 or 25, some 400 of our intrepid firefighters must go without a medal. And in this regard, it's only fair and just to say that there is not one of our more than 10,000 firefighters who would not have earned a medal in 1950 had the opportunity presented itself. In saying this, I am not alone, for every single member of our uniformed force holds the same view. Not only is this a brave department, but it's the best and most efficient in the world. When I say that, it's not a mere figure of speech, but an incontrovertible fact, for our department held more than 99.9% of all fires to the area involved upon the arrival of our firefighters in 1950 and in the preceding two years. And I am happy to report today that in the first quarter of this year, we maintained the same prodigious record. And when the report for the second quarter is prepared, a few weeks hence, I'm sure that it will show the same unsurpassed percentage. The medals that the friend of the good people of this city, His Honor, Mayor Impeleteri, will presently pin on the tunics of our dauntless firefighters after he is awarded the fireman's medal of supreme sacrifice to the next of kin are for deeds that challenge the imagination. Their brushes with death were countless. As many of you will well realize when you consider the fact that during that year of 1950, they extinguished the staggering total of 44,370 fires. And many of their escapes from death were little short of miraculous. I can say warmly and honestly that the people of this great city have no more faithful servants than these great and honorable firemen of our department. Now, as I read the names, will the following step forward to receive their medals. Mrs. Mabel Chadwick, widow of fireman Walter W. Chadwick, late of Hook and Ladder Company, 26, who died at 7.15 p.m. on March 26 from coronary occlusion caused while fighting a fire at 65 West 115th Street in the borough of Manhattan. Mrs. Chadwick, Your Honor. The mayor of the city of New York, the audible Vince Larram Pelletieri is now greeting Mrs. Chadwick and her young son. And in just a moment, we'll award the posthumous medal to Mrs. Chadwick, honoring the memory of fireman Walter Chadwick, who made the supreme sacrifice. There are four such awards in today's fireman's and fire department tribute here at City Hall Plaza. The mayor is now saying a few words to Mrs. Chadwick and the boy. And the photographers are demanding their essential picture, and we're very glad they do because it is through the medium of this picture that we're able to recapture the scene. And that, of course, speaks volumes, much more so than sound or word, because through the picture we can recapture the essence of the scene itself, emotionally and every other way. The boy seems very much affected and the mayor is cheering him up. I wouldn't be surprised if he broke down completely under the gesture of affection from Mayor Impeletere. Mrs. May B. Rummel, widow of Lieutenant Robert E. Rummel, late of Hook and Ladder Company 165, who died at 11.15 a.m. on October the 16th from injuries received in a fire at 113 15, 229th Street in the Borough of Queens. Now Mayor Impeletere greets Mrs. Rommel and the medal is being awarded. He's saying a few words. It seems some representatives of her family are with her as well. And he is now pinning the mayor on the lapel of her, pinning the medal on the lapel of her coat and having a little conversation with Mrs. Rommel and the members of the family. It's a difficult role indeed for the family to undertake in the blaze of all this publicity, but if they had any idea of the high esteem in which we worship the courage of these wonderful men, they would feel proud even at the sacrifice, great as that is and as difficult as it may seem. And now the photographers are demanding a special picture here and it's taking a little time and we're very glad they do. The mayor is posing, Commissioner Monaghan, and there's quite a family group there and it's really worthwhile to have this picture with the fire department background and the beautiful precincts of City Hall. It's a marvelous thing to think that we can see a little bit of green grass and trees in a city where property is so much a square inch under the circumstances. The encourageability of the human heart is one of the things that endures and it's a mighty good thing it does. The little touch of green is the other traffic signal to go. The red is the color of the fire department and very often they stop after they go. As the Coast Guard slogan says, you may go out but you don't need to come back and very often they don't either. And these first four awards are posthumous awards honoring those who made the supreme sacrifice. Commissioner Monaghan now reads the next citation. All right. Mrs. Sophia Engel. Widow of fireman Peter Engel laid of Engine Company 232. Fireman Engel died at 1055 AM on January the 5th from injuries sustained at Engine Company 86, being the fireboat Harvey. There's a very young boy down there, no doubt the son of fireman Engel and the mayor is greeting him very tenderly. It's quite a moment for a youngster like this in a scene like this. But the mayor's easy manner and his truly sympathetic one carries it very beautifully. He has a few words with Mrs. Engel before he presents the medal. Commissioner Monaghan is in there too and the photographers are asking if the mayor pose in the actual attitude of pinning the medal on the lapel of Mrs. Engel's coat. The weatherman's a good fireman today. He sent us a beautiful June day for this occasion for which we're very thankful because under the circumstances, every honor and everyone who can, should, and always will honor the men of the fire department and the supreme test of duty that follows in the line of work in a great city like this. We pass the facades of these buildings without realizing the technical apparatus behind them, the chemicals, and all the other matters. And yet when the fire department rolls up, they never know what they're going to see or what is going to happen. But they're trained technicians in all the various forms of techniques that are part of the city itself, the complex part of the city. And these men meet the occasion under very great duress and circumstances at times. And naturally, there can be no rehearsal. The building takes fire, they go to it, and they very often do not have the full information of what might be in there at the time or what has been stored there in the meantime between an inspection or a listing of what the inventory might be. And yet if it could be a dangerous or combustible material, there's an explosion, a wall crashes, men are buried under it, and sometimes the fatal result is a thing that history records. Now Commissioner Monaghan is back to read the next citation. Mrs. Grace Michellati, widow of fireman Michael R. Michellati, late of Hook and Ladder Company 116, who died at 5.30 p.m. on March the 12th from injuries sustained while fighting a fire at 4242 Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City. Now the mayor is greeting Mrs. Michellati. There's youngsters there too, apparently indicating that most of these men were young men, and we often wonder what the youngster thinks when she looks around and misses the face of her daddy, but if she has any comprehension at all she must realize when she sees everybody assembled here that he was a great man and a hero and we're here to honor him. The mayor is talking, the mayor is pinning the medal on the little girl, I guess it was at Mrs. Michellati's suggestion. And the cameramen are certainly having a feast now with this picture. Little girl is quite poised, dressed in a blue dress with pink hair ribbons. Youngsters today certainly have a very interesting experience in the modern and complex scene. When we were growing up we'd never dream of a situation like this and we'd never carry it with the poise that these youngsters do. Possibly the educational features and the school systems of our city make them aware of the potentialities of the day and the moment. The mayor has to do a little calisthenics to get down there to pin that medal on too. He's down practically in a stoop position and having a very nice little conversation now he's shaking hands with the young lady. The cameras are clicking and this is the kind of a picture that always is so interesting to see when it's translated to the various newspapers and periodicals. And that completes the list of casualties in the fire department, the posthumous awards and now Commissioner Monaghan will resume with the reading of the awards. Mrs. William Dobbins, daughter of the late Captain Edward F. Meany, formerly assigned to Company One, has presented the Stevenson Medal for having maintained the best disciplined and most efficient company in the department in 1950. Now the mayor's greeting the youngsters again in this picture. They've apparently improved those pins a little bit because I remember one time, one design pin on one of these occasions was so bad it seemed almost impossible to make any kind of progress. They generally wound up by bending the pin and never putting it through the fabric at all. I believe that was improved upon and the mayor at that time had quite a lot of difficulty. These medals seem to go pretty smoothly and the placing of them on the coats and garments of those to whom the awards are given. Now Commissioner Monaghan. And ladies and gentlemen, belatedly, the departmental medals are being presented today to the next of kin of firemen who died in the line of duty in 1946. The fireman's medal of supreme sacrifice was presented to these ladies on medal day in 1947. And now, to make amends for the oversight, I will first call Mrs. Helen C. Burkery, widow of fireman Michael J. Burkery, late of company 203. Fireman Burkery died at 9.30 a.m. on June 14, 1946 from submersion while fighting a fire on the SS Congo at the foot of Kane Street, Brooklyn on June 13, 1946. The mayor is making the award to Mrs. Burkery and she tries to go away but the cameramen stop her and then issue those peremptory orders to the mayor and the commissioner because it's necessary, of course, that they get a picture and everybody wants them to and they do. And now, the lady is posing with the mayor on one side and Commissioner Monaghan on the other. Now Commissioner Monaghan is coming back to the roster and will read the next citation. Mrs. Genevieve Gillis, widow of fireman James R. Gillis, late of engine company 90. Fireman Gillis died at 7.15 a.m. on June the 20th, 1946 from injuries sustained while responding to an alarm from Box 3,225, the Bronx on June 20th, 1946. Mrs. Gillis has a little boy and little girl with her and the mayor is again paying great attention to the youngsters and whatever bashfulness or inconvenience they might feel in this blaze of publicity. They seem quite overcome and put at ease when the mayor talks to them. He's pinning the medal now on the dress of Mrs. Gillis and as soon as the cameramen finish with their pictures, we'll hear the next award read by Commissioner Monaghan. Now Mrs. Gillis and the youngsters go back, escorted politely by the guard of honor. Mr. Monaghan. Widow of fireman Daniel M. Krause late of Engine Company 15. Fireman Krause died at 6.15 a.m. December 30, 1946 from injuries sustained while returning from an alarm from Box 239, Manhattan on December 30, 1946. Chief, this is the father and mother of the late fireman Krause. The father and mother of fireman Krause are accepting the award from the hands of Mayor Impeletere and of course Commissioner Monaghan courteously goes over and joins the mayor so as to bring the full weight of official honor to the situation. The honor of the department through the commissioner and the honor of the city through the mayor. He's tenderly shaking hands now with the father and mother and there's a few little words of consolation and they return to their place. Commissioner Monaghan. Now, I'm going to call the following and will they please step forward. The James Gordon Bennett Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman first grade Victor F. Rossi, Hook and Ladder Company 120 for rescuing two women from a fire in a four-story old law tenement at 162 Glenmore Avenue, Brooklyn just before midnight on October 21, 1950. Is fireman Rossi? Will you step up, please? Fireman Rocky is now greeted by the mayor. He salutes and the mayor greets him and he's getting a hand. Out of deep respect for those who made the supreme sacrifice, there was no applause at the awards, the posthumous awards, but now, of course, to award the living hero a visible and audible signal of applause is quite appropriate. These men take it all on their stride. They sometimes look like big bashful boys when they step up here to receive these awards. Nine times out of ten, they'd rather receive them quietly over in some dark corner in the municipal building. But it's better and more fit that the city should know what is required of particularly the great armies of blue, the police and fire department and the sacrifice that very often goes with that requirement. Now, the photographers are demanding a picture here and they're getting it. The chief of the department, the commissioner, the mayor, this fireman will certainly have a very nice picture to present his family. I hope the photographers are thoughtful enough to make a copy and send them one. I suppose they will at that. If he was in my family, I know I'd want the picture and I'd want to have it framed and I'd want it hanging where everyone could see it. The cameras are still clicking. The fireman himself looks quite pleased with the situation and well he should because he's got the top rank of the fire department right there with him and the mayor of the city of New York. and the wonderful thing, the fortunate thing is that he's able to stand here and take it and it's not just another posthumous award where a man has been called upon to make the complete sacrifice in an emergency in which he had no connection whatever but performed in the line of duty. And now Commissioner Monaghan with the next citation. The Hugh Bonner Medal and Department Medal is to be awarded to Lieutenant Joseph I. Kelly of Engine Company 26 for rescuing Mr. Israel Meiselman from a fire in the 16-story loft building at 248 252 West 35th Street in the Borough of Manhattan at noon on March the 15th, 1950. The mayor greets fireman Kelly, commissioner likewise. And now the medal again is being awarded and pinned on the tunic of the fireman. It's interesting to see that many of these men to step up to receive an additional award have also been cited on previous occasions. And in a city like this where the apparatus rolls continually, a man has many opportunities unrehearsed and undreamed of and he very often comes back from the role on the roll of honor of the city. The Chief John J. McGillicott Medal and Departmental Medal awarded to fireman first grade Thomas E. Doyle, Engine Company 315 for rescuing Mrs. Dorothy Stetter and two of her children from a fire in a two-story brick dwelling at 150 07 78th Street, Flushing, Queens on the morning of March 27, 1950. Fireman Doyle. Chief, is Fireman Doyle here? Yes. All right, we'll do it. The Thomas E. Crimmins Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman first grade Oscar Weingart, Engine Company 315 for rescuing Richard Stetter, the six-year-old brother of the children rescued by fireman Doyle in the same fire. Fireman Weingart is getting a hand from the audience here. The mayor stops up and greets him. There goes the medal being placed on the tunic of the fireman's uniform by the mayor himself in the presence of Commissioner Monaghan. The cameras click and another historical picture goes into the annals and files of the fire department. A few pleasant words of greeting from Mayor Impeletari, a handshake, and the retirement retires to the line of duty. And now Commissioner Monaghan with the next citation. The Thomas F. Doherty Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman first grade Francis P. V. O'Brien of Hook and Ladder Company 110 for rescuing Mrs. Hattie Williams and her month-old son from a fire in a three-story frame tenement at 357 Cumberland Street, Brooklyn at three o'clock on Christmas Eve morning in 1950. Fireman McBride now receives the medal from the hands of the mayor of the city of New York. Christmas Eve is no time for a fire, is it? And yet, a signal comes in regardless of the day or the hour and the man is there to respond. And the response to that particular signal is the award which he receives here today at the hands of Mayor Impelletary. Fireman McBride is now being greeted by the mayor and Commissioner Monaghan. And after a picture or two, he retires to the rank and file of his comrades. Commissioner Monaghan. The William H. Todd Memorial Medal and Department Medal is to be awarded to Lieutenant John T. O'Connor Engine Company 76 for rescuing Mrs. Bridget Egan 80 years of age at a fire in the five-story Old Law tenement at 65 West 100th Street, Manhattan during the forenoon of September 20th, 1950. We have with us a delightful little fellow, William H. Todd III, son of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Todd II and a great-grandson of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Todd, the donor of the medal. Where is William H. Todd? The young Todd grandson is in a little suit all his own, a regular little manly suit with a white cap on, and he's a very interested spectator now as the Todd Medal is awarded to Fireman O'Connor for his brave rescue of the citation just read by Commissioner Monaghan. The cameraman is certainly demanding pictures this time, too. Who has it? Oh, yes. Chief Lostess has the Todd youngster now in his arms, and maybe he's practicing for a rescue. The youngster's taking it pretty good, too. If he don't start crying in the middle of it all, they're making quite a fuss over him, but youngsters have a way of their own. They're not too much impressed by anything that doesn't impress them if they feel that way about it. But he's carried this thing off very nicely. Now he's back in his daddy's arms again, and Fireman O'Connor has certainly been featured and honored here today in the presence of the mayor and fire commissioner, the loved ones of his family and friends who have gathered here in City Hall Plaza for these fire department awards. The youngster's quite interested in the flash bulbs of the camera. Young Mr. Todd is making his public debut very early as a private citizen. But he's quite at ease. He's having a little chin now with the mayor. Chief Loftus seems to have quite an interest in the youngster. Well, the cameramen are getting the kind of a picture they love because the youngster's putting on a pretty good little act here. And now that scene honoring Fireman O'Connor breaks up, and Commissioner Monaghan is back with the next citation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mayor William O'Dwyer Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Frederick W. Goble of Hook and Ladder Company 41 for aiding in the arrest of two men accused of the murder of patrolman Alfred Loretto of 1870 Herring Avenue, Bronx. The great armies of blue have their own training both ways, you know, and very often a fireman assists the police department. I remember in the previous occasions of this kind, the firemen and policemen were honored together in a duel ceremony here at City Hall. And very often it is the assistance that the fire department gives the policemen that a junction is formed between those two great armies sworn to protect the life and property of the people of the city of New York. The mayor seems to be having a little tough time with that pin, but no, it's all right now. It's working. He shakes hands with our firemen and Commissioner, likewise, he retires to the ranks and Commissioner Monaghan reads the next citation. Thank you. The Albert S. Johnson Medal is awarded to patrolman William C. Muller, Fire Patrol 6, for rescuing a helplessly crippled woman, Alita Tiffany, who is 74 years of age from a fire on the top floor of a six-story tenement at 860 East 161st Street in the Bronx. I thought that fireman acted a little lame. Sometimes they carry injuries from these broadcasts, from the fires, not from the broadcasts, I beg your pardon. My subconscious is working. Someday we'll have a television camera down here when the city is fortunate enough to develop its television facilities and description will not be necessary. You'll see the entire scene. Quite a lot of greeting now between the chiefs of staff of the fire department, the commissioner, and the mayor. And our fireman steps back modestly to the ranks of the fire department. The mayor seems to want to have an additional word with him, however. And that is being achieved. The cameramen are having a few innings. The next award is the Brooklyn Citizens Medal and Department Medal awarded to Captain Arthur J. Glenn of Hook and Ladder Company 127 for rescuing Audrey Baskin, aged two and a half years, in the forenoon of March 2, 1950, from the burning three-story tenement of 888 Fulton Street in Brooklyn. Now the mayor greets our fireman. The medal is handed to him and he's busy again attaching another award to the tunic of a fireman. The commissioner joins him as the commissioner and the fire department. The commissioner has so courteously done in each case here today, seeming anxious and pleased and happy to think that it is the men of his department that are receiving these awards here for courage, even outside the line of duty where occasion calls for it, and maintaining the honor and prestige not only of the city, but of their segment of the city through the department which they represent. And the fire department is indeed a very, I might almost say, unpleasant one. When we hear of these March days and these December days and think of water and freezing and all the conditions that enter into the conditions under which the fireman works, well, we understand a little better, don't we? Commissioner Monaco. The next award is the Mayor LaGuardia Medal and Department Medal to fireman first grade William P. Masterson of Hook and Ladder Company, 40, for rescuing five children from a fire in the five-story tenement at 358 West 124th Street, Manhattan shortly after midnight on February 22nd, 1950. That's a remarkable record indeed, five children, as you have just heard Commissioner Monaghan cite Commissioner Masters with. The Mayor seems very happy indeed to make this award and he's talking to our fireman all the time that he's pinning the medal on. No, it didn't pin, did it? It's another one of those bulky pins. Someday someone will invent a way whereby this attachment can be made without all this fuss. It happens very often with dignitaries inside City Hall on formal occasions too when city medals are awarded. Now Commissioner Monaghan reads the next citation. The next award is the Commerce and Industry Association Medal and Department Medal awarded to Lieutenant Hafton P. Henriksen of Hook and Ladder Company 102 for the joint rescue of Mr. Joseph Smith from a fire that took place at 250 Emerson Place in Brooklyn on the night of August 29, 1950. That award is to be made by Mr. Lavino who is present here representing Commerce Ninda. Mr. Lavino and the Mayor now greet Lieutenant Hendrickson. Another great name in the annals of the fire department is Smokey Joe Martin and his son is standing right beside me here. I wanted him to say a few words but he insists on staying out of the picture so I remember his father very well and he himself I remember and know quite well because he's in the city record here in the municipal building and he's a very interested spectator as any man who has ever been in the fire department always is when any occasion of any kind concerns the fire department and we honor the memory too of that great hero of the fire department Smokey Joe Martin. The cameramen now are insisting on a few pictures on this one and as soon as they achieve their result which is very important too Commissioner Monaghan will read the next citation. The Michael J. Delahandy Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Lieutenant Joseph A. Lawler Special Service Squad for rescuing Mrs. Elsie Phillips from a fire in an old law tenement house at 2745 8th Avenue Manhattan on the morning of December 30th 1950. The mayor steps down now. Mr. Delahandy is here to pin the medal on Lieutenant Lawler. Mr. Delahandy and the mayor and the commissioner now step over to complete the picture while Lieutenant Lawler is honored the chief lost standing beside him too. I'm glad you drew my hand. The cameraman now very often take care of the placement of these different dignitaries so that they'll get the kind of a picture they want and Chief Aloftus has officiated here from the very beginning of the ceremony here today quite pleased indeed. Now Mr. Alexanderson of the New York Times is making the arrangements for this picture and it ought to be a good one. He's been taking pictures in front of City Hall for many, many years. It was a June day like this that Charles Lindbergh came into New York and we had the taste the first taste of a tremendous reception a reception to which the complete public responded and of which there have been so many since to heroes and men who have achieved so much and Lindbergh indeed was a great hero. The Thomas A. Kenny Memorial Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Edward A. Knapp of Hook and Ladder Company 102 for the joint rescue with Lieutenant Hendrickson who was here just a minute ago of Mr. Joseph Smith age 32 from a fire in the fourth story Olaw Tenement House at Emerson Street in Brooklyn last August August 29th. Fireman Knapp. Knapp. Knapp. Oh yeah. The mayor is now greeting Fireman Knapp and again the contest of the pin and the lapel which wins. The mayor is quite expert on this one though he managed pretty well with Fireman Knapp's medal he's shaking hands with him and having a little conversation with him which is essential. No there's a little difficulty with that pin no it's worked out all right now. The mayor greets him Commissioner and Chief Loftus Fireman Knapp returns to the ranks and here's Commissioner Marley. The Bella Stiefen Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Albin Saar of Hook and Ladder Company 111 for rescuing Miss Josie Nixon from a fire in a four story furnished rooming house at 352A Hancock Street Brooklyn on Christmas Eve 1950. Thank you. Thank you. Camera many are busy now with this award. I think one of the things that facilitates the awarding today is the fact that the platform has been done away with and there's just a very slightly raised platform of a few inches and it's quite easy to step down and reach and group around those who are receiving the awards. when the raised platform is used in front of City Hall there's a lot of awkward time wasted in moving up and down steps to not only for the donors and sponsors and donators of medals to make their appearance but to get down to where the occasion is. And now Commissioner Monaghan. The Henry D. Brookman Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Anthony V. Cressitelli of Hook and Ladder Company 33 for rescuing five persons from a fire and a five story New Law tenement at 2399 Grand Concourse and the forenoon of January 19th, 1950. Fireman Cressitelli. Now Mayor Impeleteri shakes hands with Fireman Cressitelli who's joined by the Commissioner and Chief Loftus. The thing that we might note for the benefit of the radio audience who has no visibility on this scene is the tallness and the stalwart quality of the men that are in the fire department now and as they step up there certainly find specimens of manhood and we do know that a city of eight million people has a tremendous group to draw from for this type of service. John H. Prentice Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Jacob H. Sofel Hook and Ladder Company 7 for rescuing Mrs. Anna Benn 46 years of age from a fire and a three story old law tenement at 401 First Avenue Manhattan on the morning of March 11, 1950. Fireman Sofel now receives the award the award at the hands of the mayor. Fireman Sofel now is the award at the hands of the mayor. I think that low stand makes a very great facility, don't you? It's very much improvement over the last one. They can get around and join the groups and make much better pictures. The third alarm association medal and department medal is awarded to Lieutenant Morgan O'Connell of engine company 296 for rescuing Mrs. Cleo Shelton, four children and a man from a fire in a frame building at the Veterans Project at 3047 77th Terrace Jackson Heights, Queens shortly before midnight on September 3, 1950. Lieutenant O'Connell. Thank you. Thank you. Now this is Lieutenant O'Connell's moment and the mayor and ranking officers of the department surround him as the medal is being awarded. The donor of the medal is making the award. Again, those pins. I'm going to keep at those pins until they invent a better one. Commissioner Monaghan. The Lieutenant, Lieutenant O'Connell was not only the recipient of a lovely medal but also a hundred dollar savings bond. Now, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Jacob, Captain Jacob Goldstein, Engine Company 59 for rescuing five-year-old Susan Brown from a fire in a five-story old law tenement at 2447 49 8th Avenue in Manhattan on the afternoon of December 15, 1950. This presentation is to be made by Sidney Klein, President of the Nair Tormand Association. That is interesting. A fireman is giving the captain the medal. The mayor, with a great sense of appropriateness, suggested that the fireman pin the medal on and the mayor, of course, officiates as well. This makes a very interesting picture. It's a reversal of rank. But anyone can do honor to anyone else, regardless of rank. The honor is the thing. The Walter Scott Medal and Department Medal is awarded to Lieutenant James P. Christie of Engine Company 283 for rescuing a three-year-old Linda Britt from a fire in a two-story single-family frame dwelling at 216 Chester Street, Brooklyn on the morning of November 22, 1950. The mayor greets Lieutenant Christie. The medal is handed to him and he proceeds to pin it on the tunic of Lieutenant Christie, carefully supervised by Commissioner Monaghan and Chief Loftus. While this beautiful June sun is all giving us all a very excellent supply of vitamin D. I listen to the medical and nutrition talks of WNYC and they're very important. We've discovered the importance of vitamins. I guess from the stalwart quality of these firemen, they must understand vitamins too because they need every form of rehabilitation to keep up the pace and the requirements of a job such as that of a New York City fireman or a policeman. The medal is being held by the mayor now while the photographers click the picture. Now Commissioner Monaghan. The William F. Conron Medal and Department Medal is awarded to fireman first grade Joseph A. Courtney of Hook and Ladder Company 137 for rescuing Mrs. Leonora McIntyre 82 years of age from a fire in a three-story tenement at 109 38 St. Mark's Avenue in Queens just before dawn on June 20, 1950. Farman Courtney is a big fellow, isn't he? He's a huge guy. Biggest man yet. Fine looking lad. Isn't he? Well, handsome is as handsome does as the old saying goes and they do handsomely. Fireman Courtney is head and shoulders over everybody. Splendid physique and he looks as though he would have a great deal of endurance under stress. Just a year ago today, was it? Is that right? The stars and stripes and the flag of the city mingle in this picturesque scene here while Mayor Impeletere is making these Fire Department Awards. Now Commissioner Monaghan with the next citation. The Dr. Harry M. Archer Medal is awarded to Lieutenant Wilbur J. O'Donnell of Hook and Ladder Company 107 for the attempted rescue of two children from a fire at 450 Madison Street, Brooklyn on November 4, 1949. This medal is awarded triennially to a recipient of the James Gordon Bennett Medal. Lieutenant O'Donnell. Lieutenant O'Donnell apparently is recovering from an injury. He's quite lame. And he stands here now in the square in front of City Hall while the Mayor makes the official award and pins the medal on the tunic of his uniform with Chief Loftus and Commissioner Monaghan looking on and the cameraman also clicking and arranging the picture. Now Commissioner Monaghan. The administration medal is awarded to Fireman First Grade Robert J. Fitzgerald Number 2 of the 4th Division for his investigations into the occurrence of water hammer in the fire hose. Fireman Fitzgerald. Fireman Fitzgerald now is being greeted by Mayor Impeleteri. Strenuous and varied as this scene may be and the constant activity of it it's no doubt one of the greatest pleasures that the Mayor of the City of New York has in making these awards because he knows he is dealing with the faithful and those who have carried out to the letter their oath of office to serve you the people of the City of New York. Ladies and gentlemen Commissioner Monaghan and members of the department it now becomes my real pleasure to present to you our friend and the friend of the people of this city our wonderful Mayor Vincent R. Impeleteri. Commissioner Monaghan Reverend Clergy members of the fire department and their relatives and friends who are present here and those that are listening in on this program on behalf of the grateful people of this metropolis I extend their heartfelt sympathy in my own to those ladies to whom I have just presented the fireman's medal of supreme sacrifice their loved ones died as heroes protecting the people of this city from the awesome ravages of fire there is nothing that anyone can do to make up for their loss may God be good to them and to all of the firemen assembled here today and now a word to the men of the fire department who have just received medals for their heroism I congratulate you one and all in the name of all the people of the City of New York whom I represent on this occasion you have done glorious work and in so doing you have placed fresh laurels on the entire valiant uniform force of the fire department of the City of New York and for that kind of service the City is proud of you it was gratifying to hear Commissioner Monaghan report that during 1950 and for the two preceding years our City's firefighters have held more than 99.9% of all fires to the area involved upon their arrival at the scene here in City Hall the other day Commissioner Monaghan proudly told me that of the 44,370 fires last year only 15 spread after the firemen arrived of these 15 fires he observed 8 spread to other 4s and 7 to adjacent buildings and he was equally delighted in relating how that same excellent record is still maintained no better work and no more heroic devotion could be given by any other organization of firefighters in this or any other country in the world only the other day the fire department received through Commissioner Monaghan the second prize by the National Safety Council for the past year in promoting safety measures and when a fire department can do that in a work as hazardous as that of the fire department Commissioner Monaghan and every member of his department deserve the wholehearted thanks of all the people of our city the people of this great city are indeed deeply indebted to our firemen for their splendid and selfless labors every hour of the day every night year in and year out and I know that if all 8 million people of the city of New York who I represent on this occasion could be assembled here in this plaza they would want to voice their appreciation through me to all of the firemen of our city for a splendid job very well done thank you very much now ladies and gentlemen I love him the applause is the metal men just walking and taking their place in the ranks now Commissioner Monaghan it's now my proud privilege to promote the following two battalion chiefs to deputy chief 19 from captain to the rank of battalion chief 22 from lieutenant to captain and 50 from firemen to lieutenant in the interest of saving time under this hot sun we will have a mass swearing in so all of you gentlemen and all you men who are to be promoted will please repeat this oath after me and in place of my name use your own name and recite the rank to which you're promoted I George P. Monaghan do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the rank to which I am now promoted and the fire department of the city of New York according to the best of my ability so help me God the promoted men are now going back to ranks in the City Hall Plaza and Commissioner Monaghan will make the next announcement as the audience applauds these men recently promoted here in the Plaza City Hall Commissioner Monaghan of the Fire Academy of the Fire Academy marching up these are the graduates now of the Fire Academy marching up and if anyone thinks that the city of New York hasn't got the choice of the finest men in the world to pick from they should see these a group of men now that are taking their place here their place here in the presence of the mayor they're drilling into position and closing ranks in just a moment a final order will be given they'll be dressed for the occasion here in military fashion at least and commissioner monaghan will swear them in commissioner monaghan 100 probationary firemen who have been appointed to the fire department and i can't help but taking this opportunity to observe that there is final looking and healthy and rugged group of men as i've seen in a long long time i know that they're going to be a credit to the department and a credit to the city which they serve now will each of you raise your right hand and repeat after me this oath reciting in place of my name your own i george p monaghan do solemnly swear that i will support the constitution of the united states and the constitution of the state of new york and that i will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of probationary firemen in the fire department of the city of new york according to the best of my ability i congratulate you boys being admitted to this great department and now our probationary firemen get a great hand from the audience here at city hall plaza they're drilling back into position and no doubt commissioner monaghan will have a few words to say before we conclude this ceremony at city hall they also have very good tailors these probationary firemen they're very dressed up today but they'll have all the same color late this afternoon they'll be in the great army of blue commissioner monaghan here a selection by the great glee club of our department here is here is The life that crowns thy crown Gather with those to thee again Mother of loyal steadfast men Our hopes we made in love Our hopes we made in love O keep our hearts in absent days Calling us back from stress and strong Tenderly on the full of grace Shining thy smile, we love thy praise Thy arms are ever long Thy arms are ever long Nature like clouds and flame of hope While Israel is in love alone We still will be thy Lord We still will be thy Lord In case there are several in this large audience who is not familiar with that wonderful number we just heard, it happens to be the song of my alma mater, Hamilton College. And I'm very grateful to the Glee Club for giving such a wonderful rendition of the song. To install Bohai translating At a stage where fathersаешь ağ veer just at the high하신 embassy stand It is the same as the one as the beautiful people are along