The End The End The End The Invocation will be offered by the Reverend Gerald Hunick of Staten Island's Calvary Presbyterian Church. Let us pray. O thou eternal God, who art the father of us all, we invoke thy blessing on this occasion which brings us together as citizens. We bless thee for all that makes New York a goodly place in which to live and work. We bless thee for the homes we love, for the schools in which our youth are trained, for our industries and business concerns which sustain our daily life, for public and private institutions which minister to our needs, for our churches and synagogues which provide for the spiritual needs of our people. Almighty God, who art the source of all wisdom and the fountain of all knowledge, today we rejoice in the completion of this building designed to serve the hopes and interests of all our people in this community. We thank thee for the vision of those public servants who have planned for this structure, and for all those who have labored with mind and hand for its completion. O God, who doth seek to lead all men to a better life, grant that this library may be used by boys and girls, by men and women of this island for every high purpose. Through its use may the minds of all be enlightened with new knowledge and guided in the way of true understanding. Cause this place to be a source of enrichment for the minds and hearts of men, that righteousness, justice, and goodwill may abound among all people. Help us, we pray as citizens, to make our city great, not only in its buildings, but strong in the things of the Spirit. Until this city in which we live and work, in which we make our home, may become the city of our God. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. For several years I lived in a kind of enforced exile in the Middle West. And every morning, of course, as a result of the tastes of my daughter for radio, I was obliged to hear a program which always opens. It's a beautiful day in Chicago and a great day to be alive. Now, if you have ever lived in Chicago or traveled through it, you will know that it is seldom a beautiful day in Chicago. But it could be a great day to be alive, and today I think we're doubly fortunate in having a beautiful day and a great day for Staten Island. The time for these exercises was set with a view to the meeting the convenience of His Honor the Mayor, and I regret to say that the press of official business has kept him from us. It has proved a little awkward in one particular, in that there is a meeting of the Board of Trustees now in progress. I have left it in order to be present on this occasion, and I bring with you, by unanimous vote of the Board, their congratulations on the completion of this building, and good wishes for a satisfactory and happy use of it. This is indeed but part of a long-time program which has been forming now for over a decade, and this, I am glad to say, is but the first of one of many projected units which will improve the service of the library to all of the boroughs in which it operates. In 1945, the City Planning Commission laid down an orderly program for the development of library service, one of the items of which was an extension of the old St. George branch by the addition of a new wing in a style of architecture in keeping with the old building, which should provide not only for enlarged service to the St. George neighborhood, but indeed to the entire island. The report reads, In part, it is hereby recommended that the St. George branch be remodeled to serve as a regional library for the borough of Richmond. A regional library is in many ways a new concept. This, we hope, will be but one of several in the city. We're especially glad that it can be here and on the island that the first regional library is now about to be opened. The new services are, we think, extremely promising. The book stock has been built up to a present capacity of 65,000 volumes, with space eventually for still further expansion. The reading room has been enlarged to seat 65 persons, and the reference collection is some eight times its former size, with space still for larger growth in the future. We have a new room especially for teenagers, which is gay and informal and inviting. The children's room on the ground floor immediately to your right has been completely done over with new and attractive furnishings, scaled down to the Lilliputian size of the youngsters who will use the room. There is a new auditorium for the use of the community at large, a story hour room for the children, which will double as a conference room for their seniors. There is something brand new to us, a collection of circulating records, music, and spoken, which is available nowhere else in the system, and which is one of the most attractive features, in my judgment, of the newly expanded service. The new Hyatt Street entrance is infinitely more convenient for readers than the old, and the building generally is improved in every particular, with a view to making it more serviceable and more useful to the community at large, and more convenient for the staff entrusted with its operation. I've spoken too much about the building, as we have just been and most eloquently and appropriately reminded. A building as such is no important than the activity which it houses. There is envisaged for this new structure an enlarged and improved program of service, not only to St. George, but to the entire island. It is our confident hope and expectation that these benefits will now begin quite obviously to be apparent from one end of the island to the other, and throughout its breadth. In this, as in so many of the developments of the institution on this island, we have had the sympathetic interest and assistance throughout from your borough president. The Honorable Cornelius A. Hall has been in public life on this island for at least 30 years, and I will not attempt to trace his career in any detail. I first become aware of it in connection with the building of the West New Brighton branch, and those of you who know that branch will remember that his name is permanently engraved there as the person responsible for the overseeing of the construction of the building. It was not only the construction, but the facilitation and advancement of the entire project that we owe to the borough president, who later became present borough president, who later became commissioner of borough works in 1940 and borough president in 1945. We are quite proud of the advances we've been able to make on the island, and especially glad of the opportunity on this occasion to acknowledge our indebtedness to the borough president for the magnificent help and assistance he has been to us at every stage. I have great pleasure in introducing to you the Honorable Cornelius A. Hall. Mr. Beale, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank Mr. Beale for his kind introduction. I do remember those days when we, years ago, when the West New Brighton Library was thought of and the construction work carried on. And I have very happy memories of working closely with the library executives and personnel in the selection of every article that went in that library. And, of course, it is a great service to the community where I was born, and I certainly was very happy that it was constructed. Now, first, let me pay a compliment to the leader and the men of the Department of Sanitation Band. My compliments, my appreciation for all the people here. We're always very happy to have one of the service bands open ceremonies here in the island. And we've been very fortunate, and I do hope that the leader will convey to Commissioner Mulroney, Mulroney, our thanks and appreciation. I want to compliment you folks for coming here. And I am very sorry that you do not enjoy the shelter that we are enjoying at the present time. This is one of the few things that courtesies probably that go with those that have charge of this kind of an improvement. Now, I've said for years that our weakness here of the past, the weakness of the past and the hope of the future was in getting more capital improvements. Good, many people don't understand the difference between an expense budget and a capital budget, but this is an example, and this is an idea of what I've been fighting for for years, is more capital improvements for Richmond Borough. A public school or a school of any kind, facility of this kind, a playground is a capital improvement. This is the first regional branch library in the New York public library system, and we are delighted to be a first, as it is rather a novelty for Richmond to be a first in this great city. This addition was badly needed, and we are thankful that this new library is now completed and ready to serve the public. We deeply appreciate the interest the library officials are taking in our borough. As I've often said, if Richmond were a city by itself, it would rank 50th in the cities of the United States, and because of our recent rapid growth, the need for the enlargement of this library was imperative. The location is ideal. It is a commanding location, right in the front of the civic center of this borough, a civic center we are proud of. Borough Hall is considered an architectural gem, and strangers are strongly impressed by its beauty as they leave our ferry traveling inland to inland points. The library is also well designed and pleasant to the eye, and in addition encloses a storehouse of knowledge. because of its strategic location, it is able to serve the students of many schools as well as a large segment of our population. I know how difficult it is to get capital projects in this city these days. I regret that Mayor Impeloteri was enabled to be here today, but I wish to take this occasion to convey to the mayor and to the other members of the Board of Estimate the thanks to the people of Richmond for another worthwhile capital improvement. In conclusion, I want to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of all the patrons of this library to Ms. O'Brien and her staff. They are a splendid group, cooperative at all times. During the construction period, they had only makeshift arrangements. Nevertheless, they carried on in a fine spirit and their services to the public did not suffer. We are all happy that at last they are going to be able to enjoy this fine environment which they surely deserve. Now, permit me to add to this conclusion. We are also opening the convention, that is, the exhibits of the architects' convention in the terminal, St. George Terminal, after these ceremonies. And anyone that is now present that would care to join us are happy to join us at our terminal, St. George Ferry House. Further, I'd like to pay my compliments and respects to our Commissioner of Public Works of this city who is doing a magnificent job as hundreds of buildings of all descriptions, large sewer treatment plants and the like under his supervision, under construction, our capital program. He is to represent the mayor. He is a Staten Islander and doing, as I say again, a magnificent job. I thank him for bringing down here to our borough a dais or a platform of this character. Ours is not so elaborate. You see how they do things in the big city, in the other boroughs. Here we have chairs for the press. Now you can see we're still a small borough in population because we only have enough representatives to occupy one side. You can look forward to the future when we'll have both sides filled up. But I do want to pay my respects and compliment to our Commissioner of Public Works, another Staten Islander, and a Staten Islander that's doing an excellent job. It's a great privilege to be with you today and to join with you in these ceremonies for something worthwhile for our people. Thank you. Our next speaker I believe to be what the 18th century would have called a paragon of female virtue in all respects except one. She would insist on retiring before it was absolutely necessary. She has been with the library more years than I think she would care to have me call attention to and has occupied a number of important posts concluding in her later years with us, not her later years fortunately for her, as first supervisor of branches and then chief of the circulation department with the responsibility for the development administration of the entire branch library system. Those of you who've read Great Expectations and I hope that includes most of you will recall that the hero Pip had been brought up by an aunt by the name of Biddy and Biddy frequently and in fact incessantly complained a little querulously about how she had raised Pip by hand. He'd been brought up by hand. Now I like that phrase brought up by hand. There's something symbolic and a little pleasant about it. But there the comparison ends except in this respect. I do know that Miss Johnson has a nephew and indeed I believe she brought him up by hand. But there is no point of comparison at all between the character of Biddy and the character of Esther Johnson. In all the things she did and she did a great many she built up the book stock to its highest point in our history. She extended the system to the point where we had more units than we ever had. But I think the thing that probably gave her most satisfaction and certainly those of us who worked with her the greatest satisfaction was the number of people she brought up by hand. Indeed I am one of them and I can testify for personal experience that for five and a half years there was a gentle hand that was gentle when gentleness would accomplish the purpose but firm when firmness was needed. And although I had not the good fortune to have my entire career brought up under the tutelage of Miss Johnson at least I had five and a half years of it and I'm delighted to have her back as one of us today because really the whole planning of the Richmond Regional Library and the extension of this library was her responsibility and it is a pleasure to acknowledge it to you and to her on this occasion. Miss Esther Johnson. Thank you. Mr. Beals, President Hall, and Commissioner Zermullin and friends of Staten Island it gives me the greatest happiness to join my friends and my former associates in this joyous dedication of the Richmond Regional Branch. The old St. George Branch was opened in 1907 and it had had an honorable and an active life but its limitations of space precluded the improved service to the entire island that this splendidly enlarged building makes possible with its increased book supply and above all with its fine staff. It is in the tradition of the New York Public Library President Hall, I'd like to emphasize this, that Staten Island should again come first. This time it was the first regional branch in the system but just think of the other firsts. I can say this safely here on Staten Island because when I've gone to the Bronx, I've always been reproached by the Bronx because Staten Island seemed to come first. Those firsts began in the section that was most remote from the library at 42nd Street. That community, Tottenville, had in the late 90s organized a little library and had appealed to the state for aid in supporting it. On March 16th, 1901, the New York papers carried really thrilling news that Mr. Andrew Carnegie had given the magnificent sum of $5,200,000 to provide branch libraries for the city. Mr. Frank Jeline, who was then the president of the association at Tottenville, was looking over the morning paper. I don't know whether it was the Staten Island Advance or the New York Times, as he rode on the train to take the ferry. When the news caught his eye, he left the train, gave up whatever business was taking him to New York, returned to Tottenville, called a meeting of the board, and that same day went on to New York to file with the director of the library and the city controller the first application for a branch to be provided from Carnegie funds. Furthermore, the trustees offered something of a come-on to the city. They had three lots and suggested that the city supply the fort that would be necessary for the site for a new building, and eventually that was done. The Tottenville branch opened in 1904, designed by Carr-Ear and Hastings, the architects of the central building at 42nd Street. Within the next few years, Port Richmond, Stapleton, and St. George were open, all designed by Carr-Ear and Hastings, who must by that time have formed a very deep attachment to Staten Island. Staten Island has in New York the James W. Hughes Memorial Library, presented by Mrs. Hughes, so attractive that it is pictured in the films sent over the world as an example of a beautiful library for a small community. In 1921, Staten Island had another pioneer venture, another first. Mr. Lucius Wilmerding, a trustee of the library, who many of you will remember for his enthusiasm for the islands and its libraries, was impressed by the need for library service in the smaller communities and made a personal gift of the first traveling library, a Ford station wagon. This innovation, the first bookmobile in the city, proved so popular that when the Ford collapsed, the city replaced it in 1928. It had pointed to the value of the service so that other boroughs have profited by the experiment in Richmond. That book, the new bookmobile, the lineal descendant of the traveling library, is a vastly improved model that received its blessing at City Hall and was then driven to Richmond where President Hall borrowed the first book. That was at Christmastime, two or three years ago. And the traveling library stands today on Hyatt Street ready to take part in this celebration. Oh, there's another first. When the Carnegie funds were exhausted and unfortunately all funds, even magnificent ones like Mr. Carnegie's, come to an end, the first library building to be financed from city funds and built under supervision was on Staten Island. And it must be, I'm sure it is, a satisfaction to President Hall to recall that as the assistant commissioner of public works, he was in charge of the building of that charming library at West New Brighton. Now we have the Richmond Regional Library, the first in the New York Public Library. President Hall, Commissioner Zermullin have been so active in bringing these services to Staten Island that this is the first of the post-war library buildings to become a reality. It will extend its services to the island in countless ways through the efforts of Miss O'Brien and the staff. Mr. Beals has spoken of another service that is first, and that is its collection of music records. Even the music library on 58th Street lacks this service because of its limited space. For the music lover, as for the book lover, this collection offers one more reason for living on Staten Island. These facilities have come to Richmond because of the energy and interest of Staten Islanders working with city officials and the library. The whole network of branches and expanding services offers a career in the service of books in the community that I hope will appeal to young men and women of the island, a career so full of interest and satisfaction. There is one other way in which I hope, I'm sure, that Staten Island will excel. That is in the intelligent, steady use of these new as well as of the older facilities. Books, music, good talk about books in the discussion and great books groups. Where in our city would we find these elements of civilized living in greater degree? I want to give you my best wishes for your happiness and deep personal satisfaction in their use. May I now introduce briefly a small segment of the staff of this operation? First, the new regional librarian, the first in our system, as far as I know, the first in the state, Miss Catherine O'Brien. We have four of the other branch librarians from the island. Mrs. Mary Jane Bowles, the librarian of Port Richmond, Miss Patricia Kenny of West New Brighton, Mrs. Mary Howe of Stapleton, and Miss Genevieve Wells of Tottenville. I really wish there were time to introduce the rest of them. I spent the day over here on Tuesday and the enthusiasm and the zeal with which the islanders were approaching the events of today were most inspiring and most heartening. It was perfectly evident that they had had more to do than could have been comfortably done. But that, unhappily, is a characteristic of the library generally, and if they did a little more, a little more cheerfully than the circumstances ordinarily seem to call for, I think it was because of the rewards which they saw ahead. They're a wonderful lot, and I think you are probably as pleased with them as we are proud of them. One more I will introduce, the young man who had the temerity to attempt to succeed Miss Johnson, the present chief of the circulation department who came to us from a variety of places which I am sure I will not be able to recall in full, most recently as executive secretary of the American Library Association, before that, associate director of the University of California Library, before that, in service, and I'm never too clear just which branch he was in or what he did, except that it was several and there were various services. Before that, he was the senior specialist in public libraries in the United States Office of Education, and skipping over several other steps, I will get him back eventually to the Graduate Library School in the University of Chicago, where I first knew him as a promising young man and know him still as a promising young man. It gives me great pleasure, therefore, to introduce the present chief of the circulation department, Mr. John McKenzie-Corey. Mr. Beals, Commissioner McMillan, for our president of the Hall, friends of the Richmond Regional Library, it's a very great pleasure to be in a position of reaping the fruits of the harvest from such fine planners as Ms. Johnston and my predecessors in the New York Public Library. They have done a wonderful job of planting this Richmond Regional Library, and in the short year that I have been here, I have had many evidences of their foresight and many occasions to be grateful to them, to Ms. Johnston and to her predecessors and mine as chief of the circulation department. There are other predecessors here of people who have been introduced, and I think it only appropriate at this time to introduce three former librarians of the St. George Library who are here, preceding Ms. O'Brien. First, I would like to introduce Ms. Charlotte Mead, who was librarian of the St. George Library until 1917. Ms. Mead. Her successor, Mrs. Errat. And Ms. Margaret Monroe. And that brings us up to Ms. O'Brien, whom you have already had the pleasure of meeting. Ms. O'Brien's title, as Mr. Beals indicated, is a new one in the New York Public Library, the Richmond Regional Librarian. As such, she has overall responsibility not only for the St. George Regional Branch, but for the extension units on the island, on Staten Island, and general supervision over the branches in the same capacity that the supervisor of branches has for branches elsewhere in the New York Public Library system. Ms. O'Brien is extremely fortunate in having an able staff, many of them well known to you, and those who are new will shortly become better known. I would like to mention them by name, and after I have mentioned them, those whom I name if they would stand all at one time. Ms. O'Brien's first assistant coming to us from the Fordham Branch in the Bronx is Ms. Tinkler. Ms. Doyle has been the first assistant in the former St. George Branch and will continue to bear the brunt of the administrative responsibilities under Ms. Tinkler and Ms. O'Brien in the St. George Branch. Ms. Murphy will be the reference librarian for the new Regional Reference Center. to be housed in the St. George Branch, which you will see shortly. Ms. Jacobson who will be the Young People's Librarian in the St. George Branch and Mrs. Pillarello who will be the Children's Librarian. I would also like to ask Ms. Nelson who will be the Young People's Librarian for the entire island on a regional basis and Ms. Driscoll the Children's Librarian for the entire island. With those that I have named, please stand and take a hand. Some of them are down in the audience. These are, as I say, good friends of yours, new and old. I would like to stress some of the aspects of the library service which are inaugurated today that do not relate directly to the building and its charms, although they are pertinent since the new St. George Regional Branch will serve as the headquarters of the St. George Regional Library. But coincidental with the dedication and opening of the St. George Regional Branch, we are inaugurating the full scale of the service, expanded and improved service throughout Staten Island. Those of you who live in other neighborhoods than in the neighborhood of the St. George Branch will already be aware of the fine services that have been built up in recent years and that are constantly growing and expanding. The West New Brighton Branch, the Port Richmond Branch, the Stapleton Branch, Tottenville have been mentioned. In addition, many of you are familiar with Great Kills, New Dorp, with the Bookmobile, with the South Beach and Toad Hill Housing Project branches and with the stations at Huguenot Park and Princes Bay and the Richmond Memorial Hospital. These are services that are being carried on. Some of them have been carried on by the St. George Branch staff during the period of its closing and now will be in full operation with the opening of the St. George Branch and the full status for the service units that have been operating heretofore with partial staff. We have hopes and future plans to meet the unfilled library needs of Staten Island. There are unfilled needs in all of the boroughs of New York City, fine as our public library system is. We feel that it can be improved, it can be extended to meet the needs of citizens of New York City to a greater extent. One of the most imminent improvements on Staten Island will be the construction of a new branch at Great Kills which will also serve the Annadale and Eldingville neighborhoods and the Great Kills community itself. This will, we hope, begin construction within the next year and be a great addition to the Richmond Regional Library System. We have hopes, ultimately, of extending library service in the Dongan Hills area and in the Mariners Harbor area and possibly at Travis and expansion of bookmobile stops in such places as Charleston, Richmond, Grimes Hill, Graniteville and the many other parts of this community which I have taken great interest in becoming familiar with as I've traveled around the library visiting both our branch systems and also the communities that are present without stationary library service although most community settlements do have at least mobile library service. My personal hope is that ultimately we will even have a second bookmobile on Staten Island which will permit longer stops and permit stops in less densely populated communities as well. The final point that I would like to make is that the Richmond Regional Library, great as it is, serving the entire borough of Richmond, is a part of a still greater library system. The New York Public Library, serving the three boroughs of the Bronx, Manhattan and Staten Island, is a truly great library, famous throughout the world both among librarians and among users of libraries. All of us are extremely fortunate in having such an institution to serve us. It is an integrated library system of which the Richmond Regional Library will be a very important and closely integrated part. My final word would be to emphasize this by pointing out that the other units of library service on Staten Island this afternoon are being operated by staff members of the New York Public Library from the Bronx and Manhattan branches so that the Staten Island librarians can all be at this dedication ceremony. That is just a symbol to me of the close way in which the New York Public Library will be mobilizing its entire resources and integrating them to provide the finest of library service to all of you. We had hoped to have his honor the mayor this afternoon and indeed until very nearly the last moment he had expected to be with us but he is unfortunately detained back across the bay and he will be represented today by Commissioner Zermalen whom we are delighted to have with us in his double capacity as the mayor's representative and in his own right as Commissioner of Public Works. The Commissioner is the largest municipal housekeeper in the world. He presides over an establishment the value of which is in excess of one billion dollars. He operates at least 60 or more public buildings 49 bridges and other assorted structures which I will not detail. When the city entered its great post-war building program in 1947 the mayor in looking over the field singled out a Staten Islander to preside over it and within three years he had pushed through to completion more than a hundred million dollars worth of construction which must be must be or nearly be a world's record. There is one little element of strain in our relations with the Commissioner which I think I had better recognize before he has a chance to do so. As a boy on the island he used to use this library. He came one day on a sled and the circumstances which immediately followed I do not recall the sufficient clarity to trust my memory but the upshot was that the sled was sequestered and Mr. Zermelin then Freddy went home without it. What's become of the sled we don't know. I have had a search made to see if it could be restored. When that failed I thought perhaps it would be appropriate to buy him one but he has developed a somewhat angular frame which is not easily fitted to a sled. I would therefore like to say to you Mr. Commissioner that the next time you feel disposed to slide down Hyatt Street. If you can find a sled that will carry you I would be most delighted if you would buy it and charge it to my account. In that way then perhaps and at long last we can square at least one part of our debt to you. There would still remain the zeal and enthusiasm with which this building and others in the building program have been pushed through. When I spoke to the commissioner about it before the ceremonies began he said with characteristic modesty well of course I am a Staten Islander and indeed no Staten Islander could have been more generous in the careful attention to detail with which this job has been done. Lest there be anyone here from the other side may I say that the same attention and care to detail has been shown in recently completed buildings in Manhattan and the Bronx. So he may have done yours faster but he hasn't done it any better than he's been doing some of the others. In any event the progenitor now of the structure which we will shortly dedicate I have the pleasure to present to you the Honorable Frederick H. Zermelin Commissioner of the Department of Public Works both in his own capacity and representing his honor the mayor. Mr. Beals Reverend Clergy Mr. Borough President Miss Johnson my neighbors in Staten Island and friends of the library system I am here as the chairman said in the dual capacity of bringing to you the greetings of the mayor of the city who has explained before found it just impossible to come here this afternoon even though he had picked the date and really expected to be with us. I know that he would have been pleased to be here because nowhere in this city could he have had a finer a more aesthetic setting for a reception or a dedication of a building than in our own borough of green hills and fine sites. Mr. Beals told you of my memory of this site I'll give you the detail I came here with a classmate from St. Peter's Parochial School in 1907 immediately after this place was opened and I had a sled that I had made very carefully but naturally we weren't allowed to bring the sled into the building and we left it outside and when we got into the circulating portion of the library on the lower floor something struck one of my companions funny and as youngsters will do we giggled and when we giggled there was nothing stopping us and we were very unceremoniously thrown out. Now I can remember Mr. Beals the name of the man who threw us out and who was the custodian of a building at that time and his name was Harrington. I might give you a clue. You along with me searched that building I had my men make a thorough search of it because after all someday I may be a grandfather and could use a sled. Thank you.