Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Anthony Maciarelli of the Department of Markets, who is also Chairman of the Metropolitan Defense Committee on Food Supply and Deputy Director for the New York City Civil Defense Organization. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. This evening we will discuss another aspect of civil defense that not only will affect the entire population of the city of New York with its 8 million people, but also may affect our neighbors in the adjourning counties in the metropolitan area. The total population of this area is over 12 million persons. The city of New York is considered a primary target, and if several atomic bombs were dropped on New York City in an area that is considered vital, it is possible that it would seriously dislocate our food distributing facilities and disrupt the everyday flow of food supplies coming into New York City. It may also damage the huge amounts of food stored in cold storage warehouses and other food depots within the area of possible destruction. We know that in any disaster affecting the people living in the metropolitan area, the daily supply of food must continue to arrive and be distributed. This operation is a tremendous job, and I am sure that Commissioner Maciarelli of New York City Department of Markets is well qualified to tell us about the food supply for the metropolitan area and what plans have been made relative to civil defense. Commissioner Maciarelli, what is the metropolitan area composed of? Commissioner Wallander, the five boroughs of the city of New York, namely Manhattan, Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, and Richmond, as well as the adjoining counties of Essex, Bergen, Passaic, Morris, Union, Middlesex, Monmouth and Somerset in New Jersey, Fairfield County in Connecticut, and Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk counties in New York. This area, with its heavy concentration of population, consumes a tremendous amount of food daily. Well, I'm sure it does, Commissioner. Will you tell us how much food you estimate is consumed daily in this area? The study of the food needs of the metropolitan area revealed that approximately four and six tenths pounds of all kinds of food are consumed daily by every person in this area. This means that approximately 27,000 tons, or 54 million pounds of food, is consumed and must be distributed so as to reach the consumer in time for the daily preparation of the family's meals. Now, where does all this food come from? It comes from every state in the Union and many foreign countries throughout the world. One cannot fully realize the vastness of the quantities of food commodities coming into New York every day until we actually see a day's supply passing through the terminals and wholesale market centers. Well, that's really something. What type of foods arrive in the wholesale markets daily? The perishable food groups, such as milk, butter, eggs, cheese, meats, poultry, fish, fresh fruits, and vegetables. What are the other types? The non-perishable groups, such as grains, flour, cereals, canned, dried, and frozen foods, staple groceries, sugar, coffee, tea, and miscellaneous products. Well, can you give us, in terms of pounds, the daily consumption figures for some of these individual food groups? It is estimated that the population in the metropolitan area consumes daily approximately 4,600,000 pounds of meat and poultry, 1,200,000 pounds of eggs, 14 million pounds of dairy products, 8,800,000 pounds of fruit, 13,200,000 pounds of vegetables, 740,000 pounds of fish, 8,600,000 pounds of grain and bakery products, 2,000,000 pounds of sugar and sweets, 1,200,000 pounds of beverages and miscellaneous food. Well, Commissioner Masciarelli, that sure is a lot of food to handle in New York City. Do we have stockpiles of food commodities in storage warehouses? Yes, Commissioner. Food in large amounts are stored in warehouses, but not to the vast extent needed to meet the daily consumption demands, and more particularly for perishable foods. We must rely on the daily shipments from the sources of supply and points of assembly via rail, truck, and boat to our food terminals and depots, and then quickly distributed to the thousands of retail outlets located throughout the entire area. That sounds like a difficult job. How is it accomplished? Through a complex system of marketing that employs an army of food handlers operating at railroad and steamship piers and terminals, wholesale markets, coal storage and other warehouses, chain food stores, and thousands of retail independent stores. Well, Commissioner Masciarelli, your statements as to the food supply and its system of distribution certainly shows the vastness of our food operations in New York. But what has been done under our civil defense program to assure us of receiving these supplies if New York was under enemy attack? I have given considerable thought and study to this problem and came to the conclusion that because of the vastness of the food industry, we should have the cooperation and assistance of every individual and every firm in the food business and that they should be so organized and trained so as to operate through their regular channels of distribution even though a good part of the marketing facilities were destroyed. I see. Well, that is quite a job of cooperation from industry. Can it be done? I am happy to report that all branches of the food industry have assured me of their wholehearted cooperation. and at present are so organized in 18 industry committees and representing each major food branch so that they will render important service to the people of the city of New York and the defense authorities in meeting any of the emergencies caused by an atomic bomb burst. Well, that sounds good, Commissioner Masciarelli. What service will these industry committees render? They have knowledge of important statistical information as to the sources of supply and the technical know-how of procurement, transportation, storage, and distribution of food products to keep the supplies rolling into New York under all kinds of conditions. They will be expected to operate at their regular places of business through established channels of distribution until they are compelled to relocate to an alternate location as worked out by their industry defense committee. Good. Now, what type of organization has been set up for this purpose? We have reactivated the Metropolitan Defense Committee on Food Supply, consisting of the Commissioner of Markets and his staff and key representatives from each of the major food industries and their auxiliary services. This will be the central committee for the coordination of activities and will operate through 18 industry committees, one for each branch of the food industry. These industry committees consist of a chairman, two co-chairmen, and two committee members, each to serve as an alternate in a chain of command in the absence of the chairman and assume his representation on the central committee. Well, Commissioner, I can see that you've certainly been working at your job of civil defense plus the markets. And it's very interesting to have this report. By the way, how are these industry committees expected to function? At present, they are submitting suggestions based on their everyday experience in carrying on the operation of the procurement, transportation, storage, and distribution of foods. After the analysis of these suggestions, they will formulate plans to meet emergencies based on the maximum and minimum extent of the damage caused by the atomic bomb burst. After these plans are completed, each industry will utilize its existing established trade associations or organizations to disseminate this information to every member of their industry in mimeographed or printed forms. And each member firm will in turn distribute this information to their shippers and suppliers as well as their customers. What assistance is your department rendering to these industry committees? For the present as these committees meet, I or a member of my staff attend these meetings and participate in the discussions on just what procedures are to be used and what would be the best methods to meet the maximum or minimum damage caused by an atomic bomb burst. When the preliminary plans are completed, each industry committee will have assigned to it a trained marketing inspector from this department to act as liaison officer with the Metropolitan Defense Committee and the Office of Civilian Defense. They will also assist in gathering and compiling such pertinent information as deemed necessary. Well, Commissioner Maciarelli, what does this information consist of? Can you tell us that? The location, size, and facilities of the best alternate sites to be considered for use in the event that their business must be relocated due to total destruction. The best methods of pulling transportation or use of alternate means of transportation. The listing and location of terminals, wholesale markets, pasteurizing plants, cold storage and other warehouses, railroad yards and sidings, wholesale grocers establishments, truck, loading and unloading facilities, the points of production by types of food from which supplies could be drawn by truck, boat or rail, the number of refrigerated and non-refrigerated cars and trucks available to move perishable supplies, data on the location of trucks and freight cars, the quantities of foods and storage, and the estimated period of time worked out in terms of days of the availability of these supplies if no new supplies could come into this area. The percentage by types of food hold by each type of transportation facility. Oh, fine, Commissioner. After your preliminary organization and planning by industry committees, what is the next step? The training of each firm and its personnel as to their activities in the event of a bomb burst. This will include the study of all material issued by the Office of Civilian Defense for individuals for plant and building protection and the part they will play in rendering assistance to the constituted defense authorities. That appears to be a good planning on industry level, but what about the coordination of the activities of these industry committees? The basic operational procedure behind this whole plan is based on military organization applied to a huge civilian operation. The Metropolitan Defense Committee is the central body coordinating and directing the activities of these field operating divisions. The chairman of this central committee is the commissioner of markets who will report directly to the director of civilian defense. The central committee will have its headquarters in the Department of Markets building at 137 Center Street, Manhattan, and be hooked up with the control centers of the Office of Civilian Defense. It will also establish alternate headquarters in another location on the assumption that the Manhattan headquarters may be put out of commission. It will also maintain contact and cooperate with the state defense organization assigned to food supply and through them with similar agencies in the states of New Jersey and Connecticut. The main idea is to decentralize the operational activities by relying on each branch of the food industry to carry on their daily operations with whatever facilities remain available after any serious and normal operations. Calls for assistance from any individual firm will be made directly to their industry committee members. They, in turn, if it was deemed necessary, will call central headquarters for any advice or assistance. And by this means, we expect to leave the lines of communications open. I'm glad you mentioned the lines of communications, Commissioner. But suppose the telephones were put out of commission and you, how would you keep in touch with your field divisions? We expect to depend on the plans formulated by Station WNYC for shortwave radio communication supplemented by messenger service supplied by our own personnel and by other means of communication available outside the area of total destruction. Commissioner Maciarelli, I suppose there is another phase of the food setup that needs clarifying and that is a contamination of foods by the residual radiation of an atomic bomb burst. We feel that much necessary food will be discarded because of the fear of such contamination. What are your findings on this? Commissioner, a recent statement made by General James P. Cooney, chief of the radiology branch, Atomic Energy Commission in Washington, was that, and I quote, that packaged, canned, and tightly refrigerated foods are not contaminated by the residual radiation of an atomic bomb burst. And he advised not to throw this food away, but to have it tested after the catastrophe to prevent needless waste. I close quote. Thank you, gentlemen. This has been the 11th in the important series of reports on civil defense in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Anthony Maciarelli of the Department of Markets, who is chairman of the Metropolitan Defense Committee on Food Supply and a deputy director for the New York City Civil Defense Organization. Remember to listen next Tuesday evening at the same time for another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.