Radio's microphones are now in the very interesting neighborhood of 17th Street in Stuyvesant Square, a very active hospital district on the east side of New York City. And today we have the cornerstone laying of another addition to the great list of hospitals in this district, when the cornerstone of Beth Israel Hospital will be laid in the presence of the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletary, and a distinguished company, looking over a sea of faces and white caps of the nurses and the white uniforms of doctors, and all the atmosphere of a hospital neighborhood. On this beautiful June day, we're about to start the ceremonies of the cornerstone laying. By Rabbi Israel Goldstein, Rabbi of Congregation Brenei Jesherin, President of the American Jewish Congress, and a leader in many communal activities, Rabbi Goldstein. Thank you. The founders and the leaders of Beth Israel Hospital, this temple of healing, which has ministered for decades to a populous community pulsating with a human drama of joy and of pain, of frustrations and fulfillments. A vast mission of mercy has been administered in these premises. Human lives have been saved and rehabilitated. Breadwinners have been restored to their families, wives and mothers to their husbands and children, children have been repaired in the birthright of every child to health and happiness. Into the broad arms of this great temple of healing, men and women and children of all races and creeds have been embraced. In the spirit of the Hebrew prophet who once said, have we not all one father, have not one God created us all? We thank thee, O God, for the vision of the builders. They built better even than they knew, because present needs and future requirements exceed by far their erstwhile anticipations. And now we are gathered to lay the cornerstone of a new edifice in this chain of healing, which will be a blessing to scores of thousands. It is to bear the name Charles H. Silver Clinic, a noble name thus adorns a noble enterprise. We thank thee, O God, for the bearer of this name. Remembering his own childhood in these streets, he has not forgotten those who still have to wear the yoke of poverty. Laden with honors, he has retained his humility in the sight of God and men. His charity is as broad as the human need. To this temple of healing, he has given his vision, inspiration and leadership, tinged with the touch of humanity. To the altar of Beth Israel and of the house of Israel in its broader connotation, and to the state, the nation, and the city of which he is a citizen, he has brought the gifts of his mind and spirit and resources. Upon him, O God, we invoke thy manifold blessings, and we ask thy blessing upon the President of these United States, upon the Vice President of these United States, who honors our presence by his distinguished company, and upon the governor of the state, and the mayor of the city, and all who bear responsibilities in public affairs. O God, keep our nation strong, yet free, affluent, yet just, that it may lead other nations by the force of example, and may the fruits of its righteousness be peace. In the midst of a world riven by dissension and misunderstanding, we ask thy healing, O God, make that world whole again. El nore for no law, please God, send it healing. The world needs peace of mind and of soul and of body. May the word of thine ancient prophet come to pass in our day. Peace, peace, to them that are far, and to them that are near, and I shall bring healing, saith the Lord. Amen. Amen. Let me say it, please. I want to express my thanks and appreciation to Miss Connie Boswell for coming here and so beautifully rendering our national anthem. Thank you very much. Thank you. It is my pleasure that I have been asked to serve as the master of ceremonies this afternoon. The Honorable Vice President Alban V. Barclay, Mayor Impuletary, Mr. Bernard Baruch, Mr. Charles Silver, officers and trustees of our hospital, honored guests, friends and neighbors. on behalf of the officers and trustees, I welcome you all, all our good friends and neighbors, gathered here in this milestone in the life of Beth Israel Hospital. With a very modest beginning, 62 years ago, at Henry Street, the growth of our present large institution has been steady. And now, another addition to Beth Israel Hospital will be dedicated here this afternoon, and it will be known as the Charles H. Silver Clinic. It is well named, for no one has or will accomplish more for this hospital than Charles H. Silver. This clinic is just another step to make our institution one of the finest, caring for the health of our community. You may be sure we will continue to expand as the need exists, and we hope in the near future to have as fine a medical center here as will exist in our fair city. And now I have the pleasure to ask our good Vice President Auburn W. Barkley to lay the foundation of our new clinic. Thank you. And now the Vice President of the United States is Excellency Albin Barkley with the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletari and Mr. Charles H. Silver are going down into the excavation where the cornerstone is about to be set in place for the Beth Israel Charles H. Silver Clinic on 17th Street, just around the corner from Stuyvesant Square. In this beautiful part of New York City, the square itself with its touch of green and its burden to beauty certainly is a splendid environment for a hospital. And on this very active east side of New York City, that is the purpose here today, the cornerstone laying of this Charles H. Silver Clinic of Beth Israel Hospital. This is a very interesting neighborhood and some of the greatest people that have contributed so much to our city. At the time when this was the very active part of the city and Union Square on 14th Street was the musical, theatrical, and cultural section of the city. And right around the corner from all this is located the Charles H. Silver Clinic, the cornerstone of which is being laid at this moment by the Vice President of the United States, His Excellency Alvin Barkley. Now, as soon as the cornerstone ceremony is finished, which takes but a few moments, they will be back at the stand again and Mr. Charles H. Silver will continue the presentation of the program. In the meantime, the Derrick is slowly lowering the stone into place and there is much friendly kidding around as these various and distinguished citizens, the Vice President of the United States, the Mayor of the City of New York, Mr. Silver, and other distinguished citizens take their part in being masons and plastering on that mortar and making sure that the cornerstone is only the part of a great and wonderful foundation here at 17th Street and Stuyvesant Square. Now we're back on the stand again and Mr. Charles H. Silver who is acting as chairman here at the cornerstone laying of Beth Israel Hospital at 17th Street and Stuyvesant Place is about to resume the speech program. Mr. Silver. Now I have the pleasure to introduce to you a Vice President of our hospital, Mr. Joseph Levy, one of our real friends, a great benefactor of our institution. He's going to present on behalf of the officers and trustees a scroll commemorating this day to Charles H. Silver. Mr. Levy. Board of Trustees of Beth Israel Hospital hails and greets its distinguished President Charles H. Silver. A leader in the world of industry, he simultaneously has achieved prominence in the realm of public service and philanthropy. His heart is broad enough to encompass every great cause. His generosity is never restricted by considerations of race or creed. He considers every man his brother, every cause his concern, every worthwhile human effort his interest. in the pursuance of that philosophy, he is a splendid product of American democracy. To Beth Israel Hospital, he has given distinguished leadership for over a quarter of a century. His labors, his vision, and the inspiration he has given to his colleagues have been a major contribution to the development of this great institution so that it holds a ranking position as a haven of healing, a sanctuary of science, a temple of the art of medicine, as a token of gratitude for his devotion, as a symbol of recognition for his service to this institution and to the community at large, and as an expression of admiration for his sterling qualities of heart, mind, and leadership which have impressed his late colleagues and professional staff alike, the trustees of Beth Israel Hospital have voted unanimously that the outpatient building which is now in the course of construction and which is expected to minister to the needs of thousands annually be named the Charles H. Silver Clinic of Beth Israel Hospital. In adopting this resolution, the trustees pray that God's blessings attend the distinguished personality whose name is henceforth to be everlastingly associated with this great institution. In witness whereof, the names of the members of the board are here with affixed on this 26th day of May 1952. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Hausman, Reverend Clergy, Vice President Barclay, Mayor Impelet Terry, Mr. Baruch, Dean McEwan, Mr. Weil, members of the board of trustees of Beth Israel Hospital, honored guests, and my very good friends. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is the proudest day of my life. I want to say to you in all humility and with a deep sense of inner gratitude that the naming of this building for me represents an honor that I have never dreamed of or even imagined. I am touched by this decision of my colleagues on the board of trustees. I fear that I do not have the power of capacity to express in mere words how I have felt since this action was taken by the board. For men sometimes go through deep emotions which they experience with great intensity but are unable to project in words. It is a feeling such as this that is never forgotten and remains in the heart as long as there is breath of life in the body. As I stand here before you my friends my memory runs back through the years when I played as a boy on the streets which are only within a few blocks of where we are gathered here today. We can almost see them from here. we were a happy and closely knit family and like thousands who lived in that area and who had a heartbreaking struggle against poverty we managed somehow to get along. It is in it is the indiscredible determination and imagination of these humble and gentle immigrants whose children were literally brought up on the sidewalks of New York that helped in no small degree to create the fabulous city in which we live today. These poverty stricken people gave to this generation men and women who have labored with skill and devotion for the welfare of the city and who have contributed so much to the growth of New York so that it became a city of culture and education and vast business enterprises. We cannot give too much credit to these immigrants from many nationalities for it was they who inspire their children and children's children to carry on and make for themselves a life of freedom and dignity. I remember as a boy hearing of a clinic that was started on the Lower East Side and known as Beth Israel. Being a healthy and normal youngster I was not concerned very much with hospitals or doctors and it was not until later years that I came to know more about Beth Israel. I came to know how a very small group of these immigrants got together and contributed 25 cents a week for a clinic. Although they were of the Orthodox Jewish faith, no man or woman who came for treatment was asked about his or her religious belief. And it is stimulating to realize that the noble and decent spirit of these Orthodox pioneers has dominated the conduct of Beth Israel to this very day. No matter how much information a patient is required to give for our records, there is one question that is never asked and that is, with what religious faith are you affiliated? The parents of these future generations who turled in sweatshops and even tenements, usually desire that their sons should become either doctors or lawyers or perhaps engineers. My own father and mother expressed the hope that I might become a doctor someday. They placed doctors in almost the same category as good angels. But as you probably guessed by this time, I didn't quite come up to their expectations. But I do want to say that I did not let them down entirely. I have been actively associated with scores of doctors for nearly thirty years, not only as president of Beth Israel, but also as a member of the board of trustees. I have come to know many of them intimately, and I want to say here and now that I have never worked with a finer or more self-effacing group of men who often, to my own knowledge, give of themselves 24 hours a day without a pause. How many New Yorkers know that Beth Israel Hospital stands in the very heart of the most densely populated section of our great city? How many realize that here is a population of nearly two million souls, that their health and welfare needs are tremendous? They must be served 24 hours a day. The physical well-being of an individual cannot be charted on a blueprint, blueprint, and when the urgency arises, time is of the essence. Throughout the day and even night, there flows a constant stream of men, women, and children through the doors of Beth Israel. They come to us because they need help, and often they need this assistance very quickly. We have never timed them down, for there comes a time when the pressure is so great that the physical facilities of an institution like Beth Israel are taxed to the utmost limit. To meet this problem of expansion, it was decided to build an outpatient department to take care of the vast increase in the number of applications for treatment. It was a relatively simple matter to make a decision of this kind, to meet the emergency, but we were confronted with a very practical problem of finances. I am happy to tell you that we have almost hurdled this difficulty. Money was contributed for this addition to Beth Israel Hospital by the building funds of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and the members of the Board of Trustees of Beth Israel Hospital. It is this magnificent help from the Federation that has been responsible in a very large measure for the progress that Beth Israel has made through the years. It gives me great pleasure to thank publicly the Federation which has been the good right arm of Beth Israel Hospital. I cannot speak in high enough terms of the cooperation of my colleagues on the Board of Trustees. I want to tell you quite frankly that whatever small success I have enjoyed as President has been due to the unwavering support of the members of the Board. we have worked together as a team and it is this splendid teamwork that has brought such good results. And while I am on the subject of hospital expansion I want to say to his honor Mayor Impeleteri that both he and his very able Commissioner of Hospitals Dr. Kogel have shown an understanding interest in voluntary hospitals which has never been equaled by any other chief executive in the history of our city. But our work has just begun. We have a great vision of expansion and while it may take some time I am sure we will eventually achieve our objective. We have purchased seven buildings directly behind the hospital. they will be torn down and in their stead there will arise structures that will be developed into a great medical center which will include a hospital annex laboratories a nurse's home and nurse's training school. And so the little clinic which the pioneers started and supported with their weekly contributions of 25 cents will in the years ahead spread into a center of healing and research serving all races and creeds. I must not close this talk without expressing my personal thanks to one of the outstanding Americans of all time who has graced this ceremony with his presence. He has been a great figure in our national life. He has honored Beth Israel and me personally by coming here today. my gratitude goes out to the Vice President of the United States the Honorable Alvin W. Barkley. There is seated on this platform the distinguished son of a distinguished father. my friend Mr. Bernard Baruch has honored me by coming to these ceremonies. He belongs not only to New York but to the whole nation and indeed to the whole world. And I think it is appropriate to mention that his father Dr. Simon Baruch was not only a great physician but an outstanding humanitarian. He was a pioneer in the method of hydrotherapy and he is remembered not only as a fine citizen but as one of the leaders in the field of medicine in his time. And finally I would like to say just a word about a partnership that I formed with a lady some 40 years ago. She is here beside me now just as she has been through heartbreaks and struggles and joys and I know how happy she feels on this occasion. She is my devoted wife and the mother of my children. without her inspiration and encouragement the task which I assumed would have been harder and perhaps impossible. It was her word of cheer that lifted me up when the going was rough. I often felt a sense of guilt when I had to give time to responsibilities which I had assumed in many causes when I should have been with my family. May God give all of us who strive for Beth Israel the courage and wisdom and understanding to carry on in the years ahead so that those who will take over when we are not here will have before them a living heritage of our American idealism our traditions and our hopes for all humanity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have the extreme pleasure and privilege of presenting to you a distinguished guest he really needs no introduction he is honoring us here this afternoon the vice president of our great country Alvin W. Barkley Mr. Chairman Mr. and Mrs. Silver Mayor Impelitari my old and dear friend Mr. Baruch old in friendship but not in age Dr. Goldstein and other friends of mine and of Beth Israel and of the Silvers I do not recall when I have been surrounded by happier circumstances than those in which I find myself at this hour I love to come to New York I like New York I like the people of New York there are many in this country who look upon the city of New York as a great sordid aggregation of wealth and of circumstance and of pomp but during all the years during which I have been coming to this great city I have found that while it is a city of great wealth and of great circumstance now and then of a little pomp more important than that it is a great city of humanity and of humanitarians and of human interests I'm not sure that my figures are accurate but I think that the people of this great city every year contribute voluntarily more than 500 million dollars to charity and worthy humanitarian activities so it really is a pleasure today to be here not on any political mission nor any remotely selfish mission but to be a very humble part in this laying of a cornerstone to a great institution here in the midst of a community of more than two million human beings representing more than twenty different racial strains and ancestry and countries close by to a world organization that can almost be seen from this spot representing more than sixty nations dedicated to peace dedicated to the solution of the controversies that arise among men and among nations nations through cooperation and understanding negotiation and arbitration and as one who has all of his life believed that it ought to be easier to organize the world for peace than for war I am happy to stand here in this atmosphere and this environment to participate in this dedication of a great institution which is to bear a great name the Lord has been good to us today giving us matchless New York weather I hope nobody will repeat my remarks to California or Florida but in no part of the nation or in the world could there be a more appropriate day from every standpoint than this there is no silver lining on the cloud because there is no cloud everything is silver here today we are not only here to honor a great institution which is honoring a great man but it will not be inappropriate for me briefly to refer to the interests of our whole country in the matter of hospitals and of health during the great world depression very few hospitals were built in the United States our population grew apace our cities and our rural communities grew but our hospitals did not increase even during world war number two there was a minimum of hospitals built but at the end of world war two when the number of physicians had declined in proportion to the population and in no community large or small were there sufficient hospital facilities for the people and in many parts of our country none at all the Congress of the United States was compelled to take note of this inadequacy and to enact a law in 1946 known as the Hill Burton Act providing for federal aid to the states and citizen counties and to other non-profit organizations in the construction of hospitals throughout the United States through the act of Congress of that year the government of the United States embarked upon a period a five-year period of hospital construction under the Hill Burton Act 1782 hospital projects have either been constructed or are now under construction providing for more than 85,000 beds throughout the United States and this program has not only been beneficial to those who are sick but it has been beneficial to the medical profession and to the nursing profession because it has given them more adequate and more up-to-date facilities for the treatment of disease this enactment of our Congress was endorsed by the American Hospital Association by the American Medical Association by the labor and agriculture organizations throughout the United States because they recognize as we all recognize that if we are to be a strong nation we must be strong physically as well as economically intellectually and morally a sound mind and a sound body has forever been a motto of the American people and might well be a motto of the entire world I mention this relationship between our government and the problems of health throughout the country in order to emphasize the fact that in this day when our people are compelled to face greater complexities than they have ever faced before due very largely to the inventive genius of our people which has multiplied the agencies through which the people associate congregate cooperate in greater understanding thus bringing every human being into greater interdependence upon every other human being and every city and every county more interdependent upon every other city and every other county and every state more interdependent upon every other state and every nation more interdependent upon every other nation we recognize the fact that organized society, which speaks through government in one form or another, national, state, or local, must in a sense form a sort of partnership with the people in order that they may advance, that they may elevate their standard of life, that they may realize that their government is and should always remain a servant and not a master of our people. And there was never a greater need for this understanding than at this time in the history of the world, when mankind is divided between two ideologies, one of them the democratic, recognizing the right of individuals, recognizing individual initiative, recognizing, after all, that all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, recognizing, after all, that all men are created equal, and that, as such, they are endowed with certain inalienable rights, not by government, not by society, but endowed by Almighty God, with certain unalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We know that not only men, women, and children love this thing we call life, but they love it in all of its fullness. They love it in wholesome health and in wholesome enjoyment. Not only men and women love life, but all nature loves life. You are familiar with that beautiful poem of Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, The Last Leaf on the Tree, and how he pictures that all during the blast of winter, this last leaf has clung to the twig until the twig until the sun and rain and warmth of springtime push it off, because a new bud is burgeoning forth to take its place, and yet that dead leaf loves the life that has departed from it. And then in the last stanza of that beautiful poem he said, And if I should live to be the last leaf on the tree, may they laugh, as I do now, at the old forsaken bough, where I cling. All nature loves life, and yet we know that without liberty life is drab and unfruitful, liberty to be ourselves circumscribed only by those rules which are essential to protect the people in the attainment and in the enjoyment of their rights. Liberty of worship written into our very Constitution. Liberty of speech written into our Constitution. Liberty to assemble as we are assembled here today. Written in the First Amendment to our Constitution constituting the Bill of Rights of our people. Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But we are not satisfied merely to pursue happiness. We do not want happiness to be a mere will of the wish, to be pursued but never overtaken, never attained, never clutched to our bosom and enjoyed. For we, in this day of achievement, in this day of advancement, science and medicine and research, in all the activities of mankind, realize that if we can only pursue happiness and never attain it, it would be a fruitless pursuit. And therefore we seek not only to pursue happiness but to enjoy it and to attain it and to overtake it and to clutch it to our bosoms. And we cannot do that unless we are equipped in body and mind and spirit to enjoy life, to realize in all of its fullness the beauty and the dignity of life. And it is in behalf of that sort of life, in all of its fullness, that this great institution here was established 63 years ago here in this community by contributions of 25 cents a week by those who wish to enjoy life and health and a wholesome atmosphere. It is in behalf of such a life that for 63 years it has grown. Until today, it is one of the outstanding institutions not only of New York, but of the entire country. And it is in behalf of such a life that this new clinic to bear the name and the great name, too, of a great American who back in those days when he lived in this community had his beginning as the son of immigrant parents making his contribution then humble and small as it was, who under the American system, under the form of American democracy, with all the opportunities that America affords to all those who come here, is now able to have done in a big way what he could only do then in a small way and have this grateful community and this grateful institution name this new building as the Charles H. Silver Clinic, which will bear his name in all perpetuity. Therefore, you can understand how profoundly honored I feel that I am allowed to take part in the ceremony of laying this cornerstone. and I want to say by the way that I have laid many cornerstones in my life, I've never laid one yet that fell or crumbled. And I'm sure this beautiful cornerstone laid here today will stand here as a monument to the man in whose name it is being laid. Mr. Silver has told me and he's told you that they did not build this clinic until they had the money to pay for it. No mortgage hangs over it to torment and to torture those who are to come on in the future. And when they tear these buildings down and acquire more buildings to enlarge this hospital they will likewise have the money to pay for that and to build it so that no mortgage will torment or torture those who come after. You're accustomed in New York to dealing with large astronomical financial figures. I heard a very amusing story about a man in Mississippi who went to a bank to borrow some money and the president asked him what do you have in the way of liquid assets? And the man thought for a moment and he said well I think about a case and a half. A teacher said to a class of boys if I loan your father a thousand dollars and he promises to pay it back two hundred dollars a month how much will he owe me at the end of three months? And the boy said a thousand dollars. The teacher said you don't know your mathematics. The boy said you don't know my father. No such problem will face this clinic or this hospital. I'm glad my friends and I feel proud. I feel prouder today to be here as your guest and your friend than to make any political speech I ever made in my life or any that I ever may make. Glad to honor my friend and to be surrounded here by so many of my friends on the platform. and as I conclude may I say that this ceremony here and the honor done to Charles H. Silver and to Mrs. Silver because while Charles H. Silver's name appears on the scroll and on the cornerstone Mrs. Silver has as he has already told you been she has been the motive she has been the spark plug that has given power and inspiration to Charlie Silver and that's true of every good woman who honors a man by being his wife. First time I was ever in London I went over to Old St. Paul's Cathedral. I had known from my reading that Sir Christopher Wren was not only the greatest architect who ever lived in England but in all likelihood one of the greatest classical architects in the history of the world. I knew that Sir Christopher Wren had designed St. Paul's Cathedral and I wanted to see this great piece of Sir Christopher's architecture so I wandered around through St. Paul's Cathedral after whose dome by the way the dome of our own capital is fashioned in Washington and rather unexpectedly I came upon the grave of Sir Christopher Wren in the floor of that cathedral and I stopped to read the inscription over the tomb of this great architect and it so impressed me that I memorized it on the spot and I give it to you now in conclusion as a symbol of what we are witnessing here today it said here lies the body of Sir Christopher Wren builder of this cathedral he lived not for himself alone but for mankind and then as if speaking to me it said stranger if you seek a monument look around and I looked around no great equestrian statue erected in honor of a man who had drenched the earth's soil with human blood no great selfish accumulator of the world's goods with no thought of public welfare but the builder of a great cathedral dedicated to the worship of almighty god that was his monument and will forever be the monument of Sir Christopher Wren while it will be a long time before a monument will be erected in any cemetery to Charles H. Silver I hope a long time before any inscription will be chiseled upon his tomb we may say today in his young and virulent active lifetime as we erect this monument and lay this cornerstone to those who pass this way in the years to come stranger if you seek a monument to Charles H. Silver look around look around at a great institution dedicated to human welfare to the relief of human suffering without regard to race creed or any other distinction look around not only here but in a great city where his benefactions have been mortified look around at a better community a better city a better state look around at a better nation made better because Charlie Silver has lived in it and a part of it and has made his great contribution to it this is a glorious day not only in the skies but in the hearts and souls of men I'm happy to greet him as worthy of all these honors and others because he has not lived for himself alone but for mankind thank you thank you Mr. President now I have the extreme pleasure of presenting to you another distinguished guest you all know him not so long ago he did something in this city that showed that everybody loved him against great odds he became the mayor of our wonderful city and it's my privilege now to present him to you mayor impoletary the houseman the vice president the baruch mr. and mrs. silver reverend clergy ladies and gentlemen following the vice president is just like the fellow who follows the main bout in the so-called semi-final however I will try to limit my remarks in view of the very excellent address made by vice president Barclay this cornerstone event marks another very important step in the expansion program of Beth Israel Hospital which since 1890 has rendered such magnificent service to the people of the city of New York in the care and treatment of countless thousands of patients regardless of race creed or ability to pay but for me and I am certain I speak for all of us here today this occasion is a singular one and that in that it honors a great New Yorker Mr. Charles H. Silver I am grateful to the board of trustees of Beth Israel Hospital for this opportunity to join them in tribute to their colleague and president who early in 1947 took over as head of this great institution upon the death of the beloved and esteemed Mr. David L. Podell the new outpatient building that we'll raise here is only part of the greater Beth Israel envisioned by Mr. Silver and his associates who long since have dedicated themselves to providing for this historic old section of New York a great medical center second to none in the city state or nation for a lesser man than Charles Silver this might be a mere boast and an unreachable challenge but the zeal the dedication to the service of his fellow man the intelligent leadership and the energy of Mr. Silver have been demonstrated on many fronts in our city as close friend and associate of Cardinal Spellman he has been one of the prime movers in the work of the Alfred E. Smith Foundation and in the expansion of St. Vincent's Hospital over in the village not very far from here he is a member of the board of trustees of Yeshiva University and very active in its current campaign to launch a very great medical school he is a member of the board of the overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary a vice president of the Benet Jeshurum congregation and active as a member of the board of the Urban League he is a vice president of the Grand Street Boys Association he has taken a very active part in the Salvation Army and Greater New York fund drives he is a director of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and is president of the Amon Israeli Housing Corporation organized to finance the development of housing projects in the vibrant new state of Israel a little more than a year ago when I had the pleasure of addressing the nursing school graduation exercises here at Beth Israel I stated that the rare qualities and abilities of Mr. Silver would grace any governmental administration and I am now very happy to be able to include him in the official family of my administration since he recently accepted appointment as a member of the Board of Education which guides the destinies of our hundreds of thousands of school children his recent induction ceremony at City Hall brought out men and women from all walks of life on that occasion as on this Mr. Baruch was also present it brought out men and women of all creeds men representing labor and capital all in tribute to Mr. Silver for taking on another civic duty and responsibility without a nickel of compensation the Charles H. Silver Clinic as it rises skyward and is dedicated to the service of the people of this community easing the pain and the suffering of those who come here and guiding them back to health will serve as a lasting tribute to a gentleman whose guiding principle in life has been service to his fellow man. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now it is my extreme pleasure to present to you a distinguished guest. Anything I would say about him would be superfluous. In fact, I'm speechless when it comes to talk about him. A good friend of our president, Mr. Bernard V. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Silver, Vice President, fellow guests, and fellow citizens, this, as has been said, is a very happy occasion. Even nature itself has smiled upon us. The thought that occurred to me as I've listened to these distinguished speeches, the refined and appropriate things they said about Mr. Silver, was this thought, that he represents and epitomizes the opportunity that America gives to everybody, irrespective of both race or creed. born not far from here, not under the most fortunate circumstances, suffering intolerance on many occasions, experiencing great difficulties, he came through that crucible of difficulties a truly magnificent, noble citizen. his, he never was frustrated nor disappointed nor became embittered, but went on to do what he thought was his duty. And this magnificent institution, which they have honored him in calling after him, represents the true nobility of this man. a little couplet occurs to me, I don't know whether I can remember it or not, seems to me fits its occasion. It goes something like this, however it be, it seems to me it is only noble to be good. Kind hearts are more than coronates and simple faith than Norman blood. I think that fits Charles Silver. And may I say in conclusion, Mr. Silver, what I said the other night, and which I hope you will not be fearsome of, that an old Irish friend of mine said to me 60 years ago, said, may the Lord take your liking to you, but not too soon. before we present our next speaker, I must take about a minute of your time to say to you that one of our vice presidents, our good friend and your good friend, Judge Nathan Perlman, whom as you note is not here on a platform, is unfortunately critically ill, and I hope that we all hope that God gives him a speedy recovery so that he can be with us and continue to work as tirelessly as he has in the future as in the past. I also would like to have to acknowledge here publicly the thanks to all our trustees, and I'd like to have them take a bow here on this platform. Will the trustees take a bow, please? Thank you very much. And now it is my extreme pleasure to present to you the dean of College of Medicine of New York University, Bellevue Medical Center since 1937, a graduate of the New York College of Medicine, of which he is now the dean, an eminent medical educator, and in whose association we have been privileged to work, our hospital has been privileged to work for many years, Dr. Curia McEwen. Mr. Houseman, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Baruch, Mr. and Mrs. Silver, distinguished guests, and associates and friends of Beth Israel Hospital. My duty here this afternoon is a very simple one and an extremely pleasant one, for it is my privilege to speak on behalf of all at the university and at the New York University Bellevue Medical Center in bringing greetings and congratulations and good wishes on this occasion. each member of the faculty shares with you the pleasure of this very exciting occasion. We all know, each one of us, of course, that in the final analysis it isn't buildings that make institutions great, it's the men and women and the ideals of those institutions that really count the most. And certainly the sons and daughters of Beth Israel Hospital have illustrated this over and over again in their service to the sick and suffering of our city. But at the same time, this building being dedicated today is really a symbol of all of the service that the hospital, through its sons and daughters and ideals, has rendered. Because, as has been said by a number already today, the very fact that this hospital needs the new clinic building now illustrates the increasing service that's being rendered all the time. I'd like to mention, too, another cornerstone laying that I hope will take place not too many months ago, too many months from now, and issue a very warm invitation to all of you today to come to that one, too. Those of you who have been up north on First Avenue, a few blocks above here, may have seen a large hole in the ground up there, too, which we're very happy about and will be even happier when we see it filled with building and then with working people. and I think it's significant that our two institutions, the New York University Bellevue Medical Center and Beth Israel Hospital, have not only been working together but are marching together in this same expanding program of service, where we at the university are most happy at the good fortune and the magnificent work of our sister institution here, and we particularly know what this means to Mr. and Mrs. Silver and bring our special congratulations and good wishes to them. We will be just another few minutes. I would like to present to you our medical director, Dr. Maxwell Frank, without whom none of us could function. Dr. Frank, would you please stand up? Our next distinguished speaker is the president of the Federation of Jewish Charities, a man who's well known to all of us, who has labored for many a great cause in our community, and a good friend, Mr. Milton Weill. Mr. Hausman, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mayor, Mr. and Mrs. Silver, and friends of Beth Israel and the Federation. So that you may completely relax, may I say that I'm only going to take a few moments, and I understand that my part in this program will close the ceremony to bring a word of greeting from Federation to this hospital, to its trustees, and to its distinguished president, Mr. Silver. It is always a delight for a president of Federation to take part in ceremonies of this kind, for it is ceremonies of this kind that give to the community tangible evidence of the fact that the funds which they contributed in 1945 and in 1949 to our two great Federation building fund campaigns are being put to actual use. And it is a pleasant responsibility further for a president of Federation to attend these functions and to report personally on the results of Federation's requests of the community. It is interesting to note that the evidences of these two magnificent building fund campaigns are cropping up in every borough in the city. And this dedication here today, marking the laying of a cornerstone of another building in the great hospital chains that make up Federation, is further evidence of that fact. I'd like you to know that as a result of those two Federation building fund campaigns, there was contributed by friends of Beth Israel and by the trustees of Beth Israel in earmarked gifts something over three quarters of a million dollars towards this six-story outpatient apartment and to Beth Israel's other modernization programs. And to that generous sum I want you also to know, and Mr. Silver referred to it but did not specify the amount, that the Federation Board of Trustees voted out of what we call our free funds in our building funds, a grant of $455,000, so that this building and this modernization program might be completed. So that in a real sense of the word, the hundreds who are here are joined by the thousands throughout the city who contributed their funds in those campaigns, celebrating and rejoicing in this very happy event. And on behalf of that community, a grateful community, and on behalf of Federation, I congratulate Beth Israel Hospital on the splendid progress it is making in the development of its expansion and modernization program. Federation is mighty proud that Beth Israel is a member of its far-flung network of health and welfare agencies. Federation is proud of the high standards in medical service that this hospital maintains, proud of its continued search for better medicine and better techniques. We note with interest the service that this institution is rendering in this recently expanded residential area. And we note with pride the research work that is being done here, especially in the field of cardiovascular diseases. Federation is interested in the all-around social service program that Beth Israel has initiated and is carrying on to such successful conclusions. As a matter of fact, Federation is proud of the overall service that Beth Israel Hospital is rendering not only to the Jewish community, but more important to the entire city of New York. And may I, in a moment while the mayor is still here, refer to the partnership relationship that exists between voluntary philanthropy on the one hand and the city and state and national government to which the vice president has alluded on the other. As a matter of fact, the relationship between voluntary philanthropy and the city of New York is particularly evident in the field of hospitals. The mayor and I had the privilege of attending a dedication service just a week ago at Mount Sinai Hospital. And there, too, I referred to the fact that the statesmanlike vision of the mayor and his city administration enabled our hospitals last year to get help in a way that they very, very sorely needed. For I want to remind you that up to last year, the city of New York allowed to voluntary hospitals the sum of $8 per day per patient in a ward. And due to the vision of the present administration recognizing the needs of hospitals last year, that sum was raised to $11 per day. Beth Israel Hospital and every other hospital in the city of New York were the beneficiaries. And yet, despite that, the astonishing fact is that the hospitals in the city of New York, the voluntary hospitals in the city of New York last year had a total operational deficit of some $20 million. Now, today we are dedicating or laying the cornerstone of a building that will serve as an outpatient department administering its clinical facilities to the individuals who will come to here on a day-by-day basis not yet hospitalized. The city of New York, with all its generosity, does not yet contribute to that all-important need. And I'm very happy to tell you that the mayor and his administration are at the moment considering that very serious problem. I do hope that in their vision and in their foresightedness, they will bring some relief to all hospitals in New York to aid them in the clinical work that is being done in the clinics. For it is evident that when a patient comes to a clinic, he may be saved the cost of being taken care of in a ward. And that is certainly a much greater cost. And so I would urge upon the mayor and the associates with whom he works on this very serious problem that they reconsider the hospital problem in the light of the needs of clinics of this kind that minister so vitally to the day by day needs of all peoples in this community. I had intended to make some reference to the significance of the fact that this new building will be named after Mr. Charles Silva. But that point has so well been covered that I just want to make this one brief observation. Too few of the great men in this city, the great humanitarian work that the military and the workers have the opportunity of receiving distinctions of this kind while they are still here to enjoy it. I am happy, Federation is happy, that Mr. Silver and Mrs. Silver are here to enjoy this thrill today. And knowing him as I do, I feel quite confident that this ceremony today will but spur him on to greater usefulness in this community. To all the offices of Beth Israel Hospital, to all its trustees, to Dr. Maxwell Frank, its very able executive director, to all the members of the medical and nursing staff, Federation extends through me affectionate greetings, its warm wishes on this important occasion. And upon this new outpatient building that is about to be erected and destined to accommodate, I am told, some 100,000 patient visits annually, we bestow our blessings in which we know the entire community that supports Federation joins us to the end that Beth Israel may continue to dedicate itself to an era of greater and greater usefulness to the city whose interests we serve. We will close in about just one minute. We can't let this day pass without recalling the memory not only of the past presidents and officials and trustees of the institution, but two who just recently left our midst. our past president, David L. Pudel, who was so greatly responsible for the greatness of this hospital. And just lately, not many months ago, one of our trustees saw Ravage, where you see that HRH Construction Corporation. He was one of the partners in that corporation and he devoted himself to our institution with his funds as well as his strength. I also want to take the occasion to thank our good mayor and Commissioner Monaghan for being so wonderful to us here this afternoon and to give us his great band, which has played so beautifully at the beginning of the ceremonies and who I hope will now play for us as we leave. Thank you very much. Radio's microphones have been located on East 17th Street and Stuyvesant Square, marking the laying of the cornerstone of the Charles H. Silver outpatient pavilion here as part of Beth Israel Hospital and its magnificent work in the healing of the sick in our great and wonder city, New York. Charles H. Silver was honored here today by the presence of the mayor of the city of New York and the vice president of the United States, Albin W. Barclay, and a distinguished company who were presented by the chairman, Mr. Hausman, vice president of Beth Israel Hospital, who made the introductions. On this beautiful June day, we send our very best wishes to all the activities embraced in Beth Israel and especially to this wonderful Charles H. Silver pavilion, the cornerstone of which was laid here this afternoon. We're returning now to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system.