The following program was transcribed earlier for rebroadcast at this time. This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. The Secretary General of the United Nations, in his report on the work of the United Nations, stated, the importance which the General Assembly attaches to public opinion is shown in the resolutions it has adopted concerning public information and teaching about the United Nations. The only sound basis for that popular support, which is essential to the success of the United Nations, is a public opinion accurately and fully informed of the problems with which the organization is dealing and of the possible solution of those problems which are within its scope. That's what we want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents transcribed Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. I have as my guest tonight, two very close friends, very active in the United Nations, either officially or unofficially. One is Mr. William Agar, who is Chief of the Headquarters Services of the Department of Public Information, a very important United Nations official. The other is Miss Betty Hitchcock, who is Chief of the Public Reception Committee of the American Association for the United Nations, a public reception committee active at the United Nations. This has been a day of receptions. This morning, Mr. Agar and the officials of the United Nations are at a reception in honor of Miss Hitchcock and the important work which her reception committee has performed for the United Nations. This afternoon, they were guests of the American Mission at Tupac Avenue, and we have just left the apartment of Ambassador Warren Austin and Mrs. Austin. Ambassador Austin, you know, head of the American Mission for the United Nations, where they gave a tea party in honor of Miss Hitchcock and the Public Reception Committee. And so we are here in the studio to tell you more about this program. And I'm going to turn to my friend, Mr. Agar, first, and I'm going to ask him what it is that his department has to offer. Well, Clark, I think you know the answer to that pretty well yourself. You know we have a press and publications division. Our radio is functioning most of the day all over the world. We have films and visual information which are sent out to the world. We have, under the external services so-called, 16 information offices spread widely from as far away as Australia and the south tip of Latin America and more or less all over the world, covering the world. These services actually do radiate out to the whole world. In other words, you do cover the whole world. Oh, yes, definitely. But then we have naturally, since our headquarters are here in New York, we have to have a service which handles, more or less, the visits to the United Nations, the lectures that have to be made here, the answering of public correspondence and so on, which is more or less local. Though, as you can imagine, that involves also visits from people from all parts of the world, particularly students who are visiting the United States, non-governmental organizations, people from all over the world. But that is what we call the special services, and that's where my particular designation of headquarters services comes from. I see. I wondered about the title. Well, can you give an idea of how this service has developed since it was set up? Yes, the set up of the department is very much as it was when I joined nearly four years ago today. We had the same general divisions, though, of course, some administrative changes have been made, and our work and the reach of our work is infinitely more extensive than it was four years ago, as you could well imagine. The information officers have developed. There weren't any at that time. How many do you have? We have 15 now. Moscow, London, Paris, I suppose. Copenhagen, Geneva, Cairo, New Delhi, Shanghai, Sydney, Australia, Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and I've left a few out now. That's right. But that's the coverage that we have. But I think the thing which has grown the most is the visits to the United Nations and the correspondence that comes into us, and that is why we were forced. I don't know whether that's the right word, but we really had to because of the tremendous demand on the services of the Secretariat. Call in your organization and ask the American Association for the United Nations if it would not help us out in two specific areas. One, answering public correspondence, which Mrs. Frank is doing for us now, along with a group of volunteers and along with our own unit. Mrs. Frank handles mostly the requests that come from educational institutions, from students, from teachers all over the country, and then call in also help in taking care of visitors, which Miss Hitchcock has been handling, along also with my own section. I'm glad you spoke of Mrs. Frank. I hope later, sometime the next month or so, we can have her on the program and she can describe the interesting letters that she received that she's answering for you. Some very interesting things for her to say there, yes. Well, do you mean that your work deals primarily with Americans? Well, it does, except insofar as among all of these visiting groups, we have a lot of people from other countries. We make a specific effort to have all visiting, all exchange students to the United States come out there to the United Nations. And other groups, of course, that come, sailors off some of the ships that land in New York Harbor will land on us in a great bunch, you see. So there isn't any sharp distinction, but naturally, being in the United States, most of our visitors and most of our correspondents are fun. There's a good many, thousand and thousand a month. Well, let me put it this way. Suppose I was head of a school out in the West and I wanted to bring some students. How does a group make arrangements to visit the United Nations? How do they go about it? Well, the simplest answer to that is to tell any group just to write to the Department of Public Information. Now, there are, as we've indicated, several of us there who handle the different groups, but the request will be referred to the proper place in the organization. And it may come to me, and it may be something that I should turn over to Miss Hitchcock, in which case I will turn it over to her. And I think now is the time to turn it over. Yeah, that's well said. Ask her if she will explain some of her work. Well, I think that during the General Assembly, you or perhaps the American public turned over to us from between 1,000 to 3,000 visitors a day, if I'm correct, and going by the admissions office figures for the number of people that have been coming out there. I think you're minimizing them. Tell me, when people go there, you have a lounge set aside by the United Nations, haven't you? And there you're some 20 guides function from? We have a lounge set aside, Mr. Eichelberger, but I think probably the most important function that our volunteer guides perform now is an explanation of the meetings which are taking place. This morning, as an example, we have a fairly complicated subject being discussed in a sub-commission, but we have a guide in that committee room who tells the visitors who the delegates are and what the agenda is about. Sometimes the guides themselves get a little amazed, and I may say delighted when such a thing has happened the other day when we had a 13-year-old student tell us what the Assembly did about the Italian colonies. Of course, we like to be on the telling end, but we find that, particularly among students, the amount that they're studying the United Nations in school and then the fact that they can complement it with a visit to the UN is a tremendous amount in increasing and maintaining their interest. Do you find interest in the United Nations growing, Betty? I certainly do, Mr. Eichelberger. I think that the thing that interests and surprises all of us is, although a great many of the thousands of people come out there perhaps don't have any detailed understanding of exactly how the organization works, their curiosity and desire to know more about it and determination to know more about it once they've been to the meetings is very impressive indeed. And, of course, we hope to and try to give them that stimulus so that they will be able to be good ambassadors for the UN themselves as they go back to their communities and to their families. What are people Betty most interested in? Tell us some human interest stories. Who do they ask about first? I think Mr. Eichelberger will agree with me here when I say that, of course, the primary interest, at least to the American visitors, is Mrs. Roosevelt. Is Mrs. Roosevelt here? What room is she in? Can I see her? Well, isn't that also true of visitors from other parts of the world, too? I think they've all heard so much about her. They have, and, of course, she is certainly a leading figure out there and I'm sending in her efforts and willingness to speak to groups. I remember a security council chamber full to overflowing in the film booths one day when she was speaking to several groups who were there at the same time between sessions, and her energy out there is perfectly amazing to see. Next to Mrs. Roosevelt, I don't know what you'd say about this, Mr. Edgar, but I think the translation system is very high on the list of... Oh, definitely, yes. ...things that the visitors want to see. We were interested one day, we had a woman come out of a committee room and she said that she was very surprised that all the public apparently could understand Chinese. She hadn't known that you could, by switching your dial, you could also hear the meeting interpreted in English, and she, poor woman, had listened to it all the way through in Chinese. Hmm. Well, can you, anything else? Tell us, how is your staff organized? Our staff is organized from, we recruited our volunteers from various community groups in the Long Island area from the League of Women Voters, the American Association of University Women, and it now comprises some 20 volunteers, four of whom come one day a week for a full day of work at the United Nations. And it's their job to take visitors around and show them what there is to see in the way of conference rooms and where the meetings take place and to, as I said before, try and explain to them what meetings are taking place and who delegates are and how the organization works. And we also always like to put them in touch with literature that we have and the information of the Department of Public Information, which Mr. Agar has referred to before. I'd like to go back again to the second question I asked you. What are people most interested in? And maybe you and Mr. Agar can talk back and forth a little bit on that because he gets these requests and part of them go to you and part of them other factions of his division. What are they interested more in? Political subjects? Economic subjects? Well, I think from my experience that political subjects take the highest ranking there. I think that there is a sign that the education of the American public is beginning to function because they are beginning to be more interested in the social and economic problems. Of course, human rights is another one which stands almost top. Wouldn't you agree with me on that? I would certainly agree with the political problems and the human rights on the student level. I think on the adult level, the interest is in more of the economic and social field and then the actual functioning of what happens at Lake Success. But students have often asked very penetrating questions on just those two subjects that you mentioned. Well, I think it's a very interesting fact that Betty Hitchcock handles, when she's handling students, the younger students. And to have her say how sharp and keen they are and how interested they are, I think is a good omen. How young do you take them, Betty? We take them in the junior high school groups. We don't take groups of students below the age of junior high school level. And what proportion are adults and what portion are students? Well, I think the greatest proportion at the moment are adults, really. At the present time, we're taking one class from the junior high schools and the public schools in the New York area or from wherever they can come. But during the time of the General Assembly, I think it's about 50-50. Wouldn't you say something straight up? Yes, and I think also, Betty, that you will find again, as we both did last year, that come spring, when the schools have finished courses on the UN, we're going to have them all avalanching out there and wanting to come and finish by visiting. Well, Mr. Agar... I will. Mr. Agar, Chief of the Headquarters Services of the Department of Public Information, and Miss Betty Hitchcock, Chief of the Public Reception Committee, I think you've added very much to our radio program and the information of our weekly audience by telling of the great public interest and the visitors to the United Nations and how people throughout the country can get in touch with you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger and Mr. William Agar and also Miss Elizabeth Hitchcock. This has been another in NBC's new University of the Air program series, The UN is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in United Nations affairs. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This program was transcribed. You're tuned for the stars on NBC. Thank you. Thank you.