Ladies and gentlemen, it is really a pleasure for me as Health Commissioner of the City to welcome you to the opening of the Jamaica District Health Center. This is one of the chain of health centers, as you know, scattered throughout the city, through the medium of which the city hopes to bring health service as close to the population as we can possibly do it. We are sure that this system offers the best there is in public health work. Now, if you please rise, we will have an invocation by the Reverend Joseph H. Titus, pastor of the Great Episcopal Church. O mighty God, as we thank you, graciously beseech thee to bless this house and ourselves to thine honor and glory, to carry out their merciful care of all who come here for succor. Here may they find a need and peace. The weak find strength, the suffering find comfort. May all who find mercy and abundant care. May those who direct it be conscious that in serving their fellow men they serve thee. Bless the physicians who labor here and do them a skill and wisdom. Bless all nurses and others who serve thee here. Give them patience and understanding and sympathy. May the spirit of consolation, of gentleness and faithfulness, invade these walls. As we serve thy community, we may serve thee both now and forevermore. Amen. Thank you, Reverend Titus. Now, we will have the national anthem. Hello, we thrive these who will return as friends whoSLBeeet andквity Barns� byologie. As Ipecti Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the average doctor interested in public health derives very few moments of enthusiasm or thrills from his work. Although the entire program has a medical basis, it requires the passage of years and the plotting of death and morbidity curves before we are really sure that the programs which we have outlined ask the city officials to finance and put into effect are really effective. The district health program is one of this kind. Starting back in 1922, it has had the earnest support both of the health officials and the city officials. It has, we feel, been productive of great good to the city. Over the years, we have watched contagious disease go down to continuing low levels until at the moment the city is probably in the best state that it ever has been. We owe, and I say although we contribute the technical side, we owe much of this to the earnest and sincere support of the city officials. It gives me great pleasure to introduce one of these city officials to you today, the Honorable James A. Lundy, President of your Borough of Queens. Mr. Lundy. Dr. Mahoney, distinguished members of the clergy, our Honorable and Distinguished Mayor of Vincent Impalateri, Commissioner Zamoulin, Dr. Coniglia, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy, indeed, to have but a small part in the activities here today. I'm glad to have a part, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a very significant fact that those charged with the health problems of the city of New York and those charged with the responsibilities of the city administration have embarked upon a program that immeasurably is most important to the health and welfare of the people of the city of New York. So, if we could stop to think for a moment, realizing that from this edifice we'll go the services to approximately 300,000 people of this area and district, if we stop and think of that, we must realize that there are many cities in the United States of America that does not have a population of 300,000 people. And yet, in one part of the city of New York is this institution to be which will provide those essential services, preventative services, for the health and welfare of the people of this district. I'm sure that most of you are aware, of course, that this is the third of these centers in the borough of Queens and with more to come. And that is carrying a vital and important service to the people of the city of New York. And for those reasons, I think, indeed, that our mayor, the Commissioner of Health, Commissioner Zamoulin, and each and every person who has had a responsibility, regardless of the measure of it, are to be commended. And for those reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy, indeed, to participate here this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you, President Lundy. As I mentioned before, the basic mechanism of public health work is essentially medical. how often, however, not infrequently, the exact functions of the health department become confused with those of hospitals and with the functions of curative medicine. Our function is essentially preventive, and we try to remain in that field completely. We have been more than fortunate in the city of New York, as long as I have been connected with the department, in having the wholehearted and earnest support of the organized medical profession. One of the most important members of that profession is with you today, Dr. Frank J. Seniglia, President of the Queens County Medical Society. Dr. Seniglia. Thank you. Dr. Mahoney, Mayor, Commissioner, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It gives me great pleasure in having this opportunity to say a few words to you on this auspicious occasion of dedicating this beautiful building which will be used for the further prevention of disease in the one part of the city of New York. As Borough President Lundy stated, it is a wonderful thing that the city can bring to the various communities the health centers so that the people don't have too great a distance to travel in order to get attention. Because Queens has been growing so rapidly, centers of population are getting so thick that it's essential that these buildings or these centers for the prevention of disease be brought to the people. The reduction in venereal disease as well as the reduction of diseases like diphtheria, scarlet fever, and smallpox is known to you all. It's a question of education for one thing. For example, not too long ago it was almost criminal to mention venereal disease or syphilis or gonorrhea or anything of that kind. As you know, in the last few years you've been reading about it in the newspapers and magazines and seeing about it in the moving pictures. Now this is only part of the great work that's being done by the Department of Health through their health centers. The polio scares each year. Not long ago there was this one out in Morocco. I think the Department of Health is to be commended for having taken hold quickly and seeing to it that the patients and those exposed were isolated and the epidemic if it could be called that was brought under control in a very short time. The medical profession of the County of Queens welcomes this new building and will continue to do all in its power as it has in its past to cooperate with the authorities of the Department of Health to try to increase the prevention or rather to decrease the disease or the function of the department which is to prevent disease and help cure it whenever disease occurs. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Seneb. We'll now have a moment of prayer with Rabbi S. Gershon Levy from the Jack Jamaica Jewish Center. Our Heavenly Father we lift up our hearts to Thee and ask Thee to bless this house so that the purpose for which it is now a dedicated may always be fulfilled. May the men and women and children the mothers and infants who pass within these doors find here warm and friendly understanding wise guidance and skillful care. Grant thy blessings to all those who planned and built this house to the mayor and counselors of this great city to the departments their heads and their staffs to the president of this great borough and those who stand at his hands to the architects and engineers who drew and executed the plans and to the workmen who labored with brick and stone with steel and concrete from foundation to roof. Grant to them all a sense of worthy achievement as they now dedicate the work of their hands. And to the staff who will administer this civic institution to all who will work within these walls give thy benediction and help them as they go about their tasks from day to day. Indeed, O Lord, we ask thy blessing upon all the people of our fair city and on all the people of our great land. Preserve them from illness and contagion from accident and want and help us to raise the standards of individual and public health. We know that health derives its meaning from wholeness. As we strive to keep our people sound and whole in body and physique, so may we equally strive for spiritual good health. may our country ever remain morally sound and spiritually wholesome. May our community and communities everywhere in this land always be whole and united in the brotherhood of American citizenship and American ideals. Send, O divine physician, the healing of thy spirit to a world confused and torn with strife. fulfill unto thy children everywhere the promise that was written long ago. Peace, peace unto those near and those far off, saith the Lord, and I will heal them. Amen. When, uh, a unit of the health center system is decided upon and designed in principle by the health department and the sites selected for a, for the location of the unit that will do the most good to the greatest number, our plans are then placed in the hands of another city department. This is the Department of Public Works who, under the present city form, the form of government is charged with the actual building, designing first and then building and actually bringing into being the health center. It gives me a good deal of pleasure to introduce to you today the commissioner in charge of the Department of Public Works, the Honorable Frederick H. Mr. Mueller. Commissioner Mahoney, Reverend Clergy, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Borough President, distinguished members of the medical profession, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and I might add for a particular reason, the children. It's not long ago that we made a visit to this site and laid a cornerstone and today it gives me a great deal of satisfaction of knowing that we in the Department of Public Works have completed another project to serve the people of the city of New York. We finished another job entrusted to us by the mayor and the board of estimate. Then, of course, as an architect and as an engineer, there's a great deal of satisfaction and a great thrill of seeing a new building rise. A building that once existed only on paper and somewhat before that only in someone's imagination. new health center is just one of the many ways in which the city administration, this city administration, has tackled the problem of providing a better environment for its people and improved facilities for their health and welfare. for example, I think your borough president mentioned that there are three other health centers planned for Queens at a total estimated cost of some two millions of dollars. We of Public Works have finished the design for the Mesport Forest Hill Health Center, which will be built at 59th Avenue and Fresh Pond Road. And for the Ozone Park Health Center, which is built at Rockaway Boulevard in your borough and 95th Street, we shall shortly start design on the Flushing Health Center. But health centers are not our only but one phase of the city's many-sided program for this borough as well as for the other boroughs of our city. Aside from schools which are built under the jurisdiction of the Board of Education, my own department, the Department of Public Works, is carrying out a vast program of pollution control, which already, as you know, if you visit your beaches, has brought cleaner waters on the north shore of your borough and to Jamaica Bay. With the construction of the new Bowery Bay Interceptor and the expansion of the Bowery Bay Stewards Disposal Plant, which we expect to have underway this coming year, the day is not far off when all the waters around Queens, the County of Queens, will be free from pollution. Similarly, our city and this administration is attacking the serious problem of the shortage of hospital beds in your county. We expect within a very short week or so to actually break ground for that huge $20 million Ellumhurst General Hospital. We recently dedicated a firehouse in Bellrose in York County. New libraries have been built and there are more to come. Though I am indeed happy as the Commissioner of Public Works in charge of that construction program, and I am proud to have a part in the vast program of construction for the needs of the people of our city. It has naturally been a privilege to be associated with a department such as the Department of Health. In fact, Dr. Mahoney, you and I are getting together so often this week that we might merge our offices. This is the second health center that we've dedicated this week, one on Monday in East Harlem and today here. Yesterday, Mr. Mayor, we had the privilege of arguing together before your budget director for some more money for another project. So that Dr. Mahoney and I have gotten to almost look like each other. I think it's quite natural that we should be together. We come from the same borough. And I wanted to ask him from a public platform, when are we going to open one of these in my borough and his borough, the borough of Richmond? Mr. Mayor, it is my happy privilege at the request of your chairman, Dr. Mahoney, to present you to this audience. And in presenting you, I want to congratulate you for your generous cooperation, not only as the mayor and as acting mayor, but before that, as president of the council, during my entire five years as commissioner of public works, you sat on a board of estimates that made it possible for all these projects to go ahead. And I have never served in public life except in this position that I hold today. But I know this, that I have never known a more hardworking bunch of men, be they politicians, if you want to call them that, than your elected officials of the city. The seriousness with which they approach every one of these problems is, was enlightening to a layman. I say a layman as distinguished from a public official because I came in as a layman. It was enlightening to me. I did not have one day before a board of estimates when I could come away and say that the men sitting behind that table with the lives and health of the people of the city of New York in their hands were not putting in a real hard day's work with strict attention to duty. And Mr. Mayor, you among them have been a shining example of that devotion to office. And it is my privilege to present you to this audience in Queens. Mr. Mayor, Vincent, and Felicero. Commissioner Zemulian, Dr. Mahoney, Dr. Frank, Reverend Clergy, my colleague on the board of estimate and your distinguished borough president, Jim Lundy, Dr. Cerniglia, ladies and gentlemen. It's always a great pleasure to appear when the fruition of plans that we've had under consideration for a long time finally come into being. We're always very pleased, particularly in Queens County, to impress the people with our knowledge of the growing pains of Queens, and time and time again has been pointed out by both your borough president and by Commissioner Zemulian and by Dr. Mahoney. We try to keep pace with the growth of Queens by putting in improvements like the one that we dedicate today. There's, of course, there's always drawbacks to progress. buildings like this, buildings like the other two health centers, buildings like the East Ellumhurst Hospital that we're about to start to build all cost money and a lot of money. Trying to clean up the polluted waters around the, particularly around Queens County and in other areas of our city, conditions that have been with us not for a year, not for two years, but have been with us for 50 or 60 years, cost an awful lot of money. Particularly in these days when we're caught right at the top of a very high inflationary spiral. And those of us who serve you in municipal government are deeply concerned about those things. We're concerned about them because today, and it's no different than the problem that you housewives encounter every day in keeping house. Things that you paid 50 cents for just two or three years ago, and that's only by way of comparison, in some cases today will cost you a dollar or a dollar and a half. In other words, the average price indexes that we're confronted with from day to day in city government have gone up sometimes as high as 100 and sometimes 200%. The very fine school that we used to build for a million and a half today costs a minimum of $3 million. A hospital that was estimated to cost $11 million by the time we got through building it actually cost us $23 million. and those are the things that the people of the city of New York need, they demand, and they are entitled to receive. And we're trying to do our level best to do exactly that. And in doing that, we have to bear in mind that when we build a health center like this, when we build a hospital, when we build a school, that's only part of the story. That's, frankly, the less onerous part of the story because the minute we build this health center and dedicate it as we do today, then we're faced with the problem of staffing the health center. We're faced with the problem of staffing the hospital. We're staffing the problem of supplying teachers for the schools. We're faced with the problem of supplying food for the patients in those hospitals. We're faced with the problem of supplying materials to the schools that are needed. We're faced also with the problem of paying employees salaries that are commensurate with the present cost of living. and that there has been one of the foremost problems of your city fathers because our payroll, our payroll has gone up approximately $340 million yearly and still, although we've gone a long way, that has not kept pace with what people are paid in private industry and has not begun, begun rather, to keep pace with the increased cost of living. I merely point those things out to have you be just a little patient with your city officials. Now, people particularly in Queens and in other parts of our city demand these services. They ask for these services. They're in need of these services and we intend to see to it that they're provided. However, wherever you have these services, you're called upon the pay form. It's no different than the condition in your own home. No different than the conditions that are experienced by men and women in private business. and when we are faced with the problems of trying to keep pace with the tremendous increase in cost and when we have to go to our people, present them with the facts and say, here it is. These are the services that we are providing. These are the services that you are demanding and are entitled to receive. Please bear with your borough president. Bear with your mayor. Bear with the other members of the Board of Estimate who are not only charged with the responsibility of providing these facilities, but they're also charged with the responsibility of seeing to it that we have enough tax income to pay for these services as we go. This, I think, ladies and gentlemen, is a very special occasion for the people of Queens. I am certain that when you have had a chance to inspect this building, you will agree that it is one of the most attractive public buildings anywhere in our city. This Jamaica District Health Center will also serve as the Queens Borough Office of the Department of Health. It is one of the six health center buildings which the Department of Health, working with the Department of Public Works, plans for Queensborough. The Astoria Long Island and the Corona Flushing District Health Centers are already in use. The three additional centers planned are one for the Maspeth Forest Hills District, one for the Flushing District, and one for the Ozone Park District. This building, and the work carried on are examples of the careful way that your Department of Health is carrying on its program for protecting the people of Queens and the people of the other four boroughs in our city. From this building, the health officer will handle administrative details and functions of the Department of Health. Here in this building will be kept a record of births and deaths and of other vital statistics about the people in Queens. Here are housed the borough offices of the numerous health department services and the Queens office of the chief medical examiner. The Queens office of the visiting nurse service of New York, which works in close and constant collaboration with the public health nurses of the Department of Health will have quarters here, as well as the Jamaica Mental Health Clinic, which will be maintained by a committee of Queens citizens. But to me, the heart of the services of the Department of Health lies in the people who do the work of that very important department. Over the years and over the past generations, the Department of Health has built a very high tradition of public service. The doctors and nurses, the sanitarians and laboratory technicians, and all the other people with special skills and high devotion to their tasks created that proud tradition. under the leadership of Dr. Mahoney, Dr. Frant, and under the men and women who serve under them in the Department of Health, diseases which were once classified as epidemics in our community have, in effect, been conquered and vanquished. most of us here are old enough to remember when diphtheria was the most dread scourge of childhood. Every year here in the city of New York, thousands of children were stricken by it and hundreds died. As recently as 30 years ago, more than 15,000 of our children were stricken by diphtheria and 900 of them died. So far this year, there have been but 14 cases of diphtheria and exactly one death from that disease in this city, in this city of 8 million people, with a child population of well over 1 million. The fact that diphtheria is no longer a danger to every child is due largely to the leadership and the work of our Department of Health. As regards typhoid, again, as recently as 30 years ago, almost 1,000 persons were struck by typhoid and more than one-tenth of those stricken died of the disease. So far this year, there have been only 82 cases of this disease and not one single typhoid death. The count of 82 cases is unusually large this year. For instance, last year, there were only 39. The fact that the count is so high this year contains a lesson for us, a lesson in the need for constant vigilance and unceasing watchfulness. you folks here in Queens will remember that this summer, in a day camp in the Rockaways, several children came down with typhoid and the Department of Health was called in. The Department, in less than 18 hours, had found and isolated the source of the outbreak. You recall that there was a woman who threw no fault at all of her own and without knowing it, was a typhoid carrier. By finding and isolating this woman, the Department of Health was able to minimize the number of cases of the disease. It was able to protect most of the children who attended that camp and all of the other children of your borough and of our city. If your Department of Health had not been unceasingly watchful, if it had not known what to do and then proceed to do it instantly and without hesitation, what was a small outbreak could and almost certainly would have developed into an epidemic, afflicting scores and perhaps even hundreds of people. On a problem such as this, these people in the Department of Health where it necessary work day and night. The clock, I am very happy to say, has no meaning for them when it is a matter of protecting the life of the people of the city they represent. I could go on citing achievement after achievement of your health department, but in addition to the need to be on constant guard, there are still big health problems which face our city and face our people. Ours was one of the very first cities to undertake a systematic fight against tuberculosis. That fight has not yet been won, but the ravages of disease have been reduced, and this fight, like the one against diphtheria and typhoid, will ultimately be won. Our department of hospitals, as you know, has played an important part in the development and use of a new drug with which to fight this dread disease. That helps to bring nearer the day of complete victory over the white plague. We have gathered for the formal opening of this new unit of the department of health. health. It is, as I said, a fine, attractive building. But let us remember that it is not the building that matters, but the use to which it is put. Let us remember that this building is but a place in which people can work at the high job of saving and guarding life. in formally opening the Jamaica District Health Center and Queensborough Office of the Department of Health, we dedicate an institution of service, an institution which will serve the people of Queens and will serve our American way of life. The part any one of us plays may be small, but the total purpose and the total effect is great. It is your building to be used by you and your servants of the health department to serve great purposes. And I'm happy to point out on this occasion that your health department is headed up by a career man, a man who's known throughout the length and breadth of the United States as a leader in his field, and I'm happy to have a man like Dr. Mahoney in my cabinet. The same also goes for Commissioner Fred Zermullen, who's completely in charge of all the public works that go on in the city of New York. Commissioner Zermullen is likewise a career man. I'd like to point out that the Department of Health and the Department of Hospitals work in very close cooperation. I think it's worthwhile to point out to a civic-minded group like yourselves that the Department of Health is also headed by a man who's preeminent in that field and is in every sense of the word strictly a career man. Thanks for your presence. Mr. Mayor, at this time, I want to tell you that not only do the people of the city of New York have great confidence in your administration, but evidently the contractor who built this building and who probably hasn't been paid his last payment also has strict confidence. He's already turned over to me the key to this building, and it is my happy privilege to turn this key over to you as a symbol of the completion of a job which you have given my department. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. See, I wasn't briefed on this part of the ceremony before I came in. I'll try to see to it, Commissioner, that the contractor receives his final payment, but I will not be able to do that under the law until you certify that the job has been completed, and it's an apple-shaped order. So as soon as I receive that certificate, I will set the machinery in motion to see to it that the contractor is paid. Now when Commissioner Zermullen turned the key over to me, I thought it was mine as a memento. I find now that I was only handed the key merely to, in turn, give it to the Commissioner of Health, Dr. Mahoney. Thank you. the pass. You want the pass? Three-way pass. All right. All right. You want a three-way pass? I'll tell you, this is not a football team. No, it's behind the mic. It's behind the principal. We'll come up. Good. All right. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to continue this analogy. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to convey this key, which the Mayor was kind enough to give to me, to the first Deputy Commissioner of the Health Department who is in charge, Dr. Samuel Fram. We had this ceremony all worked out, but he rung me into it. The key really belongs to Dr. Thompson. She's finally going to get it. I should like to announce that at the completion of the ceremony, there will be guides in the corridor to escort anyone of the audience who care to go through the building. We will now have the benediction by the Right Reverend John F.J. Robinson, Pastor, Church of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. I'll assemble here in this platform. In passing this key. Dear friends, from one to another, the thought occurred to me that since I'm a neighbor right, a block away from the center, maybe the custody might be from time to time turned over to me. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. A blessing. A blessing. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. A blessing. Dr. Robinson. A blessing. Dr. Robinson. Dr. Robinson. Generally, when the assembly, the assembly, the assembly, the assembly, the assembly, the the assembly, one, letzies, and the big Marter. Dr. Robinson. If I leave you home with the diagram, if I leave you to turn there, that would be a blessing, then I'm not husband. There's a entirely 최고, that's to give him an allegiance right? And, is that by anything you have a responsibility, you have to hurt. Dr. Robinson. And, when he isيعJV, the center, maybe the custody might be, from time to time, turned over to me. Dr. Robinson. A blessing. Dr. Benedict. Generally, when the assembly places on its program, general U.S. Generally, when the assembly places on its program, that particular duty, which is assigned to some clergyman, and the duty is mentioned as the blessing, the offering of a prayer to Almighty God to send down his choice of gifts is intended for the assembly itself. But here on this occasion, the blessing should be by far more widespread. A blessing not only on those who immediately are responsible for this building and similar buildings, our city officials, but also for every man, woman, and child in our great city. Because after all, it is through the contributions, tax contributions, rent contributions, and so on, that this building has been erected. And so we call on the Almighty in his kindness and generosity, in his infinite goodness, to bless not only those assembled here, not only our city officials have made possible this great work, but all the people of our great city, whose financial contribution has made it a thing of reality, something which we may enjoy right here in this section of our borough. May the blessing, then, of Almighty God descend upon you and remain forever. Thank you, Rod. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, that completes the dedication ceremony. We thank you very much for attending.