At the foot of this imposing memorial to the father of his country, thousands of patriotic Americans have gathered to hear President Harry S. Truman deliver the feature address of the day. The President will be introduced by Secretary of State George C. Marshall. As we open the broadcast portion of the program this afternoon, the United States Marine Band, under the direction of Major William Stapleman, is playing the American Patrol. The President American Patrol, played by the United States Marine Corps Band. Now Secretary of State, George C. Marshall, takes his place to introduce the President of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Music Music Music The President is being greeted by a host of photographers before he is open to the address. Mr. Chairman, General Marshall, Admiral Halsey, General Grant, Acting Grand Master of the District of Columbia, and ladies and gentlemen. It's a very great honor indeed to stand here on this hundredth anniversary of the laying of the cornerstone of the great Washington Monument and to hold in my hand the gavel which George Washington himself used to lay the cornerstone of the capital of the United States and which was used by the Grand Master of the District of Columbia to lay the cornerstone of this monument. This is a historic spot indeed. When I was asked to appear here today, I began to think of my childhood and the celebrations of the Fourth of July. It was always customary in those days to read the Declaration of Independence and to read the Bill of Rights and the Constitution of the United States. And then some orator who had a flowery vocabulary would spend a couple of hours telling us tired youngsters what a great country this truly is. We don't follow that custom anymore, although I was most happy to see the distribution of the printed copies of the Declaration of Independence in the same style in which it was printed in 1776. I hope every one of you sometime today will read that document once more. Only stop and think that on the Fourth of July 1776 there were thirteen independent colonies on the Atlantic seaboard of the North American continent. They were not a nation. They were thirteen nations. And when their independence was finally won in 1781 at the surrender of Cornwallis, the United States, it took several years more for them to decide to become a united nation. And it took more than eighty years to cement that union into a going concern so that today, one hundred and sixty years after that, after the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, this is the greatest republic that the sun has ever shone on and the most powerful nation in the world. When I think of that difference in 1776 and 1789, and think of this place in 1789 as a swamp, there are some most interesting things that have taken place here. There's a marker over there just west of the monument which shows the point at which boats were anchored, barges, that used the Chesapeake and Potomac Canal. It is said that John Quincy Adams on occasion used to come down to that point and take a swim in the morning instead of going for a walk as I do. And it is said on one occasion, a certain lady who had been attempting to get a job from the president and had not been able to have an interview with him, waited until he went in swimming and then she got on his clothes and made him promise her a job before she let him come out of the river. On another occasion, on July 4th, 1850, a sad event took place. Zachary Taylor was then president of the United States. And he came out here to a celebration such as this. And he delivered the oration of the day. Then, it being hot as it is now, he ate cherries and fruit, drank a lot of water, went back to the White House and on the 9th of July, he was dead. Let's hope that nothing of that sort happens here today. I want to call to your attention the fact that as the most powerful nation in the world, we have assumed responsibilities which we must fulfill. We fought two tremendous wars for freedom and liberty in the world. At the end of this last World War II, our ambition was only for one thing, peace in the world and the welfare of the world as a whole. We have no territorial ambition. We ask for no reparations. We only ask for peace with justice in the world. And we ask that the United Nations be made to work for that purpose. We've spent all the time since the war in endeavoring to do just that. I'm hoping that you'll carry away from here today the idea that we shall continue to strive for peace. We shall continue to endeavor to make the United Nations the going concern that it ought to be. We shall continue with the help of this great statesman on my right here, the Secretary of State, to accomplish that very purpose. Again, I want to express to you my sincere thanks and appreciation for being allowed to appear before you today, and for the privilege of having had in my hands this historic gavel with which I started this little talk. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. THE END THE END Your city station has joined the facilities of the National Broadcasting Company to bring you a special address on the 100th anniversary of the dedication of the Washington Monument by the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System.