How do you do ladies and gentlemen, this is Bob Unification Hope reminding you that 20 May is Armed Forces Day, the first in our nation's history. And take it from me, a guy who's had more than one look-see at the men and women who brought his victory. They gave their full share. So let's be fair, let down your hair, make sure you're there when your Army, Navy, Marines and men of the air share Armed Forces Day on 20 May. How do you do ladies and gentlemen, this is Bob Unification Hope reminding you that 20 May is Armed Forces Day, the first in our nation's history. And take it from me, a guy who's had more than one look-see at the men and women who brought his victory. They gave their full share. So let's be fair, let down your hair, make sure you're there when your Army, Navy, Marines and men of the air share Armed Forces Day on 20 May. How do you do ladies and gentlemen, this is Bob Unification Hope reminding you that 20 May is Armed Forces Day, the first in our nation's history. And take it from me, a guy who's had more than one look-see at the men and women who brought his victory. They gave their full share. So let's be fair, let down your hair, make sure you're there when your Army, Navy, Marines and men of the air share Armed Forces Day on 20 May. How do you do ladies and gentlemen, this is Bob Unification Hope reminding you that 20 May is Armed Forces Day, the first in our nation's history. And take it from me, a guy who's had more than one look-see at the men and women who brought his victory. They gave their full share. So let's be fair, let down your hair, make sure you're there when your Army, Navy, Marines and men of the air share Armed Forces Day on 20 May. How do you do ladies and gentlemen, this is Bob Unification Hope reminding you that 20 May is Armed Forces Day, the first in our nation's history. And take it from me, a guy who's had more than one look-see at the men and women who brought his victory. They gave their full share. So let's be fair, let down your hair, make sure you're there when your Army, Navy, Marines and men of the air share Armed Forces Day on 20 May. This is Bob Unification Hope reminding you it would have been a different story for old glory if they hadn't been there. Your men of Army, Navy, Marines and air, their team for defense in all events. Until all aggression cease, they're our strong right arm for peace. So don't forget, Armed Forces Day is 20 May. So don't forget, Armed Forces Day is 20 May. This is Bob Unification Hope reminding you it would have been a different story for old glory if they hadn't been there. Your men of Army, Navy, Marines and air, their team for defense in all events. Until all aggression cease, they're our strong right arm for peace. So don't forget, Armed Forces Day is 20 May. Thank you. Thank you. This is Bob Unification Hope reminding you it would have been a different story for old glory if they hadn't been there. Your men of Army, Navy, Marines and air, their team for defense in all events. Until all aggression cease, they're our strong right arm for peace. So don't forget, Armed Forces Day is 20 May. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.