The American Broadcasting Company and its affiliated stations now present a special address by Trigva Lee, Secretary General of the United Nations Organization. Mr. Lee is guest of honor at an official luncheon given by the United Nations Committee with New York City as host. He will speak from the main room of the Metropolitan Club, and representing New York City is Grover Whelan, who will introduce Mr. Lee. Now, here is Grover Whelan. Mr. Lee, and distinguished guests, and Secretariat coming from Norway, Holland, Chile, Russia, China, and France. It's a great privilege today for me on behalf of the Mayor of the City of New York, General O'Dwyer, to express to you the warmest and the most continuing welcome that I can think of and find words to express. In the first place, New York is mighty proud that you have selected this great city of ours, which we are proud to call the metropolis of the world, as your interim headquarters. And we hope that you shall find the convenience of New York City and all its people, of, uh, of, uh, so delightful and so worthwhile and so helpful in connection with your great and important work, which affects the lives of every one of us in the world, that, uh, that, uh, you will not only consider it a fine place for your interim headquarters, but you may even find time to tell us that you want to stay with us forever. And there would be no sweeter words for New York than those words. I'm sure that in this world city of ours, uh, you have chosen a proper place for a world organization. We look to the United Nations organization to solve all the problems of the world, and to do it with that fine finesse that the Secretary General of the United Nations organization is so famous for. Uh, as a, uh, diplomatic officer from Norway, he has done so many things in the field of diplomacy and in organization that I'm quite sure that in his terrific task that he will be equally successful. And I'm sure that for the mayor's committee, we, uh, I may express the opinion that the United Nations organization at the General Assembly in London did well to select the, uh, Secretary General of the United Nations organization. And I will select the, uh, Secretary General that we honor today. It's a great privilege. . He is no stranger to New York, I assure you. Uh, and as we came from the airport yesterday, his familiarity with the various important, uh, uh, parts of New York amazed me. And I am no stranger to New York either. But for the Secretary General to know as much as he did about our town, uh, I feel sure that he will find a warm welcome in the hearts of our people, and, uh, he will find that we, the people of New York, are prepared to serve in the great cause that you are serving in. It's great honor for me, gentlemen, to present to you, Mr. Lee, the Secretary General of the United Nations organization. . Mr. Rayl, gentlemen, I thank you out of my heart for the reception which you have extended to my colleagues, many of my staffs, and to me. . In the past, New York City has welcomed millions of people from all parts of the world. These people sought peace and happiness. They sought political freedom and justice, and freedom from warmth. . For them, New York was the gateway to a new and better world. . Today, the United Nations come here, seeking the same thing. We seek peace, international justice, and freedom from warmth. We seek them for the whole of mankind. . We come here as a group of world citizens, on a very serious mission. . We hope to do our work in a very business-like manner. . We will not intrude on the life of your city more than necessary. . . We are deeply grateful for everything that you have already done to make the work of the United Nations possible. . . The American government and the city of New York have been helpful in every way. . . The work of the United Nations is going to be heavy and difficult. . . It is important that we recognize the difficulties. . . We know that there are differences of outlook between the great powers. . There are also differences of interest. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . the harmony will appear to be threatened. But we'll go on, hoping to build up a new international parliament based upon peace, justice and security. It is the first purpose of the United Nations to prevent differences between governments from resulting in armed conflicts between the nations. We know that this will be difficult. Some people may feel that it is hopeless. But I want to say this today. First, we firmly intend to maintain the peace. Second, I am convinced that we shall do so. Because we have the most important weapon possessed by any organization at any time. We have the support of the people of the whole world. We know that the whole world is looking at us to prevent another war. We know that they will support us constantly in our attempts to prevent another war. Our organization consists of 51 nations today. It has the active support of all the great powers. All of those nations have one thing in common. They do not want another war. Our work in preventing armed conflict is bound to attract most attention. The positive and constructive work of the organization is less spectacular. But just as likely, we are bound to work constantly for social and economic improvement throughout the world. Much of this work will be done by the Social and Economic Council and its branches. We are deeply involved in the world's good situation. The improvement of people's health all over the globe is another thing in which we are actively interested. This work may mean the difference between life and death for tens of millions of our fellow men. Another very constructive work will be carried out by the trusteeship of the United Nations. Under the Charter of the United Nations, it is our duty to lead the peoples of the trusteeship territories to enlightenment, economic betterment, and self-government. We recognize that economic peace and security are the foundations of political peace and security. If we can give the people a better life, we shall go far toward building a really permanent peace. peace and peace. In this constructive work, we shall lead the cooperation of all nations and all peoples. I am sure that we will get such cooperation. We are all in this thing together. You are in it, I am in it, and hundreds of millions of other people everywhere are in it. We are confronted by the most wonderful opportunity in history. We must take full advances of it. Gentlemen, they welcome what you have given us today with a source of great encouragement as we begin our work in the United States. thank you most deeply. Thank you, Mr. Lee. the chairman did the job of so inadequately expressing the views of the mayor's committee. I am going to ask the Honorable John W. Davis, former ambassador to the Lord of St. James from the United States, to say the final word. Mr. Davis. Thank you. I thought they were exceedingly appropriate, very well phrased, and expressed the sentiments around this table and the people of New York, so that they needed no repetition. I should not be the client client to undertake to add anything to what he is so well said. I fall back, if I may, on the well-known Shakespearean line, and I address Mr. Lee and all of his colleagues. Sirs, you are very welcome to our house. It must be shown in other ways than words. Therefore, we scant this breathing person. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard a special broadcast by Trigver Lee, brought to you by the American Broadcasting Company and its affiliated stations. The Secretary General of the UNO spoke from the Metropolitan Club at a luncheon in his honor given by New York City. This is the American Broadcasting Company.