Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we have the unusual pleasure and privilege of having the distinguished dean of the School of Politics of the New School, our neighboring institution here in the southern part of New York City to speak to us on the problems, that is, European problems and their impact on Germany. Hans Simons is very familiar with this problem of Germany and Europe. He has had a great deal of experience not only in traveling and studying and teaching about this area. He has brought back to the United States a large number of experiences and a great amount of background, and he is going to discuss with us this evening the topic of European problems and their impact on Germany. Dr. Hans Simons. Dr. Fairchild, ladies and gentlemen, I must say I enjoy the fact that I am back at the Cooper Union, not only because it is a neighboring institution which we at the New School admire greatly, but also because for many years it had become almost a habit for me to appear on this platform at least once a year. I would like to invite you tonight to have a look at Europe and to try and realize difficulties the European people are facing, of which many Americans are not aware. But before doing that, I think I should point out first that we ourselves as Americans have a very definite stake in European affairs. We have quite a number of problems to solve which affect Europe, and Europe offers quite a number of problems in the solution of which we have to be helpful. What we ought to realize first, it seems to me, is the fact that Europeans as well as Americans are facing dilemmas. If I were to characterize the present situation in world affairs, and in human affairs in particular, I would say that this situation of being facing a dilemma is the most significant one. Now, good old Webster defines a dilemma as a choice or a situation necessitating a choice between equally unsatisfactory alternatives. I am not responsible for the stilted language, but the definition, I think, is correct. You can't solve a dilemma then satisfactorily by making a choice, because both choices are equally unsatisfactory. The only way of facing such a situation is to somehow transcend the dilemma and try to meet the difficulty on a higher level. That is, of course, a solution which calls for far more effort and necessitates far greater resourcefulness than most Americans today are willing to supply. Somehow, it seems to need the pressure of an emergency to get the emotional strength and the moral conviction which makes people ready to sacrifice for the sake of a satisfactory solution. One of our dilemmas in relation to Europe is, should we solve or help solve European problems on a short-range range or on a long-range basis? Should we assume, for instance, that there will be conflict very soon, and should we emphasize the restrengthening of the European countries in military terms? Or should we, on the other hand, assume that we will be permitted a period of peace and therefore concentrate on the rebuilding of that European strength, which in the long run is more important, namely economic and political? Another dilemma we are facing is, should we emphasize in our contacts with Europe those forces within the European peoples who happen to be in sympathy with us and our way of life? In other words, should we emphasize the democratic character of the groups, parties, and peoples with whom we want to cooperate? Or should we, on the other hand, forget about the elements of friendship and apply Secretary of State Atchison's recipe not to carry around a litmus paper and not to find out whether everything and everybody is truly blue, but emphasize whether everybody is truly anti-communist. Now, this is by no means identical. If we look out for anti-communists, we might find allies in our camp whom we wouldn't accept under any other circumstances. And if we emphasize democracy, we might find friends who are much less scared by communism or much less anti-communist than we want them to be. A third dilemma we are facing is the dilemma of investing in Europe, the resources of this country. Are the Europeans going to make good use, particularly the kind of use we would like them to make of our assistance? In France, for instance, there is a communist voting strength of about 25 to 30 percent of the population. If we send armaments to France, not only do these 30 percent be quite reluctant to accept it, and they show it rather vigorously, it may well be that in the long run that support will fall into the wrong hands. Do you know what happened to China? Or shall we, on the other hand, take this calculated risk and establish resources in Europe at the facing the possibility that these resources might not be available when we need them? And finally, shall we try to help Europe integrate itself? Integration being the modern technical term for any type of cooperation. Or shall we make ourselves part of that process? Shall we, in other words, try to stimulate a European Union without us? Or shall we use the so-called Atlantic community, the signatories of the Atlantic Pact, and invite them to establish closer relationships, perhaps first economic cooperation, ending ultimately in some sort of a super-national authority? Now, these are our problems. We might find some answers to them as we go along. But they are not the problems which worry most of the Europeans. And in order to understand the Europeans, I think we have first to look at them and their own problems as they appear to them. Perhaps we better not forget the fact that all of Europe in the Second World War was defeated. All of Europe. Half of Europe was defeated by Hitler and conquered by the National Socialists. And half of Europe was defeated by the Allied powers. And it doesn't make too much difference. Whether in the process you are subjugated or you are liberated, you still see the destruction of your country and its occupation, be it by friendly, be it by inimical forces. And everybody in Europe shared the terrible experience of being defeated at least once and of having the war touching his own country and, in many, many instances, his own home. Now, that makes for a state of mind which most Americans find difficult to understand. Because this country was spared any of the immediate ravages of war. This country succeeded in maintaining its standards of living on top of an enormous war effort and was permitted relatively smoothly and easily to return to the ways of peace. For Europe, therefore, the predominant and the ever-present problem is economic recovery. And economic recovery for Europeans does not mean some worry about a possible inflationary trend or questions of rent control or the decrease or increase of a few taxes. For most Europeans, economic recovery means housing. It means purchasing power. It means jobs to earn a living and, if possible, security in those jobs. It means, in many areas still, even the absolutely essential food to sustain life. Now, most Europeans understand that they can hardly have economic recovery if they do not achieve political stability. Again, political stability for the Europeans does not mean the victory of one or the other of well-established and relatively reliable parties. It does not mean the struggle of the ins and outs between the Republicans and the Democrats. It means stability in the true sense of the word, namely whether there will be, day after tomorrow, still a government or whether there will be, day after tomorrow, civil war. France and Italy are far closer to the danger of internal strife than most Americans realize. And Germany is actually divided in a state of warfare, which comes very closely to a civil war between the West and the East and among groups within the two parts. For Europeans, then, the question very often is not to join this or that party, to vote for this or that government, but very often to turn away completely from politics. A type of anarchism, which is not a philosophical concept, but a type of anarchism which is a personal attitude, is rather widespread in Europe. There is an anti-political, not only an anti-party, there is an anti-political tendency in the support, for instance, of many Frenchmen for the de Gaulleist movement. There is an anti-political movement. Now, for the stability of a government, most European nations are convinced that they need an army. For Europeans, the strength of a government and the significance of a country depends, to a large extent, traditionally, on its military strength. For Americans, that aspect of a nation's influence and power has rarely existed. It took the first world war to make us army and navy conscious, and it takes, I think, the particular situation of the Cold War to make Americans aware of the fact that military strength is at least one aspect of national strength. We are still so little aware of it that we permit our military establishment to be quite out of proportion to our actual political commitments. The Europeans think in terms of their own strength far more directly in terms of military establishment. And they face the question, as we do over here, of compulsory military service and of the tremendous burden on any national budget, which the maintenance of a military establishment, of course, implies. Now, most Europeans at the same time are sick and tired of war, of militarism, of army life. So many Europeans have spent so many years in military pursuits, willingly and unwillingly, that they just do not want to have it repeated. And the very obvious weakness of the whole military establishment in all of Western Europe is primarily due to the fact that, in spite of its significance for the strength of these countries, the people themselves refuse to have any part in it. They have become anti-militarist, again, not as a philosophical attitude, but as a reaction to their recent experiences. And they have all of them become pacifist, not with a capital P, but pacifist as an attitude of revulsion against the past. So the Europeans are facing a very urgent and a very difficult problem, which it is hard for them to transcend. Namely, whether to do all these things at the same time, strive for economic recovery in its most primitive terms, try to form and maintain a stable government and support that stability by sustaining a military establishment. And they do not know, and it would be hard to find an answer for them, how to give priority to the one or the other of these three very urgent problems. Now look at these difficulties in their world setting. It is very significant that all of Europe is, of course, immediately and deeply affected by the present West-East tension. Most of the other areas of the world are united as an effect of this tension. All of America becomes, so to say, anti-Soviet. Whatever the differences among the American nations in their domestic attitudes, all of them feel equally strongly in their relation to what they regard as the communist threat against them. There is an equally clear development of increasing unification within the British Commonwealth. There is a strong tendency to reunite even the Middle and Near East, so often divided by violent disagreements, for the sake of forming a united front against the threat from the East. Europe is the only continent which, as a result of this tension, is divided, physically divided, into two parts. You have a Western and an Eastern Europe, and both are forced to enter into the camp on their side of the West or the East. Now even if the unification of Europe was not very obvious in earlier times, the disunity of Europe today is an outstanding event of overwhelming significance for all Europeans. Now this being so, what happens to Europe, under the influence of both the East and the West, has its significance not only in international but in domestic policies. Think of the Marshall A. Normally you would say that if the United States are willing to offer to all countries in need that kind of support, it would be a matter of primarily international significance and would have little effect except help and assistance towards stability on the domestic scene. But within the setting of the East-West tension, martial aid has become an issue in this Cold War, and accepting or rejecting martial aid is a decision which indicates one's attitude in that Cold War. And therefore the martial aid, for those who receive it, appears to be a support for a particular role they are expected to play, and martial aid, for those who refuse it, seems to be an invitation to betray their cause. Martial aid, I am satisfied, never was meant to play that role, but it is forced upon it by circumstances. Now the division of Europe is perhaps the most obvious and clear expression of that state of a smoldering civil war which characterizes the present world situation. The European nations, all of whom have certain common traditions, and all of whom are geographically united on a subcontinent of Asia, certainly would belong together in any period where the accumulation of more and more units into a larger entity is one of the obvious trends. Well, Europe cannot follow that trend except by dividing herself. And by dividing herself, she makes an involuntary contribution to the danger of an international civil war. Now the reaction of the Europeans to that situation is a very strange one. It seems to me that all of them react to it by an increased national sensitiveness, or to put it differently, by even greater and stronger nationalism. Even the more modest and the better balanced European nations display a type of nationalism which is sometimes astonishing and sometimes outright offensive. It is their answer to the pressures to which they are exposed. Now this nationalism is in direct contrast to the tendencies to unite parts of Europe, if not all of Europe can be united. It is in direct contrast to the effort to make Europeans cooperate. And so all European people and their governments find themselves in the almost impossible position of being asked to cooperate, to forget nationalism, to make boundaries disappear, to work together as if there were no national governments, and at the same time to respect and satisfy the nationalistic urge among their own people. In Germany, all these conflicts are heightened by the fact that the two parts of Germany belong into two antagonistic camps. The smoldering civil war of all of Europe becomes an open conflict between Western and Eastern Germany, and the fact that these two parts of Germany are partisan in that civil war and openly participate in the division of Europe and take sides in the Cold War between the West and the East makes Germany a two-sided symbol of that situation, makes Germany a fearful center of European troubles, and at the same time, therefore, a fascinating focus of European problems. Now, if we look at Germany in order to find some answers to European difficulties, we find that German nationalism always was based not so much on ideas, but on institutions. It attached itself primarily to great national institutions, first of all, the emerging national industry. I think it is not said too much that German nationalism is a direct offspring of the Industrial Revolution. It was large-scale industry, particularly heavy industry, and its tie-up with the nobility from Eastern Germany, which presented the first strong national influence in Germany. The second equally important basis for the growing nationalism in Germany was the nationwide, the central government bureaucracy. It was the civil service which served all of Germany, which represented all of Germany, which expressed most strongly German nationalism. It was the self-perpetuating character of that caste of the civil servants in Germany which carried, I think, more efficiently and more effectively than any other group, German nationalism into what it became under the empire and later under national socialism. And last, and by no means least, it was the gradually integrated army of Germany which was the expression, the symbol, and the power bases of nationalism in Germany. Now, one of the most interesting aspects of national socialism, it seems to me, is the fact that national socialism used these three instrumentalities and misused them for the pretended solution of certain of the ills and difficulties which Germany faced before Hitler came into power. I will explain that immediately. Germany, before Hitler came into power, was in a very difficult economic situation. It had an enormous number of unemployed. It lived in a shrinking economy, and yet it was unable to do anything fundamental about it. Now, in a shrinking economy, so-called free enterprise, unbridled competition, which may be a spur under prosperous circumstances, becomes a real danger. And the national socialists used the fear of the Germans for that unbridled competition to excite anti-Semitism. They pretended that by eliminating the Jews from the economic life of Germany, they would eliminate competition, and the naive and fearful Germans fell for that pretext. Anti-Semitism was most acceptable and most popular in what you might call the commercial sector of German life. It was misused by the national socialists as a symbolic cure against competition. Of course, it was only a pretext. It was a fake, but a very effective one. And national socialism used the status and the influence of industry and commerce in Germany to carry anti-Semitism to the extremes which it reached in Germany. And we have it on record, particularly on record during the trials in Nuremberg, that all the outstanding figures of German commercial, industrial, and banking life supported that particular national socialist policy in their own selfish interest. The second great difficulty of the pre-Hitler Germany was the widespread and frantic sense of insecurity. The Germans were insecure because they were insecure in their jobs. They were insecure in their personal relations. They were insecure in their political situations. They were insecure in their contact with their own government. The national socialists very cleverly diverted that sense of internal insecurity into a sense of external insecurity. They told the German people that they were encircled, that the rest of the world was sort of waiting for an opportunity to attack them, and that being in the center of Europe, they had no real defense. And under that pretext again, rearmament was started in Germany, which at the same time created a certain artificial economic recovery, and rearmament, of course, was grist on the mills of the army and the militaries. And the national socialists thereby solved the second problem. They got the full and complete support of the army, which never even tried to keep them out of power, and at the same time gave the Germans an entirely mistaken sense of security in terms of their external strength. The third, and perhaps an even more significant difficulty in Germany at that time, was the complete spiritual and moral confusion. Well, the national socialists had an answer to that too. They used the bureaucracy as an instrument for authority. And they used authority to tell the German people in every detail what to do. And they thereby replaced confusion with submission and established authority under the leadership principle. And they found the complete, the almost enthusiastic support of that policy in the rank and file of the civil service. And again, it is on the historic record that the vast, the almost complete totality, the vast majority, the almost complete totality of the civil service supported national socialism for the sake of thereby establishing their own authority. And again, the German people accepted it. Now, I would not have mentioned these three institutional bases of nationalism, which national socialism appropriated and used for its own purposes, were it not necessary to cast a glance at Germany today and find out what happened to these forces. You will find that for reasons which I have no time to explain tonight, practically the same group of people, the managerial group which runs the commercial, industrial, and financial sector of German life in Western Germany, is back in office. German industry, in spite of the large-scale destructions, is again the most important single basis for the forces which make for unity in Western Germany. it is again the strongest single carrier of a sense of nationalism, of a tendency to restore Germany to a position not only of equality but of predominance. It is at the same time one of the strongest groups crying out for German unity because it trusts in its capacity to deal even with Eastern Germany and even with the communists. It is even more strong in Germany today because the traditional influence of the trade unions is weakened. Trade unions in this country are traditionally non-political. They support their friends but they do not identify themselves with parties. In Germany traditionally it was the other way around as it is in most of the continental European countries and even in Great Britain. Trade unions are identified with certain party groups. In pre-national socialist days it was the free trade unions which were the strongest support of the social democrats. It was the so-called democratic unions which were the strongest support of the democratic party and it was the catholic, the christian trade unions which supported and in many respects made possible the influence of the center party, the catholic party. When Germany was occupied the occupiers insisted that trade unions should be non-political and that fact of political neutrality weakened because of the traditional change, the change against tradition weakened the position of the trade unions and that in turn strengthens the position of organized industry. What about competition? Competition in Germany today again is very fierce indeed. It is a competition within a very narrowed if not already and again shrinking economy. It is a competition in a situation where in western Germany we have already more than 2 million unemployed and therefore the tendency is reappearing to find a scapegoat. It can't be the Jews any longer because hardly any Jews are left. But there are other possible groups the refugees or other which might might be singled out and it is conceivable that they might be treated in a similar way as were the Jews. Not of course as long as we have any influence over there but that is a question which one cannot surely answer. What about bureaucracy? Bureaucracy too is back in its old position. All our efforts to make the Germans change change the caste character of their civil service failed because of their stubbornness and their capacity to evade or to circumvent our directives and our legislation. All the denazified individual civil servants are back in office. They are not necessarily national socialists. I don't think they are. But they are typically the type of people who will side with who happens to be in the most promising powerful position. They sided with the national socialists. They will side with the democrats if the democrats are strong. They will side with the communists if one day that seems to be the better promise of success and promotion. They are the least reliable group within Germany today. And is there confusion in Germany? Indeed there is. I think there is at least as much if not more confusion than there was in pre-national socialist days. And many Germans are still eager or yet eager for authority. And nothing would please and does please indeed the bureaucrats better than being permitted to exercise authority again and act under some sort of organized and established leadership. What about the army? There is no army in Germany today and we are bound under our policy and under international commitments not to have an army in Germany. And yet you know as well as I do from headlines all over the place that the question of rearming Germany is seriously and widely discussed. If there were a really deadly danger to German democracy which we could create, it would be the establishment of any sort of military institution. Because an army in Germany by definition cannot be democratic. An army by definition cannot be democratic. But if it grows in a democratic climate it is not dangerous. An army which would grow in a climate not yet democratic would be the last in the scale to change from democracy to some sort of dictatorial system. Now why do we and why do the Germans discuss rearmament? Because we want Germany strong in a purely physical sense. We believe that we might make Germany strong enough to share in the defense of Western Europe. And the Germans are talking rearmament because they feel insecure. It doesn't help much if you tell the Germans that by paying the occupation cost they are paying for an occupation army and that army is going to protect them. So that indeed they do not spend more money than most other nations spend for their direct military establishment. It doesn't help because the Germans say but are we really protected? Are we really protected by an occupation army which originally was meant to control us and certainly not to hold the line against an outside enemy? It is quite understandable then that there is a possibility of rearming the Germans and it would be it seems to me the greatest single mistake we could make. It would not increase our security. It would not increase German security but it would certainly sound the death knell of democracy in Germany. now that would be a rather discouraging picture. Were it not for certain changes in the picture if we compare it with the pre-national socialist days changes which add something completely new and something decidedly more hopeful. And you could easily transfer that statement from Germany to all of Europe because most of these considerations apply to Italy in particular almost as well as to Germany and with some qualifications also to France and to the smaller European countries in the West. The first is that there is less class feeling and that there is less of a stubborn and firm class structure in Europe today than there was before the World War. That is due partly to enormous shifts in population and they again are greatest in Germany. In Western Germany alone there are between eight and ten million people who had to leave their homes and find themselves now in what for them is alien land and foreign surroundings. These people are not participating in the local life of their neighbors. They do not feel that they are Bavarians or Saxons or any other German tribe. However, they feel very strongly that they are Germans because their being Germans was the cause of their being dispelled and forced to go to Western Germany. There is another group which permeates all classes without being willing to identify itself with any particular stratum in society and that is the youth. Youth all over Europe is unwilling yet to commit itself politically is rather cynical about politics and of course utterly and thoroughly disillusioned in all the values for which it was supposed to fight in the last war. Whether it is the Italian youth which for a long time believed in fascism or the German youth which believed in national socialism or the French youth which had at least some faith left in the French type of democracy. They all saw the very pattern of their society destroyed. They saw the idols fall to which they used to look up and they have to replace their former ideals with something new which they have not yet found. And that kind of attitude is at the same time of course dangerous and promising. I maintain that the younger generation in Europe is the only group in Europe with which we can really work in the hope of making them our friends and allies not in terms of military strength but in terms of democratic conviction and certain changes, basic changes of attitude. The second new factor in Germany is of course the division of Germany. The Germans in the West today would not be anti-totalitarian because they lived under national socialism were it not for the fact that they are anti-communist and therefore are anti-totalitarian. They dislike national socialism far less than they dislike communism. And their faith in democracy is a reflex and is a defense attitude against communism rather than against their own national socialist past. Now one may regret that and I do but it is an outstanding fact and were it not for the division of Germany between West and East, the Western Germans would find it far harder to make their way towards democracy. The third and of course the overwhelming change, the new factor in German life today, is occupation. A factor as essential in Western Germany as it is in Eastern Germany. No American, not even Americans who were over there, can quite grasp the significance of a country being occupied, of a government working under supervision and control and with very definite limitations on its independence and freedom of decision, of a people seeing day after day, except in more remote areas, the physical evidence of being occupied. now that occupation checks and restrains in many respects German development. And in a sense, though one has to weigh one's words very carefully, there is an element, a lingering element of occupation all over Western Europe in the form of a far stronger American influence than would be possible under any normal circumstances. circumstances. I think that on the whole we are using our privileges under the Marshall Plan tactfully and considerately. But still it is a very grave responsibility and it is a considerable handicap on the freedom of other governments to comply with the responsibilities and commitments which they undertook when they accepted Marshall aid. Now that is the negative aspect of the very positive aspect, that by being under the American influence, all of Western Europe is kept in a certain unity of purpose. It gets certain directions, if not directives, it gets certain directions towards a common goal. And I for one am satisfied that were it not for the occupation, the confusion of the German mind would have become a far more dangerous and a far more destructive influence. Now there we have then the next completely new element. To occupation is added a constructive positive policy, the policy of Marshall Aid and Support. Now that is a spur to all the hopeful democratic elements in Europe. And another equally important change is the balance of power, a very precarious balance of power indeed, as we all know, between the West and the East. If you remember for a moment the situation of the world in 1919, you will remember that at that time the Soviet Union was completely out of the picture as a world power. Russia was still rent by civil war, the Soviets had not yet really succeeded in establishing their control over the total area of their country, and years later they were still in the throes of all the difficulties created by their revolution. And it took them, as we know, many, many years to return to any position of international influence. And it took the Second World War and the common effort from which they, of course, profited to restore them to a position of real world power. Now this time then, there is a balance of power between the East and the West. And that gives a very great added weight even to the weak European nations because they are an element in that balance. And they know very well that if they shift their weight, that will have an effect far out of proportion to their individual strength and significance. And nobody knows that better than the Germans. And nobody, I think, is in a better position to make use of it and almost to exploit it than the Germans. You can't be an occupied country, and particularly you can't be occupied by more than one power without learning rather fast how to play one occupier against the other. I think we ought to be aware of the fact that that is a completely natural German reaction, that we cannot expect the Germans to play our game exclusively, that we cannot expect them to be our devoted and loyal allies, but that we have to expect them to make the best of a situation, and therefore to exploit, if they can, the precarious balance between West and East. Now, if that is, on the one hand, a dangerous situation, on the other hand, it does add to the significance and weight of Europe. Now, this being so, my first conclusion would be that we have every possible interest not to limit our contacts with Europe to purely governmental relations. I think it is high time for Americans to pay more attention to the possibility of what I would like to call grassroots contacts. I think we need, in addition to the famous Voice of America, a large number of voices of America which reach individual Europeans. There are quite a number of ways in which we can do so. But there is one presupposition which I would like to mention. There is the presupposition that we do not feel too virtuous in relation to Europe. First of all, I think you will all willingly agree with me that there are a few things, even in this blessed country, which could still be improved. One has to be very careful in making such statements. secondly, I think you will agree that some of our enormous advantages are not necessarily the direct results of our virtuous attitudes. There are advantages, for instance, in the resources, the physical resources of our country. There are terrific advantages in the fact that this people occupies a united area stretching from one ocean to the other. There are great advantages in the past which permitted America to concentrate on its own development and take very little cognizance of the rest of the world. Well, that period is past, and I think we have to consider far more carefully the effect of our attitudes on the rest of the world. And that is true not only of the Americans as a nation, as a nation with an instituted government, it is true of individual Americans. And therefore, I would plead with whoever has any opportunity to maintain or establish personal contacts with Europeans, to make an effort to understand that particular European, his situation, his relationships, and his contacts. I would hope, for instance, in particular, that people who go to Europe do not go there only in order to have fun and a good time. I think it would be enormously important for Americans to inform themselves somewhat better, while it would be asked too much for Americans to even learn the language of one country to which they want to go, and to be helpful in their contacts rather than self-centered and unconsiderate of the surroundings in which they move. people. I think that a responsible, a careful, a wide-awake and aware and interested tourist coming from America can be a far better and a far more impressive ambassador than our poor ambassadors who nowadays are to such a large extent reduced to mail carriers and living in isolation. Now, I think that that is true even of those Americans who have to go overseas in official capacities short of ambassadorships. I'm thinking particularly of our overseas troops. If we would make the effort, which is I think not past our capacities, to select those troops, not according to the rigid schedules of the Department of the Army, but according to their qualifications, if we wouldn't send out the very youngest, if we wouldn't send out those who go only because they want to have a good time, if we would like a if we would try and pick more mature persons who can convey to the peoples outside of this country a sense of America at its best, we would make a very concrete contribution to solving the European problem. and I think there is another very simple and practical way of contributing, and that would be for Americans to read the publications of other parts of the world, which of course necessitates learning languages. And that recipe, by the way, is in no way limited to Europe. If we would make it our business, every one of us who is in a position to do so, and if he can't do it by himself, he may form a group, to read one foreign newspaper or one foreign magazine regularly and then give the benefit of our reactions to the editor of that newspaper, by letters to the editor, which I think will be faithfully reprinted, and thereby to convey to the readers of that newspaper or magazine across the ocean or down in Latin America or whatever it be, a sense of communication, a sense of exchange, and the first awareness of how Americans react to the world and think about the world, that would be really a contribution to international understanding. As a matter of fact, that is an inexpensive and a very simple way of contributing, far less expensive than to move people physically across the ocean and expose them to the experience of a foreign country. It may even be that by exchanging letters, by exchanging impressions, and by making modest commentaries on what we find in foreign expressions of opinion, we might act better and more impressively than if we present ourselves in the flesh. There is no greater misunderstanding of human nature than to assume that you necessarily like each other better if you know each other better. Now, if that be true, then I think we could pass on to another field of problems where we have solutions with which the Soviets cannot compete. And I think that is a very important consideration, because if we want to compete with the Soviets, we get immediately into the attitude of the Cold War, and we become so preoccupied with competing with the Soviets that we forget our own best potentialities. Now, those fields are, first of all, democracy. Democracy as we understand it. Now, it is quite obvious that democracy, as we understand it, is not necessarily the democracy which other parts of the world would accept. There is a very strange law of politics, according to which it is obviously impossible to export any pattern of one's own life in a qualified and conditioned form. In other words, if we go out to the world and spread the American way of life, it is the American way of life and nothing else. It is very hard for us to realize that the American way of life, while obviously best fitted for us, is not necessarily equally best suited to others. If Americans could learn to understand better how to qualify and condition their own preferences sufficiently to make them both more convincing and more acceptable to others, again, they would make a remarkable contribution to solving some of the European problems. The third would be to understand European integration, not exclusively in terms of our own interest, but primarily as a proposition for the sake of the Europeans themselves. Now that means that we should encourage the Europeans to do more than we would be willing to do or more than we would be willing to participate in. I would like to explain that with a few words. There are many people in this country who are talking and thinking seriously of some sort of world government. But they do make the assumption that that world government will be according to their own preferences. They think, for instance, obviously of a democratic world government and primarily of the type of democratic government which we have in this country. Now if the peoples of the world ever get an opportunity to decide by majority vote the kind of government under which they want to live, with the masses of people distributed as they are over the world, even if we limit our world government to the West, the Americans would have a minority position in that establishment. And it is more than likely that we would get much less of a democratic government than Americans would like. One could even use the somewhat paradoxic expression to say that the more democratic the ways and procedures by which the government is going to be established, the less democratic is it likely to be. Secondly, Americans, of course, think of a world government as a white world government. But if you look at the world and if you include such continents as India, you will realize that there is a majority of non-white people even on the western half of the world. And that if we get a world government by majority decision and we do not take very grave precautions and give the whites a privileged position and the majority of the votes ahead of time, then we will not get a white rule in the world. And I could go on and explain to you why. The more we are willing to establish a world authority, the more we simply have to be willing to sacrifice some of the qualities and characteristics of that government which we would prefer. Now, this being so, it is somewhat dangerous for us to encourage other people to surrender much of their sovereign power for the sake of a supra-national authority without establishing a precedent which then sooner or later we will have to accept. And the same, I think, is true of the social aspects of that society which we want to develop in Europe. I think it is fair to state that traditionally, democracy in Europe has a social connotation. In other words, it is a social democracy, a democracy aware of its social responsibility, a democracy more concerned with the common good than even the New Deal in this country. And last and not least, in order to make that impressive, I think we have to encourage social reforms in Europe way beyond the extent to which we would support social reforms over here. Now, all this is indeed an extremely difficult proposition. It sounds as if Americans would be forced to be utterly and completely unselfish in dealing with the rest of the world. Yet this is not so. Just project for a moment your thinking beyond the period of the Marshall Plan. What is likely to be the situation then? I think it is most likely that we will still have a very considerable agricultural surplus which we cannot possibly consume in this country and which we will then either have to subsidize, buy and destroy or subsidize by inducing the farmers not to produce it or to export and if export, likely free of charge because nobody will be willing to pay for it. It is very likely that we will have a surplus in most goods and therefore an urgent need for markets. Well, I'm going to stick my neck out and to say that in the very interest of the United States it will be necessary to devise methods by which we can dispose of our surplus production in our own interest and we have the choice between doing it uncreatively, destructively, or doing it constructively by helping others at the same time. I always maintain that nobody can understand American foreign policy who is not aware of the historic evidence of that element of idealism which runs through American foreign policy. Now there is at present and certainly in the very near future an opportunity for America to serve its own obvious interests and at the same time make a really significant contribution to the good of a large part of the world. Now that seems to me to be an extremely attractive and promising opportunity. Until we reach that point, I think we have to do a kind of tight rope walking. We have to avoid falling for either side of the dilemma which I describe. We have at the same time to do certain things which we do not necessarily like doing. And we have more than that to push and induce the Western world to do certain things with itself and for itself which go beyond anything we would like to do at home. Both in terms of social reforms and in terms of international integration. Now you can't walk a tight rope without a very firm control of yourself. It calls for the balance of mind and body. The balance of mind of a people is the stability of its political purposes, the consistency of its political effort. The balance of body is the stability of its social structure, the prosperity and the productive capacity of its economy. I wouldn't dare to make any forecast on either count, but I'm satisfied that the greatest contribution we can make to the solution of the European problems is the maintenance of that balance within ourselves which we hope to preserve in the world. Thank you very much, Dr. Hans-Simon. All those people who would like to ask a question directly, there's a microphone there. We have some paper down here if you would like to write your questions. Thanks, now. All right. Thank you very much, Dr. Hans-Simon. That was a very interesting and provocative talk that you've given us. Now, we have several questions here, sir. Would it be possible or practical to create a branch of the United Nations which would issue the same weekly world newspaper to every nation, translated in each language, or possibly in Esperanza? I'm sure it would be possible, but I'm equally sure it wouldn't make very much difference, because it is not the problem with which we are faced to make the whole world uniform and give the same intellectual food to all people. It is far more important for each of us to know as much as possible of what other people think. So while it would be nice to have one means of information, which is the same all over the world, it would be at least as important, if not far more important, to get an exchange of opinions and maintain the individuality of different people and nations. I heard that question and I brought it in the Senate. I forgot one thing to say. I meant that that committee gives contributions each week from the leading newspaper of that of every nation. The lady has suggested she'd like to modify that a little bit, and she would like to have that newspaper supported by contributions from the leading newspapers of each one of those countries of the United Nations. I am certainly not willing to ridicule the idea. There is a good point to it, but all it amounts to, frankly, is a sort of an international reader's digest. Now, knowing the reader's digest, as I do, I am not too hopeful of the results. All right. Thank you. Good evening, sir. Yes. Dr. Simons, I'd like to ask you the following question. On the basis of your experiences, do you think that nationalists in Germany would like to see our country taken over by American nationalists for the purpose of dominating the world? If I understood the question correctly, it is whether the German nationalists would like to sort of surrender to the American nationalists and let them run the world? Do you think that the German nationalists would like to see in coming elections or in coming American events our country taken over by American nationalists in order to form an alliance for the express purpose of dominating the entire world economic and political scene? Now, I got it. Will there be an alliance between German nationalists and American nationalists, and will they together run the world? I don't believe that the German nationalists are quite as important. I think we would need the alliance of more significant nationalists than the Germans. After all, the Germans are neither the most important problem in the world nor are they at the center of the world. But I can assure you that if there would be a victory of the German nationalists in any German election, and I don't anticipate it at all, those German nationalists would be interested in running the world themselves, and they wouldn't like to share that with the Americans. Dr. Simon, no mention has been made of how and why Russia has been so successful in Europe. Will you please comment on that a little bit? One, have they been successful in Europe? And two, why do you think they have been so successful? This questioner seems to think they have been. One can, of course, question the first assumption, namely that the Soviets have been so successful in Europe. I would like to point out as a fact that the Soviets are nowhere in Europe where they didn't get on the strength of the advance of their armies. In other words, the whole idea of Soviet expansion isn't beyond the strategic line at which the Soviet Union found itself at the end of the war is a misconception. Secondly, I would question whether the Soviets have been as successful in winning the minds of the people as they were in establishing controls over the activities of people. We have not sufficient evidence to answer that question, but it's important to keep it in mind. Thirdly, I would say that the methods by which the Soviets established internal control in addition to military occupation are on record and very well known. There are the methods of first establishing the monopoly over the means of coercion and the means of information. It is one of the outstanding facts of our generation that with the present technical facilities, anybody who is in a position to gain the monopoly of the means of coercion and the monopoly of the means of information cannot possibly be removed of that position of power from the inside. If he is ever to be removed, he has to be removed from the outside. Thank you, Doctor. Yes, sir. Doctor, how and in what way can we eliminate the integration of industry in Germany to the uses of the, we'll say the minority group in Germany, which wishes to divide the Germany and the world itself against itself? I don't think you understand. Well, the question, it seems to me, is whether we can reorganize German industry so that it cannot be misused by those who try to exploit its power for diversity purposes. That is a question not easily answered because it combines two aspects. The one is the aspect of the concentration of industry in Germany, and that, of course, is a development by no means limited to Germany. The whole question of cartels and monopolies. I would like to say that cartels as a technique of organizing and planning production and sale are a necessary instrument of modern industrial development. And if you want to do away with them, you have to provide a substitute. That is as true in Germany as it is true in this country. The Sherman Act would be more effective if we had a substitute for the organization which it fights. There is, however, a possibility of deconcentration, which would still leave complete control. As of present, however, German industry is controlled. Managers are back in their positions, but not owners. All the great establishments of German industry are held under trust by the occupying powers. In addition, there is the International Ruhr Authority, which has jurisdiction to control the production and the distribution of the basic products of the Ruhr, coal and steel. In addition, there are the International Coal and Steel Board, which we share with the British and which exercise complete control. So that of today, the possible misuse of German industrial power for political, domestic or international purposes is completely impossible. In the future, I myself think that these governmental and authoritarian controls ought to be replaced by social controls. But in order to get those, we would have to establish works councils and give the workers a right of co-determination. That, to most Americans, sounds like Bolshevism. In Europe, it isn't Bolshevist at all. It's an established tradition. And had we more understanding for and more adroitness in establishing social controls, we need far less to worry about the future danger of German industry. All right, Dr. Seymour, and here's another question. Dr. Seymour, and here's another question. Dr. Seymour, and here's another question. Dr. Seymour, and here's another question. Recently, Mr. Hoffman of ECA stated to Congress that we can never have sound relationships with Europe until she becomes a cash-on-the-barrel customer. That is, she's able to pay in gold dollars for our products. Now, in view of that statement, don't you think the chief issue is economic, and that all this ideological and philosophic talk is simply propaganda to distract us from the chief issue? That is, making Europe a cash-on-the-barrel customer to restore relationships, normal relationships in the world. I don't know whether the questioner means that I tried to divert you from the real issue by giving you an ideological and philosophical talk. Dr. Seymour, and here's another question. I don't think he meant you did, sir. Well, I would accept the challenge because I happen to believe that there are more motivations in human life and more forces significant for mankind than the economic ones. However, I also agree that the economic ones are very important. Now, I disagree completely with Mr. Hoffman, though that is a very daring attitude to take, because I don't believe that we will ever get the Europeans within our lifetime back to a position where they can fulfill that wonderful American expectation of being a cash-barrel customer. That kind of customer we won't get in the rest of the world. We will find ourselves in a situation, when Mr. Hoffman is through with his excellent efforts, where our surplus will be available, but there won't be the purchasing power to get it. And I repeat my statement that by that time, we will have to devise new systems, which will come pretty close to the war lease lend technique, to dispose of our surplus and yet make it available to other people. So I'm sorry that that is the most likely prospect. All right. Thank you. Yes. Good evening. Good evening. I have two short questions, Dr. Simon. The first is, if the Germans are so anxious to reorganize their army, against whom do they contemplate using the army? That's my first question. May I answer that first question and immediately eliminate a misunderstanding? I said that we are discussing German rearmament and that very few Germans are participating. I am satisfied that as of today, the Germans do not want to rearm. The Germans share in that attitude, which I described, where they are anti-militarist, because they are sick and tired of the army, and pacifist, because they lost the war and lost it thoroughly. I wouldn't rely on that attitude for too long, but at present it is true. Also, most of the Germans who served in the army lost seven years out of their lives and are in a terrible hurry to make up for them. The only way you could get the Germans to volunteer for an army would be to increase unemployment to such a point, that increasing numbers of youth would accept the army as the only place where they can get a roof over their head, something to dress in, and acceptable food. Now, that point is not reached by any means. It is us and our friends who seduce the Germans to think of rearming again. Now, the second part of that very question, against whom do we want to rearm the Germans? Very obviously, we want to rearm them as an additional element of strength in the defense of the dividing line in Europe. My contention, however, is that even with a rearm Germany, we would not be strong enough to defend only the European line. Our strength in Europe lies in the fact that everybody knows that if anything happens in Europe, something will happen all over the world, and that is exactly the result which nobody wants, including the Soviet Union. All right, now that was a double-headed question. Do you have some more now? Yes, well, just on the question of unemployment in Germany, how would you solve unemployment in Germany, and at the same time dismantle all the industries as was planned after the last war? I saw some figures where it was supposed to dismantle about 2,000 factories, and only about 200 have been dismantled so far. Again, I have to answer that question in two parts, and first to the factual situation. Dismantling today is a completely theoretical issue, because dismantling is finished, and it reached a far smaller number of factories than was originally anticipated. Or to put it differently, the Germans have more industrial capacity today than they are capable of putting into production. Their unemployment problem is not due to lack of industrial facilities, it is due to lack of purchasing power. The solution to the unemployment problem in Germany is a very difficult one. The Germans are short of certain other elements which come into the picture. The first and most important is capital. There is work, of course, and plenty of work for far more Germans than they are alive today, because it would take them ten years even to get rid of all their rubble. But they don't have the money to pay for any work of that kind. Reconstruction and getting away with the rubble are so little advanced in Germany that it is a pity to see. The second difficulty in Germany is that the Germans accepted the slogan and the practice of free enterprise, and thereby permitted production to go into luxury lines, which immediately after the currency reform seemed to be promising, with the result that they neglected the broad items for the less well-to-do consumers. And today you find the shops in Germany full of luxury goods, and you find still the majority of people short of essential shoes, shirts, suits, dresses, and what have you. The answer, therefore, I am sorry to say, is that under free enterprise in Germany today, you simply cannot solve the problem. You will have to get a planned economy, a careful channeling of the restricted investment capital into those products which are most needed. That would add to the job opportunities of the Germans and would solve the problem at least somewhat. The trouble only is that Americans, or most Americans, believe in free enterprise even if they don't have it, and expect other people to share that paper. Thank you, Dean Simon. Here's a gentleman. Doctor, I ask this really for information. Is it true that in the western zone of Germany in an election, there is a free choice of a number of candidates from a number of parties, whereas in the Russian zone there is only one candidate from whom they can vote? If so, who chooses that candidate that people are permitted to vote for? Each of these questions contains a very interesting element of factual information and then an additional question. So I have again to divide my answer. It is correct that in the western German elections, there was complete freedom of presenting candidates for the licensed parties. At that time we still licensed parties. And we did not admit any parties which had not been licensed previously by military government. And I may add in parenthesis that with the coming into force of the German constitution, we discontinued licensing parties. And under the German constitution, forming of parties is completely free. But in addition to permitting the licensed parties to present their candidates, any group of 500 people in any electoral district also could present a candidate. And plenty of people did. However, these candidates on the whole were quite unsuccessful. In the Soviet zone, we haven't had elections for quite some time. Because there has not been any election for either the People's Congress or an election as provided in the eastern constitution in order to establish the eastern German government. That has been done not through democratic processes, not by elections, but by FIAT. The People's Congress is composed of nominated persons, nominated by groups or by authorities. And that Congress in turn established the present eastern German government. So that according to our light, certainly that eastern German government is not democratically established and certainly not democratically representative. But when the last elections were held in eastern Germany, in those elections, the four parties then existing in the eastern zone still participated. Namely, the so-called Socialist Unity Party, which is the Communists, the Christian Party, the Democratic Party, and a so-called National Democratic Party, which was a catch-all for all the former Nazis. But it is also true that because of the overwhelming influence of the Socialist Unity Party in all agencies of government, the other parties were discriminated against and had a far poorer chance. And in many districts, it was as a result of manipulation, they were even prevented from presenting candidates. But we had not yet reached, during those elections, the state of complete one-party system, which I am satisfied we will have reached before the Soviets will permit the first real election, real in quotes, in eastern Germany. Thank you, Dean Simon. Yes, sir. Isn't it possible to utilize German personnel in various other countries of the world and thereby break up the German war potential at the same time that we send U.S. Army troops into Germany and into Europe? It seems to me the question is whether it would be possible to integrate Germans into other armies and thereby prevent them from establishing their own and provide security in western Germany by sending in American soldiers? No, I don't mean other armies. I mean utilizing them in other countries for trade professions, industries, whatever they can fit into. You mean organized immigration? Organized immigration. Organized immigration would be possible, of course, if other countries were willing to accept immigration. The trouble is that, first of all, there are quite a number of countries left who are suspicious of the Germans. Don't forget that Germans are not nearly as popular in most other countries of the world than they are now in the United States. Also, don't forget that in most countries competition is not particularly invited and Germans have a reputation of being quite capable of significant competition. So, I think it would take very prolonged negotiations to get anything done in terms of planned immigration. Remember what became of the Evian Conference. Remember how difficult it is to distribute even those couple of hundred thousand displaced persons whom nobody really likes to accept. Well, you read the newspapers, didn't you? And you see how heated the discussions became on that rather minor issue in the Senate of the United States. I don't think we can solve that problem. I think what we have to do is enable the Germans to make a living on the reduced territory which is left to them and make that living by producing and exporting. And since we are not willing to take people, we should at least take their goods. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir. Dr. Simon, leaving all the literary fringes and general abstractions from all lectures, can't we assume that Europe of 39 is completely dead and never to be revived? And that American political illiteracy cannot be of any great help. That a solution can only be found in the two most powerful powers in the world, namely the Eastern so-called Communists and American capitalists, will have to find a way before they assassinate each other in a democratic socialist economy in Europe. I would, of course, first insist on adding the world so-called both to Communists and capitalists. Secondly, I would say that that is completely true. If I had a solution of that kind, I would have presented it. Unfortunately, I am a realistic person and all the solutions I could see, at least within reach, are the solutions which I presented tonight. But it is indeed true that all the problems which worry the world today could theoretically be solved if it were possible to reach an agreement between the predominant Western and the predominant Eastern power. But you know the real trouble is that most international conflicts were solved by the intervention of third parties. The balance of power in the world always was a balance between six or seven powers. And the shifting of the influence of the one or the other made the one make concessions and forced the other to give in. And there was always some leeway and a certain play at work. For the first time in the history of mankind, we have reached the point where for all practical purposes there exist only two superpowers. And all the moves have to come out of themselves instead of originating within groups outside. And that seems to be a situation which leads into a complete stalemate. Now, if I would like to take the time which I don't have and I don't want to bore you, I would entertain you to a discussion of the possibility of restoring, not first peace and amity between the two superpowers, but of restoring third powers, additional elements which can re-enter the picture and make it more diversified, so that they can bring their weight to bear upon both of these antagonistic halves, so that we get a world not any longer divided into two halves only, but re-divided into a diversity which makes for freedom and which makes for change. Now that situation, I hope, can be, but only in the long future. I have a personal idea, Doctor, that possibly the Far East might be the answer to that one of these days. Yeah, here's the later. One more power to you. I'm Swedish national and interested to know the political situation of Sweden. Is there some danger to be occupied by Russia? That is a question which I think does not exist in any particular terms for Sweden. There is indeed no evidence that the Soviets exercise any particular pressure on Sweden at this time. But if you look at the map, you will see that Sweden, of course, is in a relatively exposed position because she borders on Finland, she lives on the Baltic Sea, and the Baltic Sea, of course, has fallen under Soviet control. That is one of the many great changes which the emergence of the Soviet Union and the disappearance of Germany brought about. I wouldn't care to say whether the Baltic Sea was any better off under German domination or under Soviet domination. For Sweden, of course, that is a precarious situation. But may I repeat, even Finland is living a relatively independent life. The Finns have succeeded in maintaining certain very distinctive characteristics of their national existence under the immediate shadow of the Soviet Union. So I think the Swedes have a still better process. How long can the United States carry the burden of the entire world? Is there no danger that our economy may eventually break down? This gentleman believes that charity must begin at home. I am all for having charity begin at home. As a matter of fact, one of my major preoccupations all the time is that we should not try to forget our home needs for the sake of worrying about the world. As a matter of fact, I tried to indicate it when very modestly I suggested that we could stand some improvement even over here. But may I remind you that the most astonishing fact of the war was for America to be capable happily and prosperously to feed the whole world, to arm the whole world, to sink and destroy the goods produced by the billions of dollars, to put on top of it the most prosperous paid in our economy, to actually double its productive capacity, do all that and by doing it become wealthier and wealthier. And is there any good reason why we shouldn't repeat that performance? If there is anything I can't get worried about even a little bit, it is the danger of America being incapable of carrying the burden of the world. We will drop enough at any time to make it possible for us to sustain the rest. All right. Thank you, Dr. Simone, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. You are following you, Alex. Thank you.