In conclusion, the ins House is now here. December 6th, думаю, for vouch, Fortune 7, 0. Customer 4,47 1, hustlers Caskha University. and the high wages that you tied in with that, the percentage of increase, I'm going to take some credit for that because we maneuvered that into your pay envelope. Now I say you can reduce prices, you can sell more goods, and I think that's the way to do it. Because... Reduce prices and sell more goods. There's no disagreement. All right, all right. What about the actual course of events? And I can give you two sets of figures on the advance in retail prices and the advance in wholesale prices, which are tremendous. And they'll show this, that all items in retail prices are up 17%, clothing up 17.5%, food up 20%. And then in wholesale prices, you have a farm product up 27%. All commodities up 31%, and foods up 43%. Now those increases don't represent any reasonable advance. How about manufacturing prices? You're concerned because industry has made profit. I'm frankly for profit. No matter what I'm asking for against. I'm for ample profit. I think it's a good thing. And to pick this out now is going to be one of the causes of the next depression. I've heard more reasons for the last depression. I know one guy blamed it on his wife. He should now. I don't think you'll be able to pick this out. And when this comes, if it does come, and I'm against advertising it. I heard a few speakers at this conference, I'm not going to mention them by name, but I think they're creep hangers. Because if we don't get a depression, it will not be because it wasn't the best advertised depression that ever came. I don't think there's any need for it. How about underconsumption as a prime cause of your depression? Well, that leads us really to another question. Let's get on to that for a moment. Do you think that wages today are sufficiently high or not sufficiently high? Why don't you pick that one up, Mr. Zola? What's your opinion about wages? I think wages. And I'm going to concede that there may be some spots. But generally speaking, wages should level off. It should be the last roundup. If we're going to do anything, from here on in, let's cut the price of our goods. How about organizing schoolteachers with the organized labor? That's okay. Listen, there's a teachers' union. There's a teachers' guild. Let them join us. That's another department. I mean, the teachers, I think they're all right. I'm for them. But I have no authority to raise their weight. Mr. Zola, is your point that the wage line should now be held and wage permit prices to go down? Yes. All right. What do you want to say to that, Mr. Comber? Well, now, just one moment. No, let's see what happens every time we get an increase. Because, after all, the trade union is a limited organization. It's designed to take care of wages. We have no influence over prices. When Walter Ruther, about, I think it was two years ago, tried to discuss prices with General Motors, incidentally after they raised the subject, they told him to mind his own business. So let's see what happened after Labor was told to mind its own business. On February 2, 1946, Business Week indicated that the wage increases which the unions were receiving at that time had shaken themselves down into a pattern of 15 to 16 percent. The editors of Business Week, and I don't know of a Marxist among them, came to the conclusion that that wouldn't represent much of a threat because it should result, and they accounted for the whole line, in no more than a 3 to 4 percent increase in prices. Very plaintively, over a year later, they said, that isn't what was supposed to happen when they looked at the figures with retaining competition. Now, you explain it. Now, obviously, we're going to be told to hold the line if every time we get an increase that should warrant about a 1 percent increase in prices, it's used as an excuse to jack up prices at 20 and 30 percent. Sure, we've got to hold the line. We have no alternative. Well, perhaps what we ought to do is organize as consumers, but that isn't what we're discussing. There's nothing wrong with the wage picture here. The trouble is that the wages have been used as an excuse together with clever propagandists in order to account for increases that are completely unrelated to the wage picture, and this is the proof of it. Why is it a proof? How did they know when they said that a 15 percent increase of wages only meant about a 1 percent increase in prices? I take it that they're very competent economists, sat down with the financial statements. They were not. I think the events proved that they were not. I'm sure that the draw is going to be terribly embarrassed when they hear it from you, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry to embarrass them, but I think the events have proved that the costs have gone up much more than that proportion, in fact, very nearly in the same proportion as the wages went up. In that case, how do you account for the tremendous increase in the operating surpluses that the financial statements show a year later? If that were the case, they should have remained at approximately the same level. Yet they're running 28 percent higher in one case, and then three months later, 305 percent higher. How do you account for that? Mr. Prince, do you want to turn that over to Mr. Zuloff? Well, I think either of us can answer it, that you're comparing with a period when, for various reasons, the profits were very low. We had a strike in General Electric. General Motors had a strike. Why shouldn't the things be more favorable this year when we haven't any? No, I'm not comparing it with the strike period. I'm comparing it for the 1946. Here, they had exceeded the record earnings of 1945 by 28 percent. And then in addition to that, there was a 305 percent increase over that. I'm not accounting for the strike period. It's been left out there. What I do want to point out is, I believe that there is a reason for it, and that is that all of you have priced your product to make sure that you don't have to reduce prices in case a depression comes. Well, I can assure you that we haven't, and I doubt very much whether you can document it at anybody. Well, yes, I can document it. 1945, factory management and maintenance published figures that indicated that American industry was operating at break-even points on a civilian basis of 56 percent of capacity. That was during the war. No, no. During the war, they were operating at 37 percent of capacity on the all-out-of-war basis. Now, I submit that when you had the prospect of selling 100 percent of your output fully three, four years in advance of that date, that that was nothing else but planning for a depression. I don't know whether that was true in the particular companies that you represent, but we are discussing industry in general, and I imagine the goods that you manufacture figured in that itemization. Well, Mr. Shavitz, would your contention be that wages today are too low? Yes. We've been discussing prices and profits, and let's get along to the third sector, wages. They're too low because they do not enable the worker to buy what he needs. Prices have gone up so that his dollar and the value of the raises that he's gotten have been wiped out. But let me get back to something a little more humanistic and a little less dry, I think, than the kind of figures that we've been throwing around here. And that's the opportunity that we have, all of us together, labor and industry, to produce the kind of a system that will be of maximum advantage to the maximum number of people in our country in the way of production, maximum production, maximum employment, maximum benefits for all our people. Now, I think that's a challenge to American industry on the part of labor, if you will, a challenge that must be met and answered. Well, I'd like to get back to this question of wages. And let the U.S. Chamber of Commerce express itself on this matter. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, in the same month that it denounced the, you know, us fellows, the profits of recession, didn't evidently coordinate its organization very carefully. And so when the monthly newsletter came out, it gave out the embarrassing news that while manufacturing was taking place at an annual rate of $180 billion, current income levels will only absorb a manufacturing output of $165 billion. Now, there's a nice, juicy deficit there of something in the neighborhood, I think, of $25 billion. That $25 billion may very well be the source of a spiral downward. I'd say we've settled for a wage increase at this time of about $25 billion. I believe it was. You're lost. I don't think either one of you, I don't think either one of you, really believe that the solution is a general wage increase. Would you prefer a price decrease? Well, don't you really believe now, that there are areas of agreement here that we have? Definitely. I'd like to get one story in here, if I may. I've been listening to all of this pointing and all the money that we have. Now, I'm wondering how much money you fellas have. It seems to me that your memberships have been increasing, and you must have a pretty good treasury. Now, give us a look at that for a change. Oh, sure. Well, look, then, with your half-party act, you're all going to go right out, eh? Yeah, but they're not giving it out. Oh, no. It's confidential, I understand. Well, wait a moment. As I understand it, I'm not too clear on the law. We've been submitting reports to the treasury under the Revenue Act. We've had to give those reports for the last year, so there's nothing more. Well, besides, remember the fact that most of the unions have been publishing financial accounts for a good many years, particularly the big unions, and you know pretty well what their treasury amounts to. Oh, we won't sue you. Oh, it's wonderful. We want everybody to know how much money we have and can't they think of starting a fight? We were trying to keep the ghost of the Taft-Hartley bill out of this economic discussion. I wonder if we could go back just to see specifically what we might agree upon. I take it that all of you agree today, regardless of where you put the emphasis, that there is an imbalance between wages, prices, and profits, although one of you will emphasize one factor rather than another. Do any of you think we're in a state of economic equilibrium, so to speak, in which all the factors are perfectly balanced and we can go on from there? I would take it not. No, but I don't believe we'd agree as to which way the balance is out. No, but you would agree that there is an imbalance and therefore there is an area for further exploration as to how the seesaw might be made to balance more evenly. Secondly, do you all agree that we need greater production in America, regardless of what you consider the factors responsible for production? There's no disagreement on that. would you also agree that it is the responsibility of both labor and management to do its share in maintaining full production and employment, or do you think the responsibility lies on the shoulders of the other fellow? It seems to me since management is in the driver's seat and is so jealous of its prerogatives, it will have to assume a responsibility for whatever happens. But labor must at least cooperate. Well, we'll cooperate to the expense of discussing your labor costs with you, but there are a number of other decisions that are going to influence the level of production in this country. I mean, we're already being made partners to the coming cataclysm. I decline. I draft you. Yes, we're really on another issue here. To what extent does labor want or will management accept the partnership of organized labor in making decisions on other matters than wages alone? I think that was the question you were getting at. Judging by what happened to Walter Ruther, they won't... Well, let's forget Walter Ruther. Well, let's let our guests... Yes, how about that, Mr. Duoff? Do you think labor has any role in assuming responsibility on the level of production and employment, price policy, and so on, or not? I don't mean to put you on the spot here, but that was the question that was raised. You're not putting me on the spot, but I don't think that... I think it's a team job. I don't think that unions or labor should take over any of the functions of management. Any more than management should take over any of the functions of labor. I don't like the word prerogative. Well, all right, you call them functions, but you keep both the function and the responsibility thereof. Well, we in management are trying to develop certain technical groups as a part of management that try to figure everything out. I'm sorry, but our time is up. Thank you very much, Mrs. McKelvey and gentlemen. This has been a special program from the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, where the first annual labor management conference has today been discussing the specific topic of wages, prices, profits, and productivity. On this evening's panel, the representatives of management were David C. Prince, vice president of the General Electric Company, and Harold C. Zuloff, vice president for the industrial relations of the Alexander Smith & Sons Carpet Company. Spokesmen for labor were William Gomberg, director of the Management Engineering Division of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, AFL, and Morris Youshevitz, research director of the New York State CIO Council. Your moderator was Mrs. Jean T. McKelvey, professor at the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell. This is Bruce McKenzie speaking, and this special program has come to you from the studios of WHCU Ithaca.