This is Mayor's Conference, the 29th in the series of monthly programs designed to help you better understand the problems of the City of New York and how the city government is meeting these problems. Today Mayor Robert F. Wagner meets with Metropolitan Newsmen to answer their spontaneous questions on city affairs. Questions from Paul Kroll of the New York Times. Mr. Mayor, when is the Board of Estimates going to hold that public hearing on the question of putting fluorine in our drinking water? From Frank McMaster of the Long Island Press. Mr. Mayor, City Coordinator Robert Moses indicated within the last hour of the press conference that he thought all of the regional matters such as anti-pollution and so forth should be handled at a state level and not by the Metropolitan Regional Conference. From Marvin Sleeper of the New York Journal American. Mr. Mayor, within the last couple of weeks your Commissioner Tenney has cited one councilman for an apparent violation of the city charter and another for a technical violation. In view of that, do you favor a code of ethics to supplement the city charter as it reads today? From radio and television newsman, Gabe Pressman. Mr. Mayor, do you have any objection to TV cameras filming public proceedings of the Board of Estimates? Well, thank you gentlemen for your questions. Before we get into the answering of those questions and any other further questions that I'm sure you have, I'd just like to take this opportunity to indicate to the people of a service that we have been using, and I think very effectively over the past few years in the field of health. We all know that health is a very important phase of our life, and we do know that one phase of our medical program has been most successful, as most of them have been, but our fight against tuberculosis has been a continuing one, and we must continue too relentlessly to try to eradicate TB from our city. We do know that TB is the tenth cause of, in tenth place, is the cause of death among our population, and we do know, too, that the disease itself is one that causes great disruption in family life, very costly to the wage earner, and also very costly to cure. Now, what we have been trying to do is to get at TB at its incipient stage. We do know, roughly, that there are some 10,000 people walking around our city in some stage of TB without knowing it themselves, and therefore what we have done is to attack this problem in two ways. One is to see that we x-ray our patients in our hospitals, and the other way is mass surveys, mass x-ray treatment. In 1956, for instance, we gave over 700,000 chest x-rays, 52% increase over 55%. And in that way, we're now beginning to be able to get to these people who, not knowing they had this disease, are being cured in a number of ways, in our hospitals, at home, or as bed patients in hospitals. Many of them, of course, as I said first, in hospitals, come to the hospital for their cure every few days, or depending on what the doctors prescribe. But we have been able to, in that way, attack this problem, and I ask the cooperation of all of our people, because we have had instances where people are told that they have incipient TB, or in more advanced stages, who are frightened and fail to come for their treatment. We wish they would, because in that way, we can catch this disease right at the beginning, and therefore give that person the opportunity to have a healthy life, and also prevent that person from spreading it to others. And I know if we have that help, we're going to have a finer and healthier city, and I know that Dr. Leona Baumgartner and the health department, who are doing a good job with your cooperation, can do an even better one. And I want to take this opportunity, if I can, before we get into the question periods, because sometimes we haven't too much time left at the end, but we wish all of our fellow citizens here in New York a very, very happy and holy Christmas and a new year of prosperity and peace here and throughout the world. Now, I'm ready for the questions. Mr. Mayor, last summer you expressed yourself personally in favor of adding fluorine salts to our city's drinking water to preserve the teeth of the residents of the city of New York, particularly children, to prevent tooth decay. And you said the matter would be taken up by the Board of Estimate, and a little later indicated that the board wouldn't pass it along for a referendum, but would take the responsibility. You indicated then that there would be a hearing on it before the board sometime in October. What is the prospect for a hearing on that? Well, first of all, there was some... There was a request for the hearing during the summer, and I think everybody agreed, both the proponents and the opponents, that the summer would not be the best time because many people were away and therefore would not have had the opportunity to express themselves. Then there was some talk of, in the fall, there was a campaign going on, as I think some of you remember, I remember anyway, and everyone felt that you couldn't consider the proposition and the objective light which a problem such as this deserves. And I believe within the next few weeks, the board at their meetings will indicate that we should have that hearing very shortly. Is still your feeling that the board should settle it as a matter of policy without a referendum? Well, I do. There was some question raised, Paul, as to whether it was legally proper. Now, someone said they had an opinion from the Corporation Council, as I understand it, though he has not rendered an opinion, as to whether that is a proposition which we could submit to the people on a referendum. And there is some question, too, as to whether that is the kind of a problem which the governing body must take the responsibility for. Now, I believe that we, in these hearings, the board will take an objective point of view and will want to hear all sides, give both sides full opportunity to discuss it. If it is legal for you to have a, for the city to have a referendum, would you favor a referendum? Well, I don't know, unless, let's hear the arguments. I'm not one of those who feel, as an elected official, that if I can find some out from taking a position on a matter, it's an easy thing to send it to the people. Now, if there are good arguments for such a referendum and it's legal, I'm sure we'd be glad to, but I don't think it should be used as a device for a public official from shirking his responsibility of making a decision. Those questions from Paul Kroll and Marvin Sleeper, now Frank McMaster. Mr. Mayor, within the hour, Commissioner Bob Moses indicated that regional problems, such as solution and the anti-application and the construction of the Brooklyn Sports Center should be met at the state level and not taken up by the Metropolitan Regional Conference. Do you agree with that? Well, I don't know what the Sports Center had to do with the regional conference. He called it an athletic, the athletic center. Well, so far, I have great admiration, as I've said before, for Bob Moses. I don't agree with him on everything, and I'm sure he doesn't agree with me on everything, but we still have that friendship and admiration, and he's a darn good commissioner. I do feel that the regional conference is something that is here to stay. We all realize the elected officials of the metropolitan, New York metropolitan region feel that they can do a great deal working together rather than separately. There are many problems that they can bring up and work out without going to the state, and there are other problems that they can bring to the state's attention. And if the various states, the three states, New Jersey, Connecticut, and New York, and that there would be greater opportunity to receive consideration from those states, the legislatures understand that the public officials, the elected local officials, are vitally interested in the solution. Now, I admit that we can't possibly, even working voluntarily as we are among ourselves, solve these problems without state help, but I think they must take a good part of the initiative, the local elected officials. And I may say, too, that in many instances, we need help from the federal government. But again, with a unified group of public officials working, as I say, voluntarily together, I think they have a greater opportunity of getting federal and state legislation. Marvin Sleeper. Mr. Mayor, getting back to my opening question about the two councilmen who've been cited by your commissioner investigation, one for an apparent violation of the city charter, another for a technical violation, conflict of interest between their private business and their duties as a councilman. Would you favor a code of ethics that's been suggested on an earlier radio show today by Harris Klein, a former member of the Transit Authority, that that might be the answer to it, just like it is on the state level? Well, I suppose code of ethics are all right. I've often said that I remember this code of ethics business, and the state was started by Tom Dewey a little while ago after they had some scandals up there in Albany. And we've never had codes of ethics during the administrations of Smith and Roosevelt and Lehman up in Albany. And, of course, it's up to the individual. Now, the code of ethics, if everyone feels that's proper, is fine. I think everyone should have high ethics in public life as well as in private life. But if some people think that's helpful, that's all right. What I do think, the more important phase of it, because that's an easy out, this code of ethics business, is for the council, as they say they're going to and through their resolution, which was overlooked, I think, by the public, that they are now going to sit down and have public hearings, hear public officials, hear groups that are interested in government or individuals on drawing up and clarifying in the charter just what a councilman can and cannot do as far as his private businesses are concerned. So then everybody knows clearly what he can or can't do. Now, we have an instance here with Councilman Murphy, where it was purely a technical violation. There was no wrongdoing involved, and the Commissioner of Investigations has so stated, and there stated that this charter should be clarified as to what he can and cannot do. Now, I think that's very important, and I do believe that then-councilmen will know exactly where they stand. And if a code of ethics is a good idea, it's been suggested not by Mr. Klein. It's been suggested by many others over the past few weeks. If the council feels that that's proper, it's all right. Well, is there anything vague about the city charter? Doesn't the city charter make it very clear that a councilman cannot be employed by a firm that does any business with the city? Well, I think you've got to clarify it. It does business, and I don't want to, at this time, judge what the council should do. It's not my position to do that. I'd be glad if they asked me in their meetings to get some thoughts from me. I'd be glad to do it. But here you have an instance, as I understand it, with the councilman Murphy, who was working for a company long before he was elected to the council in an area in that company's business that had nothing to do with the city's business. And then apparently his company did some work in another phase of their operation, so that there was no indication that the councilman in any way tried to influence anybody. He just happened to be in a foreign department phase of their operation, or another phase of their operation, did some work for the city off and on. Now, I think it has to be clarified, because you're going to find, if you get this thing too far, that you'll just have no room for people who are successful in business or in the professions to run for the council. And the whole purpose was to try to get as high a level person in the council as possible. And all you'll have people who just want to rely on that amount of money for their salary, and not think of it as a public service. Well, in the case of the other councilman, Councilman Quinn, who did appear before the Board of Standards and Appeals in the interest of his private real estate business, that was an apparent violation of the city charter. Would you say that the law has to be changed for that, too, in order to make it more specific? We should make it just as specific as possible so everybody would know, councilman and the public, how far they can go. Now, the commissioner of investigations not only said it was apparent, he said it was a violation. Well, it was worded apparent violation in his report. Yeah. What do you think ought to be done about Councilman Quinn? Well, I don't think it's fair for me to comment on that right now, because I have expressed my support of the commissioner of investigations report, and the matter is now before a grand jury, and I think in all fairness and honor our American system, we shouldn't comment on it while it's in that position. Certainly, I'm not a member of the council either. He's a member of that body. How about if I ask you a hypothetical question, leaving Mr. Quinn out of it, do you think that stern disciplinary action should be taken against any councilman or other city official who violates the city charter? Of course, and I don't think we should limit any question of taking action against the councilmen, their elected public officials. I have said, and my philosophy is and policy is, that if there's anyone who does anything wrong in the city under my jurisdiction, that we should take stern action. And I would assume that would go for the elected officials too, and I'm sure that's the feeling of the council. As a matter of fact, interesting to note that the proposal of the majority members of the council two weeks ago was much stronger for an investigation than the one adopted the other day when they adopted the Republican policy. Everybody, the press and everybody else, were talking about the fact that it was a whitewash and so forth, and urged them to adopt the proposal of Stanley Isaacs. And so they turned around and adopted the policy of the proposal of Stanley Isaacs, and all that said was to reiterate what the Commissioner of Investigations can do anyway. Mr. Mayor, in Mr. Isaac's original amendment to that resolution, he called for the investigation of each and every city councilman in his written amendment. When it finally came on the floor of the council, the each and every had been crossed out, and any had been substituted, which made it a much weaker resolution. It was his resolution. He had had a private caucus with the Democrats before they came out onto the floor. And when he was asked if he had been pressured to change the if and any to any, he said, I won't say. Well, I have never heard of any pressure. Do you know of any pressure? Well, we asked him, and he wouldn't say one way or the other. Well, isn't it pretty rough to make an accusation without any backing? Do you know of any pressure? Well, why didn't it pass in his original form yet, then, which was a good form? I don't know. You'd have to ask Mr. Isaacs that. But unless you know of some pressure, that's a pretty rough accusation to make. Mr. Kroll. From what I've heard, I think that Mr. Councilman Isaacs felt that he had made his point and that the council was not going to investigate itself. He had the feeling, and I personally think with some justification, that if a committee of five councilmen is going to investigate each and every member of the council, somebody might say, how about the five? Well, I suppose there's something to that. But they accepted the other amendment. And we, of course, had said that we were willing to, I was talking from the administration, to give them full services of the commissioner of investigation and the full services of the corporation council or any other department or any other individual to assist in any way. Then I take it your policy still is that if matters are called to your attention or to the attention of the commissioner of investigation on information that warrants it, there will be the usual investigation. Certainly will. Mr. Mayor, you've spelled out pretty clearly your thinking and your policy with respect to what's recently happened in the city council. It also came to light last week the story that a number of men, I think at least six have admitted, label ears have been admitted, should have been carried on the payrolls of the department of sanitation. And while they did their work as good union men, they did nothing for the pay they received from the city. Now, in my thinking, isn't that a child of a violation? Frank, I think it was the contention of the commissioner of sanitation that these men were also doing some labor relations work for the department, settling some problems. The minute was brought, this practice had been going on since the time of John Perroy Mitchell, I understand, some 35 to 40 years. It couldn't. The sanitation department hasn't existed that long. Under another name. Under another name it was. But it has been. It's been known that. And apparently that was what the commissioner said. And when it was brought to our attention that these men were not doing their full job, they went right back to work the next day. Well, Mr. Mayor, isn't the point there, not so much that these men, the point there exists. They cleared it up right away. The point, I think the point in that situation is this. These men may have been doing splendid labor relations work. But the point is that somebody must have certified the payroll that they work so many hours a day for the city, at least the 30 or 40, that they're obligated to work. Would you consider that a child of a violation? I would have to go into it a little further. There may be one of these things that over the years has been a practice which has now been cleared up. Well, I think that's the one thing that's been passed over in this. Everybody's talking along about custom, and I think custom has anything to do with it. Do you plan to do anything about it yourself? Well, we have the commissioner of investigation has been in there. As a matter of fact, I understand, too, that the district attorney is in there. We'll see what they're going to go anyway. That's right. Mr. McMaster was just talking about custom, Mr. Mayor, and of course, we're living in a changing world, and radio and television have an increasing function to perform in journalism. With that preface, I'd like to ask you whether you have any objection to TV cameras filming public proceedings of the Board of Estimate when there's something of great public interest. I certainly have no objection. We've always allowed them to come in since I've been mayor when they've made any requests. We're glad. I think it's a good thing. As a matter of fact, that's why we broadcast all of our hearings on the capital budget and the expense budget, so we'll allow the people of the city to cease... I mean, on the city station, WNYC. Or I'd be glad to have any other station to be interested in it because in that way, the people can understand the problems of the city and the problems that the city officials face in trying to work out a budget. Of course, I think you gentlemen who've been down there know that most everyone comes in there looking for an increase to the budget. Not too many come in with any suggestions the other way. There are some, of course. And the more information that can be brought to the people through the press, through the radio, through TV, I think is a darn wholesome thing for the city and for the citizens. I had an ulterior motive, as you may have guessed, and that is that the council kept radio and television or barred television camera crews from its meeting on this investigation last week. And I understand that Council President Abe Stark, who's also a member of the Board of Estimate, has no objection, so that makes, as a politician for the moment, that makes six votes with yours. In other words, if we get three more votes, then we're permitted to go into the Board of Estimate at any time. Any time. Of course, we've got to disrupt everything in there, but I think it can be worked out in an orderly way. I'd be glad to have you come in. Well, then, Mr. Mayor, how do you feel... I would think the most members of the Board would. I haven't talked to them. How do you feel about them coming into the City Council and doing the same thing? Well, I'm not a member of the City Council. They're a separate body, and they can make their own rules and regulations. Now, what reasons they have had for such a rule, I don't know, but if I was a Councilman, I would vote to allow them in. I expected you to say that. That's why I started with the Board of Estimate, but the Board of Estimate is a more important legislative body anyway. Mr. Mayor... Don't tell that to the Councilman. Mr. Mayor... You'll never get in. The Joint Committee, appointed by the Governor and yourself to go into the fiscal relationships between the City and the State, seems to have had a rather rocky time with its report, and everybody is hit hard at the proposal for city income tax for tolls on the bridges, but the report itself, as I read it, spoke of those things as a sort of a last resort. That's correct. Do you find anything, any material in that report that you think is constructive and in the aid of the city? Of course. What they did in a number of areas, Paul, was back up the contentions that the city has made over the past few years up in Albany showing that we have not been receiving what we think is our full share of state aid and that we, in some areas, we have been discriminated against, particularly on our share of the auto-use tax and the gasoline tax, a number of other areas. I do think that a good part of their material can be very useful in the future, too, and for the discussions that will certainly take place when the Constitutional Convention meets in Albany within the next few years. Do you think that the proposal such as removing the real estate tax limit for ordinary budget purposes or modifying the constitutional limit on borrowing power is something better to be treated by a Constitutional Convention than to tackle right now? That's right. We are in such condition here in the city. Our finances are good. We don't need any of those powers, but you get down to, again, to a fundamental question as to whether legislators from upstate should have so much to say over the affairs of a city of this size, that, after all, we're the ones who are responsible to the people, and if they don't like what we do, they have the opportunity at the next election to change things. Well, I take it, then, you agree with the basic conception of that report as I read it, and that is... That's right. The city of New York should be given broad taxing and financial powers and carry along, bear with it, the broader responsibility for exercising... That's correct. We have the responsibilities now of running the city, and we should have the powers, and the people here, I'm very strong for home rule, and as I said, this is a matter that perhaps would be best debated in a constitutional convention where you could get away to some extent from the political phases, and it's something that we don't need at this time, I can assure you. Mr. Mayor, on taxes, do you agree with City Councilman Robert Barnes, who, when casting the only vote that was voted against the capital budget when it was adopted Thursday, warned his colleagues that if the city administration didn't spend less money than it has in the past three and a half years, what they were actually approving was not a capital budget for next year, but an income tax. Do you think we're going to come to that? I think that speech he made had some sort of a political touch to it in an election as we're approaching another election for mayor and the rest of the city officials. I don't take those things too seriously. We have to expect that from people like that, but I don't know. Is he for less schools? Is he for cutting out some of these vital services that are needed to the city, and I can assure you that there's no thought in anyone's mind in this administration of any income tax? Mr. Sleeper. Talking about the auto use tax, which you mentioned a little while ago, Controller Geroza says that he's going to get enough money from the sales tax. I think I mentioned the high share of the motor vehicle fees, which is collected by the state. Well, in reference to the auto use tax, which you gave some indication that you might be able to drop in your last campaign, Mr. Geroza, the controller, says that we're getting enough money in from the sales tax now to possibly be able to drop the auto use tax. Do you think that's going to be possible? He is the one who can give us the figures as to, or an estimate as to what he can collect. I think we have to wait until those final figures are in around the time of the preparation of the expense budget. I haven't seen any indication that that is being collected at that rate, and I'd be glad to get it from the controller. I'm sure all the members of the Board of Estimate would. Now, in connection with the auto use tax last year and the year before, and I'm sure again this year, we will urge the legislature to give us our share. As you know, all of the counties of the state of New York receive a reimbursement from the auto use tax, the license to the motor vehicle tax, and the gasoline tax. The only five counties that don't receive anything are the five within New York City. We say that is not fair. We should receive the full amount, and we have tied up the request for that legislation right in the bill itself with a repeal of the auto use tax. It's my recollection, Mr. Crowell, that the controller did definitely say that he thought we could drop the tax. He said so. He said perhaps even the amusement tax. Well, we'd be glad to. That's something that we will have to figure out when we come to the preparing for the expense budget, and I'm sure I can assure you that everybody on the board would be delighted to be able to repeal any number of taxes. But you expect the actual size of the city's budget next year to be larger than this year's, don't you? Yes, I believe it would. In the natural course of events because of the mandatory expenses that the city must assume and the inflationary times in which we live, and we also feel that our collections will be higher so that we have no thought whatsoever of any new taxes. Well, Mr. Buttenweiser, though, says there's going to be a $150 million gap at a minimum in the next five years or so, and that the only way to close this gap is by spending less money or more taxes. But we want to spend less money, and I can assure you we're not going to have any new taxes. He was merely setting forth their thinking on it. Of course, I don't believe he, at the same time as I remember in reading the report, gave any indications how the returns increased, too, in inflationary periods. A very short question. Where do we get this big $105 million from? From another nuisance tax? You don't raise that kind of money. That's his opinion. He's expressing his opinion, and I can say this, that if there is any increase this year, we'll be offset by an increase in revenues. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen. And savings, too. Thank you for a very interesting and stimulating discussion. Mayor's conference has been presented as a public service by the radio and television stations of New York. Today, Mayor Robert F. Wagner answered spontaneous questions from Paul Kroll of the New York Times, Frank McMaster of the London, of the Long Island Press, Marvin Sleeper of the New York Journal-American, and radio-on-television newsman, Gabe Pressman. Thank you. here, you're going to be for you more than to try to keep it in meet Daddy老, David, thank you for
