Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from the grand ballroom of Hotel Waldorf Astoria in New York City on the occasion of the dinner under the auspices of the Columbus Citizens Committee on the 457th anniversary of the discovery of America. There are several thousand guests who have come here tonight to take part in this great celebration, and we're about to bring you the principal speeches direct from the speaker's dais, on which are seated an outstanding group of notables from the city, state, nation, and diplomatic corps. The principal speakers include the Honorable J. Howard McGrath, His Excellency Albert Tarkiani, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, the Most Reverend Stephen J. Donahue, and the Honorable Ferdinand Pecora. We take you now to the speaker's dais, and the next voice you hear will be that of Commissioner G. Joseph Minetti, who will present Judge Pecora, who in turn will introduce the Toastmaster on this occasion, the distinguished chairman of the Columbus Citizens Committee, Mr. Generoso Pope. Now to the speaker's dais, and the next voice is that of Commissioner Minetti. Your Excellency Bishop Dunahue, Attorney General Howard McGrath, Your Excellency Ambassador Tarkiano, Your Honor Mayor William O'Dwyer, Mr. Generoso Pope, Members of the Clergy, Distinguished and Honored Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen. As Chairman of the Dinner Committee, It is a distinct privilege for me to welcome each of you to this annual dinner sponsored by the Columbus Citizens Committee. At the outset, let me express my gratitude to the members of the various committees who have cooperated so unscendingly to bring about the success of this dinner. And if, as some have stated tonight in private conversation, that this is the outstanding and largest in a series of annual Columbus Day dinners sponsored by our organization. And if that is so, then all credit for the magnificence of this dinner is due to the members of the committee and the impetuous and inspiration contributed to their efforts by our president and guiding light, our dear and highly respected friend, Generoso Pope. We who are participating here tonight, and all those who have contributed to the boosters and to the souvenir journal, can take justifiable pride in the fact that in our small way, we tonight are making a contribution to the future-wide the welfare of America. For as you well know, the proceeds of this annual affair are used in furthering the noble work of the Columbus Citizens Committee in providing college scholarships to those who might otherwise be unable to continue their education because of limited funds. And these awards, mind you, are made without regard to race, color, or creed. You and I, who have been reared in humble homes, can fully appreciate how a scholarship might well mean the difference between acquiring a higher education and the utter denial of that opportunity. Many have been the material, moral, and inspirational contributions of Generoso Pope to his adopted city, state, and nation. But none will leave so indelible an imprint in the future greatness of his adopted land as the contributions to be made to the physical, moral, and spiritual development of our country by the grateful recipients of these scholarships. My dear friends, not desiring to trespass upon your time or your patience and appreciative of the fact that as chairman of the dinner committee, my task was merely to welcome you. I shall proceed now to introduce a man who has a pleasant task to perform. A true Colombian, son of the soil of Italy, who emigrated to our great land and who has contributed generously to the molding of judicial thought. The distinguished jurors of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, the chairman of the board of directors of the Columbus Citizens Committee, the Honorable Ferdinand Ficcar. Thank you. Commissioner, thank you very, very cordially for your fulsome words. The sheaf of papers, my friends, that I hold in my hand should not appall you. They are not a speech. They are three letters which it will be my pleasure to read to you. Letters of greeting from persons holding positions of distinction in state and nation and in the field of international politics. The first of these, I am happy to say, is from the President of the United States. It reads as follows. My dear Jean, I am happy to send my most cordial greeting to the members of the Columbus Citizens Committee and their distinguished guests at the annual Columbus Day Dinner. It is fitting that our Americans of Italian origin should celebrate the deeds of Christopher Columbus. The qualities of courage, steadfastness and faith, which he displayed on his hazardous voyage of discovery to the new world, are exactly those qualities of which the world stands so sorely in need today. I want to take this occasion to record my profound admiration of Italy's heroic strides in recovering from the devastation of war. Her progress under the Marshall Plan will stand as one of the brightest chapters in her long and glorious history. Very sincerely, Oz Harry S. Truman. And the second letter, my friends, is from the Governor of the State of New York, as follows. Dear Jean, It is a great pleasure to send warm greetings to the members of the Columbus Day Committee and their guests at the Columbus Day Dinner, one of the outstanding events of the year in our state. Columbus Day is in part a token of the friendship and fraternity of all of us with the millions of Americans of Italian origin who are such a vigorous and attractive element in our state and nation. But this day is also a symbol of the liberties we enjoy, of the responsibilities we incur in the exercise of those liberties. Of our predominant position as the champion throughout the world of personal liberty, it is, in short, a symbol of the free republic to whose continuance we are all dedicated. Another point of importance in Columbus Day is the opportunity that affords us to cement our ties of ancient friendship with the people of Italy. We so much admire the Americans of Italian origin, their untiring energy, their enterprise, their culture, their capacity for gaiety. By the same token, we have to admire what the Italians in the homeland have achieved since the war, the industry with which they have cleared away the ruins of battle, rebuilt bridges, railroads, and highways, and raised their farm and factory production with an incredible speed. When we say on Columbus Day that we consider the Italian people are our close friends, we mean it not only on October 12th, but every day of the year. Never was our friendship more important. It is important not merely on the grounds of sentiment and association, but also upon the vital grounds of self-preservation. Italy today is a bulwark against communist aggression in the Cold War. It is literally the frontier of democracy in the Mediterranean. The new Republic of Italy has met the shock of communist infiltration and repelled it with the crushing force of democratic votes. That's with a small d. The Italian people have signed the North Atlantic Pact, which is a demonstration of the common purpose of all democratic nations. The pact would be impotent without the backing of military power, a power so strong that it need never be used. It will never be used save in defense. As Columbus Day approaches, the Assembly of the United Nations is about to consider problems of intense interest to the people of Italy, the problems of North Africa. Nobody can deny that Italians need greater outlet for their energies and their growing population. I am sure I speak to the people of the entire state of New York in hoping that the Italian people will be given, under United Nations trusteeship, their full share in the development of North Africa. Sincerely yours, Thomas E. Dewey. And now it is with an especial pleasure that I bring to you the message that was cabled to this banquet by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy, Mr. de Gasperi. It is as follows. On this Columbus Day, we honor the memory of the man who was the first to spiritually unite our two countries. His was an act of courage and sacrifice, an industrious and spontaneous action of union and collaboration among nations, of peace and therefore of prosperity. May his act serve as an example because today these are the same elements which must guide our actions as individuals and as nations. Courage and self-denial to overcome sterile and harmful egoism. Free and tireless work to reconstruct and increase trade and prosperity. A sincere and not a superficial will for international cooperation. With this, we shall have performed our duties for the general welfare and for peace. You who live in America have shown by your example that these things are close to your hearts. We are grateful to you for this as men and as Italians bound to you by the bonds that have been mutually strengthened so many times. Let us continue our collaboration, the aim of which is the realization among nations of a common ideal of progress and of a free, industrious and peaceful world. This is my message of goodwill today. The chairman of the dinner committee, Commissioner Minetti, informed you that to me had been assigned another, what he called, a pleasant task. I want to revise that phraseology just slightly, Commissioner. It is not a pleasant task. It is a happy privilege which has been assigned to me of presenting the Toastmaster who is to preside over this splendid banquet. I said of presenting him to you, not introducing him, because the man that I am to present need no introduction to any audience in the city of New York and particularly to one of the kind that confronts us now. ordinarily, my friends, my words of introduction, rather of presentation, of our Toastmaster would be brief, but I am going to arrogate to myself the opportunity of saying just a few words that I ordinarily would not say about our Toastmaster. Other persons have been saying some things about him in very recent days, even within the past 24 hours. But I, speaking from the vantage point of a friendship which has ripened through the course of a quarter of a century, feel that I am in a superior position to speak about him because I can better tell the truth about him. He is a successful man in the best sense of that often abused term. He has excited in others sometimes a spirit of envy, perhaps, and they have referred to him as a lucky man. Yes, he is a lucky man on two counts. Lucky because nature lavishly endowed him with the qualities of indomitable courage, of strict integrity, of devotion to home, to country, and of love of God, and also has equipped him with a tireless industry. Lucky, yes, on the second count, because as a boy still in his teens, he came as an immigrant to the shores of America and here found what so many millions of others coming from other lands have found. They found a land bedrocked upon the principle of equality and opportunity. and it is this combination, his natural endowment, and the opportunities that America affords to anyone who wishes to avail himself of them have enabled him to make a progress on the pathway of life that might well excite the friendly envy of those who admire progress gained by grit, integrity, and industry. I speak this way not in defense of him because he needs no defense either at my hands or at the hands of any other person. He needs no defense because there is not a single person that can with truth and justice assail him. He is warm, generous by nature, and if being an intimate friend of the mayor of the city of New York justifies a political smear, I know of a great many worthy people who would like to be similarly smeared. and I give to you this man generous by nature and by name Generoso Pope. Mr. Pope is receiving a tremendous ovation here at the Waldorf Astoria. The entire assemblage has risen in tribute to him. As we look about this room, there are thousands of people on their feet, standing and applauding as the toast message goes to his place on the dais. The next voice you hear will be that of Mr. Pope. Thank you very much, Freddie. Attorney General McGrath, Your Excellency, Bishop Donahue, we know that his eminence is on way over. We hope that he'll be a safely landing here tomorrow morning to witness the parade and to view the parade. He'll be here, the bishop, stepfather. Mr. Mayor, Drew Pearson, Freddie, I wish you didn't say anything about it, about me, because, you know, I then came here with a Mayflower. I came here just a few years ago and also, I say this publicly, my good friend Mayor Dwyer came here a few years ago, but this is the country that he gave us immigrants all the same opportunity. There are no first or second citizenship in this great land of opportunity. Although I can boast about it, that some of our people came here with Santa Maria. Really, that was the day that this country was discovered by one of our own. But we're not going to take advantage of that. This is American All-Dinner and celebration. You know, John Manetti, he stole my speech speech. Everything I have written here is said for me before. Now I have to find something new. Well, that is something new. This year, really, Joe, this is the largest dinner we ever had. we had to refuse more people than we did before and I myself want to apologize to the people who are sitting in the other room or we can fit them in the same place here. Please understand that we have no other way out and if there's any complaint, don't blame me, blame Joe Manetti. that. But tomorrow you will see on Fifth Avenue something that will make your heart feel good. People of all nationalities, much not Fifth Avenue. We have Chinese convention, Chinese boys and Girl Scouts. We have a color convention. You will see tomorrow something that perhaps you never saw before. We have a general from the Harlem that he will ride white horses on the front of the convention. So, to be truthful with you, the success of the Columbus Day dinner and the Columbus Day parade, it could never, ever have been possible to be what it is tonight and tomorrow and to listen for the great help given to us from the live honorary president of the Columbus Citizen Committee, the mayor of the city of New York, William O'Dwine. Thank you. As you see in the journal tonight, there are a lot of boosters there. It's wonderful. I see Joe Pagliaro here, did a great job and Goubert, my good friend over there, and Tony Gall. I can mention all of you, Ritzi here, and all these good men. You did a swell job. There isn't so much the money that we collect, but it's 15,000 names that each one of them give one dollar to have more scholarship this year. And I'm sure that we will have more scholarship than we did last year. I hope that as long as this committee leaves and go on, that we will increase the scholarship each and every year. You see, I don't raise money only for one purpose only. I raise money for scholarship, too. So, my good friends, really, I'm not going to keep you along because I know all of you want to dance. So, nevertheless, everybody gets up here on the microphone and begins apologizing. Say, we're not going to keep you along. We're going to get through in a hurry. We're sorry. Really and truly, I'm not sorry. I'm working very hard, there, to try and to please you and tell you just what is in my mind and my heart. And I know that you like to hear every one of the speakers that they're going to speak to you because they are very, very interesting speakers and outstanding people. Believe me, to have the honor to have these people come from Washington and all over to give up their night, their evening, to come here and break bread with us. This is a great honor to the Columbus Citizen Committee and particularly to me and I appreciate them and their presence here. Now, it's my duty to call upon the first speaker of the evening and I call upon now the man to represent Italy the place where Columbus came from. I'm giving you now His Excellency Alberto Tarchiani. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, the celebration of Columbus Day to which Generoso Pope is giving new brilliancy and solemnity happily interrupts this year my daily task at the United Nations where I have the honor and the care of defending the legitimate rights of Italy and of the population longing for development, freedom, independence. The glory of Columbus and the elogy of the great Italian hero are familiar to all of you. I will not repeat what several speakers may so well illustrate and emphasize. my presence at this gathering has the signification of a renewed tribute to His genius which once more are exalting today. But I will take this occasion to explain you briefly on the present position of my government confronted again with the problem of the African territories. The spring session of the United Nations has amply proved that there was no possibility of obtaining the required two-thirds suffrage for an Italian trusteeship on the three former colonies. Even a much more modest accord between Sforza and Bevin was bitterly antagonized and defeated in the assembly of the 59 nations. It was evident that the movement for independence in Libya encouraged by the free Arab state was predominant and invincible particularly for us who being absent from Africa as a consequence of fatal errors of the past are very easily considered to be wrong. one. It is a good and honest policy to keep ourselves in the middle of the central current of our time, doing everything possible to restore, maintain, increase, friendly, and useful relations with the Arab world, a very important element in the Mediterranean, in Africa, in the East. Italy's proposals to the United Nations are the most reasonable, moderate, and general cable in the world. I'm in Jersey City with studios also in New York. Good evening. We're speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of Hotel Waldorf Astoria in New York City on the occasion of the dinner under the auspices of the Columbus Citizens Committee commemorating the 457th anniversary of the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus. The speeches are now in progress and the speaker on the dais now is Honorable Albert Tarchiani, Ambassador from Italy to the United States. We take you to the dais and the next exposure here will be that of Mr. Tarchiani. The victory of the world is nearing narrow and dangerous passes. Under the present circumstances it is chiefly our duty to gather around us all the elements that can strengthen our position and assure the maximum of effective international solidarity and practical aid in the economic field and elsewhere. This is the essential point at this moment. We must not be diverted by other important but not vital arguments of prestige and sentiment regarding temporary and not decisive situations. Those arguments if justified will not be abandoned and they will follow their course toward profitable results when properly managed and cleverly adapted to the changing condition of development. Let us look to the essential under the good omen of this Columbus day and remember it well and always what is essential for Italy what is bound up with her destiny of liberty and dignity is in the spirit of Columbus the fraternal honorable cooperation with United States under any circumstance for the sake of peace assured not only by noble intentions but also by a strong common defense. Thank you. Thank you very much. General Sokolb, the Toastmaster. Thank you very much. Your excellent ring. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the next speaker is he needs really no introduction at all. He's also an immigrant boy been here a little over 39 years. His biography and his life is what I call it's America. the man that came here 39 years ago started from very bottom as a labor policeman judge district attorney general in the army and now the second largest job of his importance next to the president of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you my friend and your friend the mayor of our great city William O'Dwyer. Ladies and gentlemen, Mayor O'Dwyer has just been introduced by Generoso Pope and is receiving a rising ovation from the thousands of persons gathered here in the main ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. The crowd is on its feet vigorously applauding Mr. William, Mayor William O'Dwyer. Pope, your excellences, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of this Columbus Day Citizens Committee, we meet again as we have met for the past three years. each time recognizing an increasing interest in the work of this committee, recognizing, too, that while the Americans of Italian extraction take that just pride that is theirs, that they have generously invited all other Americans to join in this celebration, both the banquet and the parade, so that we can all hand in hand pay our united respect, not only to the discoverer of our nation, but to the great people from which he came. I have had the privilege during the war years to look out the window of the office where I work all the way from the Vatican down to the foro, and there written in monuments of stone, there fashioned with poetic fancy, with the most delicate sculpture there built so firmly that 2,000 years of wind and weather, of war and chaos have failed to disturb how little we know of what went into the heart of Columbus as he set out from the Canary to discover America. How little we understand that a great city, a great nation had expanded into Asia, had expanded into North Africa, had crossed the Alps with hundreds of thousands of soldiers, equipment, and manpower, and when we hear today of building a bridge across the Rhine, how little we know that 1,400 or 1,500 years before Columbus' time, the Roman legions had done exactly that. that organization, that strength, that vision, that power of law, that those gems of literature, the masterpieces of the arts that have never done surpass, all have come down to us through every field of great thinking. And they, these great qualities, were the background of the man who set out almost alone across unknown waters. Everyone satisfied that he was mad, but he alone knew what it was to organize and knew where he was going. and tonight we, in our gratitude, celebrate his coming. During those war years, and during my stay in Italy, I saw a nation that, again, for the thousandth time, was well on its way to have been wiped out of existence. Houses were gone, roadways were destroyed, no bridges, one valley had too much, another valley had nothing, no medicines for the sick, no insecticide for the farms, no implements. even the oxen had been taken to carry wheat all the way north as the Germans retreated. And here was a people who had been crushed by the wheels of war on the way going south and had again been crushed by the same wheels as we went north with bombings before and bombings in the rear. here was an army after army crushing a people and taking its substance. Now at that time, in July of 1944, it's a matter of record and I know that Drew Pearson, whose arm is dead, knows that it's true because I discussed it with him the day after I returned from Italy to make my formal report. 25% of the babies of Rome died that July for want of milk, babies under one year of age. And that kind of handling was so vile, so poorly done, that it almost pointed a finger to the entire new, tiny little top, pointed them straight to the cemetery. Now tonight, I have spoken to Gene Pope and some of the members of the committee while I was sitting here. Tonight, I'd like to tell you that we had in those days an organization known as UNRWA. And UNRWA was set up to take care of certain peoples. The top side was loaded with protocols, with innumerable laws, regulations, and rules, and procedures. And it so happened that that day, Drew, when I was speaking to you in the lobby of the Hayanna, it so happened that that day, despite every plea that I could make, there was no way in which I could get immediate help for prenatal care of mothers and for the infants in the field of milk. I went up to UNRWA, knowing about their rules, knowing that the cards were stacked against me, and I interviewed the man who was then presiding over UNRWA. he gave me an audience, he called in his lawyers, he called in his heads of staff, and the lawyers pointed out clearly that you couldn't possibly do a thing for the Italian children or for the prenatal care of the mothers. So there was a lot. I turned to this man and said, I know that you're going to have a meeting at Quebec in three weeks. UNRWA's going to meet. I am now making a plea to the man that we knew in New York State, the man that we love, as governor of New York State. And I'm going to ask you, I'm going to ask you now, from me to you, I am raising my hands to you as a little infant in Italy, raise them to me. And I'm going to ask the governor that we loved in New York State not to let the little tots down or their mothers either. And ladies and gentlemen, when I left, I saw tears flowing down his cheeks. And I left knowing that I was licked if it wasn't for the humane great heart of the man to whom I spoke. And when I left, he pushed a stack of law books out the window. He went to Quebec. We got a first donation from UNRWA, thanks to him, of $50 million for milk for the babies and for their mothers, and afterwards $450 million more. And I'd be less, I'd be less than honorable once I got the permission from Gene Polk to do it. If I didn't ask that man who is here tonight to permit me to present him to you for a vow, Governor Lehman, former governor of Stedney Yard. Former Governor Lehman is receiving a tremendous standing ovation from this crowd here at the Waldorf Astoria Ballroom. Governor, now that we've set the record straight, it was the first opportunity I ever had on occasion of this kind to say it to you. I'll add to the applause that you've received, my sincere gratitude, and if I can speak for those whose lives you've saved, I thank you in their names too. Buoni amici, ricordo con grande piacere i giorni trascosti in Italia con i vostri fratelli. Il mio cuore si coma di gioia per un gradito invito. I sindaci di Roma, Talermo e Napoli mi hanno invitato a visitare la loro bella città. Sarò più che felice di ritornare in Italia e prego Dio che mi conceda questo mio grande desiderio. viva l'America, viva l'Italia. N Spain We've just heard an address by Mayor William O'Guire on the occasion of this Columbus Citizens Day dinner, and his remarks in Italian were particularly well received by this huge gathering here tonight. Now back to the dais and Mr. Pope. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. You know, after all, he is the mayor of the largest Italian Serena World. Remember, there are more Italians in the York City than they are in Rome. So the mayor of the city of New York, they have to speak Italian. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to present to you a great friend that has come from Washington, the Attorney General of the United States, Howard McGrath. Thank you, Mr. President. Toastmaster, my esteemed friend, General Russo Pope, your honor, Giamillio O'Dwyer. Your excellency, the ambassador of Italy, Pearson Giacchora, distinguished guests, the head table, and friends. I would be happy indeed to be counted among the friends of this distinguished audience and the fine committee that has arranged this celebration of the 457th anniversary of the founding of America. It would hardly be necessary for me to be called upon to say even a single word, to have the inspiration of the sight that I see before me, and of the thoughts that it inspires, in our history of the past and our opportunities of the future. I am happy to be here as a representative of the federal government, and to bring to you the greetings of the President of the United States. And I do that with a full heart, because I do not believe in all the history of mankind there ever has been a head of a great state whose heart was more in sympathy and accord with the aspirations of a great people than has our President been with the hopes and the aspirations of the Italian people for the rebuilding of their nation. This is a day to us of a great moment and of celebration. But really, my friends, it is a day of discovery. Should I say discovery or reemphasize the remarks by saying that this is a moment of rediscovery? For alas, while 457 years may have passed, since the holy, God-fearing navigator sailed the uncharted seas to find a new road to the east and by his courage opened up a new land in the west, maybe it was by some divine ordained providence that he came to found the west to help us perpetuate ourselves against the ancient ills of the east. Perhaps this is a day of a rediscovery to which we should dedicate ourselves as we think anew how much the world needs in this hour men of the faith and the courage and the determination of Columbus. Perhaps we should try on this great anniversary to rediscover in ourselves some of those qualities of spirituality and courage which carried him to the pinnacle of success that meant so much in the triumph of his journey but that has meant so much to us in the ultimate working out of the destiny which is ours to live in this land of his discovery. And I am sure that if Columbus were able to speak to us tonight he would not assure us to honor his memory as a great navigator quite as much as he would have us honor and revere him for the basic principles which he brought with him on his voyage of discovery. Finding new opportunities for mankind that is what Columbus set out to do and surely history records that is what he accomplished. And I am sure that he would say to each and every one of his sons and daughters and those who are their friends gathered in his honor here tonight in this great metropolitan city of New York if you would honor me I would bid you dedicate yourselves to the finding of new opportunities for those that are going to come after you. And we find those new opportunities in the life that is given to us. We find them in not surrendering to fear or to pessimism. We find them in the same determination and courage which lead men to lay down their lives for the principles of a science and a religion and of a physics of the earth in which they believe. And Columbus was willing to do that. He was willing to lay down his life for the physics of the earth in which he believed because he said it was round when others said it was flat. And so he asks us his sons and daughters tonight and we are all of that in this night of rediscovery. He asks us to lay down our lives and to dedicate ourselves to a belief in the truth rather than in the falsities by which men live. And the old doctrine of a round or flat is rededicated in our life by nothing more than the doctrines of truth and of falsehood. There are those in the world who try to lead us in the false light. We, the followers of Columbus, imbued with his faith, imbued with the culture of a people long entrenched in all the goodnesses of mankind before his very day. We shall not become victims of evil and untruth, but we shall carry on believing always that the world is round and that if we travel the beaten path we shall come back again to that point from which we started. Back again from that point from which we started, I say, my friends of faith and religion, back again to that point of our eternal beginning and our eternal salvation. For the world is round and the truth is round and he who follows it in the spirit of Columbus will find the promised land and he shall build for generations beyond his time, a temple in which men can worship and grow and develop. These are the thoughts that I would leave with you tonight, my friends of America, for tonight we are not Italians, tonight we are not Irish, and tonight we are not French, tonight we are not Yankees, tonight we are Americans, tonight we are sons of Columbus, proud of his name, proud of his race, proud of his culture, proud of everything that he brought to these holy shores. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. General. Now ladies and gentlemen, next speaker, in this in our introduction, all of you know him, all of us. He's a great statesman, he's a good friend of mine and good friend of all of us. He is the Secretary of the State of New York, his Honorable Thomas Carrer. Mr. Pope, distinguished guests, my fellow Americans, I was rather amazed to hear Gene introduce me as a statesman because if the politicians of my party hear that, I'm liable to lose my job. And it happens that besides being Secretary of the State of New York, I'm the Republican leader of this county, and that's the job I'm referring to that I don't want to lose. Incidentally, it's good for me to say that perhaps so that you won't think that this is entirely a Democratic large D gathering. now ordinarily, a speaker should never apologize, you're told in the books on rhetoric. And I'm not apologizing, I'm very grateful for this opportunity to say a few words to you this evening. But I do want to say, and Gene Pope will back me up, that I never knew I was to speak here this evening until about five o'clock this afternoon. When I was told that Irving Ives, unfortunately, the senior senator from the state of New York could not appear, I had been invited to attend the dinner and would have been here in any event, and would have enjoyed it much more, in fact. But I've been in fear and trepidation since five o'clock when I finally said, well, all right, I'll say a few words Gene, but it's a tough assignment. Now tonight, somebody brought me Irving Ives' speech, and I could read that to you, but he's much better as an orator than I am, and I wouldn't read it too effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, we're speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of Hotel Waldorf Astoria, from which point we have brought you the principal speeches on the occasion of this Columbus Citizens Committee dinner. Your Toastmaster was the distinguished chairman of the Columbus Citizens Committee, Grand Marshal of the Columbus Day Parade tomorrow, Mr. Generoso Pope. The speakers included the Attorney General of the United States, the Honorable J. Howard McGrath, the Italian Ambassador, His Excellency, Albert Herr Targiani, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and the Honorable Ferdinand Pecora, just to the Supreme Court. The proceedings were opened by G. Joseph Minetti, Commissioner of Marine and Aviation of the City of New York. This is Charles Balton speaking. We return you now to our studio. Thank you. Thank you.