This is Kirk Douglas. We all remember the time, not too many years ago, when cerebral palsy was an individual problem. For the family of the person affected, it was a source of shame. For those looking on, it was a source of pity. But now it's no longer an individual problem. It's everybody's problem, because anybody can become affected by it. Every 53 minutes, another baby is born palsied, adding $10,000 every year to the tragic toll of those so pitifully handicapped. What can you do about it? You can support with all your heart the United Cerebral Palsy Association. Every dollar you contribute will help some small child overcome its crippling. You can help by simply sending your dollars of mercy to me, Kirk Douglas, Care of United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Lily Palmer. Will you ever forget the very first time your newborn infant was gently placed into your arms? He was yours, and he was healthy. That was most important. He was healthy. Can you imagine, then, the heartbreak that comes to parents when they learn that their infant is born with cerebral palsy? 10,000 babies each year are brought into this world with this dreadful handicap, robbed of their right to be normal as your child. Yet, they can be helped. They must be helped. Send the most you can afford to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. This is Billy Eckstein. This year, 10,000 infants will be born with cerebral palsy. Each year, the figures are the same. Each year, with the same consistent cruelty, 10,000 children of all races and backgrounds start life with one of the most tragic conditions known to man. It was only a few years ago that those suffering from it were either hidden or pitied and given up as hopeless and helpless human beings. But now there is such a thing as United Cerebral Palsy. There is hope. And because there is you to support it, there is help. Send contributions to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. Give today for their tomorrow. This is John Lund. Your heart breaks, doesn't it, when you see a little child pulling himself along on crutches. And yet, thousands of children all over the country today are learning to use crutches and are grateful that they can. For the crutch is their first aid on their way to walking. These are the 500,000 suffering from cerebral palsy. They depend on you for those crutches. They depend on you to help them walk without crutches someday. For whether or not they ever overcome their pitiful handicap depends solely upon you and the bigness of your heart. Most of them can be helped, if you help. So give them a chance. Send the most you can afford to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. This is Bob Hope. If a crippled child asked you to help him walk, would you refuse? Then don't refuse the thousands of children tragically crippled by cerebral palsy who plead for your help now. 96 out of every 100 are not getting the care they desperately need because of the shocking lack of facilities. Give them a chance. Send your contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. Help today to brighten their tomorrow. This is Bing Crosby. I'd like to talk to you about something very real, something very tragic. Cerebral Palsy. If you've ever seen a little child struggling pitifully over his every motion, you'd need no further urging to help him overcome his crippling. You can help him, too. You can give them a chance by supporting United Cerebral Palsy Association. Send your contributions to me, Bing Crosby, Care of United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. Give today to conquer cerebral palsy tomorrow. This is Ray Moland. Have you ever seen a little child affected with cerebral palsy, trying with all his heart to make the simplest movement? Have you looked and ached with all your heart to be able to help? Well, you can help by supporting United Cerebral Palsy Association. You can help by sending the most you can afford to me, Ray Moland, Care of United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Rhonda Fleming. Remember the wonder of that first moment when your newborn infant was gently placed in your arms? Then try to imagine your feelings if that tiny human being, your baby, had been crippled by cerebral palsy. Every year, 10,000 infants are born with this affliction. Help them overcome its crippling. Send your contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. Your child can walk. Help someone else's child who can't. This is Bing Crosby. Children suffering from cerebral palsy need your help to overcome their pitiful handicap. Help today. Send contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Bob Hope speaking on behalf of the more than 500,000 sufferers of cerebral palsy. Give them a chance. Send contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Ray Moland urging you to help fight one of the least understood and most expensive of all physical ailments, cerebral palsy. Send contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is William Bendix. Thousands of sufferers of cerebral palsy need your help. They need it urgently. They need it now. Give them a chance by sending contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Bob. Let's all work together hope with a little sideline reporting. You know, I've been getting around a little to places where there's some big fighting. I've seen and talked to and laughed with the guys who are gambling their futures for your future. A lot of these guys gambled and lost. Others still have the chance to win with your help. These are the ones who were stricken with cerebral palsy. Any one of them could have been your kid, suddenly unable to control a muscle in that strapping body. Or any one of the babies who were born cerebral palsied every 53 minutes could have been yours. They need your help badly. It's only with this help that they have any hope of leading normal, useful lives. So give them a chance. They're a big chance of overcoming their crippling. Send that contribution of yours to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. And thanks for having a heart. This is Bing Crosby. You know, we're all pretty lucky. I mean you and me and all of us who can walk and talk and move around kind of free and easy like. Because it's not that way with a lot of folks, you know. It's not easy to move the way you want to move when you're suffering from cerebral palsy. And it can happen to any of us, suddenly and without warning. Not only are 10,000 babies born cerebral palsied every year, but thousands of adults become stricken as a result of accidents, shock, or while living in a foxhole, fighting for you. Now here's your chance to fight for them. Your chance to give them their chance. Support United Cerebral Palsy. Give them the treatment centers, the rehabilitation schools, the doctors, the nurses, and the physical therapists. Dig way down deep. And send that folding money, that fighting money, to the United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. And know that the money you're given today will help brighten their tomorrow. This is Tallulah Bankhead. Why can sometimes be the hardest question in the world to answer. But when a little child, crippled by cerebral palsy, looks up at his mother and asks, Why? How can that be answered? If he were your child, what would you answer? It could be your child, or you, who might be stricken with cerebral palsy, as a result of an accident, or shock, or a severe illness. Help see that there's care, should you or any of your loved ones ever need it. Help see that there's care for the 10,000 infants who will be born with cerebral palsy this year. For the more than 500,000 who are suffering from it right now. The majority of them can be helped, if you help. So give them a chance. Send your helping dollars to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. This is Frank Sinatra. You know, all of us can be pretty cruel sometimes, because we just don't understand. Like with cerebral palsy. For years, those who were suffering from it were hidden away or avoided. But we know now that cerebral palsy is just a physical condition that can happen to anyone at birth, or as a result of an accident, or shock, or a severe illness. It could happen to you, or to me, tomorrow. The more than 500,000 who are now struggling with this handicap don't want or need our pity. They do want and need our help. Help that can make them into useful, self-sufficient human beings. So let's give them a chance, huh? Give them a dignity they deserve and have been denied. So send your contributions to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. Remember that your help today may help someone you love tomorrow. This is Claude Rains. Consider a moment, a footstep. Have you ever thought to count how many footsteps you take in a day, or an hour, or even in a minute? To the front door to pick up the morning paper, 20 footsteps. 50 footsteps into the kitchen. 300 footsteps to the corner bus. Every day, thousands of footsteps taken in haste. And yet, right at this moment, there's a small girl who's learning to take just one footstep in gratitude. That one triumphant footstep, without a crutch, means that she is on her way to overcoming a heartbreaking handicap, cerebral palsy. Send the most you can afford to United Cerebral Palsy. 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. This is Fred Allen. When a person is known as a comedian, it's sometimes difficult to talk about something serious. But I want to talk to you about something very serious indeed. Cerebral palsy. It's very serious that 10,000 babies are born with this dreadful condition every year. That countless thousands are stricken as a result of a shock, or an accident, or a severe illness. But perhaps the most serious is that of the more than 500,000 sufferers, only four out of every hundred are getting any care at all. Because there just aren't the means to care for them. That is the most serious. Thousands of human beings suffering needlessly when they could be helped. So give them a chance. Send the most you can afford to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. Give today to brighten their tomorrow. This is Celeste Holm. Remember your baby's first steps. You've recorded that memory in your heart. Right now, a six-year-old girl is taking her first steps. The first she's ever taken since the day she was born with cerebral palsy. She is one of the more than 500,000 suffering from this pitiful condition. Every year, 10,000 more are brought into the world with that handicap to overcome. And countless thousands are stricken as a result of a shock, or an accident, or a severe illness. You can help pay for every triumphant step they learn to take. So think back again to that happy day when you held out a loving hand to your child's first steps. And then hold out a helping hand to a crippled child to take his first steps. Send your most generous contribution to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. This is Rex Harrison. During the hour just passed, a baby was born with cerebral palsy. In less than an hour from now, another baby will be born suffering from this pitiful condition. And just what is this malady about which so little was known until recently? This malady that once was shrouded in secrecy and shame. What is it? It's simply an injury to the motor section of the brain. It's something that can happen to you or to your child as a result of shock, or an accident, or severe illness. Help them become useful, productive human beings they can become with your help. Give them a chance. Send your most generous contribution to United Cerebral Palsy, 50 West 57th Street, New York 19, New York. Give today to brighten their tomorrow. This is Joseph Cotton. Do you believe that time heals all wounds? That's not always true. To a child suffering from cerebral palsy, it takes money, a lot of money, to help him overcome its crippling. It takes money to train the skilled and gentle hands that manipulate his twisted little limbs. It takes money to build and equip the desperately needed treatment centers. It takes money to finance the research into this tragic and baffling affliction. Although cerebral palsy is one of the oldest conditions known to man, it is one of the least understood and one of the most expensive to treat. Send all that you possibly can to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. This is Ray Moland. This year, 10,000 cerebral palsied infants will be born into this world. Each year, the figures are the same. Each year, with the same consistent cruelty, 10,000 children start life with one of the most pitiful conditions known to man. It was only a very few years ago that anything was known about this baffling affliction. Before that time, those suffering from it were either hidden or pitied, and then given up as hopeless and helpless cripples. But now, because there is such a thing as United Cerebral Palsy Association, there is hope. And because there is you to support it, there is help. So please send those contributions to United Cerebral Palsy Fund, New York 19, New York. Give to help them help themselves. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. shopping. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen..