For the 11th time in his administration, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt addresses a joint session of the United States Congress, the ninth time he has appeared before the House and the Senate to report on the State of the Union. But today, America is at war. And for the first time since the Wilson administration, a President of the United States delivers a State of the Union address while the nation is involved in world conflict. The President is expected to paint a grim picture in his speech today, a message of great sacrifices in the future. He may reveal some of the plans for the campaign ahead, and he certainly will lay the groundwork for his budget message tomorrow when he will ask Congress for billions of dollars to prosecute the war. But above all, the President's words will mean action. Justice's appearance before the second session of the 77th Congress climaxes a week of action. Twenty-six nations have signed an anti-Axis pact here in Washington. An allied high command has been formed for the vital southwest Pacific area. And our nation's capital has become the capital of the world, the center of the fight against the aggressors. Here in our nation's capital at the National Capitol building where we're broadcasting at the present time from the House of Representatives room, an extraordinary guard has been thrown around the Capitol building. Large numbers of secret service men are patrolling and uniformed officers are watching through the entire area of Capitol Hill. The galleries here in the House are jammed. Just received word that the President of the United States is about to enter the House of Representatives here in the nation's capital. Where the Senate of the United States and the House have met in joint session. Cabinet members are here. Various diplomatic officials are here. Also attending are the various men who represent different embassies and the allied nations of both the world, those allied with the world, and also with the United States and the Latin American country. The two committees from the Senate and the House of Representatives are out to meet the President and escort him to the chamber of the present time. The committee of the Senate, Senator Alvin W. Barkley and Senator Charles L. McNary. From the House, Representative John McCormick and also Representative Joseph W. Martin and Representative Robert L. Dowden. They are on their way at the present time and in just a few moments will proceed and make their way into the chamber. President of the United States. You have heard the announcement. The President of the United States is entering now the Capitol building and the House of Representatives chamber here in our own nation's capital. President of the United States is now the President of the United States to deliver his message on the State of the Union to the people, the United States and the world. President of the United States and the entire United States to deliver their knowledge of the address of its United States own signature and the 되고 pl bakingWord워phers, andDieisaometric r спрос Life President of the United States of the United States has put in its来了 with the теперь and the Maxwell Department of Owner, President of the United States to deliver the determ search for the AustralianGL listservys, Major General Edwin M. Watson, the President's military aide, is brought to the President, and also Bureau Admiral John Beardoff, the President's Naval aide. The Speaker of the House, John Bol Samuel Rayburn, introduced the President of the United States. Members of the Congress, it's my high privilege to present to you the President of the United States. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, members of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States, in fulfilling my duty to report upon the State of the Union, I am proud to say to you that the spirit of the American people was never higher than it is today. The Union was never more closely knit together, and this country was never more deeply determined to face the solemn tasks before us. The response of the American people has been instantaneous, and it will be sustained until our security is assured. The President's Exactly one year ago today, I said to this Congress, when the dictators are ready to make war upon us, they will not wait for an act of war on our part. They, not we, will choose the time and the place and the method of their attack. We now know their choice of the time, a peaceful Sunday morning, December 7, 1941. We know their choice of the place, an outpost, an American outpost in the Pacific. We know their choice of the method, the method of Hitler himself. Japan's scheme of conquest goes back half a century. It was not merely a policy of seeking living room. It was a plan which included the subjugation of all the peoples in the Far East and in the islands of the Pacific. And the domination of that ocean, and the domination of that ocean, by Japanese military and naval control of the western coast of North, Central, and South America. The development of this ambitious conspiracy was marked by the war against China in 1894, the subsequent occupation of Korea, the war against Russia in 1904, the illegal fortification of the mandated Pacific Islands following 1920, the seizure of Manchuria in 1931, the seizure of Manchuria in 1931, and the invasion of China in 1937. A similar policy of criminal conquest was adopted by Italy. The fascists first revealed their imperial designs in Libya and Tripoli. In 1935, in 1935, they seized Abyssinia. Their goal was the domination of all North Africa, Egypt, parts of France, and the entire Mediterranean world. But the dreams of empire of the Japanese and fascist leaders was modest in comparison with the gargantuan aspirations of Hitler and his Nazis. Even before they came to power, in 1933, their plans for that conquest had been drawn. They provided for ultimate domination, not of any one section of the world, but of the whole earth and all the oceans on it. When Hitler organized his Berlin-Rome-Tokyo alliance, all these plans of conquest became a single plan. Under this, in addition to her own schemes of conquest, Japan's role was obviously to cut off our supply of weapons of war to Britain and Russia and China. Weapons which increasingly were speeding the day of Hitler's doom. The act of Japan at Pearl Harbor was intended to stun us, to terrify us, to such an extent that we would divert our industrial and military strength to the Pacific area, or even to our own continental defense. The plan. The plan has failed in its purpose. The plan has failed in its purpose. We have not been stunned. We have not been terrified or confused. We have not been terrified or seen for ourselves in this case withoutömètres if the good we were to be devastated or tissue of the metallurgia on the Hell African American, who are trying to be isolated as our intricacies in some circumstances, because the processo of free civil and materialist, of Pharaoh's will It expresses the will of the American people to make very certain that the world will never so suffer again. Admittedly, we have been faced with hard choices. It was bitter, for example, not to be able to relieve the heroic and historic defenders of Wake Island. It was bitter for us not to be able to land a million men in a thousand ships in the Philippine Islands. But this adds only to our determination to see to it that the stars and stripes will fly again over Wake and Guam. Yes, see to it that the brave people of the Philippines will be rid of Japanese imperialism and will live in freedom and security and independence. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Powerful and offensive actions must and will be taken in proper time. The consolidation of the United Nations total war effort against our enemies is being achieved. That was and is the purpose of conferences which have been held during the past two weeks in Washington and Moscow and Chongqing. That is the primary objective of the Declaration of Solidarity signed in Washington on January 1, 1942 by 26 nations against the Axis power. Thank you. Thank you. Difficult choices may have to be made in the months to come. We do not shrink from such decisions. We and those united with us will make those decisions with courage and determination. Plans have been laid here and in the other capitals for coordinated and cooperative action by all the United Nations, military action and economic action. Already we have established, as you know, unified command of land, sea, and air forces in the southwestern Pacific theater of war. There will be a continuation of conferences and consultations among military staff so that the plans and operations of each will fit into the general strategy designed to crush the enemy. We shall not fight isolated wars, each nation going its own way. These 26 nations are united not in spirit and determination alone, but in the broad conduct of the war in all its phases. For the first time since the Japanese and the fascists and the Nazis fought it along that bloodstained course of conquest, they now face the fact that superior forces are assembling against them. Gone forever are the days when the aggressors could attack and destroy their victims one by one. Destroy them without unity of resistance. We of the United Nations will so dispose our forces that we can strike at the common enemy wherever the greatest damage can be done in. It will not be used successfully on the American people. We must guard against divisions among ourselves and among all the other United Nations. We must be particularly vigilant against racial discrimination in any of its ugly forms. Hitler will try again to breed mistrust and suspicion between one individual and another, one group and another, one race and another, one government and another. He will try to use the same technique of falsehood and rumor mongering with which he divided France from Britain. He is trying to do this even now. But he will find a unity, a unity of will and purpose against him, which will persevere until the destruction of all his black designs upon the freedom and people of the world are ended. We cannot wage this war in the defensive spirit. As our power and our resources are fully mobilized, we shall carry the attack against the enemy. We shall hit him and hit him again wherever and whenever we can reach him. We must keep him far from our shores, for we intend to bring this battle to him on his own home grounds. American armed forces must be used at any place in all the world where it seems advisable to engage the forces of the enemy. In some cases, these operations will be defensive in order to protect key positions. In other cases, these operations will be offensive in order to strike at the common enemy with a view to his complete insurperment and eventual total defeat. American armed forces will operate at many points in the Far East. American armed forces will be on all the oceans, helping to guard the essential communications which are vital to the United Nations. American land and air and sea forces will take stations in the British Isles, which constitute an essential fortress in this great world struggle. American armed forces will help to protect this hemisphere and help also to protect bases outside this hemisphere, which could be used for an attack on the Americas. Americans, the international race to choose between his course and sea forces will do it, and in very little bit of his face. The Goku lok hat is going to be cleaned by the內 sows, and he's shining in the group's moons. I've got to get his eyes on the plane in Turkey since he has seen he can has taken critical Multiple duel in the trip that war will come off until happened. to pay a heavy price for freedom. We will pay this price with a will. Whatever the price, it is a thousand times worth it. No matter what our enemies, in their desperation, may attempt to do to us, we will say, as the people of London have said, we can take it. And what's more, we can give it back, and we will give it back with compound interest. When our enemies challenged our country to stand up and fight, they challenged each and every one of us. And each and every one of us has accepted the challenge for himself and for his nation. There are only some, there were only some 400 United States Marines who, in the heroic and historic defense of Wake Island, inflicted such great losses on the enemy. Some of those men were killed in action, and others are now prisoners of war. When the survivors of that great fight are liberated and restored to their homes, they will learn that 130 million of their fellow citizens have been inspired to render their own full share of service and sacrifice. We can well say that our men on the fighting front have already proved that Americans today are just as rugged and just as tough as any of the heroes whose exploits we celebrate on the 4th of July. Many people ask, when will this war end? There's only one answer to that. It will end just as soon as we make it end, by our combined efforts, our combined strength, our combined determination to fight through and work through until the end. The end of militarism in Germany and Italy and Japan. Most certainly, we shall not settle for less. That is the spirit in which discussions have been conducted during the visit of the British Prime Minister to Washington. Mr. Churchill and I understand each other. Our motives and our purposes. Together, during the past two weeks, we have faced squarely the major military and economic problems of this greatest world war. All in our nation have been cheered by Mr. Churchill's visit. We have been deeply stirred by his great message to us. He is welcome in our midst, now and in days to come. And we unite in wishing him a safe return to his home. For we are fighting on the same side with the British people who fought alone for long, terrible months and withstood the enemy with fortitude and tenacity and skill. We are fighting on the same side with the Russian people who have seen the Nazi horde swarm up to the very gates of Moscow. And who, with the Russian horde. And who, with almost superhuman will and courage, have forced the invaders back into retreat. We are fighting on the same side with the Russian horde. We are fighting on the same side with the brave people of China. Those millions who, for four and a half long years, have withstood bombs and starvation. And have quit the invaders time and again in spite of the superior Japanese equipment and arms. Yes, we are fighting on the same side with the indomitable Dutch. We are fighting on the same side with all the other governments in exile whom Hitler and all his armies and all his Gestapo have not been able to conquer. But we, of the United Nations, are not making all this sacrifice of human effort and human lives to return to the kind of world we had after the last World War. We are fighting today for security, for progress, and for peace. Not only for ourselves, but for all men. Not only for one generation, but for all generations. We are fighting to cleanse the world of ancient evil, ancient ill. All of us, humans, and God's enemies are guiding us by brutal cynicism. By unholy contempt for the human race. We are inspired by a faith that goes back through all the years to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis. God created man in it's own image. We on our side are striving to be true to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God. Those on the other side are striving to destroy this deep belief and to create a world in their own image, a world of tyranny and cruelty and circumstance. That is the conflict that day and night now pervades our lives. No compromise can end that conflict. There never has been, there never can be successful compromise between good and evil, only, only total victory. General Ward, the champions of tolerance and decency and freedom and faith. The President of the United States has addressed the joint session of the Congress of the United States on the annual State Reunion. Now the President turns to shake hands with the Vice President, Henry A. Wallace, and the Speaker of the House, Sam Rayburn, and is escorted by the various committees and the naval aides of the President and military aid. The President and leaves this chamber of the House of Representatives in our nation's capital. The applause continues for the assembled members of the House and Senate. The Senate here in the House chamber, also diplomatic representatives of the allied nations, members of the cabinet, and also the justices of the Supreme Court. Tomorrow the budget for the coming fiscal year will be delivered to the Congress, as mentioned in the President's talks. This broadcast the President Roosevelt's address on the State of the Union was presented from the House of Representatives chamber. Don Gardner speaking. Warren Wilson. 종ard Eagles. m j j