The City of New York, Vincent R. Impeletere, Acting Mayor, in cooperation with WPIX, presents At the Mayor's Desk. Now, ladies and gentlemen, WPIX takes pleasure in presenting for his first appearance on At the Mayor's Desk, the Acting Mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. Impeletere. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is my debut on City Hall. As you know, I, at the present time, am your Acting Mayor, and I hope to be your Mayor for a long time to come. Tonight, I want to particularly thank you for permitting me to come into your home and on this occasion, I think it's very important for the people of the City of New York to know something about what your city is doing with relation to civil defense. We who live in New York are in rather a strange position. For eight million people living close together in mostly in large buildings. If an atom bomb were to hit the City of New York, and we pray God that that will never happen, we that administer your city feel that we should be doing something about it. We hope that what we are doing in the way of preparation will never have to be used. But in any event, we feel that you, the people who live in our city, should know something about our present plans. As you all know, in recent weeks, a civil defense organization has been set up and is actually running full blast at the present time. The problem of civilian defense is really the problem of defending our civilians in the City of New York in the event of an emergency. Tonight, we plan to tell you just what we are doing in the setting up of our civil defense program. Of course, we can't tell you all of our plans because our plans are naturally integrated with the war department, the Navy department, the FBI, and other governmental agencies involved. But we want you to know that we have actually been on top of this situation here in the City of New York. And I think you might be just a little comforted in knowing that here, sitting beside me at my desk at City Hall, I think that the City has, in this particular field, three of the best qualified men in the entire country when it comes to a situation such as this. On my right, I'm pleased to present the former police commissioner of the City of New York, Arthur W. Wallander, who was selected to head up this program by my predecessor, Mayor O'Dwyer. And one of the first things I did when I took office, as a matter of fact, before I took office, I got a hold of Arthur Wallander, and I said, Arthur, I think you're the best qualified man in the City of New York to take on this tremendous job. I said to him, I'd like very much for you to sit at my right-hand side in the organization and the initiation and the development of this program, and thanks to you, Arthur Wallander, you said that you would. That's the kind of fellow you are. Thank you very much. Right next to me on my left is a gentleman who is the commissioner of hospitals in the City of New York, Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, who served his entire lifetime in the service of the public as a career man in the Department of Hospitals. And next to him is a fellow who really needs no introduction, Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, chairman of the Board of Transportation, and who, in my judgment, knows more about transportation than any man in the world, and that's saying a lot. Commissioner Wallander, there is no question in my mind that with good leadership and proper organization, we can be paired with a sound civil defense program. Will you tell these people who are listening in just how this organization is set up? Well, yes, Mr. Mayor. The civil defense forces, they are pretty well on their way to integration. Working agreements are being developed to perfect our plans, and our civil defense forces are built around existing city departments. That is, we take our volunteer forces and we mold them around the city departments. Up to the present time, the work has been done mainly by the existing agencies, and they've done a yeoming job, Mr. Mayor. I'm rather proud to say that they've pit strided, and they haven't neglected any of their chores in that connection. I'd like to point out, Mr. Mayor, on this... May I interrupt just for a moment? When you say various city agencies are working with you in this program, of course you mean the police department? Yes, sir. Fire department? That's right, sir. Sanitation department? They're all part and parcel of this organization that you are now building up. That's right, sir. Now, will you pardon the interruption and go right back to where you wanted to go? Thank you. I'd like to point out to the listeners that this represents the chart of the Office of Civil Defense of the City of New York, showing the organization as it's built up at the present time. On top of the heap, we have His Honor the Mayor. Thank you very much. And then comes the Board of Estimates and the City Council, whose advice and counsel we always require, the Director and the Deputy Director and Chief of Operations. We have the Advisory Council, which is composed of a group of business and professional men, the highest type we could get within the city, and across the staff operating out of the Director of Civil Defense's office. On the next echelon, we have the transportation, evacuation, administration, communications, plans and training, and public information. These are very important top echelon posts. Subdivisions of the administration includes finance, procurement, and personnel. In due time, we will have to have finances to conduct our operations. The procurement includes supplies and such other necessities that go along with a well-integrated organization. And personnel, the car set is largely made up of volunteers. But I might say that we hope for an organization of about 400,000 workers. And among those will be about 150,000 of the present city personnel. Under plan, we cited communications, plans and training, and public information. Here we have the planning commission, which ties in with plans and training. And they also tie in with the shelter committee. As a committee on shelters, working for the immediate shelter protection and the long-range thinking on it. The next and operating level is down here. I want to point out first how... I'll get back to transportation, evacuation later. But here we have the police emergency division, which comprises the uniformed police force, the auxiliary police car, the air warden service, and the emergency taxi car. Their functions are patrol, traffic, bomb reconnaissance. They handle the wardens, the fire watchers, the light rescue squads, messenger service, and such. The fire emergency is next. It's comprised of the members of the uniformed fire force, the auxiliary fire car and communications car. Their duty is to prevent fires and to fight fires as they occur. Public Works, a very important arm of this whole organization, has under its wing a good many of the departments that involve in the administration of the city. And theirs will be a tremendous big job if we should be attacked. They, of course, function under a scheme of... that has to do with demolition and clearance and sewer repairs, utility repairs, heavy rescue, shelters, and illumination control. I don't know whether they'll ever go into blackouts or dimouts or any of that sort of illumination control, but if they should, we have the man appointed for that. Now we have a very important segment of this whole organization, the medical emergency. And I'd rather have Dr. Kogel, Mr. Mayor, explain just how that operates and what they intend to do. I'll get to Dr. Kogel eventually, Commissioner, but in the meantime, I want to work on you for a little longer. Won't you sit down? You better will. Will you tell us, Commissioner, how are these various activities being put into effect? Well, we are present in the throes of accepting key personnel for these various organizations that I've outlined here. The key personnel are being recruited among those who think they can do a job in the fire department or within the police department or as airwadies. The activation of all these here forces includes proper training and schooling in their duties. That goes for all that great big list of organized forces that we saw there. Then you have conferences from time to time with various groups. That's right. And how are you getting all of this matter out to the public so that the public will be continuously informed about this program? Well, that's being done through press releases mainly and also through radio and broadcasts such as this, plus the information that's gone to you, Mr. Mayor, in the form of an interim report. You will recall that that was released to the advisory council members. And that is our main source of giving out the information to the public. We hope to circularize them pretty shortly. As a matter of fact, we have in mind to pass around to the schools for the children to take home of their parents such information as is necessary for the parents and the household holders to know. Now, going over this big shot, I noticed that several units were referred to. Now, do you consider any one unit in that entire organization more important than the other? I should say not, Mr. Mayor. They're always important. We're just as strong as our weakest link, and I wouldn't want to see any of those organizations taken out. That's nice to hear. All very important. Commissioner, I'd like to let these people who are looking in on this program know that the man I'm now interviewing knows something about this business. You started off in the city service as a police officer, did you not? That's right, Mr. Mayor. And then through competitive examination, you went right up the ladder. I tried. You not only tried, but you did. Well, I expect I did. And eventually you were appointed the police commissioner of the city of New York by Mayor LaGuardia. That's correct. Thereafter, you were reappointed by Mayor LaGuardia. That's right. Now, you talk about this subject as though you've had considerable experience with it. Did you have something to do with civilian defense during World War No. 2? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I worked under Mayor LaGuardia at that time, and he designated me as chief of staff. That was a job comparable to this one. But you were really the boss. Well, I did a lot of the work. I noticed that you have me up at the head of that shop, but you're the fellow who I expect to do the real work, and I'll be glad to work with you. I've got to get some of the answers from you too, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Commissioner Coggle, we know that in the event there should be an attack on the city of New York, it is possible to paralyze our city to a considerable extent. We've been told that one attack might injure 100,000 people. Now, have you made plans as to what your program would be in the event of such an emergency? Yes, sir. We have made some very complete plans on that. We're working on the basis of a possible 150,000 injured people, and we were organized to take those people from the hands of the rescue workers right through to the aid stations where they'll receive emergency care, expert emergency care, and they'll be saved from going into fatal shock that burns will be given primary treatment. From the aid stations, they'll go if they require immediate surgery into surgical hospitals, or they'll be taken to clearing stations if they are overflowed and they'll be able to provide opportunities for hospitalization. Otherwise, we're organized where these people will go to whatever hospitals remain standing for definitive hospital care. Doctor, before going in the medical aspect of this emergency situation, how long have you been in the service of the city of New York? Well, I've been in the service of the department for 23 years, Mr. Mayor. What department's that? Department of Hospitals itself. In what capacities? Just briefly, so that the people of the city will know the person who's in charge of the medical end of this program. I've gone through every professional rank in the department, intern, assistant resident, resident, chief resident, physician, deputy medical superintendent, medical superintendent, general medical superintendent, senior general medical superintendent. That's as high as we go in civil service. And then you came up from the civil service rank? Yes, sir. And eventually, you were appointed commissioner of the entire department. That's right. How long ago was that? That was 18 months ago. Now, during World War II, did you see service in your capacity as a medical officer? Yes, sir. I was in the Army over five years. In what theater? Well, I was in the chief of preventive medicine to China's theater. Now, going on from there, doctor, what plans have you made, for instance, in the field of first aid, transportation, and related subjects? Well, we're going to ring the scene of the disaster with casualty aid stations. In those casualty aid stations, we'll have teams of workers working. We'll have shock teams, burn teams, mechanical injury teams, neuropsychiatric teams. We'll have receiving teams, decontamination teams, forwarding teams, so that actually we'll need tremendous numbers of these stations and those teams. That's a big job, which the health department is going to help us out on, Mr. Mayor, because the emergency, the casualty aid stations will be operated through the district, through the Office of District Health Administration of the Department of Health. We have to take every doctor in the city into this plan if we're to do anything. And how about people that are not familiar with first aid treatment? Are you doing anything in that field? We're going to have everybody in the city of New York, every man, woman, and child trained in first aid because self-help and first aid, starting with the individual and going to the family is a very important part of this program. The American Red Cross is going to play a big part in the training of the population in first aid measures. And have you already taken that up with the American Red Cross? Yes, sir. We're working hand-in-hand in this program with the American Red Cross. Have you made any plans of evacuating the people who might be injured? Well, first, we're planning for the evacuation of the long-term and chronic patients, at least 20,000 of them, prior to anything happening or at the time that it happens or a little afterwards, depending on whether it's a sneak attack or not, so as to give us the maximum number of beds in the city of New York. That's a plan that's definitely going forward and which will receive a great deal of assistance on the part of the state because the evacuation will have to be out of the city of New York. And what type of patients do you intend to evacuate? I wasn't clear as to that. In advance, those are long-term patients, chronic patients, tuberculosis patients, patients with arteriosclerosis, many of them bedridden, some of them are able to sit up, and some of them are even ambulatory. Dr. In the event of an emergency, have you taken into consideration the danger from people being in a state of panic? Yes, sir. We're terribly worried about that. We're doing everything we possibly can in our planning to take care of that because panic fear is contagious. and it can go like wildfire from person to person. It's dreadfully communicable and actually we can have more casualties arising out of panic than we can from enemy actions. So it's very important to educate the public to avoid that possibility. It's a problem that's constantly with us that will be helped by by the medical associations and for that particular thing, we're organizing neuropsychiatric teams in each aid station to take care of the people who are just, they don't know what they're doing. They're in such a state of fear and panic. It will require a lot of that neuropsychiatric care. Thank you. Commissioner Wilder, I want to get back to you for a minute. I knew that I hadn't finished with you at all. Now, we know that in a setup of this kind, communications play a very important part. Can you tell us something about what you have done? to tie in communications with your organizational setup? Yes, Mr. Mayor. We have given lots of thought to communications. As a matter of fact, we are now selecting and will, in a very short time, establish control report centers. They are very vital to the control of our forces during a typical emergency. The fire and police headquarters communication stations, they are to be set up on an auxiliary basis. That is, those that they now have will remain, but we want to take precautions and ensure ourselves against being entirely put out of service by setting up these auxiliary stations. We have also established contact with the Continental Air Command for receiving their great signals. And we are now, as you know, we have established through our vehicle, police and fire vehicle, sirens, an alarm system. It's to be the audible air raid alarm system that we have on a temporary basis until we get the fixed. Well, to put that in simple terms, Commissioner, sirens are not permitted any longer, are they, on ambulances, on fire trucks, or on police cars, or anything like that. Is that correct? That's right, Mr. Mayor. We have asked the public in all those concerned to refrain from blowing sirens or using them in any way at all because we fear it may alarm some of our population. And, but in this program, you've made arrangements to have a regular alarm system. That's right, Mr. Mayor. It'll be fixed sirens, possibly about 600 of them scattered throughout the city at strategic places where they could best be heard. The Board of Estimate has already voted you on appropriation of $1,800,000. That's correct, Mr. Mayor. And you feel that that's only a stop? That's just a stop, Mr. Mayor. Of course, I hope that you're wrong. I hope so, too. Because we feel that this is really national defense and that the federal government must come into this plan to finance a great number of these projects. They should, Mr. Mayor. I think it's a big load for a city to carry. As a matter of fact, in World War II, the federal government bore 80% of all these expenses. It's not being in that neighborhood, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Colonel Bingham, he's a gentleman that I referred to a while back. Colonel Bingham has had a tremendous experience in the field of transportation. And before I even ask you a question, Colonel, I'd like to know something about that. You're presently the chairman of the Board of Transportation. Yes, Mr. Mayor. How long have you been in the Board of Transportation? Since the 1940s when the private lines were bought over by the city. And I then went under civil service. But before that, you were in transportation for a great number of years. Since 1950s, except for two wars when I served with the railway engineers in the European Theater of Operations. That's what I wanted to know. And in World War II, what did you do? I was assistant director general to the military railways and also liaison for the British Royal Engineers, also the Canadian Royal Engineers and the Free French before the invasion, preparing the railway equipment and hospital equipment, rolling stock, for the continent. You had some experience during the so-called blitz over in England, did you not? It's true, Mr. Mayor. I'm the railway executive of the British Railways. I also served and we used our equipment, military railway equipment, to evacuate Londoners at the time of the bombings. Now, Colonel, you're head of the transportation division of this civil defense program. Yes, Mr. Mayor. And as chief of that division, you are responsible for close cooperation from the railroads, the bus lines, trucking companies, airlines, shipping companies, and all the rest right down the line. Now, would you tell us the basic function of the division of transportation in this civil defense program? To make plans and to be ready to carry them out for maintenance of maximum service under all conditions. This includes the repair of damage to transportation facilities and to coordinate use of undamaged facilities. Two, evacuation of casualties and nonessential civilians from New York City when necessary. Three, transportation of emergency supplies and personnel. The organization, division of transportation, is being organized in industry subcommittees, railroads, city bus lines, and shipping lines. Subcommittees compose of top-level executives in each transport field. They know their industry, they can make effective plans, and can carry them out. Our present work now is making a survey of all transportation lines, equipment, shop, manpower. this will furnish a factual basis for planning and operations. Plans are now being made for the coordinated use of all available repair equipment of the transportation lines of the Public Works Emergency Division to repair damage to transportation facilities and restore service as quickly as possible. We are also formulating schedules for evacuation to be prepared as soon as we know how many people we have to move, where they are going, and how much time we will have to move them. Thank you, Commissioner Bingham. Commissioner Wallander, will you tell me or explain just briefly how your organization is set up on a borough basis, that is, in each one of the five boroughs? Very briefly, please. Mr. Mayor, we have the precincts, all the police precincts that form the lower control levels. Within those lower control levels, we may take four precincts, for instance, from Brooklyn and make that a report sent, any four in Brooklyn. The same would happen in Manhattan. We may take three precincts from the upper level here in Manhattan, or we could assemble these three precincts in the lower Bronx, 41, 40, and 42, to make up a report center. That, again, is a lower level of communication control. Same could apply here in Queens, possibly 106, 103, and 105, all police precincts are involved in that. In Staten Island, it practically would be one report center for the entire island because of its small number of precincts. That about does it, Mr. Mayor. Now, Commissioner Wallander, how are your plans shaping up at the present time? I would say very well, Mr. Mayor. We're cooperating very closely with the federal and state, also the armed forces. The public utilities are coming through nicely. The liaison has been established with the armed forces so that we can have absolute control on that front. You don't want to get the people in the city of New York worried, do you? No, Mr. Mayor. I would like to have them keep calm and follow instructions. We will issue instructions from time to time. And at all times, you will keep the public informed? News releases will be given to the public from time to time? That's right, Mr. Mayor. Time to time, you will use radio, television, and all other types of and means of getting to the public? That's correct, Mr. Mayor. And Dr. Kogel, I understand that you've made arrangements to specially train physicians to take care of an emergency such as this, if it ever happens. That's right. Physicians are already fairly well trained, but they'll get whatever is necessary in addition. Thank you very much. Now, Commissioner Wallander, Colonel Bingham, and Dr. Kogel, as Acting Mayor, I want to thank you for participating with me in this program. I particularly want to thank the people of the City of New York for the splendid cooperation that they have given to me and through me have given to you, Commissioner Wallander, as head of our Civil Defense organization. I want the people of the City of New York not to take this program as a panic program. We're really bringing you up to date on what's going on. Thank you for permitting me to come into your home tonight, and I assure you that in future broadcasts, you will be kept acquainted with the business of the City of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. At the Mayor's Desk is presented every other Thursday evening at this time. On tonight's program, we're Acting Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, Director of Civil Defense author W. Wallander, Commissioner of Hospitals Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, and the Chairman of the Board of Transportation, Colonel Sidney H. Binger. The next program will be on Thursday, September 28th. This is WPIX, Channel 11, New York City. In cooperation with WPIX, presents At the Mayor's Desk. Now, ladies and gentlemen, WPIX takes pleasure in presenting for his first appearance on At the Mayor's Desk, the Acting Mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. Impelletary. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is my debut on City Hall. As you know, I, at the present time, am your Acting Mayor, and I hope to be your Mayor for a long time to come. Tonight, I want to particularly thank you for permitting me to come into your home. And on this occasion, I think it's very important for the people of the City of New York to know something about what your city is doing with relation to civil defense. We who live in New York are in rather a strange position. We're 8 million people living close together, and mostly in large buildings. if an atom bomb were to hit the City of New York, and we pray God that that will never happen, we that administer your city feel that we should be doing something about it. We hope that what we are doing in the way of preparation will never have to be used. but in any event, we feel that you, the people who live in our city, should know something about our present plans. As you all know, in recent weeks, a civil defense organization has been set up and is actually running full blast at the present time. The problem of civilian defense is really the problem of defending our civilians in the City of New York in the event of an emergency. Tonight, we plan to tell you just what we are doing in the setting up of our civil defense program. Of course, we can't tell you all of our plans because our plans are naturally integrated with the War Department, the Navy Department, the FBI, and other governmental agencies involved. But we want you to know that we have actually been on top of this situation here in the City of New York. And I think you might be just a little comforted in knowing that here, sitting beside me at my desk at City Hall, I think that the City has, in this particular field, three of the best qualified men in the entire country when it comes to a situation such as this. On my right, I'm pleased to present the former Police Commissioner of the City of New York, Arthur W. Wallander, who was selected to head up this program by my predecessor, Mayor O'Dwyer. And one of the first things I did when I took office, as a matter of fact, before I took office, I got a hold of Arthur Wallander and I said, Arthur, I think you're the best qualified man in the City of New York to take on this tremendous job. I said to him, I'd like very much for you to sit at my right-hand side in the organization and the initiation and the development of this program, and thanks to you, Arthur Wallander, you said that you would. That's the kind of fellow you are. Thank you very much. Right next to me on my left is a gentleman who's the Commissioner of Hospitals in the City of New York, Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, who served his entire lifetime in the service of the public as a career man in the Department of Hospitals. And next to him is a fellow who really needs no introduction, Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation, and who, in my judgment, knows more about transportation than any man in the world. And that's saying a lot. Commissioner Wallander, there is no question in my mind that with good leadership and proper organization, we can be paired with a sound civil defense program. Will you tell these people who are listening in just how this organization is set up? Well, yes, Mr. Mayor. The Civil Defense Forces, they are pretty well on their way to integration. Working agreements are being developed to perfect our plans, and our civil defense forces are built around existing city departments. That is, we take our volunteer forces and we mold them around the city departments. Up to the present time, the work has been done mainly by the existing agencies, and they've done a yeoman job, Mr. Mayor. I'm rather proud to say that they've pitched right in, and they haven't neglected any of their chores in that connection. I'd like to point out, Mr. Mayor, on this... May I interrupt just for a moment? When you say various city agencies are working with you in this program, of course, you mean the police department? Yes, sir. Fire department? That's right, sir. Sanitation department? They're all part and parcel of this organization that you are now building up. That's right, sir. Now, will you pardon the interruption and go right back to where you wanted to go? Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to point out to the listeners that this represents the chart of the Office of Civil Defense of the City of New York, showing the organization as it's built up at the present time. On top of the heap, we have His Honor, the Mayor. Thank you very much. And then comes the Board of Estimates and the City Council, whose advice and counsel we always require. The Director and the Deputy Director and Chief of Operations. We have the Advisory Council, which is composed of a group of business and professional men, the highest type we could get within the city, and a costly staff operating out of the Director of Civil Defense's office. On the next echelon, we have transportation, evacuation, administration, communications, plans and training and public information. These are very important top echelon posts. Subdivisions of the administration includes finance, procurement, and personnel. In due time, we will have to have finances to conduct our operations. The procurement includes supplies and such other necessities as go along with a well-integrated organization. And personnel, car set is largely made up of volunteers. But I might say that we hope for an organization of about 400,000 workers. And among those will be about 150,000 of the present city personnel. Under plan, we cited communications, plans and training and public information. Here we have the planning commission, which ties in with plans and training. and they also tie in with the shelter committee as a committee on shelters working for the immediate shelter protection and the long-range thinking on it. The next and operating level is down here. I want to point out first how I'll get back to transportation and evacuation later. But here we have the police emergency division, which comprises the uniformed police force, the auxiliary police car, the air warden service and the emergency taxi car. Their functions are a patrol, traffic, bomb reconnaissance. They handle the wardens, the fire watchers, the light rescue squads, the messenger service and such. The fire emergency is next. It's comprised of the members of the uniformed fire force, the auxiliary fire car and the communications car. Their duty is to prevent fires and to fight fires as they occur. Public works, a very important arm of this whole organization. Has under its wing a good many of the departments that involve in the administration of the city and theirs will be a tremendous big job if we should be attacked. They, of course, function under a scheme that has to do with demolition and clearance and sewer repairs, utility repairs, heavy rescue, shelters, and illumination control. I don't know whether they'll ever go into blackouts or dim outs or any of that sort of illumination control, but if they should, we have the man appointed for that. Now we have a very important segment of this whole organization, the medical emergency. emergency. And I'd rather have Dr. Kogel, Mr. Mayor, explain just how that operates and what they intend to do. I'll get to Dr. Kogel eventually, Commissioner, but in the meantime, I want to work on you for a little longer. Won't you sit down? You better will. Will you tell us, Commissioner, how are these various activities being put into effect? Well, we are present in the throes of accepting key personnel for these various organizations that I've outlined here. The key personnel are being recruited among those who think they can do a job in the fire department or within the police department or as air wardens. The activation of all these here forces includes proper training and schooling in their duties. That goes for all that great big list of organized forces that we saw there. Then you have conferences from time to time with various groups? That's right. And how are you getting all of this matter out to the public so that the public will be continuously informed about this program? Well, that's being done through press releases mainly and also through radio and broadcasts such as this plus the information that's gone to you, Mr. Mayor, in the form of an interim report. You'll recall that that was released to the advisory council members. And that is our main source of giving out the information to the public. We hope to circularize them pretty shortly. As a matter of fact, we have in mind to pass around to the schools for the children to take home of their parents such information as is necessary for the parents and the household holders to know. Now, going over this big shot, I noticed that several units were referred to. Now, do you consider any one unit in that entire organization more important than the other? I should say not, Mr. Mayor. They're always important. We're just as strong as our weakest link and I wouldn't want to see any of those organizations taken out. That's nice to hear. All very important. Commissioner, I'd like to let these people who are looking in on this program know that the man I'm now interviewing knows something about this business. you started off in the city service as a police officer, did you not? That's right, Mr. Mayor. And then, through competitive examination, you went right up the ladder. I tried. I... You not only tried, but you did. Well, I expect I did. And eventually, you were appointed the police commissioner of the city of New York by Mayor LaGuardia. That's correct. Thereafter, you were reappointed by Mayor LaGuardia. That's right. Now, you talk about this subject as though you've had considerable experience with it. Did you have something to do with civilian defense during World War Number Two? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I... I worked under Mayor LaGuardia at that time, and he designated me as chief of staff. It was a job comparable to this one. But you were really the boss. Well, I... I did a lot of the work. I noticed that you have me up at the head of that shot, but you're the fellow who I expect to do the real work, and I'll be glad to work with you. I've got to get some of the answers from you, too, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Commissioner Coghill, we know that in the event there should be an attack on the city of New York, it is possible to paralyze our city to a considerable extent. We've been told that one attack might injure 100,000 people. Now, have you made plans as to what your program would be in the event of such an emergency? Yes, sir. We have made some very complete plans on that. We're working on a basis of a possible 150,000 injured people, and we were organized to take those people from the hands of the rescue workers right through to the aid stations where they'll receive emergency care, expert emergency care, and they'll be saved from going into fatal shock, that burns will be given primary treatment. Thank you. from the aid stations, they'll go if they require immediate surgery into surgical hospitals, or they'll be taken to clearing stations if they are overflowed to go to other communities for hospitalization. Otherwise, we're organized where these people will go to whatever hospitals remain standing for definitive hospital care. Doctor, before going in the medical aspect of this emergency situation, how long have you been in the service of the city of New York? Well, I've been in the service of the department for 23 years, Mr. Mayor. What department's that? Department of hospitals. And what capacities? Just briefly, so that the people of the city will know the person who's in charge of the medical end of this program. I've gone through every professional rank in the department, intern, assistant resident, resident, chief resident, physician, deputy medical superintendent, medical superintendent, general medical superintendent, senior general medical superintendent. That's as high as we go in civil service. And then, you came up from the civil service ranks? That's right. And eventually, you were appointed commissioner of the entire department. That's right. How long ago was that? That was 18 months ago. Now, during World War II, did you see service in your capacity as a medical officer? Yes, sir. I was in the army over five years. In what theater? Well, I was the chief of preventive medicine to China Theater. Now, going on from there, doctor, what plans have you made, for instance, in the field of first aid and transportation and related subjects? Well, we're going to ring the scene of the disaster with casualty aid stations. In those casualty aid stations, we'll have teams of workers working. We'll have shock teams, burn teams, mechanical injury teams, neuropsychiatric teams. We'll have receiving teams, decontamination teams, forwarding teams. So that, actually, we'll need tremendous numbers of these stations and those teams. that, that's a big job which the health department is going to help us out on, Mr. Mayor, because the, the emergency, the, the casualty aid stations will be operated through the district, through the office of district health administration of the Department of Health. See, we have to take every doctor in the city into this plan if we're to do anything. And how about, uh, uh, people that are not familiar with first aid treatment? Are you doing anything in that field? We're, uh, going to have, uh, everybody in the city of New York, every man, woman, and child trained in first aid because self-help and first aid, starting with the individual and going to the family is a very important part of this program. The American Red Cross is going to play a big part in the training of the population in first aid measures. And have you already taken that up with the American Red Cross? Yes, sir. We're working hand-in-hand in this program with the American Red Cross. Have you made any plans of, uh, evacuating the, uh, the people who might be injured? Well, first, we're planning for the evacuation of the, uh, long-term and chronic patients, at least 20,000 of them, prior to anything happening or at the time that it happens or a little afterwards, depending on whether it's a sneak attack or not, so as to give us the maximum number of beds in the city of New York. That's a plan that's definitely going forward and which will receive a great deal of assistance on the part of the state because the evacuation will have to be out of the city of New York. And what type of patient do you intend to evacuate? I, I wasn't clear as to that. In advance, uh, those are long-term patients, chronic patients, tuberculosis patients, uh, patients with arteriosclerosis, uh, many of them bedridden, some of them, uh, are able to sit up and some of them are even ambulatory. Doctor, in a, in a, in a case, in the event of an emergency, uh, have you, uh, taken into consideration the danger from, uh, people being in a state of panic? Yes, sir, we're terribly worried about that and we're doing everything we possibly can in our planning to take care of that because, uh, panic, uh, fear is contagious and, uh, it's, it can, uh, go like wildfire from person to person. It's dreadfully communicable and actually we can have more casualties arising out of panic than we can from enemy action. so it's very important to educate the public, uh, to avoid, uh, that possibility. And it's a problem that's constantly with us that, uh, will be helped by, by the, uh, medical associations and, uh, for that particular thing we're organizing neuropsychiatric teams in each aid station to take care of the people who, who are just, uh, uh, they don't know what they're doing. They're in such a state of fear and, and, and panic. It will require a lot of that neuropsychiatric care. Thank you. Uh, Commissioner Wallander, I want to get back to you for a minute. I knew that I hadn't, uh, finished with you at all. Now, we know that in a setup of this kind, communications play a very important part. Can you tell us something about, uh, what you have done to tie in, uh, communications with your organizational setup? Uh, yes, Mr. Mayor. Uh, we have, uh, given lots of thought to communications. As a matter of fact, uh, uh, we are now, uh, selecting and, uh, will in a very short time establish control and report centers. Uh, they are very vital to the control of, of our forces during a typical emergency. Uh, the fire and police headquarters, uh, uh, communication stations, uh, they are to be set up on an auxiliary basis. That is, those that they now have will remain, but we want to, uh, take precautions and ensure ourselves against, uh, being entirely put out of service by setting up these auxiliary stations. Uh, we've also, uh, established contact with the Continental Air Command for receiving their raid signals. And, uh, we are now, as you know, we have established, uh, through our, uh, vehicle, police and fire vehicle, uh, sirens, uh, uh, an alarm system. It's, it's to be the audible air raid alarm system that we have on a temporary basis until we get the fixed. Well, to put that in simple terms, Commissioner, uh, sirens are not permitted any longer, are they, on, on, uh, ambulances, on fire trucks, or on police cars, or anything like that. Is that correct? That's right, Mr. Mayor. We've asked the, uh, the public in all those concerned to refrain from blowing sirens or using them in any way at all because we fear it may alarm some of our population. And, uh, but, uh, in this program, you've made arrangements to, uh, have a regular alarm system. That's right, Mr. Mayor. It'll be, uh, fixed, uh, sirens, possibly about 600 of them, uh, scattered throughout the city at, uh, strategic places where they can best be heard. The Board of Estimate has already voted you an appropriation of a million eight hundred thousand dollars. That's correct, Mr. Mayor. And, uh, uh, you feel that that's only a start? That's just a start, Mr. Mayor. Of course, I hope that you're wrong. I hope so, too. Uh, because, uh, we feel that the, that this is really national defense and that the federal government must come into this plan to finance a great number of these projects. Uh, they should, Mr. Mayor. It's, uh, I think it's a big load for a city to carry. As a matter of fact, in World War II, the federal government bore 80% of all these expenses at the night. Something in that neighborhood, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Colonel Bingham, he's the gentleman that I referred to a while back. Uh, Colonel Bingham has had a tremendous experience in the field of transportation. And before I even ask you a question, Colonel, uh, I'd like to know something about that. You're presently the chairman of the board of transportation. Yes, Mr. Mayor. Uh, how long have you been in the board of transportation? Since the, 1940, when the private lines were bought over by the city. And, and, uh, I then went with, under civil service. But before that, you were in, uh, transportation for a great number of years. Since, since 1915, except for two wars when I served with the railway engineers in the European theater of operations. That's what I wanted to know. And in World War II, what did you do? I was assistant director general to the military railways and also liaison for the British royal engineers, also the Canadian royal engineers and the free French before the invasion, preparing the railway equipment and hospital equipment, rolling stock, for the continent. You, you had some experience during the so-called blitz over in England, did you not? It's true, Mr. Mayor. I'm the railway executive of the British Railways. I also served and we used our equipment, military railway equipment, to evacuate Londoners at the time of the, uh, bombings. Now, Colonel, uh, you're head of the transportation division of this civil defense program. Yes, Mr. Mayor. And as chief of that, uh, division, you are responsible for close cooperation from the railroads, the bus lines, trucking companies, airlines, shipping companies, and all the rest right down the line. Now, would you, uh, tell us the basic function of the division of transportation in this civil defense program? To make plans and to be ready to carry them out for maintenance of maximum service under all conditions. This includes the repair of damage to transportation facilities and to coordinate use of undamaged facilities. Two, evacuation of casualties and non-essential civilians from New York City when necessary. Three, transportation of emergency supplies and personnel. The organization, division of transportation, is being organized in industry subcommittees, railroads, city bus lines, and shipping lines. Subcommittees compose of top-level executives in each transport field. They know their industry, they can make effective plans, and can carry them out. Our present work now is making a survey of all transportation lines, equipment, shop, manpower. This will furnish a factual basis for planning and operations. Plans are now being made for the coordinated use of all available repair equipment of the transportation lines of the public works emergency division to repair damage to transportation facilities and restore service as quickly as possible. We are also formulating schedules for evacuation to be prepared as soon as we know how many people we have to move, where they are going, and how much time we will have to move them. Thank you, Commissioner Bingham. Commissioner Wallander, will you tell me or explain just briefly how your organization is set up on a borough basis, that is, in each one of the five boroughs? Yes. Very briefly, please. Mr. Mayor, we have the precincts, all the police precincts that form the lower control levels. Within those lower control levels, we may take four precincts, for instance, from Brooklyn and make that a report sent, any four in Brooklyn. The same would happen in Manhattan. We may take three precincts in the upper level here in Manhattan, or we could assemble these three precincts in the lower Bronx, 41, 40, and 42, to make up a report center. That, again, is a lower level of communication control. Same could apply here in Queens, possibly 106, 103, and 105. All police precincts are involved in that. In Staten Island, it practically would be one report center for the entire island because of its small number of precincts. That about does it, Mr. Mayor. Now, Commissioner Wallander, how are your plans shaping up at the present time? I would say very well, Mr. Mayor. We are cooperating very closely with the federal and state, also the armed forces. The public utilities are coming through nicely. The liaison has been established with the armed forces so that we can have absolute control on that front. You don't want to get the people in the city of New York worried, do you? No, Mr. Mayor. I would like to have them keep calm and follow instructions. We will issue instructions from time to time. And at all times, you will keep the public informed? Yes. news releases will be given to the public from time to time? That's right, Mr. Mayor. Time to time, you will use radio, television, and all other types of and means of getting to the public? That's correct, Mr. Mayor. And Dr. Kogel, I understand that you've made arrangements to specially train physicians to take care of an emergency such as this, if it ever happens. That's right. Physicians are already fairly well trained, but they'll get whatever is necessary in addition. Thank you very much. Now, Commissioner Wallander, Colonel Bingham, and Dr. Kogel, as acting mayor, I want to thank you for participating with me in this program. I particularly want to thank the people of the City of New York for the splendid cooperation that they have given to me and through me have given to you, Commissioner Wallander, as head of our Civil Defense Organization. I want the people of the City of New York not to take this program as a panic program where you really bringing you up to date on what's going on. Thank you for permitting me to come into your home tonight and I assure you that in future broadcasts you will be kept acquainted with the business of the City of New York. Thank you. At the Mayor's Desk is presented every other Thursday evening at this time. On tonight's program we're acting Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, Director of Civil Defense author W. Wallander, Commissioner of Hospitals Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, and the Chairman of the Board of Transportation, Colonel Sidney H. Bingham. The next program will be on Thursday, September 28th. next program is not this is WPIX Channel 11, New York City. Here is the Processing and P Pourquoi Thank you.