One million volunteers are needed for civilian defense. Is the message of Mayor Vincent Auer and Pelletari, who is just arriving here under the canopy of the Rivoli Theatre at 49th Street and Broadway, 49th to 50th, as you all know the location. The Honorable Groveray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for Recruiting and Public Information for Civilian Defense, will be with us in just a few moments as chairman to preside and present the regular order of program. The plan for survival is very important, and the volunteer of the citizen of the City of New York, eight million of our citizens, are required to build up that membership to one million volunteers. Now, of course, we haven't had a casualty, and thank God we haven't. But to go ahead and wait for a casualty before we become interested in meeting the situations that might prevail if such a casualty did occur, that has never been the practice of the City of New York, and we don't think it ever will be. And for that reason, this recruiting program is starting now in front of the Rivoli Theatre and will be held every day here at approximately noon and throughout the week until Labor Day, until Mr. Whelan and Director Wallander of Civilian Defense feel that the ranks have been sufficiently filled to the point where they can relax, to the point of feeling secure in the fact that the men are available for training and that civilian defense in every essence of the word is exactly what it is intended to be. And now we're just waiting for the word from Mr. Whelan, because as soon as he is ready, naturally we will turn the microphone over to him. The Star Spangled Banner will be sung by Miss Lucy Monroe. Ladies and gentlemen, will you please join me and let us all sing together. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave us through the night That our flag was still there O'er say does that star-spangled banner The earth wave O'er the land of the sea And the humble, the brave Thank you. Now the Honorable Grove Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for Recruiting and Public Information for Civilian Defense. And now Mr. Whelan. We will now string a banner across the street that will announce the opening of the drive in this section of Manhattan. Mr. Wallander. Mr. Wallander. A banner is being strung across Broadway from the Rivoli Theatre to the Brill Building. And Director Wallander is getting ready now. The Honorable Arthur Ray Wallander Commissioner are trying to find the right rope, but I think they got it this time. Now the banner is slowly being pulled across Broadway by Commissioner Wallander, Director of Civilian Defense for the City of New York. The men who did the rigging on this banner are instructing Commissioner Wallander with a few final ideas to just how to get this large civilian defense banner, which will now fly across Broadway from the Brill Building to the Rivoli Theatre. Mr. Whelan is going down into the middle of Broadway to supervise the centering of the banner. Commissioner Wallander is very busy now waiting to... They're still struggling with that rope, but nothing has happened yet on Broadway. However, we do know, however, that the... We might add, for the benefit of those who tuned in late, that your city station is carrying the opening of the recruiting drive at Broadway and 50th Street under the canopy of the Rivoli Theatre. Now the purpose of this drive is that Mayor Impelletary has stressed the idea that one million volunteers are needed to complete the ranks of civilian defense and to build up the survival for future existence in our city. As we said in the opening announcement, it is not until a casualty happens that we will become interested in the idea and the plans for survival. We must work those plans out now. There are some ladies here from the theatre, beautifully dressed, and Miss Monroe. And these ladies from the theatre are taking the front seats temporarily, while the Mayor, Commissioner Wallander and Commissioner Whelan are down there now, getting ready to pull this banner across Broadway. So when you see this huge banner flying across Broadway from the Brill Building to the Rivoli Theatre, it isn't just a decoration over the street. It means that an anxiety hangs over this great world city, New York. You know, if you read your history, you'll find the richer the city is, the greater the idea of plunder and attack is on that city. And the situation by no means guarantees the fact that we are headed for anything that is peaceful or calm or pleasant in the near future. Now, of course, with preparation, any situation may be met. We have the answer in the civic scene to the hospitals and the build-up of the various city departments that are there to take care of situations that may arise in the government and the organization of a city of 8 million people. But in a situation such as a bombing might create in a city like New York, because of its unique construction and all the factors concerning this city, its underground railways and all those other situations that prevail, it certainly would be a messy target to straighten out. If this casually happens and we're prepared for it, we've constantly reminded you that it isn't exactly the explosion or the impact of the bomb that does most of the damage. As a matter of fact, we know that it's the flying objects in the air, gases that prevail for not very long, a fraction of a minute or so. And if we protect ourselves for that first few moments after the shock, the chances are we'll come through. All this is brought out in the training of the civilian defense groups and the air wardens in all concerned with carrying out the best possible plans for your good and welfare. So now civilian defense is an important fact and an important factor in your agenda for the rest of the year. And we particularly, the photographer in the Journal of America says he's here, we know he's here, we see him. They're having a lot of fun down there. It's kind of, now the girls are holding on to this rope that's supposed to pull this banner over and the photographers are having a wonderful time making up these poses that we see in the papers that look so picturesque the next day. The lady little realizes that her hoop skirt is in such a precarious position. She's so interested in doing her part in yanking this banner across Broadway. But it's a very ill-behaved rigging because it doesn't seem to operate. We'll let that go to later, however. Merrim Pelletere went down and joined Commissioner Wallander and Commissioner Whalen for the pictures at the request of the photographers. You know, these gentlemen issue more orders to more great people than anybody in the world. But it's a good thing they do because when we have these pictures to refer to, we're able to recapture any scene that has taken place in a city that is in a constant state of activity, such a city as New York. Now the mayor, Mr. Whalen, Mr. Wallander, Commissioner Wallander, Commissioner Whalen are coming back. And Mr. Whalen is about ready to take up the program again. Now Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen. The importance of this occasion is attested by the presence on this platform and in the audience of the citizenry of New York and the leaders in our communal effort here of civil defense. We have not only represented the Army, the Navy, the Air Corps, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, but also the president of civil, civic organizations, as well as the state director of civil defense and the director of the city's civil defense office. In addition to that, we have our own distinguished mayor, all of whom will speak to you. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you the state director of civil defense, Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson. Mr. Whalen, Mr. Whalen, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure for me, speaking on behalf of the State Civil Defense Commission, to participate in the opening of this new venture. The public spiritedness and generosity of Mr. Skouros in making the theater available has been followed up most magnificently by Mr. Wallander and his staff in developing a program and a series of exhibits on civil defense that I know will be an inspiration to all of our fellow citizens in New York City. I hope that after having passed through these exhibits, there will be no question in any of your minds as to the importance of civil defense and your place in it as a citizen. The director of civil defense of the city of New York, the Honorable Arthur Wallander. Commissioner Whalen, Mayor Impuletary, Colonel Wilkinson, ladies and gentlemen, again, I am up here on Broadway appealing for volunteers. No one can do that better than Grover Whalen, as indicated by this magnificent ceremonial effort here. You all know that we have a fracas in Korea. It's more than a fracas. It's a real war. You all know, too, that we are in a vulnerable spot over here. No one is safe anywhere in the world if there's a belligerent nation opposing us. For that reason, we are asking for volunteers. The civil defense organization in the city has developed. It has gone a long way. We still have a long ways to go. One of the reasons that we haven't developed faster is because of the lack of volunteers. And as you know, this is not one man's fight. It's everybody's fight. Everybody should get into it and do their part. I wouldn't be misled by the truce negotiations that are taking place in Kaesong at the present time. I urge you to not be let into any indifference because of that. I urge you to come to the front here and sign up with Mr. Whalen's recruiting officers. They're here, and we ask you to come in now and sign. Thank you very much. The First Army is represented here by General William Hamilton, who will speak on behalf of General Crittenberger. Mr. Whalen, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'm privileged to be here today representing First Army. To all of us who have witnessed the devastation that sudden attack can bring to a city, we all realize the importance of a strong, coordinated, well-trained, and equipped civil defense. Insofar as First Army is concerned, it stands 100% behind the civil defense in this area and wants to cooperate to its fullest. Thank you. The Air Corps is represented here today by Brigadier General Clyde Mitchell. First Army Air Corps. Mr. Whalen, Mr. Mayor, Wallinger, Wilkinson, the Air Force wants to be represented here today so you will know that it realizes the great need for the civilian defense movement. Any attack that we may have may come with great suddenness and devastation. You must be organized, prepared, and have people to lessen the death, the damage, destruction that may come through such action. Our forefathers didn't particularly sign a pledge of allegiance or list to serve, but whenever there was a danger, they left their plow, picked up their gun, and went to work. Things were rather simple in those days. They are more complicated today. So I urge you to join in this movement, find your place in it, become well-trained so you can do an adequate and sufficient job. Captain John McCutcheon, Inspector General and Civil Defense Liaison Officer of the 3rd Naval District. Mr. Whalen, Mr. Mayor, Colonel Wilkinson, Commissioner Wallinger, the importance of civil defense as a civilian activity is one that you all must realize. Planning can be done by a few people. The work of civil defense must be done by you volunteers, and you must be trained. It is something that cannot be done overnight, and I hope that you will all join in this concerted effort to make our civil defense set up the perfect, unified thing that it should be. Thank you. The Coast Guard is represented by its intelligent and law enforcement officer of the 3rd Coast Guard District, Captain W.P. Capron. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, the Coast Guard and I myself are very glad to be here with the other armed forces to assist in any way we can, both the actual operation of civil defense and the recruiting of volunteers. Thank you. Thank you. The Chairman of the Entertainment Industry of not only New York City but the world, the Honorable James Sautner. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Wallander, Grover, I just want on behalf of the entertainment industry of the City of New York to pledge to you the full and wholehearted support in every phase of the work of civil defense and as an example of what we are prepared to do in the entertainment industry and the sports industry for civil defense in the city, we have on the platform with us six of the most charming ladies and gentlemen of the theater and of radio and of television and motion pictures as a symbol of our devotion to our city. And we've also asked them if they are going to sign up for civil defense and all of them have said that they would and immediately following the ceremonies here they are going to take their pledges and sign their name in the book and take whatever assignments are given to them. It's my pleasure to present to you one of the most beautiful ladies of stage, screen, radio, the star of affairs of state, our very, very dear friend, June Havoc. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, distinguished gentlemen of the armed forces, ladies and gentlemen, hiya. I only have one thing to say, and that is that the last time we had this effort, we showed a remarkable trait that I don't think has been bested anywhere in the whole world, a trait of togetherness. And I think that this time, with the rehearsal we had of the last time, that we ought to even best that, if we can all get together as we did before and as we always do and show our togetherness. What do you say? God bless. Thank you, June. And now one of the radio and television stars of our city in a motion picture presentation, House star as well, featured currently on Stop the Music and Family Circle, Dick Brown. Dick. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. They try to tell us we're too young, too young to really be in love. They say that love's a word, a word we've only heard, but can't begin to know the meaning of. And yet we're not too young to know. This love will last, though years may go. And then someday they may recall, We were not too young at all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dick. At the piano, we have, as always at these affairs, Bud Gregg. Thank you, Bud, very much for a wonderful accompaniment. And I'd also like to thank at this time the members of the various unions of the theater, the craft unions, and the talent unions, who have so generously extended their cooperation to civil defense in permitting their members to appear here. Gratis. I see standing out here Vincent Jacoby. I know someplace in the crowd. Henry Dunn of the American Guild of Variety, artists at present. Mr. Bert Lyteller. Someplace around here I know. And Mr. Charles Ucci of Musicians Local 802. To all of them, we're deeply grateful in civil defense. And now, without the benefit of a river to swim in, I suggest that he might want to swim here today, but he said on dry land he's very little good, great star of radio, television, and one of the greatest sportsmen of our time, Mr. Buster Crabb. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to cooperate as much as I possibly can in this movement of civil defense. And I think there's a job for each and every one of us. And as Mr. Whelan says, the mayor says, and everybody else, we've all joined up, and I hope you people out there listening in and watching in will join too. Thanks very much, and God bless you all. And I'm an American, Dave, this year. I had the pleasure of introducing to the mayor and to Mr. Wallinger and Mr. Whelan a young man who has become absolutely the heartthrob of New York and the heartthrob of show business. He's just been out to the coast for a one-day stand in which he signed a contract, I believe, with Metro. Is that the name of the company? I'm not supposed to say Metro in front of a scorer's house, but you've got to mention something. The star, the star co-star with Ethel Merman of Call Me Madam, Mr. Russell Knipe. It's really a great privilege to be invited here to sing a song for you this afternoon, and I was asked to sing one chorus of It's a Lovely Day Today. It's a lovely day today. So whatever you've got to do, you've got a lovely day to do it in. That's true. And I hope whatever you've got to do, for I'd really like to stay. It's a lovely day today. And whatever you've got to do, I'd be so happy to be doing it with you. But if you've got something that must be done, and it can only be done by one, there is nothing more to say, except it's a lovely day for saying, it's a lovely day. And now from another great hit on Broadway, a great star of the concert world and of the opera world, and currently starred, co-starred with Gertrude Lawrence in The King and I. I understand it takes her hours to put on the makeup, and so I know she's going directly from here to the theater for tonight's performance. Our very own Dorothy Sonoff of Brooklyn, New York. Thank you. I'm sure most of you know this old tune. There are people who sing in the showers, even though they can't carry a tune. They will vocalize loudly for hours, singing stardust or silvery moon. Sing, everyone sing. Sing, everyone sing. All of your troubles will vanish like bubbles. Sing, everyone sing. But for today, I've written a few lyrics, which apply to this very special occasion. Let's all rally to safeguard our city, for the danger is present and clear. You can't count on the enemy's pity. Let's preserve all the things we hold dear. And join, everyone join. Join, everyone join. Step up and line up. Let everyone sign up. Join, everyone join. Join, everyone join. Join, everyone join. Step up and line up. Let everyone sign up. Join, everyone join. Join, everyone, join. Dorothy, I'm sure everyone out there is going to join the minute we're through with the ceremonies up here. And on behalf of the Entertainment Industry Committee, I want to thank the Scurus organization personified here by Nick John Matsukas, who has been of great help to us, Mr. Montague Salmon, the manager of the Riverley Theater, who has always been a sweetheart in all these things. Mr. Whalen, that is the sample of the offering of the people of the theater, of television, radio, nightclubs, and the opera world to you and civil defense. Mr. Mayor, they're always your people. You've been one of the greatest friends you and Commissioner Whalen of the Theater has ever known, and we're deeply appreciative of all you've done for us. Thank you. I'd like to acknowledge the presence here of a number of members of the clergy, representing Cardinal Spellman, Monsignor Waller-Kellenberg, representing the Bishop of New York, Cathedral St. John's Divine, Canon Edward West, and the Archbishop of North and South America is represented by Reverend Athamas. It's unnecessary for me to present to you the next speaker. He's a man that did the impossible, and we always enjoy men who do impossible things. And if there is one man in the country that did an impossible thing, it is our next speaker. I give you the Honorable Vincent Impelteri, Mayor of the City of New York. Thank you. I think this outpouring today is a clear demonstration of how the people of the City of New York react towards civil defense. We're particularly indebted to Mr. Scurrus for having turned over to us, gratis, this theater right in the heart of the theatrical industry, which evinces the enthusiasm of the employers and of the entertainment world towards the great need for civil defense. Those of us who have lived with civil defense for a long period of time know of the tremendous need for the right kind of a civil defense program. There's no difference of opinion on civil defense between the national administration, the state administration, and the city administration. We all are in complete accord that civil defense is a vital need of every community throughout the length and breadth of the entire United States of America. When Buster Crabby, a moment ago, thought that he had slipped, when he meant to say civil defense, and he dropped the word and said self-defense, Buster, I'm happy to tell you that you said exactly the right thing, because civil defense is basically and essentially self-defense. That's exactly what it is. Here in the city of New York, we have had a full-fledged campaign on for civil defense for a long period of time. Outstanding men here in our city, like Commissioner Wallander, who heads up our civil defense here in the city of New York, has taken time out from a very busy business life to devote his entire time, seven days a week, towards promoting and giving the city of New York the right kind of a civil defense program. Grover Whalen is in exactly the same category. He's also a very busy man. But he's not too busy to take on the tremendous job of recruitment and information in our civil defense efforts in order to do the right kind of a job for his community. To men like that, the city of New York is necessarily indebted. However, I'm going to let you in on a little secret. So far, the people of the city of New York have responded, but they have not responded in kind at all. This is everybody's job. If you look at these exhibits, if you learn to know what atom attack really means, I know that no one of you will hesitate for a moment in signing up and signing up immediately. We feel that here in the city of New York, we need a minimum of one million volunteers. That is the lowest possible requirement. So far, although we have had a full-fledged campaign on for civil defense volunteers going back over a period of months, so far, we've only been able to secure approximately one-third of our quota, about 335,000 volunteers. We need a million, and we need them quickly. The American public, when aroused, gets to work, and they get to work real fast. This experience in civil defense is no exception. We're a peaceful people. We don't covet anybody else's land. We don't desire to trespass on anybody else's liberties. That's the American tradition. That's what we all believe in. And going along with that basic philosophy, the average American doesn't start to really gather steam until his toes are trespassed upon. So that in World War No. 2, we had to have a Pearl Harbor. I'm positive that if we had had anything like a Pearl Harbor, instead of reaching our quota of a million, today we would have exceeded that quota by millions. So far, of course, we've had an incident in Korea. Not too many people have been affected. Korea is pretty far off. But believe me, as the men representing our armed forces have already told you, the need is urgent, and it's right with us today. Because it happened in Korea only a few months ago, there's no reason why it couldn't happen in the city of New York right now, at the very moment that we're assembled here, at this very busy spot in the Times Square section of New York. So may I ask you to get behind your national government, to get behind your state government, represented here today by Colonel Wilkinson, who represents the state setup on civil defense. Get behind Arthur Wallander. Get behind Grover Whalen. And beyond and above all that, get behind America and volunteer for civil defense. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'd also like to acknowledge the presence here of the chairman of the five boroughs of the Office of Coordinator of Recruiting and Public Information. They come from the Bronx, they come from Brooklyn, they come from Queens, Staten Island, and Manhattan. It's a great pleasure for me to see them all here, and I'm sure that they'll all be at their booths in a very short time. Mr. Mayor, we're going to ask you to do the very pleasant job of unfurling the first CD flag. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whalen is now taking the halyards over to the mayor so that he may unfurl this civilian defense flag. The location of this ceremony is under the canopy of the Rivoli Theater here at 50th Street and Broadway. And you've heard the speeches in connection with this ceremony here today to speed up the recruitment of civilian defense. Mayor Impeleteri has made a plea for one million volunteers for civilian defense in the essential plan for survival. There goes the civilian defense banner right up over the canopy here of the Rivoli Theater. There's a large banner that has been stretched across Broadway from the Brill Building to the Rivoli Theater. When you see this banner, please don't mistake it for mere decoration. It's very essential that you join up and do your part in civilian defense. Well, the thing is snarled up, but the rope got off the pulley. As ropes will even on a pulley line around the house. Especially when the wash is out in the middle of the yard and you can't get it one way or the other. Well, the mayor straightened that one up. Up goes the banner now. Mr. Whalen referred to Mayor Impeleteri doing the impossible. Well, he did that one very well. After they all tried, the mayor took a hold of it. You know, the mayor used to be a sailor. He was a radio operator on a destroyer during the First World War. So he's pretty close to radio, too. In fact, I think there's very few subjects that he isn't close to. And he's gazing very admiringly now at the banner on orders from the photographers. And the banner is now unfurled here, the First Civilian Defense banner. And Mr. Whalen will take the microphone in just a moment. Mr. Whalen. We'll conclude the ceremony by having a member of the First Army Band sing God Save America, following which we hope that you will all come in and not only sign up, but inspect the exhibits in the theater. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you Private Julian Patrick, who will sing God Save America. applause God bless America, land that I love, Stand beside her and guide her Through the night by the light from above From the mountains to the prairies To the oceans white with foam God bless America My home sweet home God bless America My home sweet home Mr. Whelan I think as a final note, thank you Private Patrick It's a great pleasure for us to listen to you again I think Mr. Spiritschorris Jr. would like to issue a personal invitation To all of you to come into the theater because Is it air condition? It's air condition Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Wallander, Mr. Grover Whelan The Scores Theaters Corporation Is proud to make the Rivoli Theater available To the Office of the Coordinator Of Recruiting and Public Information for Civil Defense This theater located at the crossroads Of our great city Is the center of attraction For every man, woman, and child Seeking wholesome entertainment Now the Rivoli Theater In cooperation with the Office of Civil Defense Invites every man and woman Of New York City's five boroughs To come here To enlist in civil defense To protect their families and homes In making the Rivoli Theater available For the recruiting of Civil Defense volunteers The Scores Theaters Corporation Is again affirming Its belief that the theater Is a community Center And should serve the people Not only in entertainment But also for the benefit And well-being of its community Mr. Mayor Commissioner Wallander And Mr. Whelan The Rivoli Theater is yours To further your plan For enlisting One million Civil Defense volunteers Thank you, Mr. Scores This will conclude our Falling part of our program We hope you will all Sign up Just heard Mr. Scores Offer of the Rivoli Theater To everybody from the five boroughs In the Great Theater District of New York To join up here At the Rivoli Theater The Mayor of the City of New York Request one million Civil Defense volunteers To bring the Civil Defense Organization up To its essential plan for survival And that is important When Buster Crabb slipped and said Self-defense He really said what was meant When we say civil defense In the presence of the Mayor Of the City of New York The Director of the State Civil Defense Organization Director Wallander Of our City Organization And the Honorable Grove Ray Whelan Chairman of the Mayor's Committee For Recruitment And Public Information Of Civilian Defense We brought you this program From the Rivoli Theater At Broadway and 50th Street The first Army band Were the musical feature Of the program And it certainly was a pleasure To see a soldier Being applauded By the stars of Broadway When he sang God Bless America And we reiterate his sentiments As excellently As he sang the song That's all from the Rivoli Theater We return you now To the studios And the program In progress WNYC New York City's Own Station Joins once again With WNYC-FM To bring you Our regularly scheduled programs To the Aladin To the time Action которую The navigate To the Infinity Serious Railroad And we duh To the Аndi to the Through diploma You And you To the отправ spoke Of horrific To theWA Because The Newark誇 Ew Omega declare ArX год Food Guy Either