We now present George Edwards as the Hunchback of Notre Dame. The story of the Hunchback of Notre Dame is perhaps the most colourful and thrilling tale that ever came from the pen of the master novelist Victor Hugo. The scene is laid in Paris in the 15th century, a Paris that was but a shadow of the great city which we know today. The citizens of Paris at that time took their lead and based their lives on the commands of their royal rulers, and the kings of France at that period were great believers in the divine right of kings. Now let us pay a visit to Paris on the 6th of January in the year 1482. It is a public holiday and by royal command the Feast of Fools is to be celebrated. This feast was a semi-religious ceremony and has fallen into disuse during recent years, but it was an occasion for much joy and merrymaking for the people of Paris in 1482. On the day in question a vast crowd had gathered outside the cathedral of Notre Dame. Great was the noise and the clamour produced by the cries of some people, the laughter of others and the trampling of thousands of feet. Doors, windows, loopholes in the roofs of houses swarmed with thousands of citizens gazing at the cathedral and at the crowd. A platform had been erected in the front of the cathedral steps, and on that platform we find Pierre Grinoir, a young poet addressing the assembled crowd. Citizens of Paris! Today we celebrate the Feast of Fools, and his evidence the Cardinal of Bourbon has honoured me by asking me to write a play to celebrate this feast. The actors are ready to step upon the platform to play their parts, but we cannot start just at present, because his eminence the Cardinal has been detained. But as soon as he arrives, the play will commence! A big for the Cardinal, a big for the Cardinal! Well, the people of Paris kept waiting. Let us see this play, master poet. Please! Please! The play will not start until the Cardinal arrives. Who are you to give orders? We are the people and we say the play shall start now. I am Pierre Grinoir, a writer of rhymes, and I desire his eminence the Cardinal to witness my play. We shall not start yet. Who are you who speak so boldly? I am Johan de Molang, the brother of Dom Frollo, Archdeacon of the Cathedral. We care not for this poet. Let us make our own play, my friends. I will mount the platform and address you. Today is the Feast of Fools. Today is the day the people make merry, and it is our privilege to elect a King of Fools. Ah, I notice that you agree with me, my friends. I nominate the candidate to be the King of Fools. He must be the ugliest, the most revolting-looking man in all Paris. And there is only one man I know who fits that description. And that is Quasimodo the Hunchback. When he steps out of the cathedral, we shall crown him and declare him King of Fools. And we shall take him in a triumphal march through the streets. See, here I have the paper crown which we shall place upon his head. Hear me, Master Jahan. I am Clopang Troifo, the leader of the parish vagabonds. It shall be my pleasure to place the crown on Quasimodo's head. Yes! Come, Clopang. Come, step up onto the platform. You shall be the cardinal of fools this day. And you shall place the crown on Quasimodo's head. He will step straight onto the platform when it comes through the doors of Notre Dame. My friends, my friends, I must protest against all this. Have you no thought for me? I am young. This play is my first great work. Will you not watch it and listen to it? It may bring me great fame. Enough from you, Master Poet. We do not wish to see your foolish play. Look! The doors of the cathedral are opening. Who comes forth? Why, it is Quasimodo, the King of Fools. Quasimodo, come! Come! Come! Quasimodo, step onto the platform. A great honor awaits you. You make a mock of me, Master Yaha. We do not make a mock of you. Your brother is my friend. He is my master. And because of that, I have not harmed you when you have made me the butt of your wit. But I warn you to have a care, Master Yaha. You dare to threaten me, Quasimodo? I do not threaten. I warn. Then, if the warning is not taken, I attack. I am Quasimodo. I know the people regard me with fear. I know they hide their children when I approach. And I know they hate me. But I do not mean them any harm. And I would someday like to tell them that. Hear me, Quasimodo. Today we have high honor for you. High honor for me? Si. Here is Clopang, the king of the vagabonds. Ready to place a crown on your head. You are to be the king of fools. I... I have been chosen as the king of fools. Yes, Quasimodo. You have been chosen. Are you not proud of the honor? Why have I been chosen? I will tell you why. The king of fools must be the ugliest man in Paris. You win easily. You have a mouth like a horseshoe. You have irregular teeth which are like the battlements of a fortress. One of which sticks out over you like the tusk-covered elephants. Your nose spreads all over the upper part of your face. Tell me, my friends. Is he not the king of fools because of his extreme beauty? Quiet! Quiet, you dogs. Hear me. Today you make merry, and I am to take part in your merriment. No longer am I an outcast. No longer shall you spit upon me and shun me in the street. I am to be the king of fools, and I shall all know no happiness. I thank you for this honor, your heart. It is indeed a high honor, Quasimodo. Yeah. Never before. Never before have the people laughed with joy when they look upon me. Now they laugh. Now they sound happy. And I am feeling a little happiness, too, where the crown. Where is the crown? I protest, Quasimodo. Go back to the cathedral. My play is to take place first. You would dare to rob me of my triumph? Go. Go, I tell you. Off the platform. Keep your hands off me, or I will hurl you into the crown. I will not be torn out. Quasimodo! You have some strength. You hurl that fellow ten pages into the crown. See, he has fallen to the ground senseless. The crowning, the crowning. Place the crown upon my head. Come, Tobang, the coronation. Quasimodo the Huntsback. The bell-ringer of Notre Dame. I declare you king of fools. And I place the crown of honor upon your head. Laugh, you fools. Laugh, you fools. Laugh, you fools. Laugh, you fools. Laugh, you fools. Jeer at me. But I am happy. For one day I am a king. The king of fools. And you are my subjects. And you are fools. Fools, all of you. Jeering, sneering fools. I hurt you. I hurt you. I hurt you. I hurt you. And so Quasimodo was elected the king of fools. Then he was carried through the streets on a specially prepared litter. Everywhere could be heard the name Quasimodo. The people cheered and jeered alternatively. As the monstrous hunchback was carried along. At last the procession ended. And Yehan de Moulin and Clopin Troffaut stood beside the hunchback. As his litter was lowered to the ground. Well, that is the end of it. Your little hour is over, Quasimodo. Return to your cathedral as a bell-ringer. And give me that crown. Ah, I shall keep the crown. It shall be to my memory. A memory of a brief moment when Quasimodo the hunchback was almost as other men. When he joined in the merriment of the people. And you a little triumph. Seek not to take this crown from me, Clopin Troffaut. You ugly hunchback fool. I want that crown. We are having another little ceremony at the inn of the vagabonds tonight. Give it to me. You will not have this crown, I say. You will not take my crown from me. Back, Clopin Troffaut. Approach me at your peril. Quasimodo the hunchback is no longer a carefree merrymaker. He is an object of scorn and fear. And I warn you to fear me. Seek not to lay hands on me. Or to take that which is mine. What? You would defy me? You foolish fellow. You wish to keep the crown as a memento of your little hour of triumph. Now I have it. Get back to the cathedral. Give me the crown. Give me the crown. Oh, give him the crown, Clopin. Why do you want a piece of pasteboard? Come. Let us join in the revelry. The crowd are waiting for us. I will come. You do not need your crown, Quasimodo. So I do not need my crown, eh? Give me my crown. Give me my crown. Stay, Clopin. I have you now. Oh, hunchback fool. Let me go. Do you take this thing seriously? Do you really think you are a king? Why, you poor fool. The people wanted to laugh at your hunchback and your ugliness. Ah, you said they wanted to laugh at my hunchback. Very well. They shall see how far I can bend your back, Clopin. Ah! You are killing me. Let me go. Let him go, Quasimodo. Clopin shall die. Oh, my back. Oh, a little snap in a moment. Quasimodo. Let that man go. Do you hear me? Ah, my master. I go to my knees before I go. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. Before you. As that strange deep voice rang out, Quasimodo fell upon his knees and looked up at the man who had given the order. Who is the stranger that Quasimodo fears? What will become of the hunchback? We shall hear that in the next episode of the Hunchback of Notre Dame. The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Father Dame. Let him go. Let him go. Let him go. THE END We now present George Edwards as the hunchback of Notre Dame. In the previous episode, we heard how Quasimodo, the hunchback bell-ringer of the Cathedral of Notre Dame, had been elected King of Fools in Paris. He was carried through the streets in a triumphal procession, but at the end of the procession he had a quarrel with Clopang Tropeau, King of the Vagabonds. Johan de Moulin tried to interfere. The hunchback pushed him aside, caught hold of Clopang, and was just about to break his back when a deep commanding voice ordered the hunchback to his knees. Quasimodo released Clopang and fell on his knees before a tall, dark, forbidding man, who was none other than Dom Frollo, the brother of Johan de Moulin, and the archdeacon of the Cathedral of Notre Dame. What does this mean, Quasimodo? Who gave you permission to leave the Cathedral? Oh, my master, the people elected me as King of Fools, and I thought I might snatch a little pleasure. I am displeased with you, Quasimodo. You are an ingrate. Did I not take you in and give you the shelter of the Cathedral? Have I not given you work and taught you how to ring the bells? My master, I have done nothing wrong. It was my pleasure that they should crown me King of Fools. There is little enough pleasure and merriment in my life. You say you have done no wrong. I have been speaking with the poet Gringoire. Did you not hurl him from the platform? Yes, but the man attempted to thwart me. He tried to stop them from crowning me as King of Fools. You will be whipped, Quasimodo. I will teach you to obey the orders of your master. After all I have done for you, after all I have tried to teach you, you show the basest ingratitude. You had no right to leave the Cathedral without my permission. And you had no right to attack the poet. I ask your pardon, Donald Frollo. As for you, my brother Johan, what does this disgraceful revelry mean? Because you are my brother, it does not give you the right to interfere with my pleasures. Quasimodo the Hunchback was doing no harm, and it pleased us to call him the King of Fools. I advise you not to defy me, Johan. As for you, Master Clopang, you are a rogue and a vagabond. If I see you about here again, I will order the King's officers to give you a whipping. I did not mean any harm, Donald Frollo. If I had my way, we would not have these days of revelry. They seek only to encourage vagabonds and the scum of Paris to find their pleasures beneath the walls of the great Cathedral. You give yourself eye on mighty ears. Are not the people entitled to a little pleasure? Must we always live like rats in dark places? You are insolent. Another word from you, and I will see that the King's soldiers seize you and lash you until you scream for mercy. Now, go, fellow. Hello. Laura Esmeralda is coming this way. What does this mean? Who is Laura Esmeralda? Tell me, Johan. Laura Esmeralda is a gypsy girl. No one knows where she comes from, but everyone in Paris worships her wondrous beauty. She has a wonderful goat which performs many magical tricks. See, she comes now, my brother. Laura Esmeralda. Stop, girl. Who are you? What is your name? I am called Laura Esmeralda. But who are you to question me? I am Dom Frollo, the Archdeacon of the Cathedral of Notre Dame. What sorcery do you practice? What is this foolery with that white goat? I have trained the goat to do certain simple tricks, Dom Frollo. It amuses the crowd and they give me money. Let me see the goat do these magical tricks. I will hold out my tambourine and the goat will strike the tambourine with its hoof. Watch, Dom Frollo. Come, Charlie. Tell me what month of the year is this? The first, second, or the third? You see, my brother? The goat tapped once on the tambourine. This is the first month of the year. There is nothing very wonderful in that. Come, gypsy woman. What else can this goat do? I will show you. Charlie, what day of the month is this? Strike on tambourine. It is the sixth day of January. Is it not marvellous that the goat can be trained to do that? It is witchcraft. I set my face against such practices. You who are called Esmeralda must come to speak with me at the cathedral. Otherwise, I may have you burned as a witch. I have no witch. I am just a simple gypsy girl. Let me live in peace and happiness. All gypsies are scoundrels. But there is hope for you. You are young and may be saved to become an honest, upright, God-fearing citizen. Reverend Father, you have not the right to condemn me as a person of wickedness. I earn my living honestly. And there are many worse than Esmeralda in Paris. I will not come to your cathedral. And I say now that you have no power. I have power over you. As an officer of the church, I have seen you practise power witchcraft. That goat is possessed of an evil spirit. Unless you come to me and learn to pray for forgiveness, I have ways and means of taming your proud spirit and sending you to be burned at the stake. The people of Paris are my friends. I have grown up amongst these people, and they know that I am no witch. Oh, sake not to frighten me with your strength. You are insolent. Hear my orders. You will come to the cathedral tomorrow. You will ask for Dom Frollo. If you do not come, the king's officers will seek you out. Now, go your way in peace. I will go. Come, Charlie. The girl is quite harmless, my brother. Jahan, I beg that you remember that you are my brother. It is not fitting that you should speak in defence of this wandering gypsy. It is my duty to question her and find if she practices witchcraft. Claude, you are so puffed up with your own importance that at times you forget to reason clearly. I like that girl, and I say she means no harm. Silence, fool. Come, Quasimodo. Follow me. We shall return to the cathedral. Ah, ah, ah. And so Quasimodo returned to the cathedral with his master Dom Frollo. Johan and Clopin went to a tavern nearby, which was the headquarters of the Parisian underworld, and there much feasting and revelry took place. In the meantime, Pierre Grinoir, the poet, had recovered from his heavy fall and was wandering about in the streets of Paris. Darkness fell, and still Grinoir wandered on. Suddenly, he heard the clatter of horses' hooves, and he saw that a detachment of the king's soldiers had galloped into the street. Grinoir hid in a doorway and watched what took place. Hold there, you men. I wish to speak to the gypsy girl who is approaching. Come now, Esmeralda. I have been looking for you. What do you want with me, Captain Phoebus? I wish to tell you of my love. You know that I worship you. Come away with me. Leave Paris with me, and somewhere we will find happiness together. Oh, go and leave me in peace. You are Captain Phoebus Chateauper, one of the king's officers. I am a poor gypsy girl. Cannot a king's officer love a poor gypsy girl? Hear me, Captain Phoebus. There is no love in my heart for you. For days you have persecuted me and tried to force your attentions on me. I only ask to be left in peace. Someday I may find happiness, but not with you. I know not who you are, but your beauty maddens me. For days I have watched you. I have always wanted to hold you in my arms. Are you a witch that you have cast some spell over me, making me love you against my will? I do not want your love. I do not even wish you to speak with me. You are no gypsy, I swear it. Hearken to me. I would do anything to win your heart and hand. Ah, but would you marry me? Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. Marry a wandering gypsy girl? Are you mad? You said a moment ago you did not believe I was a gypsy. I hardly know what I am saying. I do know this. You are a captain in the king's army, and I am but a wandering gypsy. We have nothing in common, and I beg that in future you will avoid me. You have your life to live, and I have mine. I want you to share my life with me. Oh, that is impossible. Nothing is impossible. Love can surmount all obstacles. Enough! Do not speak of love to me. Why, you are betrothed to one of the ladies of the court. I wish to forget about my betrothal. I am mad with love for you, Esmeralda. I have watched you many times, and you are unbelievably beautiful. I offer you my hand and my heart. Captain Phoebe Chateau-Pelle, I want neither your hand nor your heart. All I desire is to be left in peace. Esmeralda, you madden me. No one knows who you are or where you come from. For all I know, you may be a great lady in disguise. I ask you for the last time to come with me. And for the last time, I refuse. Very well, you refuse. Now, I do not ask you. I order you. Let me go. I have you, Esmeralda. I shall throw you across my horse and gallop away with you. Let me go. Please, Captain Phoebus, let me go. Let that girl go. Who is this who dares to interfere? I am Pierre Gringoire, the poet, and I have the patronage of Dom Follor of Notre Dame. I order you to let that girl go. Out of my way. I care not who you are. Come, Esmeralda. No, you shall not take me. No, you shall not take her. I will show you, master poet. Let the girl go, I am. Oh, why you have killed him. So much for your weakling poet. Now I shall drag you on my horse. Then we shall gallop away and find happiness together. Help, help. Let the girl go. The hunchback. Away, hunchback. This is no concern of yours. Let her go, I say. Let her go. The hunchback advanced towards Captain Phoebus. Esmeralda struggled to free herself. Will Quasimodo be able to rescue the girl? What strange fate lies in store for the hunchback of Notre Dame? Be sure to hear the next episode of the hunchback of Notre Dame. The hunchback of Notre Dame.