And I think we've got an awful lot to be concerned about here in New York. Though officially we are today, due to the United Nations, the capital city of the world, we believe we always were the capital city of the world, and we hope to continue as such. And in order to do that all, we felt, the Business Executive Advisory Committee of the Department of Commerce, felt that outside of meeting by ourselves as we do once a month, to see in what way possible we can be of help to our city, that it might be advisable to get together on occasions such as this. It may not always be in the form of a dinner. It may be in the form of just a meeting after our regular businessmen's meeting. Today we are meeting for the improvement of harbors. Next month it may be for the benefit of the emperial industry. The following month it may be for the benefit of television, and so forth and so on. That's the purpose of this meeting, and this is the first one of its kind. And I think that we should all be grateful, and we're going to try and carry on in such a manner that this can be the beginning of a lot of good towards what I know and we all know our mayor would like to see happen to our city. And I think we can derive a lot of benefit and a lot of good to the citizens of our city. And so, with that in mind, and also having in mind what the mayor planned when he originally, on the 1st of January of 1948, made this more or less an official body for the 1st of January of 2019, for the one purpose of keeping business in New York, helping business in New York, and if possible to bring new business to our city. Before I'm going to call on the 1st gentleman to say a few words, who is here tonight, more or less in semi-official capacity on behalf of the mayor, I'm going to first ask everyone here at this table to just raise their hand when I call his name, so we can all become acquainted and feel right at home with one another. However, we've done that pretty well outside, but I think it's advisable that we know each other by name and where we come from and so forth. William Dalyu, the executive secretary for the mayor. Jim Sorter, president of Air Features, deputy commissioner of this department. On my left. Mr. Emmett McCormick, vice president of Moore McCormick Lines. Mr. George Gross of Gross Morton Company. Mr. Wilson Newman, vice president of Dun & Bradstreet. Mr. W. J.P. Smith, manager and vice president of Auerbach's. George L. Armour of the American Ambulance Products. George. From the Department of Marine and Aviation, we have here Commissioner Manetti, who you all know, and Mr. Lewis Ravitch, the chief engineer. From Washington, just flew in, our representative, Arthur Klein. From the New York Harbor Dredging Committee, Colonel William Wanamaker, district engineer for New York City, and Colonel Harry Fisher, executive officer of the United States, Army engineer. From the Port of New York Authority, Mr. Walter P. Hedden, director, Department of Port Development, the Port of New York Authority. And Mr. Frank Herring, chief of planning, Bureau of Department of Port Development, the Port of New York. Two gentlemen were here on left of the United States Department of Commerce, Mr. John McKinnon, and Mr. Benjamin Gordon. At the lead. And the Department of Commerce subcommittee for the Port of New York, Mr. Ray Fox, executive vice president. Fox. Of the Moran Towing and Transportation Company. And Mr. Alpha T. Pouch, Jr., representing his father, who was a member of our board, the American Dock Company. And Mr. R.J. Baker, secretary, treasurer of American American Marine Institute. From the Department of Commerce, our director, Mr. Frank Lee Donahue. And deputy director, Mr. Sean Cady. Our chief economist, Mr. Herman Rappaport. And our administrative assistant, Mr. Morgan Sheehan. And Miss Mattson, secretary to the department. And also the rest of the associates of our department. And now I'm going to ask on the executive, who's still drinking his coffee. I should give him a chance, but we'll break in on him. I don't think he's going to mind. The executive secretary to the mayor, who has made all this possible and really wants to see their job done, Bill Daniel. This makes me doubly nervous because it looks more like a grand jury. But I do bring the boss's regards. He told me to come up here and see that Abe behaved himself and that everyone had a good time. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm going to ask the press that the next gentleman I'm going to call upon that his talk be off record. Inasmuch as he's going to give us certain figures and facts that concern the Army, and I think it's important that we keep it off record. I'm going to ask Colonel William Wanamaker to really open this meeting for discussion of this evening. Thank you, Colonel Wanamaker. I'm now going to call upon a young man who has, within a short period of time, as commissioner of marine and aviation of the city of New York, become what is in the judgment of most people the top man in the department of that time throughout the country. His work, his energy, and his ability is definitely outstanding. Commissioner Joe Manetti. Commissioner Stark, Congressman Klein, Bill, and friends. You know, all night long I worried about that, Ern. I thought the mic was underneath there. Now I see that it's right before me. You know, I'm a man of a very suspicious character and nature. I spent, I guess, 15 or 20 years of my life investigating and prosecuting, so I'm always very suspicious when I see objects of that kind on the table. I'm always afraid that somebody's trying to record a conversation that perhaps shouldn't be recorded. I'm very happy to be here tonight to be able to participate in this discussion. I didn't come prepared to make a speech. I'm like Bill Duny, you. I don't like to speak in public. I like to listen. I find I learn by listening. I can't learn if I do all the talking and don't give somebody else a chance to speak. I thought perhaps I'd be subjected to a barrage of questions. I came prepared. I brought with me my chief engineer whom I'm sure can answer any technical question that might be put for me. So I just sat back here hoping that Commissioner Stark would not call upon me but would merely subject me to some questions that might be pounded by the members who are present here tonight. But after listening to Colonel Wanamaker, I'm glad that you called me, Abe, because I would like to say something about this port, this great port of New York City. You know, as you said, Colonel, it is the greatest and the finest port in the world. Commissioner Stark said that we have eight million people here in New York City and if statistics will bear me out, you'll find that one out of every ten of the people gainfully employed in New York depend upon the commerce that comes into this port for a livelihood. That's one out of every ten. of eight million people. So that makes this port of ours a very important port. It's important because of the commerce that comes into this port. The commerce can come into this port because we have a fine natural harbor with great facilities. I doubt that you will find in any other port in the world the same facilities that are presented here, the same fine natural harbor that you have here. We're all aware of the use that the Army and Navy put this port to during the last world war. In no other port could the commerce have come in and out as it did from this particular port. Now, the mayor of the city of New York has been aware of the importance of this port to the city. The city has grown, it's flourished, it's developed because of the port of New York, because of the commerce that has come into this port. Unfortunately, during the past administration, very little was done to improve the port. I think the port facilities were subordinated to the development of their ports. And for that reason, our facilities suffered to some extent. Rehabilitation, which was necessary, was not carried out. Modernization was also neglected. And of course, there was very little new construction. Mayor O'Dryer, when he took office, realized the importance of maintaining this port as the finest port in the world, to have here the facilities which are necessary for efficient handling of cargo. And of course, facilities to attract commerce to this particular port. And with that view in mind, as you know, he invited several agencies to make studies towards the improvement of this particular port. And out of those studies, there came a plan that was proposed by the department, of which I am honored to be the commissioner. A plan which was approved, a plan which was formulated after conferences with the people in the industry, the shipping industry, and allied industries, the people who use our facilities here, the people who know just what they require in the line of port facilities. And it's, of course, you know, one of my primary functions is to provide marine terminals for waterborne commerce. Our plan calls for the expenditure of about $58 million. Our $58 million, of course, will go for new construction, for rehabilitation, and for modernization. $50 million, of the $58 million, will be devoted to new construction in this port. Our plan calls for the expenditure of these funds over a 10-year period. We have a master plan, of course, that extends beyond the 10-year period. But for the first 10 years, the city proposes to spend $58 million. In new construction, the city will provide for the marine industry, for the shipping industry here in this city, eight new marine terminals. The city will also provide three sheds to be placed on existing pier facilities and also the improvement of bulkhead facilities, the construction of marine terminals for the handling of building materials and cargos and so forth. $8 million, of the $58 million, the city will use to modernize the existing facilities that we feel have some utility and, of course, have years of valuable usefulness to a particular line who may be in possession of that particular facility. And, of course, the city will also, under its plan, spend a considerable amount of money for fire-protective work on a waterfront. As you know, our peers, some of our peers, do not have the fire-protective facilities that they should have. The city, being aware that that is absolutely necessary, has made arrangements to provide the funds to give to these facilities the fire-protective equipment which is necessary, such as sprinkler systems, fire-retarding walls, and so forth, to prevent any fire that might start or to prevent the spread of any fire that might start in this particular port. Now, the city has, of course, made this plan available, has made funds available for the execution of this plan because the city, the mayor in particular, is aware of the importance of the port to the city of New York. We need good facilities here. We must have them if we intend to keep commerce here. I'm sure that Waller Hayden, who is here from the Port Authority, will agree with me that we do not want to drive any commerce out of the port of New York. We want to retain what we have. We don't want to lose any. There are competing ports who have envious eyes on our commerce who would like to take it away from us. And, of course, it's our job to retain that commerce here in this particular port and, of course, bring into this port additional commerce. We have lost some type of commerce in this port. We expect to get it back. That, of course, is our objective. Keep this port, keep it preeminent, give it the facilities what the shipping industry require. And if we do that, we will maintain the position that this port has had. The city will flourish. It will continue to flourish and develop. On this question of dredging, I wrote a letter to the Bureau of the Budget some time ago. I expressed my opinions. I'm sure that this port, as the colonel has said, requires some maintenance work. That isn't cheap today. Work like that calls for the expenditure of a large sum of money. In reply to my letter to the Budget Director, I received a reply in which he stated that the appropriations would amount to $53 million. Of course, before I finished reading that letter, I thought that the $53 million was going to be spent in New York City. But as I read further on, I found that all he said about the $53 million was that included in that $53 million was some sum of money that would be spent in the harbor of the city of New York or the port of New York. because industry was not large enough in our city to take care of them. And that's one of the main reasons why we want to do everything possible. To keep our harbors active, to keep industry here, to bring whatever new industry we can so that we can keep our people employed should the time come when there will be again an unemployment period. Commissioner, may I take about four minutes to talk about something that's got me to add? I'm Walter Hedden from the Fort New York Authority. I don't think we ought to pass this question of the harbor appropriations from the federal government so lightly and content ourselves with talking to each other and perhaps passing a resolution. This is something we've got to worry about. The Port of New York today has a backlog of projects, as the colonel has stated, of $22 million, of projects which Congress has authorized and there's no money to do them. What he didn't say was that we have $24 million more of projects that are in the course of the regular routine of hearings, presentation of evidence. In many cases, they've been approved by his office. They've been approved by the division engineers. They're down in Washington. You add those two items together, you have about $46 million of work that the federal government will or has authorized to be done. and they have just agreed to give $3,550,000 for this next year and cut one quarter of the appropriation that was recommended. Now, before the war in 1938 and 1939, Congress allocated to the Port of New York for new work on these channels $8 and $9 million. We were getting about 10% of the national appropriation and we should have it. We're handling 42% of the exports and imports through this port. And now we're getting about 2.5%. It isn't because Congress is negatively about these rivers and harvest appropriations. The total for the United States last year, or this year rather, was $88.5 million and next year they're going to spend $145 million for new rivers and harvest. But it's not coming to our projects. Out on the Columbia River they're appropriating for next year alone $40 million for a rivers and harbors project at the McNary Dam where there is no commerce today where they hope to have perhaps someday 4 million tons of commerce and we've got these New York and New Jersey channels that carry 10 times that commerce and now have 5 feet too little drafts to carry the modern tankers that are coming into this harbor. Now Jack Baker will tell you that when these tankers are loaded down in the Gulf they're loaded out of ports that have depths of 34 and 35 feet. Plenty to take them. We haven't got that on the channels where they're docking today. I'm not talking about the Hudson River and the Ambrose Channel. Fortunately that's in pretty good shape. But I say to you there are many channels in this harbor on both the New York and the Jersey shores that have inadequate depths where the federal government has agreed that in the interest of national commerce and navigation they should be and the money is not coming. Now you can't handle this situation by passing resolution to writing letters. Lord knows we've written lots of letters. It requires continuous work in Washington as a congressman will tell you at every level of the picture. That perhaps the proper weighted evidence some of the facts that were just elucidated when brought to their attention would not put the responsibility so greatly on the New York authority but on the federal authority and while I realize they have other parts of the nation to look after it seemed to me that they could concentrate their effort in at least holding on to the old custom before they lose both. That's the point that I got from that statement that we just mentioned. Thank you, Mr. Armand. No other questions? And Congressman, we will call on you. Both Mr. Donahue and Joe Minetti started off by saying that neither one of them likes to make a speech and they weren't going to. The difference between them and me is that I like to make a speech but I'm not going to. I did all the speaking I intended to do before election and I don't think I can get any votes up here except from my own constituent. But I too, Joe, of a suspicion, but I didn't suspect that when I accepted this invitation to come here this evening for dinner it was going to cost three and a half million dollars. Well, I don't know what the mechanics of it is. It seems to me, however, that the budget has already been set and I don't know whether there's any possibility of having it increased but I think that we ought to get at least what is in the budget and that's only one step as you, Bill Donahue, I'm sure know that when the budget is set the budget bureau directs certain expenditures to be made but then it's up to the legislative committees in this case the Committee on Public Works and the Appropriations Committee to actually appropriate the money. Many times the budget requests or duress the expenditure of certain sums and yet the Congress doesn't go along with it. But I was very much impressed by some of the things I heard here this evening and as a native New Yorker and I don't take the provincial view that I represent only the people of my district. I represent the entire city and in fact the people of the entire country but we're all a little selfish and coming from New York City I do want to help the city as much as I can. I had been honored in the past by the mayor in representing the city in introducing legislation which would be beneficial to the city and Abe I'm going to tell you now that I'm happy to represent you or the department or the city in any way that I can. I might suggest after all we have the largest delegation in the country. We have 23 members from New York City which is more than most states have the entire state and the power of the concerted effort on the part of our representatives I'm sure would have a very desirable effect. I think it would be advisable not only in this particular thing but in all matters affecting the commerce and affecting the city of New York to for instance if you came down and maybe some of your representatives I could arrange to have a small dinner let's say at which all the New York City members would be present and that way you could and you could bring down whoever is interested in the particular problem and that way you could get the ear of these men and impress them as I've been impressed and all of us working together I feel certain we'll be able to have an effect. You know what goes on in Washington you've heard of the pork barrel and many of these small communities which I think Mr. Hedden was referring to were able to get much much more than they deserve and certainly much more than a large city like New York and the reason for it is that there's somebody either on the committee or the chairman or some business of getting these things they can be done there's no reason why we from New York City shouldn't do it we talk about these big cities in New York particularly and we're not too well liked throughout the country but there's more machinations pulled by these small communities than we've ever heard of or dreamt of in New York City but it seems to me that we ought to start that we're being neglected not only in this particular thing but in many things that come up affecting the city of New York and it isn't always possible for the mayor to come down I know he said Jack Bennett down I think Bill you've been down a few times on different things affecting the city of New York but anything affecting the commerce of the city is in your department and it might be a good idea and I'd be very happy to arrange it so that if it came down we could meet all of the boys in fact some of the upstate members who I'm sure would help us but I promise you that I will take this matter up I will as soon as I get back I don't believe we have a New York City member on the committee but we do have John Rooney from your borough who's on the appropriations committee and he can be of great help to us in the committee itself when the appropriation comes up I want to promise you now that I will do everything I can as a representative of the city to get this particular thing through it shouldn't be too difficult on the question of an increased appropriation I'll check on that see I have a very dear friend of mine who's just been made a director of the budget now I don't know what he can do as I say I think the budget is already out but if he can do anything I believe he will and there isn't any more that I can say here except that I appreciate the problems and I want to be helpful to you personally who help you my old friend from Brooklyn and the city generally and anytime I can be of any service you don't have to invite me to these three and a half million dollars dinners and you don't have to embarrass me by inviting me up here to the Metropolitan Club if any one of my constituents sees me walk out of here I'll lose some votes but you're ashamed but I will do everything I can and I hope that we can bring your plans to fruition I parenthetically I've just been put on a committee which may help some of you steamship people I don't know whether Abe invited me here for that reason but if I can in my official position as a member of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee which has jurisdiction over the AL and steamships and things of that kind indirectly be of any help and you know that if I can help anybody from New York naturally that's my first interest and again I want to assure you that I will do everything I possibly can and I hope we can work this out for you yes Mr. Ormel I am not sure whether it is over but from what I heard with regard to these channels it would seem to me that the state of New Jersey would have almost a similar interest to be with it not the other kind of which may I comment on that on two things if I may first of all with respect to the procedure congressman it's our understanding that the subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee headed by congressman John H. Kerr of North Carolina will have this budget before for consideration and while they don't invite public hearings they listen very attentively to the fellow congressman and there is where the pressure will have to go secondly with respect to the state of New Jersey all through this fight last year and we were in it last year too we had very good support from some of the New Jersey congressmen and we had the governor of New Jersey fighting on this thing too and you may be assured that the Jersey side will be very adequately briefed on the whole thing and I think what we've got to throw here is a is a metropolitan regional pool into this thing and fight it Frank, John, are you? No, I was just trying to get the attention of somebody that was there are no other questions I will say to the congressman that we accept your invitation and we will be in touch with you and be awfully glad to come out and sit down with the rest of your associates of the city of New York and we're awfully grateful for you having made him this trip especially so as to be with us tonight and I'm also hopeful that because of this meeting and many meetings of this kind that we hope to carry on throughout the year shall prove very beneficial to our city thanks to you all for being here and it has been a pleasure to be with you all and ап appreciate it are you your common tonight matt has the contract of the death and us just ahead and rolling sabemos � demons快 with ofigans the time
