You Jimmy Say we're almost out of bread. Would you run down to the store and get a loaf please? Sure thing A loaf of bread. Right off hand it doesn't seem too important. In fact everyone takes it pretty much for granted. When you get down to the last slice or two you can go to the corner store for another loaf. And you know it'll be a good book. Just as the one you bought yesterday and the day before. Like the one you can buy tomorrow. But did you ever wonder what you'd do if you couldn't buy good bread? And did you know that years ago baker's bread, like grandma's, wasn't always good? Forty years ago, in 1909, 95% of all the bread was baked in the home. Today, 95% is made in America's 30,000 bakeries. And largely responsible for good bread every day, and indirectly responsible for the growth of the bakery industry, is the work which was done in the home economics laboratories of the University of Illinois. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Just how big is the bakery industry? Well, every day in these United States, there are 40 million loaves of bakery bread consumed by American families. 40 million loaves of good bread. The bakery industry purchases $873 million worth of farm produce annually. Bakers, in turn, do well over $3 billion worth of business a year, which places them tenth in the total sales of all industries. All of this, so that you can be assured of good bread. Hey, grandma! I'm back! Well, that was a quick trip, Jimmy. Thank you. Sure. Well, here, you better sit down and rest a minute. You must have run all the way. You suppose I could have some bread and jelly too? Well, I suppose you might. I'll have to hurry though. Our team has a baseball game over in the lot in a half an hour. Well, you'll have time. Just help yourself. There's some milk in the ice box too. Grandma! What is it, Jimmy? How come you never make bread anymore? Oh, I guess I'm getting a little lazy. As long as we can buy good fresh bread every day of the week and for so little, well, I've just neglected my bread making. Gosh, but hot bread fresh out of the oven sure would taste good. Yes, I know, but in these days all bread is good, whether it's home-made bread or bakery. What do you mean, these days? Well, you know, when I was your age, Jimmy, neither the homemade bread nor baker's bread would always be fit to eat. You mean you couldn't make good bread? Well, not all the time, but then long about 1901 we had a speaker at our Farmers Institute. I remember it was a woman from the University, Miss Isabel Bevere. She was tall and stately but smart as they come. And she was starting in the Domestic Science Department at the University. And when Miss Bevere finished, one of the women came up and spoke to her. Miss Bevere? Yes? I think we all agree that there's one way you could help. Fine, what is it? Tell us how to bake good bread. Why, the last three batches I baked weren't fit to eat. Oh, why not? What was wrong? Sour. Sour as could be. Dark and heavy and soggy. Sometimes it's all right and then again it's no good at all. Well, I don't know. I don't know, but I'll find out. I think that's a problem for the University to work on. Miss Bevere didn't stop there either. About 95% of the bread made in those days was baked in the home. But there was a bakery industry too. And she was curious as to how the bakers were making out. Sure, ma'am. Be glad to show you around. These loaves here are loaves of five-hour bread. You mean you let it rise five hours? Sure. Uh, is there something wrong? No, it's just the smell of the dough. Mmm, yeah, it's a little sour. The whole bakery's that way though, and we get used to it after a while. Gets so as I don't even notice it anymore. Now these loaves over here, these I let rise all night. Well, they're certainly big enough. Still soggy in the middle though. Oh, well, don't matter. The longer the bread rises, the bigger the loaves. They want all they can get for their money, and I give it to them. And with the smell of sourdough still in her nostrils, Miss Bevere marched back to the university, and she set things to humming. In the historical mill room in the university's Damport Hall were mills and bake ovens. And Professor Robert W. Stark tested varieties of wheat to ground his own flour and made him bake the bread. And over in the home economics laboratory, tests were made on yeasts and fats and sugar. Tests were made on the liquid used and on the flours on the market. And just everything that might affect the quality of the bread. And what did they find out? I think at long last I can answer your questions about how to make good bread and have it turn out good every time. For quite some time now the university has been doing research on the subject. For one thing we found out that soft wheat flour requires different treatment than hard wheat flour. Do you know that at least half the wheat raised right here in Illinois is soft wheat? You've probably used it in your own baking. And that's one of the reasons that your bread sometimes fails. You mean we'll get better results if we use hard wheat flour? Yes you will, and I'll tell you why. All flour contains gluten. Gluten is not only the protein, but it is also the substance which holds the bread together. In hard wheat the gluten is more elastic, therefore better quality for yeast bread. I see. It's more apt to stretch when the yeast goes to work and the bread begins to rise. That's it exactly. Now another thing. Your starter yeast is part of the trouble. Why, I keep mine from week to week. Grows right well. Yes, but don't you realize that other organisms grow in that starter as well as yeast? That's what makes your bread sour and dark. Now we've tested commercial yeast too and... But they don't raise my bread as much as my home starters do. Some don't, but some will. The temperature has a lot to do with it. 80 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit is best for yeast growth. If it's too hot or too low, you'll get poor bread. The proportion of liquid, the amount of kind of fat, salt and sugar, all these things make a difference. Yes, all these things made a difference. For out of this work and study came good bread. Good bread every time. Not only for home makers, but for bakers. Millers improved their flour and the farmers learned which varieties of wheat to grow. Which according to those who know the facts, Grandma, has made a very real contribution to the citizens of the state. Even today, before new or undried varieties of wheat are released to the farmers of the state, they're tested for flour performance. But that isn't all the story. Back in 1915, the university tackled another problem. Bread flour in war times when we were sending our wheat to every corner of the world. University folks went to work once more and this time to determine a formula, so to speak. A formula that would produce good corn bread. Good corn bread and ensure that the bread baked today would be as good as that baked yesterday. Now, out of the laboratories came new recipes for cornmeal muffins, cornmeal griddle cakes and cornbread and for yeast and quick rising cornmeal dough. And when war came and white flour was rationed, we ate cornbread instead of white bread and liked it too because it was good. And that same type of problem reappeared in 1941 too. There was wheat flour plenty, but this time it was the meat that was rationed. And nutrition demanded a substitute in our diet for protein filled meat. So, the home economics department of Illinois started to work on soybean flour. Soybeans, just like meat, boasted plenty of protein. And as a result of the research work, we found out how to make muffins and biscuits and even cakes, which helped take the place of meat in our diet. Oh, of course, there was nothing that could replace a good steak. But soybean flour helped keep us healthy. Say, excuse me, but can I have another slice of bread and some more milk? Oh, sure you can, Jimmy. I bet you don't have any trouble drinking your quarter of milk a day, Jimmy. Not me. But say, who says I have to drink a quarter of milk a day? Well, as a matter of fact, Jimmy, the National Research Council says so. Well, how do they know? Well, they're not guessing. They have the facts, Jimmy. Because they're a special council set up to study things like that. Things like what? Well, like how much milk a growing youngster must drink to stay healthy. You know, this sounds like it might be another story. Well, it is indeed, and an important one. Now, Jimmy, you've heard of the Whiz Kids, haven't you? Sure I have. I guess they were just about the best basketball team Illinois ever had. And they were important, too, but I'll tell you another University of Illinois group just as important, and that was the Calcium Kids. Calcium Kids? I never heard of them. Well, they were boys just about like you, Jimmy. Boys who loaned their appetites to science for three summers. What for? Well, medical and health authorities had known for many years that milk was essential for growing children, but there was a question of how much milk and at what ages it was needed most. Well, these boys then helped the council learn these things. No fooling? No fooling, Jimmy. Well, I don't see how anybody could loan their appetites. Well, these boys did, and so did younger children. First, some experiments were conducted at the Cunningham Home for Children in Champaign-Urbana. It was done under the supervision of the University, and these were all younger children who volunteered to serve as subjects. Five girls the first summer, and seven boys the second summer. Well, what'd they do? Well, they lived in a special part of the dormitory, and they had special meals. Now, that's what I mean by lending their appetites. And then they were weighed and measured and x-rayed regularly. But as I said, they were younger children. And this council I spoke about, the National Research Council, Jimmy, wanted to know about older boys, too. Boys your age are even older. Fellas that shoot up almost overnight. And so additional research was done. That's where the calcium kids come in. And that was done right on the university campus, wasn't it, Grandma, in Davenport House? That's right. The boys lived in the university's diet house. They ate their meals there, and they really enjoyed doing their work. And then, of course, the question was raised about requirements of girls. And some more studies were conducted. The university now has one of the few diet homes owned by any university in the United States. The diet home where subjects can be housed and fed and have their diet absolutely controlled. Guys, I guess it must be important to drink milk. If they went through all that work. Well, indeed it is important, Jimmy. Did you know that boys at your age, twelve years old, that is, need more calcium? And that means milk, more calcium than at any time in their lives? Well, that's okay with me. I think I could drink all the milk in the country. Now, just a minute, Jimmy. That's a lot of milk. Especially since there's enough milk produced every year in the United States to fill a river 3,000 miles long, 40 feet wide, and 3 feet deep. Gosh, the Mississippi River even isn't that long. I'll say it isn't. Well, and Illinois is right up there among the more important states in milk production, too. In 1947, that's when we have our latest figures, we produced about six million pounds of milk toward the nation's quarter of milk a day dot. Say, Grandma, I believe I'll have a slice of that bread myself. Well, you go right ahead. It sure is good. And how about some of that jelly, too? Here you are. You know, there's another thing the university's home economics department has done, which I think is pretty important. What's that? Well, you might not be enjoying that jelly right now if it hadn't been for their work. Gosh, no jelly. That would be awful. I'd say it would. Well, I imagine there are a lot of people who feel that way, and it was at the University of Illinois that had the first full-time worker to do research in home economics. And her first project was jelly. To find out what made jelly gel. Why were jellies dark and runny sometimes, and why were they clear and firm at other times? Hmm, you mean people had trouble making jelly, just like they did with bread? Well, they certainly did, but this woman, this research woman, who was Dr. Nellie Goldthwaite, found that there was a substance called pectin. P-E-C-T-I-N, pectin, in all fruits. And pectin was also essential for jelly making. You see, if the fruit gets overripe, the pectin turns to pectin acid, and then you don't get good jelly. Well, what do you do, Grandma? Well, you add pectin, and today we can buy pectin on the market. Commercial pectin is available everywhere for homemakers to use in jelly making, and to assure them that they make firm, clear jelly every time. I guess you don't have to go to college to learn a few things from a university after all. No, you don't. Now you see how the university gave grandmother a hand in learning how to make good bread and good jelly. And say now, if you two don't stop eating bread and jelly, you won't want any supper. Okay, I gotta get to the baseball game anyway. So long. You'll be home for supper, won't you, Jimmy? I will. You know, it must take a good healthy diet to keep that boy in energy. Indeed it does, and all children his age. That's why I think the university's work has been so important. Showing how much milk-growing children need to stay healthy, and when they need it, most for good teeth and strong bones. You know, it's wonderful how important research can be to everyone through such a seemingly simple thing as our daily diet. Research that teaches us how to bake good bread, how to cook vegetables to keep the vitamins in, roast meat to perfect doneness, fill our pantry shells with rows of clear, firm jellies, freeze foods, and even bake light, fluffy cakes. Just another of the many ways in which your university goes beyond teaching. Is there not only about heated penřínes bess sylice? Time-wise is good for everyone to watch skin chairs. It's totally medical. Thank you.
