Here is an important announcement from Anthony Masciarelli, Commissioner of the Department of Markets. Commissioner Masciarelli. Right now, when our G.I.s are fighting abroad, I'd like to say just a word about a threat we face here at home. Hoarding is a vicious, unpatriotic thing. We know that. In the light of the fact that there is and will be a plentiful supply of all foodstuffs and commodities, hoarding is criminally stupid. Don't be a hoarder. Just buy what you need and play fair. Here is an important announcement from Market Commissioner Anthony Masciarelli. Commissioner Masciarelli. In my capacity as Market Commissioner, I am in a position to know the general inventory figures on foodstuffs available to consumers of this city. I can assure you all that there is absolutely no shortage or threat of a shortage of any food commodity. Any scarcity which may arise will be caused by panicky overbuying. Don't hoard foodstuffs. Simply buy what you need and no more. Here is an important announcement from Anthony Masciarelli, Commissioner of the Department of Markets. Commissioner Masciarelli. Right now, when our G.I.s are fighting abroad, I'd like to say just a word about a threat we face here at home. Hoarding is a vicious, unpatriotic thing. We know that. In the light of the fact that there is and will be a plentiful supply of all foodstuffs and commodities, hoarding is criminally stupid. Don't be a hoarder. Just buy what you need and play fair. Here is an important announcement from Market Commissioner Anthony Masciarelli. Commissioner Masciarelli. In my capacity as Market Commissioner, I am in a position to know the general inventory figures on foodstuffs available to consumers of this city. I can assure you all that there is absolutely no shortage or threat of a shortage of any food commodity. Any scarcity which may arise will be caused by panicky overbuying. Don't hoard foodstuffs. Simply buy what you need and no more. Typically, we will come to you next time. Have a great day. Wait. May I take you fast. Please keep going with your ally. I'm here. Please, he will let us know. Why! Wrecking is up here. Players can only be unable to expect him from the taxpayer of the this city. Everybody has committed him toинг his hand to his Just as Really free療CH company. Be careful not to stick him, but fro bat Christians. I bought the for 거 because the erzähling of him from the outdoor area. Ford wom EarlPR thing. Is on behalf of livingcap power of Galifax AG rejects. If you can anticipate him to be saved time. Irals really имею by comfort in him and your abdomen. As far too much as he can get under it.