The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. Yes, yes, it's the Police Safety Program, sent to you with the cooperation of his honor, the Mayor, and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety, by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful, feel for us and for us when the light is green. Be a little bit careful, feel for us and for us that way you'll be seen. Be careful, make streets safer, for the ones so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful, and take it easy, don't be in our arms. That's true, everybody must take it easy. Oh, good morning, everybody. Good morning, boys and girls. How is everybody this morning? You know, we're glad to have you with us today, because today we're going to have a big meeting. Today our meeting is called CCC. CCC. Now, CCC means crossing corners carefully. That's what that means. Well, it's like a conference, you know. You know, of course, the Easter vacation will be coming soon, and boys and girls, in fact, everybody will be out spending more time playing games outdoors. And, of course, the park is a safe place, and the playground is a safe place. Hey, Mr. Narrator. Yes, Mr. Singing Safety Placement, what is it? Uh, Mr. Piano and I are in a very good mood this morning, and we would like to, uh, sing a safety song for the boys and girls about now. How would that be? Now, that's fine. Say, you know, are you ready, Mr. Piano? And he's ready. There he is. Yes, and you're ready, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman? Yes. Oh, that's fine. Well, I think a good idea for this, to start our meeting off this morning, would be for you two to sing that lovely song about little Jack Horner. Little Jack Horner He went to the corner I listened and heard him say I looked at the light Then I looked left, then right And that's why I'm living today That was fine. That was fine. Oh, gee, I guess I'm late. I'm very sorry, but the traffic was so bad that it took a long time to get here. Jim Alert. Good morning, Jim. Say, Jim, did you come by car? No, Mr. Narrator. I meant the pedestrian traffic was very heavy. Mm-hmm. And it was difficult getting to the corners across the street. Well, now, Jim, I'm going to tell you something. If you take the time out to cross the street at the corner, and if you look first to the left and then look to the right, we won't care if you are late getting here at the studio, because you're taking the trouble to cross the street only at the corner, and you're doing it the safe way. You're obeying the safe rules, and that's the most important thing that you can do. So you're excused, Jim Alert. You're excused for being late. But in the future, you would suggest that you start out a little earlier. Now, Jim, say, what did you have to tell us? Well, I saw something wonderful in Careful Town yesterday. You were in Careful Town yesterday? Mm-hmm. And I thought all the boys and girls should know about it. Well, what did you see in Careful Town? Well, I have an idea. Mm-hmm. Why don't we all go there, and then you can see for yourself. That's a very good idea. Say, Mr. Piano, will you please play the safety music box? Everybody think. Everybody look deep into the green traffic light. Think. Everybody think. Well, here we are, boys and girls, right in the center of Careful Town. Look. Hello, hello, Mr. Narrator. Oh, say, look who's here. Good morning, Mr. Traffic Light. How are you this morning? Yes, yes, I'm fine. And hello, Mr. Singing Policeman and Mr. Piano. And hello there, Jim Alert. Hello. Say, Mr. Traffic Light, just how are things in Careful Town today? Oh, just fine today. But the other day, well, yesterday, as a matter of fact, I had a terrible experience. Well, what happened? A teacher brought her class to see Careful Town. Well, a teacher bringing her class to see Careful Town, I don't see how that could be so bad. Well, it wouldn't have been bad if the boys and girls had paid attention to what the teacher said about safety rules. But some of them got very careless and they failed to look at me. In Careful Town? Yes, they didn't look at me when I opened my bright red eye, which means stop. They went right ahead, even though my green eye was closed to them. I opened my red eye a little wider, but even that didn't do any good. I was frantic. I was really frightened. Boys and girls crossing in the middle of the block. It was terrible. Yes. But what did you do then? Well, I did the only thing I could do. What was that? I opened all my red eyes and closed all my green ones. Oh, I see. Now all the cars had to stop. But the horns began to blow because no one could understand why they had to stop. Well, the horns kept blowing louder and when the teacher heard it, she looked around and saw the boys and girls who had been crossing in the middle of the block. And then she called to them and made them all come back on the sidewalk. After that, things were all right. And I opened my red eye and shut my green eye and then I shut my red eye and opened my green eye the way I always do. Oh, I remember that incident very well because I went over to the teacher and I wanted to escort her and the children around Careful Town when, who do you think I met? Who did you meet? I met Safety Sam and a squad of safety rules. You mean Safety Sam and his walking safety rules? That's right. And each rule was shaped like a large card. Mm-hmm. and each rule had two arms and two legs. On each card was printed some words. Mm-hmm. But, uh, wait a minute. You're going to see the squad for yourself. Today? That's right. The leader, Safety Sam, promised to meet me right here today. Well, that's wonderful. We'll be glad to meet Safety Sam and his squad. You see, what time are they coming? Well, they should be along in a few minutes. As a matter of fact, here they are now. Oh, here comes the parade. Look at the parade. Oh, boy. Right, right, look, left, look, right, look, left, halt. Why, hello, Jim Alert. Hello, how are you? Hello there, Safety Sam. I brought my friends with me today as I said I would. I'd like to introduce them to you. Here is Mr. Narrator. Hello, Safety Sam. How do you do? Mr. Singing Policeman. How are you? And Mr. Piano. Hello, hello. How do you? I'm certainly glad to meet you all. You know, Safety Sam, I promised my friends that this squad would give us a demonstration of crossing a corner safely. Well, we'd be glad to. Now, here's how we work. We march around Careful Town making people conscious of the safety rules and the reasons for obeying them and crossing at corners and things of that sort. Now, when we come to a particular incident, that particular rule steps forward and I read the sign. See how it works? That sounds very interesting. Say, Safety Sam, would you stop right now, please, and show us the demonstration? Why, certainly, Mr. Narrator. Attention. Safety rule. Number one. There he is. Steps right out there. See that? Now, his sign says, cross at the corners at all times. Say, that's a very important rule, Safety Sam. Everybody should cross at the corners. But what are the reasons for crossing at the corners? Reasons for crossing at the corner? Front and center. That's the idea. Now, I'll read this fellow. I'll, uh, let's see. The reasons for obeying the safety rule and then if you have any questions, I'll answer them afterwards. Well, then you're fine. You go ahead right with the demonstration safety, Sam. What is it all about? Very good. Now, uh, the first reason for crossing at the corner, first, you can see approaching traffic. Say, that's an excellent reason. If you look where you're going, you can see approaching traffic. That's wonderful. Exactly. Number two. Drivers expect you to cross at the corner. And that's the truth. Every person who drives an automobile, they expect people to cross at the corners. They never, never expect us to cross from behind parked cars, do they? Mm-hmm. Number three. Traffic lights, which are at corners, protect you from having accidents. Oh, that's true. Every traffic light is a silent policeman. And the big green eye tells us when to go. And the big red eye tells us when to stop. Very good. And in this connection, we have the last one here, number four, for this particular rule. By crossing at corners, you are setting a good example to other boys and girls, especially those younger than yourself. That's an excellent reason. Can you imagine if everybody showed the good safety example? That's right. Now, do you have any questions? Well, I do, yes and no. I understand the reasons for crossing at the corners, but I do have a question about your squad safety, Sam. You know, I'd like to know, what do you do? Yes, and so would I. I didn't get a chance to ask you yesterday, safety Sam. Well, as I said, the squad and I march up and down the streets of Careful Town. We watch all the people all the time and how they cross and conduct themselves. If we see someone crossing in the middle of the block and not at the corner, then we stop him or her and give our demonstration of the safety rule and the reasons for obeying it. Oh, do you only have one safety rule? Oh, no, no, no. But I don't take all the rules and reasons with me every day. I just take the ones that I think I'll need for that particular day. And if I've left one home that I need, then I send one of these reasons back and he sends it up for me. Well, now you're marching around Careful Town. Does your safety squad help? Do the people really become more careful? Oh, yes, yes. My goodness. After all, if most of the people didn't try to be careful here, well, you see, we'd have no Careful Town. Is that right? That's right. That would be sad. Just think, no Careful Town. Then, of course, then what else do you do, Safety Sam? Well, we particularly like to deal with parents and when we see them violating safety rules, we give them special attention. Mm-hmm. Besides the demonstration as you've seen here, we tell them stories about children who had accidents because they saw their parents being careless of safety rules. And we also tell them that as parents, it's their duty to constantly think safely and make their children think safely. After we explain everything, the parents promise that from then on, they and their whole family will really cross at the proper place. Say, isn't that wonderful? Say, you're doing a fine safety work, Safety Sam. You and your squad just think it's really wonderful. Well, didn't I tell you, Mr. Narrator, that I had something wonderful to show you in Careful Town? Yes, you did, Jim, and I'm so glad that you introduced us to Safety Sam. Well, where are you going? Are you going to be prepared to parade for us now? Yes, sir. We'll have to be going. Nice to see you all. Attention, squad. Attention, men. Forward. March. There goes Safety Sam and his whole squad. Isn't that wonderful? Wonderful. Oh, isn't it? There they go. Well, Jim, I think we've got to get back to our safety studio because our time is almost up. So, Safety Sam is gone, so we've got to say goodbye to Mr. Traffic Light. Goodbye, Mr. Traffic Light. Goodbye, Mr. Traffic Light. Goodbye. Goodbye. Say, Mr. Piano, will you please, say, play some safety thinking music? Oh. We've got to get back to our studio in time so everybody concentrate. Think. Think. Everybody. Think. Well, here we are back at our safety studio, back from Careful Town. You know, Mr. Narrator, I've been thinking. I wonder when boys and girls will understand that safety can be fun. And that's true, Jim. Someday they will. But if you and I, and of all the people who are safety-wise, keep on telling other people that safety is the best way, then the time will come when everybody will be careful. And everybody will obey safety rules because that will become natural. And then, what fun it will be. But I see the old clock has gone around and we've got to really close. So today, everybody think. Everybody think. Here comes our secret ritual. First corner. Then look traffic light. Then look left. Then look right. And here is something else to remember. To walk safely, remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner, don't run in the street. Cause that's where trouble and accidents meet. Walk safely, you look left and right. The roadway is no place to play. Be cautious in bad weather. Be glad we're safe together as you walk safely each day. You've been listening to the Police Safety Program, brought to you each Saturday at this time by your city's own station in cooperation with the son of the mayor and the police commissioner in the interest of highway safety. Today's script was written by Leo Francis. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system.