Mark this moment in time. Mark it because this very moment you are alive. Perhaps you will say that's not very unusual. No, but it's important to you to stay that way. So remember this. At this very living moment, the blood which is giving you life may be feeding to the enemy that seeks to destroy you. The words that follow may save your life from that enemy. They are intended for the living. For the Living, starring Edward G. Robinson. This story begins thousands of years ago, but the tragedy of it extends through the years to the present. It can touch you if you don't know the right answers. You'll get the right answers here. But first, let's go back to the year 1682 for a wrong answer. Let's imagine the office of a Swiss physician of that year as he interviews a patient. Cancer? You say I have cancer, doctor? Yes, madame. I'm sorry to say it. You have cancer. The signs are definite. The soul reveals... But I will die. I will die. All who have cancer die, doctor. But for your good fortune in coming to me, madame. Yes, you would die. But I have something that will save your life, cure your cancer, apply directly to the cancer. It will kill the growth. But what is this miraculous thing, doctor? A special save, of which only I know the secret. An unguent of green fogs found under certain conditions, prepared in a special way. An unguent of green fogs? Oh, give it to me, doctor. Give it to me. I want to live. Insanity, you think, to believe that an unguent of green frogs would cure cancer. Give this Swiss doctor credit. He knew no better. We know better today. Yet in 1927, in response to a prize offered for a cancer remedy approved value, it was seriously suggested the use of a live European green frog roasted in butter and rubbed to powder. And don't laugh. The salves, the paste, the miraculous ointments to cure cancer exist today. A short time ago, a social worker from a large Eastern Cancer Hospital called on a patient in his home. But, Mr. Petroni, you know the doctors at the hospital diagnosed that lump on your neck as cancer. Okay, okay, signora. She's a good doctor. She's telling me I got cancer. Okay, I got cancer. Then why haven't you returned for your X-ray treatments? I'm not like this X-ray. I'ma try something else. Something else? Sure. My cousin Vicente, he writes a letter from Italia. He's telling me send $25. He's get me a sure cure for this cancer. It's called electric salve. I'ma send she's gonna cure my cancer. Okay, you bet. Electric salve? See? Oh, but, Mr. Petroni, don't you realize there are only three proven methods of treating cancer. Only three ways of curing the disease. Surgery, X-ray, and radium. Okay, so I'ma try this electric salve. If she's no work, I'ma take the X-ray. But you can't wait, don't you see? In the time you're wasting, your cancer is growing. Treat it now with X-ray, and the doctors can save your life. Wait, and the cancer may spread to other parts of your body where nothing can help you. Come for your X-ray treatments now. No, signora. I'ma wait. Mr. Petroni waited. Mr. Petroni died. Died of cancer when he could have been saved with the weapons we know can cure cancer. Surgery, X-ray, and radium. There's the right answer. Surgery, X-ray, and radium, the only known successful treatments for cancer. Today, we are a world of modern scientific miracles. But most of us have a knowledge of these miracles by what we hear or read in the newspapers. A dangerously, incomplete knowledge for the quacks and the frauds who would take our money to cure our cancer make a great show of scientific gadgets to impress us. In the sumptuous offices of an impressive-looking, self-ordained doctor of metaphysics, not long ago, this happened. It hurts. Every time you wash out that sore on my leg, it hurts, Dr. Crooks. It burns like fire. There we are, my good man. You must realize that for the spectrochrome to fully measure and restore the human radioactive and radio-eminative equilibrium, we must make the proper preparation. Now we're ready for the treatment. Let me see. I believe you are attuned to green. But the machine... Last time you said I was attuned to blue. It... It doesn't seem to get any better. Mr. Thomas, my calculations based on solar, lunar, and terrestrial gravitation show that the imbalance requires the tonation green at this point. Oh, I... Now, with the full effect of the color waves, please hold your limbs still under the spectrochrome. We begin. It's working now, isn't it? Making my leg better. The machine they had at the clinic I used to go to didn't make any noise. Well, this is development of higher computations, sir. I could only see any difference in my leg. Oh, yeah. Well, now, our next step is diet. I have here a printed diet which must be followed strictly from this point on. Here, my good friend... Oh, no. Steak, chicken, every day. This looks wonderful, doctor, but it's kind of expensive. Mr. Thomas, you are a very sick man. I will spare nothing to normalize your equilibrium. You must follow this diet. And what about the patient, Henry Thomas? Henry Thomas is dead. By the time he was put under proper medical treatment again, it was found necessary to amputate his leg. But by this time, even surgery was too late. His disease had progressed so far that Henry Thomas died. Victim of a fraud. Quickson was sentenced to prison for practicing medicine without a license. There should have been a law which could have sentenced him for murder. Then there was the case of the Reverend Dr. Joseph King whose lavishly printed circular proclaiming war on carcinoma, cancer, secret cure, came into the hands of the police not long ago. Complete with this picture in turban and mystic look and the picture of one of his cancer cures, Joseph King's circular acclaimed him a divine healer. The young woman investigator sent to him posing as a patient found him in all his glory in a suite over his moorish temple that would do justice to a spiritualist. Now, young lady, we must tell the whole story. You must keep nothing from me if I am to help you, my dear. I will know if you do not tell me everything. You see, I have the power you emanations project into my subconscious. Now... Well, Reverend Doctor, it's... It's my stomach. I have a pain, a constant pain in here. Your emanations have told me already you have cancer of the stomach. Cancer? Never fear, young woman. You have come to the right man just as hundreds before you. For I, I have the only certain cure for cancer. You have? Yes. Someday I shall manufacture the contents of this jar here, my amazing cure, so that all who suffer may buy it in any drugstore for 49 cents. Until that day, unfortunately... Yes. Much as I detest the idea, I must charge you four dollars for each treatment, a poultry sum for the miracle of cancer cure. Well, I... I... I... I guess you'd better treat me then, Reverend Doctor. You're very wise, my dear. We begin with a simple massage of the affected area. Then you will use the contents of this jar as directed. We begin. When the Reverend Dr. King was arrested, it was found that his miracle cure was slightly overpriced, even at 49 cents. To those who came to him with nothing really wrong with him, he did no harm. To those with actual cancer, he held out false hopes which kept them from competent medical treatment in time to save their lives. Some of the frauds are even more fantastic, almost beyond belief, and still they claim they're victims. fear sometimes deranges the process of common sense thinking. A little old lady enters the office of another quack in a southern city, fear written on her face. And one of my friends told me he was sure you could help me, Mr. Purvis. It's so awful, so terrible. Now, now, Mother, I'm sure I can help. The axe, iron shoe, plates will save many people in your state of mind from despair. Oh. What is your trouble, please? My ear. Here. The doctor said... The doctor said it was cancer. Oh, Mr. Purvis. Yes, I see. Very interesting case. The kind of case where the axe, iron shoe, plates are proven most effective. But the doctor said I should have x-ray treatments, Mr. Purvis. The axe, iron is a further development than the x-ray man. Well, could you tell me? I mean, how do they work? Well, no, that's very simple and quite amazing, really. It has been discovered that uric acid is the cause of cancer. My axe, iron shoe, plates, one zinc and one copper, specially treated by a method known only to myself, bridles the electricity in the body and forces it to rid the body of uric acid. Presto, your cancer disappears. You really think... You really mean... I'm sure of it. Now, the cost of this amazing plate is only by... It's a simple thing to remember. It makes good sense and it may save your life. Place your faith in the weapons we know can cure cancer when these weapons are used on that cancer early enough. Don't be blind when it is so easy to see blind as the woman in Idaho appeared to be recently when called upon by an inspector seeking evidence against a fraudulent medical gadget. No, I... I can't testify for the government in your case against this elect treat, mister. I use it all the time. I'm sorry you feel that way, madam, but I expect you'll be subpoenaed anyway. Oh. And I'm afraid I'll have to take your elect treat for evidence. Please don't take it from me, Mr. Inspector. I tell you, it's helped me. Now, do you still believe that, ma'am, after I've shown you how it can't possibly help you in any way? It can't possibly do the things it claims? But it has. It's helped me. And it's improved my mother greatly, too. Your mother? I'd like to talk to her. Perhaps she'd be a witness. Oh, no. Why not? You see, she... she died only last week. If ever you find in yourself any of the symptoms which might indicate cancer, any sore that won't heal, any lump on the body, any bleeding or discharge from any body opening, a mold that seems to change color or size, persistent indigestion, hoarseness, or cough or any change in your normal habits, if you have these symptoms, don't play with your life. Go to competent medical men to have them find out whether you have cancer. If you haven't, they'll tell you. If you have, they'll know how to treat it with surgery, x-ray or radium. Beware of the medical frauds, the frauds that kill. Our hope against cancer lies in our men of medicine and science, recognized men of integrity whose long years of study and practice have taught them how to fight this terrible disease. Their knowledge is the real hope for the living. Starring Edward G. Robinson, For the Living has been presented by the American Cancer Society, was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with musical direction by Jeff Alexander. For further information on cancer, knowledge that may one day save your life, call your local cancer committee and support the work of the field army. The fight against cancer begins with you.서� mierda is tara angry and vice wonder pioneer moi jeste sa混 Listen. If you hear the sound, you're lucky. Do you realize your good fortune? Do you understand that these waves of sound beating on the tiny drums of your ears, carrying a message to a comprehending brain, means one important thing to you? They mean that what we have to say here now can do you some good. For remember, this is a story for the living. For the Living with Edward G. Robinson and Edward Arnold. In the past, you may have read about his exploits in the newspapers. Henry Lamar, the rugged individualist, a man who began at the bottom in a steel mill and worked himself up in the American tradition to become head of a vast industrial empire. But you may not have heard what happened to Henry Lamar. Well, let's go back a few months and find out. Let's dig out the story from close to its beginning. Let's start with a day in Henry Lamar's paneled offices on a phrase that he always said was the foundation of his great success. Do it now, Miss Strickler. Yes, Mr. Lamar. I was waiting to hear from Mr. Garvey on the results of the meeting. Well, if we wait on this, someone else will beat us to the punch. I'll get it done as soon as I leave for the bank. I... Anything wrong, Mr. Lamar? No, no, it's indigestion again. Would you please... Certainly, Mr. Lamar. But if you don't mind my saying so, I think you're taking too much bicarbonate of soda lately. That indigestion, you had it. I think you ought to see it. I know, I know. You think I ought to see a doctor. Men can't have a little indigestion in peace, eh? Where's my son? He's in his office, sir. Well, he should have gotten his contract over to Hermanson this morning. Bill. Yes, Dad? Come in here a minute, please. Be right there. I don't know whether this is stirred enough, Mr. Lamar. Well, give it to me. I'll stir it myself. Has Miss Hawley transcribed those notes? The notes for the director's meeting, you mean, Mr. Lamar? Terrible stuff. Yes, I want him to look over tonight. Tell him to do it now. Yes, Dad? Bill, this contract was supposed to go to Hermanson this morning. What'd you call? Oh, Dr. Wood is in my office. He's been looking me over before I see the insurance doctor for that policy. You mean you asked Dr. Wood to come over here instead of going to his office? Why, he said you or Bill is a... You're the one who's going to get the bill, Henry. You keep this man so busy, he hasn't time to see a doctor. Stanley Wood. Well, well, it's good to see you, doctor. How's the boy look? He'll live a long time. If you don't work, I'm to that. Work? Work never hurt anybody. And I could have told you myself that he's as healthy as I am. Why, you broken down old bag of bones. How do you know whether you're healthy? You haven't been to see a doctor in months. When I'm sick, I'll come to see you. Bill, I've got to go. How about paying me a visit, say, the first of next week? Please, Mr. Lamar, you have some free time. Monday morning at 10 o'clock. Come on, Dad. Give the doctor a chance. Oh, all right. I'll see you then, Stanley. Bill, I'll be back at 3. Go over those standard reports with you. And, Miss Strickler, have some lunch here for me at that time. I won't have a chance to eat before then. Nice to see you, Stanley. Goodbye. I'm worried about that indigestion. We'll have to see about that. We'll have to see. Would you have worried, as the doctor did, about little indigestion? Would you have had the good sense to do something immediately about a chronic discomfort, which you could explain away in a dozen ways? Henry Lamar had a secretary and a son to see that he did something about it. The following Monday morning, about 9.30 in his offices... I thank you very much for your cooperation in the past, and you may expect our full support in the future. Sincerely. That's all, Miss Strickler. It's almost 10 o'clock, Mr. Lamar. Hmm? Your appointment with Dr. Wood. Oh, yes. I told Willison, and he's done. I can't go this morning. I forgot to tell you. It's a meeting with Remy. But, Mr. Lamar, Dr. Wood expects... Well, call him and make it tomorrow or the next day. What's the difference? This is a lot of nonsense anyway. Dad, you can't do this to Dr. Wood. His time is just as valuable as yours is. All right, all right. But I'm not going this afternoon. Tell Wood we'll make an appointment next month. We'll have more time. You'll have to tell him yourself I can. I will. Strickler. Strick has him on your phone right now. Oh, all right. Hello? Yes. No, no, no, no, doctor. I can't make it. I'll call you next month. What's the matter with next month? Now, now, don't try to scare me, Stanley. Of course I'm all right. Indigestion? Now, no, I don't have ingestion anymore. All right, goodbye. Well, I've got work to do. Bill, get me some back on the soda, will you please? And so, time went on. The days grew into weeks, and each day saw a subtle change in Henry Lamar. Even in his voice, there was a difference. And still he refused to recognize it. Until one day... I tell you, Bill, this consolidation of West Falls, Grant will save us a million a year and overhead. Looks good to me, Dad. Of course, there are bugs to work out. Well, we're going to do it now. We're going to... Dad? Dad, what's the matter? Oh, just a little pain in the stomach. Here, let me sit down. Can I get you something, huh? Can I... Oh, no, no, I'm all right. I was saying that if we can't get this... You look sick, Dad. You're going to see Dr. Wood right now. I only had a little stomachache. You're going to Dr. Wood, and you're going to do it now. All right, Bill, all right. All right. Now, Henry, take this glass in your left hand. What is this stuff, Stanley? It looks like malted milk and tastes like it. But it isn't, huh? It's going to turn out the light. When I do, drink that barium slowly, Henry. So ahead. Malted milk, he says. Well, watching it travel down into your stomach, esophagus seems unobstructed. Boy, if old Remy could see you now, I'd be able to see right through you, Dad. Just to see no parts missing, that's all. Looks to me, Henry, as if there isn't much to... What's the matter? Filling defect along the lesser curvature of the stomach. Well, that doesn't sound too serious. Is there anything else? Take films of that. Hold still a moment. Now, turn a little to the right. Hold it. Henry. That's all I'm going to do to you at the moment. Go on in the other room and get your clothes on. Oh, it's about time. I told you there was nothing wrong. Bill, we've got to get back to the office. Well, Doctor, it looks like we've been worrying ourselves... Bill, I'm going to talk quickly before your father comes back. He's going to have to have an operation. Operation? I'm going to give it to you straight, because there's no time to waste. He's wasted so much time already that I may not be able to save his life. Save his life? Now, listen, Doctor... That filling defect. Just another way of saying that he has a tumor in his stomach. It's got to come out. But there's more to it than that. I strongly suspect that tumor is malignant. Meaning? Cancer. He has every symptom. Chronic indigestion, loss of appetite, he tires easily, annoying pain in his stomach soon after eating, he's lost weight, his blood count shows immediate... I tried to get him to you sooner. You know how I try. He's had every warning these past few months. But what are we going to do? We've got to go to the hospital for further tests immediately. Okay, son, let's get going before the sore bones thinks he's found something else wrong with me. Well? You're going to the hospital, Dad. I'm what? Tell him, Doctor. I'm afraid you have cancer of the stomach, Henry. Yes, sir. Well, all right, all right. Let's get it taken care of. Get the best doctors available. If you need any help, Stanley, spare no expense. You know I'll spend anything to take care of this. Henry, I only hope you haven't spent already most of what could have given you a better chance. Well, what's that? Time. They operated upon Henry Lamar the next day. As the long minutes of the operation dragged down, Henry Lamar's son and his secretary, Miss Strickland, waited outside the door of the operating room. And finally that door opened. Dr. Wood. I'm sorry, Bill. I could do nothing. Oh? Three months ago, I'm sure I could have saved his life. Now the thing has spread so far... He's... He's going to die? He'll live for a while, yes. We'll do the best we can for him. You've got to keep the knowledge from him. But what is it? Cancer. What are we fighting? Cancer is a cell of the body going wild. Part of the body itself growing within it, feeding on it, yet destroying it by invading the vital organs, spreading... But can't you do anything about it, doctor? Anything? We can in thousands of cases, if we can find these wild cells when they first begin to grow, before they've spread, invaded. Then we can cut them out, or kill them with radium or X-ray. But once the growth has spread, it's too late, Bill. Too late. But how can you tell? How do you know? Your father had the warning, and he ignored him. Indigestion? Oh, I told him. I told him. Indigestion can mean many things, Bill. Cancer is one of them. It's a symptom that should have brought Henry to a doctor at once. It could have been another symptom, the warning of another kind of cancer. It might have been a sore that didn't heal, possibly around the tongue, lips, or mouth. It might have been some change in the color or size of a wart, mole, or birthmark. It might have been hoarseness or a cough, or difficulty in swallowing. And these simple things can be the warnings of cancer? All too often. Change in the normal bowel habits is another symptom. In a woman, you'll find a painless lump or thickening in the breast, lip, or irregular bleeding. Lumps or bleeding of any chronic kind are always a suspect. And you mean that if he had come to you with that indigestion at the beginning... It's easy to ignore things when there is little or no pain attached to them. That's a tragedy of cancer, Bill. By the time it causes you pain, it's too late. But there must be something... Bill, no effort of brain or will, no amount of money, medical skill, or present scientific knowledge can buy back the one thing that could save your father's life. That one thing kills people of cancer every day. It's wasted time. Bill. I'm here, Dad. I'm here. How do you feel? Oh, not so good, sir. Not so well. Don't worry about it. You're going to be up and out of here in no time. Dr. Wood says... You don't have to try and hide anything from me, Bill. I know. What do you think you know? You'll be out like a light for hours. I may have been a fool three months ago, Bill, but I'm not a fool now. I'm going to die. Dad. Dad. Let's not be tragic about it. Let's learn all we can from it. I'm going to die when I could have lived. Don't talk, Father. No, no. I want you to know where I made my mistake. I thought I'd proved in my life that with money you could do anything. You can't, Bill. You didn't realize that. There was one thing that could have saved my life. Something I've practiced and preached, something on which I've based my success. And I ignored it, Bill. You did your best, and I want you to remember this as time goes on. If cancer gives you any of the warnings I've had, don't wait. Go and see a doctor. Do it now. Now you know the story. Now you know the facts. Now you know why Henry Lamar died. Why he need not have died. Lock those facts away in your brain. You may need them someday. Don't say it could never happen to me. It can. It happens every day. It happens to 180,000 Americans every year who die of cancer. 600,000 Americans right this minute have cancer. If you're a gambler, figure out the odds against this killer of men striking you from within. And then do something about the odds against you with your one weapon, constant vigilance. See your doctor at the slightest warning, the earliest symptom that cancer may be at work within you. Check yourself this very moment. And if you have the least suspicion, go to your doctor. Do it now. Early diagnosis is your only hope. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. For the living. The only hope for the living. Starring Edward G. Robinson and Edward Arnold was written and produced by Hugh Chain with music by Frederick Steiner conducted by Lynn Murray and was presented by the American Cancer Society to show you how you can save your life when cancer strikes. It's your life. Protect it from cancer. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. Take it from cancer. The only hope for the living. And then of course we will never see it. Thank you. The only hope for the living. I will find out there. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. The family of the living. The only hope for the living. Although it is a specializing. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. The only hope for the living. ¶¶