and the take of the community spirit that runs in and out of the Constitution of the United States. We can't be aware of the dangers that threaten us from within. The hates, you might say, that separate man from man. The hates that are born of race. The hates that are born of religion. All those forces that have a tendency to divide people. If we are going to live and endure as a great nation, we must learn the spirit of the Our Father, which will be sung to you from this program today. We must learn to say, not my, but our. Our Father, our daily bread, our debts, our trespasses, our problems, not so much the things that are mine. We are standing here in a great city. That city was made not so much by one individual, but by the cooperative efforts of a great number of people. They have builded and they have molded these great buildings that we see around us. The great bridges that cross our rivers. The great system of transportation. And that is all ours. It is ours to use. It is ours to preserve. It is ours to maintain. It is not a question, if I want pure water to say, that it is merely a matter of my bucket in my well in my backyard. Epidemics do not know boundary lines. If epidemics break out in San Francisco, they will cross this great continent and they shall strike us. It is the community spirit that saves the nation. And so today, as we stand here commemorating this great event, we must think of what the words of the poet said of Christopher Columbus on the night before this country was discovered. When he said, When he said, then pale and worn, he kept his deck and peered through darkness. Ah, that night of all dark nights. And then a speck, a light, a light. It grew, a starlight flag unfurled. It grew to be times first of dawn. He gained a world. He gave that world its grandest lesson. Sail on, sail on. Thank you, Colonel O'Neill. I'm sure we here and all the members of the radio audience of WNYC were deeply inspired by your talk. And we are now going to introduce to our radio audience and to our audience, enormous audience here in City Hall Park, the lovely young star of the Metropolitan Opera Company, one of the greatest singers in the world today, who will give us America the Beautiful, Miss Mona Pauli. Oh, beautiful for spacious skies, for amber waves of rain, For purple mountains majesty above his crowded flame. America, America, God shed his grace on thee, And crown thy good with brotherhood, From sea to shining sea. Oh, beautiful for spacious, That sees beyond the years, Thine alabaster cities gleam, Undimmed by human tears, America, America, America, God shed his grace on thee, And crown thy good with brotherhood, From sea to shining sea. Ladies and gentlemen, in our radio audience, I have the great honor of presenting to you, New York City's number one citizen, our own mayor, O'Dwyer. Mr. Sauter, distinguished guests, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, who are present here, and neighbors, and citizens of our city. As Colonel O'Neill was speaking, he stressed the point of the sacrifices that were made by many great men and women and women to bring our nation through, from that humble beginning of over 155 years ago, to what it is today among the nations of the world. One of those men, at this moment, is critically ill. He needs your prayers. For all the sacrifices that he made during his lifetime in the public interest, I could ask no more, ask no less, than your prayers for his speedy recovery. I referred to my predecessor in, here in City Hall, the Honorable Fiorella LaGuardia. Do pray. Today, Ladies and gentlemen, September 17th, marks the anniversary of the beginning of the government of the United States of America. It was on this day, in 1787, exactly 160 years ago, that the delegates to the Constitutional Convention, meeting in Independence Hall in Philadelphia, adopted our Constitution, and provided for its ratification by the states. That convention was held during the most critical period in our history. The Union of the States, which had prevailed as a protective measure during the Revolutionary War, was dissolving. In some parts of the country, anarchy was developing. The Congress, which was then governing the country under the Articles of Confederation, was losing public respect. It could not function effectively, because it lacked sovereign powers, so necessary to the government of a nation. It had no executive head to enforce law. It had no direct control over the citizens of the 13 states. It had no power to regulate foreign commerce. It had no power of taxation, and was unable to pay its debts. For its day-to-day operations, it had to rely on the contributions from the states, which it found were neither generous nor prompt. General Washington regarded the situation with alarm, and summarized it by saying, quote, 13 sovereignities pulling against each other, and all tugging at the federal head, will soon bring ruin, end of quote. In this period of crisis, the Constitutional Convention assembled to begin its deliberations. The young nation was fortunate in the quality of the delegates elected to the convention. Virginia sent her George Washington, and James Madison. Connecticut, her Roger Sherman. Pennsylvania, her Benjamin Franklin, and Robert Morris. And the state of New York, center resident of this city, the youthful, brilliant statesman, Alexander Hamilton. At the conclusion of their mighty labors, the delegates to the convention gave the 13 states the outstanding political document of all time, the Constitution of the United States of America. America. These men gave us a form of government which was unique, a democracy in the republic, or the American democracy, as we have come to use and understand that term. They gave us the tripartite theory of government, the executive, the legislator, and the judicial, each supreme in its own sphere. They gave us a national legislature with a house of representatives of the people and a senate representative of the states. They gave us a pattern of government under which we as a nation have prospered for more than a century and a half. Our Constitution has remained the supreme law of the land through 160 years of tremendous growth and grave crises. It has seen our population push westward from its narrow strip of land along the Atlantic coast until we reached the Pacific in the middle of the last century. It has seen our country sundered by civil war. It has seen our country become a world power at the turn of the century. It has seen our sons fight and win two world wars. And recently, it has seen the world turn towards us as the main folk of western civilization. Our Constitution has been with us during all those times and it has survived. It is as effective today as it was when it was adopted. It is the framework and the bulwark of our development and of our freedom. In our own day, particularly since the first world war, we have seen modern innovations in other forms of government. Some have already disappeared after a brief existence. Other experiments are continuing. We Americans are satisfied with what we have. There is no form of government in the world today as inspiring and as effective as the American democracy prescribed in our Constitution. That Constitution, which the great English statesman Gladstone said, is the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and for the purpose of man. That Constitution, when adopted, was a supreme law for only 13 states along the Atlantic coast which was forced to settle and having a comparatively simple organization of society. And it is the same Constitution with only 21 amendments which is the supreme law of 48 states having a population of over 140 million rather complicated, complex, and highly organized society make us agree with Mr. Gladstone of the wonderful work performed by our forefathers who conceived and framed this great document. When we realize the fortitude and task of our forebearers who made possible the freedom and rights we now enjoy and the monumental work of the framers of our Constitution in creating a democracy which guarantees equal rights and justice to all, a democracy in which the humble and poor have the same protection as the rich and the powerful, a democracy in which sovereignty is vested in the people and not in the whims and caprices of a dictator, we owe the debt of gratitude to our forebearers to uphold, defend, protect, and disseminate the principles set forth in this palladium of liberty. In 1945, when the guns ceased firing and the battle flags were furled and lights were turned on throughout the world, we too thought the silver lining behind the clouds had appeared and the world would be at peace. However, so many divergent views and conflicting opinions among their respective nations have made peace difficult to win and another critical period is confronting us. If we, as true and loyal Americans, protest and oppose the subversive influences that are making such inroads on our democratic government, we too can render a real service in winning the peace and making the world safe for democracy. Thomas Jefferson, that fearless patriot who devoted his life and used his fortune in fighting for freedom and the inalienable rights of man and who considered the drafting of the Declaration of Independence a greater achievement than being President of the United States as evidenced by the epitaph on his tomb said, quote, I have sworn upon the order of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man. Always cognizant of the rights and liberties we enjoy under our Constitution, let us be ever alert and ready and ready by our pen voice, precept and influence to oppose any abridgment of these rights and the interpretation of any of its provisions that would curtail them. The sons of the American Revolution point with pride to the inauguration in 1917 of the observance of Constitution Day throughout the United States. Congressional action in establishing Constitution Day was the result of the efforts of our society in an attempt to impress all Americans of the necessity of becoming familiar with the priceless heritage of our Constitution. Celebrations, some of this are being held in various parts of our country. Feeling the responsibility of carrying out the purposes of this day, our National Committee on Constitution has requested the superintendents of public instructions in their respective states that the anniversary be appropriately celebrated in the schools. Realizing the importance and necessity of our boys and girls becoming familiar with and possessing the knowledge of our Constitution, we are urging the enactment of laws in the respective states providing for the teaching of the Constitution in our public schools by including it in the curriculum. A number of the states have enacted such a law. If we succeed in teaching our boys and girls the principles of democracy as set forth in our Constitution that retaining, upholding, and defending them are requisite for the continuation of our freedom, privileges, and rights we enjoy thereunder, there will be no reason for the fears of the future and the continuation of our democracy. As yon statute of liberty with an upstretched arm and holding a torch as a beacon to all the world is symbolic of the justice, freedom, and equal rights to all guaranteed on our Constitution. Peoples of all nations and every clime in this chaotic, torn, and disturbed world are looking to and depending on us for assistance and guidance. if we are true and loyal to this immortal document, our Constitution, and disseminate its principles, our country will not only continue to be a beacon light and guide for all the world, but our government will ever be one of the people, by the people, and for the people, and always the land of the free and the home of the brave. I think you'll all agree we did very well to persuade Mr. Foreman to come all the way from Virginia. I think we should keep him here. Mr. Farrell will now sing My Country Tis of Thee. My Country Tis of Thee, Sweet Land of Liberty, Of Thee we sing. Land where my fathers died, Land of the pilgrims' pride, From every mountainside, Live freedom ring. Our fathers, God, to Thee, Our fathers, God, to Thee, Our fathers, God, to Thee, Our fathers, God, to Thee, Our fathers, God, to Thee, S verme tackle, Hopefully we sing. Harriet will goin'합니다, For a beating, My country have a power of life within the sea But do it this time will cry to be Take us by thy might, great God, our King. The sons of the American Revolution have always had a keen interest in the affairs of younger people. And today I know you have a special interest because we have with us Miss Daisy Smith, who has gone around this town winning practically every oratorical contest that she could find a way into. But she has a special composition she wishes to recite today, which seems most appropriate. I am an American, recited by Miss Daisy Smith of Manhattan, New York. Miss Smith. I am an American. In the plunder journal, New York was exposed to the mines of Siberia. Another was crippled for life by 20 blows of a knout. Another was killed defending his home during the massacre. The history of my ancestors is a trail of blood to the palace gate of the great white tsar. But then the dream came, the dream of America. In the light of the liberty torch, the atom of dust became a man, and the straw in the wind became a woman for the first time. See, said my father, pointing to the flag that blotted near. That flag of stars and stripes is yours. It is the emblem of the promised land. It means, my child, the hope of humanity. Live for it. Die for it. Under the open sky of my new country, I swore to do so. And every drop of blood in me will keep that vow. I am proud of my future. I am an American. I am proud of my new country. And so we conclude the Constitution Day exercises commemorating the 160th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution of the United States under the auspices of the New York chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution. This was held on the most historic spot in the world, the steps of the sub-treasury building, at the wall of Nassau Street, the scene of the first government of the United States, when New York was the capital and George Washington was inaugurated President of the United States. We return you to our studios in the municipal building.