WNYC, in cooperation with the New York City Health Department, presents Dr. Michael Antell, District Health Officer, in the fourth of his talks on summer health problems. This morning, Dr. Antell will discuss the protection of your dog against rabies. A dog is man's best friend, so the saying goes. Certainly, few other creatures demonstrate the intense loyalty, affection, and steadfast devotion that this animal gives to his master. Yes, a dog is a wonderful companion and friend, but he can become a dangerous enemy, a fearful menace to master and society if it contracts rabies. Rabies, a deadly disease, a communicable disease, a disease that is incurable. For once man or dog develops rabies, no medicine can help. No power on earth can prevent a most agonizing and fearful death. Although few rabid dogs were encountered in New York City for many years, there was a sudden increase in 1944. A single rabid dog wandered into the Bronx one day and began to attack every dog that crossed its path. Bitten and thus infected, these dogs spread the disease further. One woman was bitten by her own dog, which had become infected. She died of rabies. This was the first human death from this disease since 1941. Many other persons were attacked in the course of this outbreak before the rabid dogs were all caught and destroyed. Since 1944, the situation has been brought under control. But the danger of another outbreak, of more widespread infection, is still very real and very threatening. Just consider this. New York City has one of the largest dog populations in the country. In the country, there are more than 300,000 licensed dogs. And each year, about 12,000 stray dogs are picked up on the highways and public places. In 1946, 113 rabid animals were found. Last year, there were 47. And so far this year, 25 rabid animals, including one cat. These animals are a source of great danger. For once rabies gets a start in a congested area like New York City, it can grow to epidemic proportions and regardless of the time of year, summer or winter, spring or fall. Yes, rabies offers a challenge that must be dealt with intelligently. To do this, we must understand the nature of the disease, how it is transmitted, and what we as individuals can do to remove this menace from our midst. Rabies is a highly infectious disease caused by a virus. Dogs serve as the principal agents for its spread. But cats, foxes, squirrels, and certain other warm-blooded animals may also contract it. As I stated before, rabies is easily transmissible to human beings. When an animal has rabies, its saliva usually contains the deadly virus. This is what makes the bite of a rabid dog so dangerous. The saliva and not the bite itself. In fact, a person need not be bitten to become infected. If droplets of the infected saliva come in contact with a portion of the skin, having even the slightest scratch or abrasion, the virus will enter the body. When it reaches the brain, agonizing death quickly ensues. Remember, once rabies develops, it is always fatal to humans and animals alike. The question is often asked, how long does it take rabies to develop? This varies depending on the strength of the virus and on the nearness of the bite to important nerve trunks of the brain. Bites on the face are always more dangerous than those inflicted on other parts of the body. In most instances, rabies will develop from 21 to 60 days after infection. In some cases, the disease may take only 10 days. In some cases, rabies may take as long as six months or even longer. Rabies in dogs takes one of two forms, the dumb or the violent. Sometimes these two forms interlock, blending to present a mixed intermediate type. The true dumb reaction is really a kind of paralysis. Very early, the animal becomes melancholy, tries to hide, and generally does not obey the commands of its master. He may show extreme nervousness, walk from one place to another. The paralysis causes the dog's jaw to drop, its bark to change in tone, and makes it difficult for it to swallow. The animal is unable to drink water, though it makes a great effort to do so. People formerly misinterpreted this pathetic symptom as fear of water. For this reason, they named the disease hydrophobia. Today, we know that there is no fear of water on the part of the animal. It is simply unable to swallow or use his tongue because his throat is paralyzed. This paralysis of the jaw and throat in the dumb form of rabies is rapidly followed by a general paralysis and death. When a dog reacts to the disease in its violent form, it is usually vicious, irritable, and restless. These characteristics increase as the disease progresses. The animal which at first lacks an appetite suddenly has a depraved appetite. He is attracted to all kinds of indigestible material such as wood, dirt, stones. The mouth is parched and the eyes have a peculiar appearance. As the disease advances, the animal may try to run away from its owner. If it reaches the open highway, it may wander for long distances, biting almost every animal that crosses its path, and attacking human beings as well until it is seized or dies. The animal is a victim of a dog that is a victim of a dog that is a victim of a dog. The animal is a victim of a dog that is a victim of a dog that is a victim of a dog that is a victim of a dog. They are chiefly responsible for outbreaks of rabies in the community. They are a decided menace to our public safety and health. Recently, a rabid dog ran away from his home in Nassau County. After being at large for three days, the dog was captured in the Columbia Heights section of Brooklyn, The father had gone 25 miles from home. Nobody knows exactly how much damage the animal did during his mad spree, but we have reason to believe it was considerable. As infection progresses in a rabid dog, its saliva usually becomes more and more loaded with virus, and a drop of it on slightly scratched skin could spell death for you or some member of the family. If your dog's behavior suddenly changes and its actions become strange and abnormal, consult your veterinarian at once. Don't delay. Unfortunately, there is no test to determine whether or not an animal is incubating rabies. If the veterinarian suspects the disease, the animal must be quarantined for at least six months. He will turn the animal over to the health department for confinement at a shelter of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. There, the dog will be isolated and kept under observation by health department veterinarians. If visible symptoms do not appear during that time, the dog is probably all right and will be returned to its owner unharmed. If the dog has rabies, it will die and the brain will be examined to confirm the diagnosis. I have said that there is no known cure for rabies. This will come as a surprise to those persons who believe that the famous Pasteur treatment is a cure. The Pasteur anti-rabic treatment does not cure the disease. It prevents the disease from developing. But it must be administered promptly. Delay may be fatal. If you have been bitten by a dog, there are several important things for you to do. Wash the wound thoroughly under running water, if that is available, to remove the animal's saliva. Then go at once to the nearest physician or hospital for cauterization of the wound. The doctor will tell you whether or not you should receive a series of anti-rabic injections, which can prevent the disease from developing. Your own physician can administer the treatment, or you may obtain it at any of the health department's anti-rabic clinics. The anti-rabic treatment takes two or three weeks. The vaccine must be injected in at least 14 daily doses. In some instances, 21 injections are necessary. This may seem rigorous, but when your life is at stake, it's worth it. To be effective, the treatment must begin as soon as possible after contact with the animal, before the disease has a chance to gain a foothold. No time at all must be wasted. Every effort must be made to locate the biting dog, so that it may be placed under observation of a health department veterinarian at an ASPCA shelter. You can easily see that rabies would have very little chance to spread if there were no dogs at large. For this reason, the New York City Sanitary Code requires that, and I quote, No dog shall be permitted at any time to be on any street or in any public park or public place or upon any open, unfenced area or lot abutting upon a street, public park, or public place in the City of New York unless effectively restrained by a chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length. End of quote. In other words, when you take your dog out for a walk, you must keep him on his leash at all times. The law says you must restrain him. You can't turn him loose and let him run around wherever he pleases. This may sound hard on your dog, but it would be far worse if he ran up against a rabid dog and caught the dread infection. In addition to this restraining law, the City aims to control rabies through quarantine measures. Unleashed dogs found in areas designated as being rabies infected are liable to seizure by any agent authorized by the Board of Health. Such dogs are kept isolated and are destroyed unless claimed within 48 hours. The owner of a seized dog may appear to claim his pet. If he agrees to have the dog vaccinated against rabies, the animal will be placed under quarantine for only six weeks. Otherwise, for six months. If the owner can present to the health department a certificate showing that the animal had been vaccinated anywhere from six weeks to not more than one year prior to its seizure, the dog will be returned to him upon request. At present, the borough of Brooklyn and Queens are considered rabies infected areas and the quarantine is rigidly enforced. Vaccination of dogs against rabies has been compulsory on Staten Island since October 1st, 1947. Prior to that, this borough was also a quarantine area. All dogs brought into Staten Island and kept on the island must be vaccinated against the disease each year. Now here is how you can help to eliminate rabies. Do not pet, feed, or handle any stray or roving dog. Children should be constantly warned not to play with or pet strange animals. A large percentage of those bitten are children of school age and under. Do not feed, touch, or handle an unknown dog that is down and unable to move, however much your sympathies are aroused. The animal may be injured, but then again, it may be a rabid dog of the violent type that has become paralyzed. This kind of dog, although not far from death, may still have a few good bites left in him. Call a policeman or get in touch with the ASPCA and let them handle the dog. Finally, I'd like to appeal to all dog owners. Obey the law, keep your dog leashed at all times, have your dog vaccinated against rabies once a year. If you follow these through, these simple suggestions, you will be cooperating in the fight now being waged by the Department of Health to protect our citizens against this fatal, violent, and preventable disease. We have just heard Dr. Michael Antel discuss the protection of your dog against rabies. Today's program is one of a twice-weekly series produced with the cooperation of the New York City Department of Health. For copies of Dr. Antel's address, please write to WNYC, New York 7, or send your request on a penny postcard to the Department of Health, 125 Worth Street, New York 13, New York. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.