differ greatly. Consequently, their financial obligations to the United Nations also differ, and the contributions which are expected of them in connection with any great and costly scheme which the United Nations may consider are also unequal. This means that the consent of certain powers is necessary in determining that any plan calling for heavy expenditure shall be undertaken by the United Nations as an organization. It is a matter of judgment for the powers concerned whether or not the United Nations shall do the job. If the assignment is given to the United Nations, then it is up to the United Nations to carry it out in a satisfactory way. I do not know of any such assignment which has been given to the United Nations which has not been carried out properly. In the long run, it is up to the people themselves to determine what shall happen. An enlightened and sensible people with wide vision will inspire the government of its country to take active and progressive action in the councils of the United Nations and in the specialized agencies. A short-sighted people may actually prevent its government from taking the action which is required for the common good. Likewise, the enlightened attitude of one people converted into an enlightened policy on the part of its government has contagious qualities. The history and the present position of Canada and the Canadian people qualify them to play a leading role in the vast program which confronts us, out of all proportion to the size of your population. Canada and the Canadian people, I am sure, will be worthy of themselves and of the United Nations. Mr. Chairman, I have enjoyed my visit to your city. I want to thank his honour, the Lieutenant Governor for his most cordial hospitality, the Dominion and Provincial Governments for the facilities which they have placed at my disposal, and the United Nations Society and the citizens of Winnipeg for their genuine interest in our work as evidenced by their presence here in such large numbers this evening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was an address by His Excellency Trigba Lee, Secretary General of the United Nations Organization. Mr. Lee spoke to a capacity audience here in the Civic Auditorium in the City of Winnipeg, capital of the province of Manitoba. The occasion was the first public rally of the Winnipeg branch of the United Nations Society. The remote facilities required for this broadcast were provided by station CKRC in Winnipeg. This is the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. And there was a parent inidence David음platorium conference that a location for you to come up and open to playing the A Wales Society Office