Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses the state of American foreign policy. To open today's program we present Louis Gottschalk, historian of the University of Chicago. And now, Mr. Gottschalk. People think of the great debate that is now going on among various people whom we shall later mention, as resembling the debate of the 1930s on the eve of the Second World War. In some regards, of course, this is a great debate, but I think that probably we ought to think of it as a wide divergence of opinion and not simply as a two-fold debate with one side taking the negative and the other side taking the affirmative. What I should like for us to do, at least to begin with, is to indicate which man stands for which. And probably, in order to avoid confusion among all the various opinions, to pick out some representative types. Now, it would seem to me, Fox, that one of the outstanding persons, beginning with those who are most on the defensive, would be ex-President Hoover. What do you think of that? If you agree with me, would you state his position? Well, his position certainly differs sharply from that of the Truman Administration. He believes that Russia cannot be defeated in land warfare in the old world. He believes that Russia cannot defeat us in any kind of attack on the new world and favors the creation of what he calls a Western Hemisphere Gibraltar of Western civilization. He believes that Western Europe must try much harder than it has so far to defend itself, and after it has created what he calls a sure dam against Russia. Then, perhaps, we can send more American soldiers and help them more. He believes that with the building up of our Air Force and our Sea Force that we can be very safe in this Gibraltar, and that if we try to go beyond that and build up a huge land army for land warfare across the ocean, it will be so expensive as to bring about the economic collapse of the United States. Would you add that he is in favor of appeasement or isolationism? He says definitely that he is not in favor of appeasement, but it seems pretty clear that the program which he suggests would invite the Russians to move into those areas of Europe and Asia, which are not presently under their complete control. Well, those are some of the high points of the Hoover position. Moseley, I wonder if you could explain to me what the Taft position is. Let me, before I go on, explain that both of my colleagues are from the University of, from Columbia University. Mr. Fox is in the Department of Political Science, and Mr. Moseley is in the Department of History of Columbia University. Now, as a historian, Moseley, would you explain the Taft position? Well, as I understand Mr. Taft's position, he is not convinced that the Russians are preparing to go to war immediately in order to overrun Western Europe. And he believes that the program of rearmament, as it has been set forth by the administration, is more likely to stir them up and provoke them, perhaps, than to deter them from trying to overrun Western Europe. His grounds for this are that the United States cannot defeat Russia and her allies in land warfare. And in line with this, he proposes that we withdraw from Korea now, where we are engaged in land warfare at tremendous disadvantages, and that we make a diversion by encouraging the Chinese nationalist forces to move from Formosa to the mainland of China and create a land warfare diversion there against the Chinese Communist regime. In line with the same idea of avoiding commitment of American forces to land warfare, he believes that we should concentrate on building up American sea and air power as a deterrent, and that American forces in Western Europe are not and cannot be a sufficient deterrent to protect Western continental Europe against Soviet attack. He believes that Stalin has the power to overrun Western Europe at any time, and that the same factors which have prevented the Russians from doing this since the war continue to operate, and that we do not need to add to them a large American land army in Europe. How about the cost of this? Does he think it is worth the cost? Yes, that is a major problem for Mr. Taft. He feels that the inflation which he feels would accompany really large-scale rearmament and arming of our allies would be a great danger to the survival of America as we now know it, and that it is almost as great a danger as the threat of Russian aggression in Western Europe. He also holds that the United States is not committed at the present time to supply any land troops for the defense of Europe, and that if the Russians should attack Western Europe, then we would consult with our allies under the Atlantic Treaty in order to decide whether we would then supply forces. Is he entirely in favor of appeasement? Some of the things you say indicate that he might be entirely in favor of appeasing the Russians without any kind of counter action. Mr. Taft believes that the action with sea and air forces should be the limit to which we should go. He said something about infiltration, as I recall. Does he mean by that that what we ought to do is to send in troops to filter in, or does he mean that we ought to use something like the voice of America? What do you suppose he means by infiltration? Well, I must say, Gottschalk, that Mr. Taft has not defined what he means by infiltration beyond the general idea of keeping the American ideals to the forefront of peoples who are now under Soviet domination. I think perhaps I might present the formal position of the United States government as so far announced, the position voiced by President Truman, which also indicates something of the attitude of Secretary of State Acheson and Mr. Dulles. Their attitude is that we must keep Western Europe in operation. That is to say, support them by troops as far as we can, and to keep the Atlantic Pact operated, and keep them out of the hands of Russia. That we must do in order for America to survive. A do-nothing policy will only help Russia, and will not be useful, might be disadvantageous to the United States. They do not think that Soviet Russia has to attack America in order to secure domination of the world. Therefore, they ask for a large army. The number figure that has so far been indicated is a land army of three and a half million men. Their attitude is that the Atlantic Pact is an operative agency, that the Western European countries can be made into dependable allies, despite their small contribution to the Korean War. The appointment of Eisenhower indicates that they mean to implement that program. We must therefore rearm Western Europe, including Western Germany. And they count upon the United Nations as an agency for helping to police the world. Collective action is still one of the important features of their program. Now, I should like, Fox, to come back to you and ask you for the final one that I think we ought to analyze, the position of Governor Dewey of New York State. Well, Gotshock, the position of Dewey seems to me to differ from that of the administration more in method than in goal. Dewey would agree with the administration that we must build up substantial force in the old world. He feels, on the other hand, that the country needs far more decisive leadership than he thinks it has been given to date. He feels that the administration took far too long to discover the Soviet Union's expansionist intent. And he wants, therefore, a much more drastic and speedy mobilization than the administration seems to be calling for. He speaks of an army of a hundred divisions. And in addition, he would have a powerful air force and a powerful navy. He speaks of the possibility of landing the troops of Chiang Kai-shek in Asia and arming guerrillas to fight within China. He speaks of the necessity of drawing a line and saying, what are the areas behind the line which we intend to help defend? And he believes we should say so. He favors the prompt re-arming of Germany and Japan. He asks us to quit being fussy about our other allies. He would have us embrace Franco, Tito, Chiang, and Turkey from the point of view of building up the land strength of the forces opposed to Soviet expansion. And he favors going ahead with the Marshall Plan and other devices to help Europe re-arm itself more speedily than it has so far done. Well, now we have stated what I think are the four major positions in this so-called great debate of the 1950s in the United States. Despite the fact that these men are often in disagreement with regard to detail, it is my feeling that you don't have a genuine debate here because they agree on the essential core. It seems that the people who associate with them in what might be called a lesser capacity as exponents of certain positions in this great debate are none of them isolationists, for example, as was true in the 1940s. They all feel we have a certain responsibility to other parts of the world. They are none of them in disagreement as to who the enemy was, as was true in the 1940s. Everybody has agreed that Russia is the enemy. They are all agreed, on the other hand, that we have to fight a war more or less on the defensive, some less defensive in their attitude and others more offensive in their attitude, but still feeling that what we have to do is to await for the decisions that, to make decisions in accordance with the next move of Russia. They are not in favor, in other words, of a preventive war, of our dropping bombs on Russia. In other words, although they recognize that we must struggle, they recognize, or they seem to say, that there is still some hope of peace, and that if exactly the right foreign policy is followed, we may yet get through the present crisis without descending into a third world war. Yes, I think so. It's possible that some of them have come to the conclusion that diplomacy is fruitless, that there is no point any longer in negotiating, but at least they are not saying, therefore, the only alternative is to start a war with Russia. Let's wait and see what Russia does. I'd also like to point out that they're all agreed that communism and Russian imperialism are identical, or they seem to be agreed that they are identical, and not two separate things, since you can deal with Mao, for example, as a communist, but he doesn't represent Russian imperialism, but is quite an independent force of Russia. They seem to identify, at least as far as China is concerned. In that connection, Dr. Shaw, what do you think of the proposal which has been made by Hoover, Taft, and Dewey, that we put the Chinese nationalist forces ashore on the Chinese mainland, and use them to divert the strength of the Chinese communists from the struggle in Korea? Well, let me reverse the question and ask you what you think. Well, I feel that an army put ashore, knowing that it would not be backed up by American power, except through supplies and through air power, would disintegrate very rapidly. That would be, in my opinion, and I say that very humbly, not knowing the Far East firsthand, but I still feel that knowing in advance that they would be entirely on their own, the Chinese nationalist forces would disintegrate very quickly. I have the same feeling, in addition, I have the feeling that it might separate the Western powers, create a great deal of disunity among them, in view of the fact that on this Asiatic question, they're probably more divided than on any one other question. I think that's very important, Gotshock. The administration, of course, can't be as forceful and vigorous in announcing its policy as the critics are in denouncing it, because in a decision, for example, as to how much to permit the present struggle in Korea to be broadened into a general Chinese-American war, they have at every stage to consider what it means for the alliance which has been welded with such great difficulty in these last years in the North Atlantic region. I should have pointed out when I said that they were in agreement that communism is an enemy, that they all seem to be inclined to believe, A, that Yugoslavia will be on our side, though it is communist, and that there is a possibility of a split between, or some of them think there's a possibility of a split between Chinese communists and Russian communists. I wonder what you think about that, Mosley. I wouldn't be willing to bank much on that. It would be a long-range development if it occurred at all. But meanwhile, we do have to face a real issue, the issue of whether it is necessary to our own safety to defend Western Europe against the danger and the threat of being overrun. Mosley, Mr. Hoover, seems to feel, in fact he says, that the communist-controlled areas of the world are a conjuries of peoples which will one day fall apart. He seems to believe, therefore, that if we build up a fortress in the new world and wait, that time is on our side, that Stalin will somehow or other dive into gestion. What are you willing to give to the communist world in terms of peoples and in terms of resources? You say we shouldn't give them Europe? I don't think we should permit them to have the resources of Africa or Asia to utilize for the purpose of world conquest. And what we are unwilling to assist in defending against communist control, we are permitting them to utilize for what will happen in the future against our interest here at home. Well, let me just reply very briefly by saying I don't want to give them any more than we have to. Well, there are in President Truman's address, in addition to the point we've just discussed, a list of ten recommendations he sent to Congress, and I think maybe we ought to look at some of those. The first one, for example, calls for appropriations, more and bigger appropriations, for military preparedness. Uh, Senator Humphrey... ... Whereas, uh, President Truman and Governor Dewey seem agreed that if we grant the, uh, control of the rest of Europe and the rest of Asia to Stalin, that far from its giving him indigestion, that, uh, he will be nourished by it and grow stronger and more menacing than ever. I don't see how we can afford to turn over to Soviet control the 270 million, millions of peoples in Western Europe. They represent the greatest reservoir of skilled and trained manpower in the world. Their industrial production, uh, taken together, is second only to that of the United States. Uh, to add this power to the power that Russia has already accumulated, would shift the balance of strength in the world, in terms of industrial strength, as well as manpower, ability to produce and use weapons, so that we would be reduced to trying to defend our own shorelines. Uh, I wonder if we shouldn't add at this point that the participants in this, uh, great debate on American foreign policy, uh, differ a great deal in their estimate of the type of effort which we may expect from Europeans in, uh, uh, producing arm strength out of this great reservoir that you speak of. Uh, Mr. Hoover, for example, seems to feel that the present European effort is so feeble that, uh, they are in fact a dangerous ally for us, and that, uh, uh, attempt to help Europeans in Europe may create a fatal weakness. Uh, in, uh, uh, opposite position is taken by those at the other end of the spectrum in the debate, who, uh, take the position which you, uh, have just, uh, developed, mostly. Well, one of the points, I think, that has to be made, Kennedy made it, for example, is that some of the countries have made a quite feeble, uh, contribution to the Korean effort. Uh, they haven't lived up to what, at least, Americans think, as their proportionate share of the country. The question of whether Korea isn't, after all, a very bad place to, to start with. There is a moral question involved there, and there's a strategic question involved there. Whether if these people were fighting in their own homes where the moral question and the strategic question would take a secondary position to defense, they wouldn't put up a very much greater effort. But there's no use, uh, it isn't valid to compare the effort in, that they make in regard to Korea with an effort that they would make in defense of their own homes. And furthermore, Gatshok, we have, uh, we are urging them to get ready to defend themselves in Europe, and we are committed to helping them. The question is how much and in what ways we should help them. To ask them at the same time to make a major diversion of forces to Korea would not have been logical. I think that, uh, uh, the, I think that we have, uh, over-stressed the, uh, uh, possibility of European countries fighting on any large scale in Korea, and also preparing to defend Western Europe. Well, that raises the question of whether the Russians won't strike in, uh, in Europe before we can build up any strength there. Uh, that's a matter, Gatshok, on which the, uh, uh, men whose, uh, whose, uh, programs we've been discussing differ sharply. Uh, Senator Taft appears to believe that a major effort to increase, uh, European armed strength and American armed strength in Europe would provoke the Russians to an attack on Western Europe which they might otherwise not make. Uh, whereas, uh, uh, Mr. Dewey and Mr. Truman seem agreed that the more strength there the better. That, uh, uh, uh, strength in Europe is more likely to quiet Stalin down than, uh, weakness in Europe. Uh, Dewey says explicitly, for example, that only the atomic bomb now prevents the Russians from going into Western Europe, and he seems to feel that as our atomic superiority wastes away that, uh, uh, uh, we must have greater strength in that area, or, uh, we can look forward to the floodgates of, uh, Soviet, uh, expansion being open. Well, let me direct this question to you, Mosley. It follows from what Fox has said. Is the defense of Western Europe essential to the security of the United States? Hoover seems to think not. Well, I disagree completely with Hoover in that respect. I feel that, uh, to combine Western European productive capacity, education, and scientific ability, uh, with the, uh, what the Soviet Union said, uh, what the Soviet Union has already piled up in the way of strength, would, uh, tip the balance against us. And I don't see, uh, how we can afford to let Western Europe go. I would say that even if Western Europe were not preparing to defend itself, we would have to try to defend it in our own interest. But I don't agree that Western Europe is not getting ready to defend. Uh, there are, uh, projects underway. The plans are being worked out. The equipment is being produced. As a matter of fact, several of our allies in Western Europe have been putting a greater share of their manpower and their national income into defense than we have been doing down to this time. But then there's the position of Taft, who says, uh, all this business of landing soldiers, uh, all this business of building up a strong defense in the Atlantic pack, is an irritant rather than a deterrent. Fox, what do you think of that? It doesn't seem to me to make very much sense. Uh, I have no way of knowing, of course, whether the defense of Western Europe is possible, whether or not it's regarded as a sense of saving ourselves. One, of saving ourselves on the other side of the water, and two, of saving ourselves on this side of the water. It doesn't seem to me to make any sense to throw away the first chance on the chance that the second might prove adequate. If we try to Europe and Asia and retire to our Western Hemisphere, Gibraltar, then, if it turns out that we've guessed wrong, we're finished. Your point, then, is that, uh, you don't give up your outer defenses till you have to. You don't start defending your inner defenses until, uh, until your outer defenses have been proved to be, uh, incapable of defense. Yes, and I may say further that, uh, a rich country such as ours, if it has to, can't prepare for two kinds of defense simultaneously. I shan't like being taxed to the extent that it will be necessary to prepare both, again, for the eventuality of struggle in Europe and the eventuality of struggle on the oceans, but I don't think it means the end of our democratic system or the end of our pre-enterprise system if we make up our minds that it's got to be done. The point that some of these people seem to need their speeches is that you don't have to be equally strong on all fronts, that if you have a strong enough body of reserve, you can send that reserve in the direction which is most threatened. You don't have to keep all your army equally strong at all points so that the enemy may attack, and building up a strong army in this country, uh, may be best, that strong army may be best used by sending it out of the country to defend where it has been made, rather than keeping it at home waiting for the attack to come at home. And Gottschalk, that, uh, that matter ties in directly with the thing that is chiefly worrying the West Europeans. They want to know, as they begin this great effort which will slow down their economic recovery, they want to know whether they are going to be overrun in the first phase, and whether we are then going to try and willing to put up more power in Europe so that they can arm, knowing that we are there to join with them in defence. I think that, uh, out of this debate should come, I hope will come, an assurance that we will put forces into Europe, and that, uh, the Europeans can safely join with them in preparing our common defence. We cannot ask them to, and to sacrifice themselves for our later security. All this, all this seems to go on the assumption that the Russians think they can beat Western Europe, but don't think they can beat Western Europe. We have to assume that the Russians don't feel that they can beat the whole combination we can build up. Well, it seems to me that if we make any assumption at all about Russian rationality, we have to assume that their knowledge that a certain United States Western European coalition fully rearmed is facing them would cause them to hesitate a long time before provoking a third world war. The United States is unbeatable, and this concept of the invincibility of the United States is a real deterrent upon, upon their aggressive action. Well, I agree with Governor Dewey that the existence of a large atomic stockpile is a present deterrent. I think it's up to the American people to provide a substitute deterrent, uh, when that one disappears, as it will within these next few years. And I may say that this present deterrent is possibly the thing that permits us to build up West strength in Western Europe without provoking the attack from the East, while Europe still has a rather low level of rearmament. Yes, I agree with that, Fox. I think that we have, uh, two or three years in which to build up the standard defense of Western Europe, and that, uh, by the time the atomic bomb strength, uh, is equalized, or is so nearly equalized that neither side is willing or able to use it, uh, the Western Europe, with our help, will then be able to defend itself against ordinary land and air warfare. And you think a possibility of a long-range stalemate is not out of the picture at all? Yes, I don't see the Russians withdrawing from any areas that they now control or dominate. I don't see why we should follow Mr. Hoover's idea of announcing our withdrawal of support from the areas where we have friends, and the people who are buying values that we treasure. I should like to sum up what we have, uh, so far tried to do. We have indicated that while there is a great deal of important difference among the figures whom we have spoken of as representative of the great debate, that there is a large amount of agreement among them, that nevertheless the differences are the things that are dramatic and that have to be talked about, that these differences pass from, uh, one of, uh, mere defense of the oceans to one of taking a very active part in diplomacy and in military affairs in Western Europe, and perhaps also in Asia, that, uh, among the differences that need to be emphasized are the possibility of the United States maintaining a strong enough force so as to, in preventing further aggressive action from Russia. that, uh, and that, and that one of the other things that is important is that it is possible to do all this with great confidence in our Western European allies, maintaining the Atlantic Pact without any, uh, fear that the allies will not in the end fail of their obligations. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on the State of American Foreign Policy were Philip Mosley of the Russian Institute, Columbia University, William T. R. Fox, Professor of International Relations, Columbia University, and Louis Gottschalk, Historian of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion of the State of American Foreign Policy contains the full text of the discussion and reprints all the important recent statements on foreign policy by leading Americans. You and your friends will want copies of this pamphlet as a ready guide to the great debate on American foreign policy. Single copies are only ten cents in coin. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copies of today's pamphlet. Or you can subscribe to the Roundtable pamphlet for a full year for $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program on the State of American Foreign Policy. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week the Roundtable discusses should we have total manpower conscription. May we invite you to join the Roundtable home study course in world politics? This course is open to one. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois for the brochure describing the course and telling how you may register. Each month a 24-volume set of the Encyclopedia Britannica is awarded to the student most successfully completing the course. Today's program originated from Radio City, New York. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Propes. Hear a discussion of foreign policy on the American Forum today on NBC. The Radish았습니다支部 후 The Moone® The ADA The Currencyと思います Question