All the NBC's affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today from station KSTP in Minneapolis and St. Paul, the Roundtable discusses understand nutrition and live longer. To open this discussion, we present Dr. Samuel Soskin, director of Medical Research Institute for Michael Reese Hospital and member of the Department of Physiology of the University of Chicago. Dr. Soskin. Dr. Soskin. Every listener should be concerned about nutrition because three times a day at breakfast, lunch, and dinner you are affecting your health, happiness, and length of life. We are in the midst of a great revolution in food habits and everybody needs to know more about nutrition. I turn first to Dr. Ansel Keys, director of the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene of the University of Minnesota, who has just completed one of the most extensive studies on malnutrition. Dr. Keys, how can knowledge of nutrition improve health and lengthen life? Well, Dr. Soskin, it is certain that good nutrition is essential for full health and a long life. And good nutrition requires understanding nutrition. Moreover, we must understand not only our own nutrition, but also that of the rest of the world if we are, personally, to live longer. Malnutrition is a major cause of war, and war notoriously shortens life. Perhaps I should remind you of the first line of the Communist International, Arise, ye prisoners of starvation. Dr. William Darby, you are director of the Division of Nutrition at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and have made many surveys of the nutritional status of people, especially in the South. Dr. Darby, you have also conducted research in the vitamin field. Dr. Darby, should people supplement their meals with vitamin pills? Dr. Soskin, the daily vitamin pill has become an American fad. Actually, if a healthy person eats a well-chosen, intelligently prepared diet, he will get all of the vitamins which his body can use. Any surpluses are wasted. As a matter of fact, gross excess of two, at least of the vitamins, may in rare cases produce undesirable effects. You don't need to buy them unless your physician prescribes them. Dr. Russell Wilder, as a nutrition consultant of the Mayo Clinic and professor of medicine at the University of Minnesota, you've had long experience with the Council on Foods and Nutrition of the American Medical Association. You've also been with the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council since its beginning in 1940. Dr. Wilder, what should people look for in the foods they buy? Dr. Soskin, I would like to see people take more interest in the quality of the foods they buy, and I mean particularly the nutritional quality. I wish they would read the labels on the foods they buy. For example, whether the salt they buy contains some iodine as an assurance against goiter. iodized salt. Whether the bread and white flour they buy is enriched with thiamine, riboflavin, and iron, and nicotinic and niacin as an assurance of getting enough of these vitamins in their diet. Whether the canned foods for their babies and toddlers or for the sick which they buy carry the seal of acceptance of the Council on Foods of the American Medical Association, thereby providing an assurance that the nutritional claims made for these foods have validity. Of course, I think it is also important to remember remember that it is much easier to make a mistake in food selection nowadays than it was a hundred years ago. When foods were eaten largely in their natural state, the essential food elements like the vitamins and minerals were a natural accompaniment of the fuel materials. The best example of that is, of course, in the whole grains. The more carbohydrate you ate in the grain, the more vitamins and minerals you got with the grain. But nowadays, the processing of flour, the milling of white flour particularly, separates the essential elements from the purely energy materials. And therefore, it is now much easier to make a mistake in diet by eating too much of one and not enough of the other. Let us consider what happens when the nutrition is bad. My own concern about nutrition began in 1942. through attention to problems of work performance and efficiency which were to be met in wartime. We found that the ability of men to work hard and efficiently required constant attention to good nutrition. This was in normal young men. Actually, in older persons and in persons with various diseases, the problems are much more acute. Dr. Keyes, there are a number of diseases, of course, which are known as deficiency diseases, which come about because of the lack of something in the diet, the lack of some essential food substance. The most prevalent, or at least one of the most prevalent such diseases in the South is anemia. Anemia may result from a deficiency of iron or from a lack of the two newer vitamins, vitamin B12 or folic acid. Dr. Wilder has studied certain of the deficiency diseases. I think you'll agree, Dr. Darby, that deficiencies of the diet, lack of certain vitamins and so on, lead in the young to fairly conspicuous signs such as drying of the skin and hair, swelling, redness, and tenderness of the gums, thickening and pigmentation of the whites of the eyes, and so on. With advancing age, these abnormalities are seen in most people and the question has been raised as to how much dietary insufficiency is responsible for aging and some of the other undesirable effects of aging. But what are these signs in older people result from chronic malnutrition, accumulative, accumulation over years of the ill effects of poor diet, or whether age alone accounts for them is still a matter of contention, a matter for research. We aren't not yet ready to answer that question as far as the application of malnutrition to the infirmities of old age. We haven't yet mentioned one of the commonest faults of nutrition. I refer to the question of overeating. Dr. Soskin, you are informed on this point. Why, of course. Overweight is probably the commonest disturbance in nutrition, and it comes quite simply from eating more calories in the form of various foods than the body expends in the form of work and heat. Overweight has its very definite dangers. for one thing, there is no question that it predisposes to the onset of diabetes in a susceptible person. And for another thing, even where there is no diabetes as a factor, it does lead to premature degeneration of the heart and blood vessels, and therefore, overweight, while it is a very common and sometimes lightly regarded aspect of malnutrition, is an important one because it is so common. Dr. Soskin, I notice you use the term overweight, and we in my own laboratory have been interested in this point for some time. We rather think that the question is over fatness, and there are some difficult questions to be answered in that connection. We would rather suggest that people go around feeling the amount of fat on the body, grasp hold of the skin, and find out what the thickness of the fat layer may be. But I think we are now to the point where we should bring up the key question, what is a good diet? And I should like to lead off by asserting that no table of food energy or nutrient values can give us proper information for general use for individuals about a good diet. These questions of individual differences and variation cannot be ignored, and we can't short-circuit by such simplified means as some people have tried to apply. That's perfectly true, Dr. Keyes. There is a tremendous individual variation. Nevertheless, there are certain things that we're sure of. We are sure that everyone requires a certain minimum amount of protein, which we can put into grams per kilogram of body weight or some objective measure. We also know that there are certain vitamins and minerals which the body cannot make for itself, but which must be obtained from the food. and when I am asked by people as to what they should eat, I find that the easiest way for me to explain the situation is the following, that you must have the minimum amount of protein, the necessary vitamins and minerals, but beyond that, it makes very little difference what mixture of foodstuffs you take to make up your energy requirements. Now that really explains two things. One, that a certain amount of selection is necessary, and two, that beyond that point of selection, there is a great deal of leeway in the kind of food you can eat to make up a satisfactory diet. We were concerned with this, of course, in the Food and Nutrition Board from its very beginning. One of the problems put up to us was to develop a standard or a table of requirements. There was a great deal of discussion among the experts on that board as to what requirements were. Actually, requirements differ with different individuals. There's a range of requirements. Furthermore, no experiments, no work so far has been satisfactorily established the minimum level of any of the nutrients. In consequence, the board took the position that what they ought to do was to make a table of recommended allowances providing something that they could stand back of. If people would get these amounts of the different nutrients, the board would feel that they were avoiding any serious difficulties. Now, these nutrients were, these values were expressed in terms of protein, this vitamin, and that vitamin. are translatable into foods and have been translated into foods. And the War Food Administration issued during the war a table showing the seven basic foods, which is still being used and is a valuable guide. Dr. Wilder, perhaps we ought to define what nutrition is. Would you care to give a definition of nutrition? Well, that's a pretty difficult thing to do, what good nutrition is, to say what good nutrition is. Of course, one means that he must, that the individual who is well-nourished is not suffering from any disease resulting from a lack of any of the specific nutrients. It must be remembered that requirements differ with age and sex that stresses influence requirements. The requirements of pregnant women need special consideration as has been shown by very conclusive work in Toronto and in Boston and in England during the war. the best indices of, the best indexes of a satisfactory nutrition of a population have been said to be the rate of infection with tuberculosis, the rate of deaths of infants under one year of age. These are very sensitive indexes. If they are good, you can assume that the nutrition of the population is fair at least. to apply that to the individual is somewhat more difficult. Perhaps, Dr. Wilder, the better way of defining nutrition is to say something about the problem of metabolism and what the foods mean to the body. I refer particularly to the following fact that we have to select certain foods in order to be able to grow in the growing age and in order to be able to replace wear and tear on tissues. That is why we need certain essential things in the foods because our body cannot make those things for itself. The things which the body must have and which it cannot make for itself are certain essential amino acids which go to make up protein, certain vitamins, and certain minerals. Now, providing those materials are taken into the body so that the body can repair itself and can grow, the rest of the food is simply used for energy purposes and therefore the great problem of nutrition is to see that the essentials which the body cannot make are available in the food and secondly that enough calories in the form of a mixture of other foodstuffs are available for energy purposes. Dr. Soskin, you and Dr. Wilder have both mentioned stress conditions, growth, and requirements for pregnancy. I think it is sometimes helpful in teaching the housewife the proper planning of nutritional feeding to point up the fact that there are several situations which all fall under the process of growth and for the support of the individual during growth the nutritional requirements are greater than in periods when growth is not taking place. These situations are pregnancy, during the period when the mother is nursing the infant, during the time when the child is actually growing particularly in the adolescent rapid growth period, and during recovery from debilitating diseases, that is during periods of rehabilitation from disease. Well, I think those are all very good points, Dr. Darby, but we have spoken almost entirely of the consequences of poor nutrition. Let me pose this question. Can you, with a super abundance of food and vitamins and proteins and minerals, can you give better health or more vitality to an already healthy person? is there such a thing as a super diet? Well, Dr. Soskin, some of us gave a great deal of attention to this early on in the war when we heard tales about the marvelous things the Germans were doing in order to carry out the military campaigns, which they did in Norway and in the battles of Western Europe. Actually, I think that the evidence is now pretty good that you cannot do more than the body is able to do in terms of the genetics of the body, of the general makeup of it, and that a super abundance of vitamins and other nutrients is not only not beneficial, but may be a great waste of money, and perhaps, as Dr. Darby has mentioned, in some cases may be detrimental. Well, that leads to something else. There has been some discussion of the quality of foods depending upon where they're grown. What about it, Dr. Darby? The quality of foods, Dr. Soskin, in relation to the soil upon which the foods are grown is a subject receiving widespread discussion, at least. However, there's considerable misunderstanding regarding this relationship. Poor or worn-out soils certainly produce less of a given food crop per acre of land than to rich soils. The nutritive value of any single serving of the food grown on those soils, either type of soil, in fact, may be identical, however. The nutritional loss, then, is due to the difference in the total amount of food produced and not indifference to the nutritive quality of the food grown on the soil. The only reasonably good evidence contrary to this is that which shows a relationship between the amount of iodine in the soil and the amount of iodine in vegetables and the amount of phosphorus in certain soils and the phosphorus in the herbage of pastures. Consumer protection against the first of these, that is the iodine problem, problem, is provided for by use of iodized salt in cooking. phosphorus problem, on the other hand, does not seem to be one of direct consequence to the human diet, but it is of great importance to the farmer or animal breeder. Popular articles on nutrition often emphasize the importance in soils of so-called trace elements, that is, those elements which are present in very, very minute quantities. Evidence, however, is lacking for the possibility of human disease resulting from a deficiency of these trace elements in foodstuffs. Well, as I take it, Dr. Darby, what you are saying is that the soil of farmland which becomes exhausted in its content of minerals and other necessary ingredients produces just as good quality vegetables, but produces less of them. Generally speaking, that's true. Another thing, Dr. Darby, are the artificial and man-made fertilizers, deficient in ability to create wholesome food? No, not by any means. Dr. Wilder, what about the problems created by processing of foods and their effects on the quality of foods? I think you mentioned a little earlier, didn't you, Dr. Soskin, the fact that in milling the wheat, one, in making white flour, one removes a number of the vitamins and minerals contained in the original wheat. This applies to all cereals. That, of course, raised the problem. It was the reason why several bodies in this country turned to the so-called enrichment of flour and bread, the restoration to the flour and the bread of at least some of the more important things that had been removed. there's another problem created by the heating of cereal products and also of other products such as processed meats. The effect of heat on protein is disadvantageous, and in particular, some of these ready-to-eat breakfast cereals are lacking in nutritional quality. It is, however, that perhaps not too serious a problem because those breakfast cereals do provide a carrier for milk and usually are eaten with milk. And, of course, we all agree that a milk, that a high milk consumption is a nutritionally a desirable thing. Now, in the matter of bread, Dr. Wilder, we have remedied the deficiency somewhat by putting back vitamins, certain vitamins, in the white flour, so-called enrichment program. Do you believe that we should fortify all foods? No, I question the need of that. We have adopted some very definite rules with respect to what we will and what we will not endorse in the Council on Foods of the American Medical Association. One of these rules is that whatever is enforced or reinforced should be a food for pretty generally used so that it will get to all of the people or to many people. Another is that the product shall be a place that people normally look for a certain thing. For instance, in the case of orange juice, one does look for vitamin C. On the other hand, orange juice is a good carrier of vitamin C as it is and we have not yet felt that it was necessary to reinforce it with vitamin C. What about the canned orange juices that are and frozen orange juices that are being sold and to which vitamin C has been added? Do you think there is any advantage in fresh oranges over these products, Dr. Darby? Well, there is usually a taste advantage of fresh products over processed products or very frequently. That's especially true with fruits. However, I rather seriously question the desirability of adding to a food product a vitamin which, when that food product can really be produced with good retention of the vitamin to begin with. That is, for example, with orange juice, one can produce a very nutritious, processed orange juice which, when it reaches the consumer, is a dependable, excellent source of vitamin C without the necessity of adding vitamin C to the orange juice so that it would seem to me that in cases of this sort that it's unnecessary to encourage the addition of vitamin C to this product because by taking proper care in the processing of the product, we can have a good, dependable source of the nutrient in question reach the consumer. You're forgetting, Dr. Darby, aren't you, that the fresh orange varies so tremendously in its vitamin C content that no manufacturer of orange juice could take oranges from different sources and produce an orange juice of consistent content of vitamin C? Oh, that's only, Dr. Soskin, I think that's only one orange from the other that varies so greatly. There are some seasonal trends in orange juice in the vitamin C content of orange juice, but actually, those can be controlled, those factors can be controlled by proper purchase of well-ripened oranges and so on before they're processed. Dr. Darby, I think we're forgetting that you can obtain vitamin C and a lot of other products, but I should like to come back to this question of bread, which we are enriching properly at the present time and point out that the consumption of bread in the United States has been going down for a long time, and I should like to explain that by simply asserting that America has the worst bread in the world. Well, I'd object to that general statement, Dr. Keyes. Many people dislike the taste of the present commercial bread, but it really is a pretty nutritious product. It's much more nutritious, for instance, than some of the bread you buy, fancy bread you buy in Paris, in France, the so-called hearth bread, which contains no milk, and most of our American commercial bread contains milk, and which is not enriched in any way, and still is made of white flour. There's some processes in making bread that are highly undesirable, in my opinion. Among these are the uses of extenders and softeners. Aging is now off the market through the voluntary action of the millers, it was found to be, have some toxic, to produce something toxic in the bread. But a certain amount of bleaching is apparently necessary. The American housewife, for some curious reason, demands a very white loaf and demands a squashy loaf. When she buys bread, she pinches it to see if it squashes. If it doesn't squash, she thinks it isn't fresh. And now certain chemicals have been introduced to extend the life or the freshness, period of squashiness of bread. The matter is being given very serious consideration by the Food and Nutrition Board and by government agencies. A definition and standard for proper procedure in the manufacture of bread will soon be available. Probably, but not certainly, it will exclude the use of these extenders. Dr. Wilder, when we're talking about bread, a lot of people talk about bread in terms of getting fat. I think we should point out that no food is fattening in itself and that we should take account of the matter of calories. This question of overweight and reducing is one that we meet at every day, in our part of the world at least, and I should like to know what the experience down in Chicago is, Dr. Soskin. There is a great deal of misunderstanding about what foods are fattening. The matter of fact is that all foods are fattening if you eat enough of them. The question of overweight depends simply upon taking a certain amount of food which gives you an excess of calories and food intake over the energy which the body expends. Now that prejudice has extended to bread and bread because it's a carbohydrate has gotten the reputation for being fattening. For that reason, by the way, the American housewife in the middle and upper income groups sometimes hesitates to put it on the table and her children, therefore, learn not to eat bread. I think it partly accounts for some of the nutritional problems in the upper income groups as compared to better nutrition in the lower income groups because a very important staple food is omitted from the table of the middle and upper income groups. Now what can we actually say about nutrition and a longer life? I think that we have a number of points that we can make in the limited period of time at our disposal. The question of a varied diet has been brought up, I think, by all of us here at the table, the enrichment of staples and the avoidance of fads. Dr. Soskin, what could you add to that short statement? Now, if I were to briefly summarize what has come out of this discussion in the form of advice from you experts to our listeners, I think the following simple rules should be emphasized. First, eat a variety of foods and there will be less danger of omitting any of the essential elements. For the same reason, avoid all food fads, which depend upon limiting your intake to certain kinds of foods. and if you are overweight, try to reduce. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on understand nutrition and live longer were Dr. Russell Wilder of the Mayo Clinic, Dr. William Darby, professor of biochemistry of Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Dr. Ansel Keys, director of the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene of the University of Minnesota, Dr. Samuel Soskin of the Department of Physiology of the University of Chicago, and director of Medical Research Institute at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago. Printed copies of this week's roundtable pamphlet include the full text of today's discussion and materials on nutrition and longer life. You will want to order a copy of this pamphlet and to read about nutrition and your health. Individual copies are ten cents in coin. Send ten cents then with your order to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. A full year subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. By sending three dollars to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, you'll receive the next 52 weekly issues beginning with today's booklet on understand nutrition and live longer. Next week, former Congresswoman Claire Booth Luce and Professor Mortimer Adler will discuss the great ideas. Today's roundtable originated in Station KSTP, St. Paul in Minneapolis. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. The National Broadcasting Company is current in heart. This is NBC, activity, dealing with today's ensemble concluding Patty goes into realities within T 청-C Lynch, which 지금 appears stats are importante. Now this time has been made of this planning company and always what could happen do see the Linux andести in the place we saw or now we used a couple of this a few of these resources with demons and seafood are the