New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. Tea was destined to become a great civilizer and probably had more influence on the social life of the city at that time than any other single factor. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. Jenny and I wish we were men and could go to the vigilance meetings and smoke those new Spanish cigars. They smell so vile. Francis, that is positively rude. But Daddy looks so big and strong in his cape. And Mr. Roosevelt is so handsome in his big black hat when they have those fire meetings. Now stop your teasing. Jenny won't know what to make of you. I think you'd better take your leave of us while I make apologies for you. Oh, please forgive me, ladies. I'm sorry. Mama, it's Daddy. And he looks excited. Something must have happened. My dear. Good afternoon, ladies. I've just left your husbands at the head of the lane. Hello, Daddy. Hello, young woman. Hey, watch this. As my name is John Warren. Tea. You know, dear. It's the last of the old canister. Well, there's plenty in the harbor now. Today, April 18th, 1774, will go down in the history of this town. My dear. What happened? A semaphore signaled the brig Nancy, which sailed from London with a load of tea, and arrived at Sandy Hook. The pilot boat went out and forbade the brig skipper Captain Lockyer from landing his cargo. Then they brought him in for questioning. Oh, are they going to arrest him? No. Seems like a decent sort, and asks only that he be permitted to reprovision and fill his water casks of the return voyage. The vigilantes have sent out a sloop to guard the Nancy until she goes to sea. But that's not all. The ship London has just tied up at Murray's Wharf at the foot of Wall Street. She was intercepted also, but her skipper, Captain Chambers, denied to the pilots having any tea aboard. And his papers did not reveal any record of it. However, the merchant's committee has secret Oberland dispatches from Philadelphia containing proof that she is carrying tea. I knew it. Chambers is being held for a hearing tonight by the committee and the vigilantes at the coffee house. So, ladies, as each of your respective husbands holds posts of importance at this investigation, I would most courteously suggest that you may be needed at your respective places of abode. Well, my dears, it seems that every courtesy has been abandoned in this family today. But I fully understand and hope you do. Please come again soon. Goodbye. Goodbye, everyone. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Jenny, I'm tired of staying here. Come on, let's go. Go where? Oh, how can we, Francie? Your mother told us to stay in our room. But look at the bonfires down by the river and over in the field. Gee, it is exciting, but you know we'd be recognized. Oh, Jenny. Jenny, look. Where did you get those things? Well, after dinner, I smuggled them out of my brother's room. We were about his size. Francis, Pam. Sure, put them on. And the jackets, too. Do we dare? Now, stuff up your hair into the hat. Gosh, it's fun. How do I look? Just like a boy. Your mother will never get over it if we're caught, and I doubt if we will either. Oh, shh. Come on. Let's go down to the water. Here we are, Jenny. Now, let's try not to have anyone hear our voices. All right, Francie, but there will never get caught. That building all lit up across the street. That's the merchant's coffee house. That's where Daddy and the others are. All of those men down by that wall for carrying torches. The lights are like a big firefly. That's Murray's Wharf. And that's the London ship that Daddy told us about. Something's going on over there. See that, sailor? Let's listen here. Come on. Those land-living merchants over in the coffee house talk too much. They're taking a long time to make a liar out of that Captain Chambers. I can show them tea in that old London scout. Well, you'll probably get your chance soon enough. Our friends up in the alley won't wait much longer. Say, will you two young fellows stand back? Say, what are you youngsters doing here anyway? Nothing. We're not doing anything. Come on, Jen. Let's get out of here. Phew. That was close. I'm scared. Never saw so many people. And the walk. There were more men crating all around that ship. See? Some of the fire companies are out. Over here. Look. Oh, Indians. Oh, get back. Wait. Wait, here comes the sailor. He's walking up to them. Listen. How about you vigilantes? Say you're ready. Yeah, we're ready. Now, I'll be orange-swoggled if you're not the mangiest-looking bunch of Mohawk Indians I ever laid my eyes on. And a chief named Murphy. Well, I guess if they can do it in Boston town, you can do it here. We're ready. Good. Let's go. We're not waiting for that meeting any longer. Follow me aboard. I'll show you just where that tea is stowed, and the rest is up to you. Come on, Jenny. Let's follow them. Don't get too close. There they go aboard. That big sailor leaves them. Men are coming out of the coffeehouse to see what's going on. Look. Look, the first box of tea. There goes the tea. They found it, all right. Jenny. Jenny, they're coming out of the meeting. There's Daddy, Mr. Roosevelt, and the others. Look. Daddy's trying to say something. Listen, everyone. Listen. Captain Chambers has confessed, and the committee is... Too late, Mr. Warren. The vigilantes have found the tea. We want Chambers. Hang him. Hang him. Hey, hang him. Gosh, Jenny. Quick, run into this alley and let's get away from here. Now I'm scared. Oh, those awful men. Well, two tea parties in one day ought to be enough for us. Come on, Jenny. Let's get out of here. It is not known whether the adventurous Francis and Jenny safely got by Mother Warren into their beds or not. What they had witnessed that night was New York's own tea party, an example of the resolute stand taken by New York's merchants and citizens in America's victory over tyranny and unfair taxes. It was part of the fight which New York won to achieve its place as America's queen of commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Today, tyranny and taxes. In today's cast were Joy Seligson as Francis, Martha Barron as Mrs. Warren, Arthur Seelon as Mr. Warren, Lloyd Moss as the narrator, and Gene Hansen as Jenny. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunshee. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, free broadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City Suitland Springfield University input in the city's escuched, West High National Ministry of Elementary New York City Lords. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York Cityевидices. However,句 modestly, we invite you at the Bay Area Association plays a complex display to begin with us again next week for us. The End