Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago roundtable. In recent months, the Kefauver Committee of the United States Senate has been investigating organized crime in America. Organized crime has links to political activity throughout the nation. Some of the directing elements in these crime rings seem to operate from the Chicago area. The activities of organized crime groups in Chicago and Cook County have always brought national headlines. Many Americans would like to know how dangerous these activities are and the difficulties in controlling organized crime. Today's University of Chicago roundtable discusses how can we control organized crime and presents as participants the two candidates for sheriff of Cook County. One of these two candidates will have the responsibility for controlling organized crime in the Chicago area. These candidates are John E. Babb, Republican, and Daniel A. Gilbert, Democrat. Kermit Eby, social scientist of the University of Chicago, will serve as chairman of today's roundtable. Now to open today's program on how can we control organized crime, we present Mr. Eby. Ladies and gentlemen, the eyes of the entire nation are on the city of Chicago. The election of the county sheriff is interesting to everyone. Papers throughout the whole nation are writing stories about this election. And we in Chicago are naturally concerned about the election, too. Consequently, we're interested in bringing this discussion to you, this election which the eyes of the whole nation are upon. Before we discuss the election, it might be proper for us to understand a little about the office of county sheriff. And we have the two men, candidates for the office here, who know more about it perhaps than any other person. Mr. Gilbert, would you tell us a little about what this office responsibility is and what a man would do who is in office? Well, the sheriff's office is comprised of about 870 men. He has charge of the county jail, a number of guards there. He has charge of the county building. He has charge of the policing of the county highways and the county forest preserves. He has 120 men that are assigned as policemen, and that goes to make up that group of men to do the policing of the county. He has process servers and has men assigned at a different courtroom as the maintenance and the upkeep of the county jail and also the county building. In other words, he has quite a responsible job in regard to law enforcement. I agree with that. It's a very definite and a very important job. In the 969 square miles of territory in the county of Cook, 400 of those miles lie in unincorporated areas where the sheriff's office is the only policing agency. If there is to be law enforcement in those 400 square miles of territory, it evolves upon the sheriff to provide it. With his county highway police and the squad cars available to him, it is his responsibility to see that the law is enforced and that crime is smashed in those 400 miles. In addition to that, the sheriff is chief law enforcement officer for the county of Cook. He has the right, the obligation, and the duty, if you please, to intervene in the event that any of the other law enforcement agencies in the county break down or if he anticipates that they are about to do so. He is the chief law enforcement officer. And with the limited forces at his command, it is a terrific responsibility. Now, gentlemen, does this office take on any particular responsibility? For example, we've been reading some census reports that people are going to the suburbs. What is the relation, in other words, between law enforcement in Chicago and in Cook County? Is there a relationship? There's a relationship because of the fact that there's radio programs that are carried on to contacts with radio stations in the county. And there's a perfect coordination on the part of all of the chiefs of police and the county of Cook in the event that an emergency arises, that they all cooperate and combine for the purpose of combating any crime that may arise or any series of crimes. If an epidemic is prevalent in the county or in the city of Chicago, an emergency arises, there's perfect cooperation as part of the sheriff and all of the chiefs of police. The police in a different small town. Well, I don't want to press this, but why all this excitement about the office? I mean, why should this take on national interest? I mean, I can't quite... Well, I'd like to speak on that, Mr. Givy, if I may. The office has assumed a terrific importance and has gotten terrific publicity largely because of a number of factors. In the first place, the great newspapers of the metropolitan area of Chicago directed constant attention to the importance of that office and the necessity of electing to the office of sheriff, a man who can do the job and a man who has the capabilities for that job. Additional attention has been directed to it by virtue of the fact that a national magazine a short time ago told the story of Cook County and told the story of crime and political affiliations that are in existence in this county at the present time. There was a book, Chicago Confidential, which told the story. And finally, the Democratic-controlled Kefauver Committee, a senatorial committee under the control of a Democrat, entered the county to make its investigation here, which indicated to a great many people that something was seriously amiss and that additional attention was necessary to the problem that was not available here in the existing facility. I don't want to differ with you, Mr. Babb, but there's one point I would like to bring in and then have Mr. Gilbert's comment. One would think in an election campaign is if all history began with that campaign. I doubt whether it does. If I were a teacher, I certainly would not neglect the fact that there have been other sheriffs and other political officers. By the way, Mr. Gilbert, who's sheriff now? The sheriff now is Elmer Walsh, and he's of the Republican Party. And the press, four years ago, endorsed him and eulogized him for his conduct in that office. But the past two and a half, three years, they've been criticizing him because of the fact that the moral fiber of his organization is broken down and it was necessary for the state's attorney's office to take over and do the policing of the county. And it resulted in a number of raids being conducted by the office and wherein six or seven hundred slot machines were taken in by the state's attorney's office. In that connection, it's interesting to note that Sheriff Walsh has seized over five times as many slot machines as his Democratic predecessor in office. Since Mr. Walsh is not a candidate now, since Captain Gilbert and I are, I think the important thing is what we plan to do about the office. Yes, I assure you, gentlemen, we'll get to what you intend to do. I was only interested in this sense. I mean, you're Republican and Democratic candidates respectively, and if I were asking it in the form of a question, I would ask whether this issue of crime is unrelated to political organization. It's my impression that it is, that it's a problem that is currently irrespective of who's in power. Is that right? That's very definitely so. The man elected to public office, either a state's attorney or a sheriff, cannot afford the luxury of indulging his political beliefs at the expense of the citizens who elect him to that office. I have stated on many occasions that I will and will make every effort to cooperate with all of the law enforcement agencies in the county of Cook, regardless of their political complexion. Mr. Gilbert? I'd say in that connection that it's absolutely necessary that all of the law enforcement agencies, civic organizations, chiefs of police, the judiciary, all combine and stand shoulder to shoulder on the side of law and order because it is necessary for that kind of an all-out fight. It's just no one group's duty. It's the group of all. The citizenry have to be aroused. They have to stand shoulder to shoulder on the side of law and order to eliminate and eradicate an evil that may exist in any respective area in the county or in the city. And that's what has to be done. There can't be any subterfuge Jews on the part of high-priced lawyers going in before a judge and on some pretense or other make a motion to suppress and by some miscarriage of justice assist in this group who may be carrying on this illegitimate racket, you might say. Now, if that is done on the part of everybody, there's no question that righteousness will assert itself and that it will arise, and that under no circumstances can this evil continue. In other words, you're saying this is a continuous problem and it's not a problem primarily that exists just before an election campaign. It is a continuous problem and it's continued for a long time. It's unfortunate that the public sentiment has not been aroused and has not given the attention to it that it perhaps deserves. I have said all through my campaign that no corrupt political machine can prevail against an aroused public opinion, and I believe that that applies to a crime situation as well. And the people are thoroughly aroused and fully informed on the existence of an alliance between crime and politics, as I think they have been in this campaign. They will rise in their wrath and make the changes that are necessary to correct that situation. And, Babb, I'm going to interrupt before we get into the alliances. I think the people that are listening should know something about the nature of organized crime, not only in Chicago but in the community. I would begin like this, Captain Gilbert. How big is it? How real is this? Well, I'd say that there's ten firms in the city of Chicago who manufactures slot machines that are sold all throughout the United States. There's 43 states that they're not legal in. There's four states that they're semi-illegal. And there's one state where they're legal in. Now, this slot machine, shipping them to different parts of the country, and the fact that it's legal to make them in the city of Chicago, some national law to be made for the purpose of preventing from shipping across state lines, or a law to be enacted to stop their being made altogether. Is that true? Mr. Babb? I don't want to interrupt. The captain's finished. We will have him in later. I would like to say that when I think of organized crime, I immediately think of the syndicate. And I immediately think of the revelations that have been made in the past few months about the extent and scope of the operations of that vicious crime-rotten entity that we're all anxious to smash. I think of the fact that it operates, for example, on a national scope. I think, for example, of the big business type of operation that it has become, of the delegation of the duty by the syndicate top men, of management of the different phases of illegal activity in which the syndicate engages. It's prostitution, it's gambling, it's vice and corruption of every type. That is what I think of as organized crime, and I think that it's operating today on a national basis. Well, now, that sounds pretty terrible. It almost frightens me as I listen. Before Captain Gilbert comes in, I sort of have the feeling that whoever supplies what our public wants, in other words, many of these services and gambling and bookies and so on, seem to be a commodity that the public wants. Is that right? Well, there's no question about that. Inside the racetrack, it's legal to gamble. Outside, it's illegal to gamble. Now, how's that going? Well, the press and the magazines, they carry articles. The press carries articles. If there isn't a racetrack within 200 miles of Chicago, they carry the odds. And the daily scratch sheet is a publication that's publicized for the purpose of informing the citizenry as to the races and where they're being conducted, what the payoffs is. There's pools in football games and other things that are carrying on throughout the press. It's my belief that at the root of evil, if you strike where the root of evil is, if you're going to stop gambling, you've got to stop it at the racetracks. You've got to stop it, stop the direction of slot machines. You've got to stop any incentive that where there's money that'll be able to be gathered by this unlawful element and the syndicated element. Now, my, this is very interesting to me. You didn't mean to imply, Captain, did you, that in a sense a newspaper, which published information on racing and so on, was contributing to this national delinquency? There's no question in my mind it lends impetus to the cause. If people read that and hope beats eternal in the breast of every human person, and they figure a dollar or two-dollar gamble, that they're liable to be the ones that win that kind of money. There's no question in my mind that that has something to do with it. Mr. Bab, I saw your hand. Placing the $2 bet is not the evil that I'm interested in stamping out. It's what happens when they take that $2 away from that man. What do they do with it? Where do they spend it? How do they buy political, they buy safety? They buy the permission to perpetuate themselves. It's what they do with the profit out of that $2 bet that concerns me. I've been gambling for thousands of years, and undoubtedly it will continue to be gambling for thousands of years. And I'm not interested in breaking up a few friendly card games. I'm interested in smashing this syndicate that takes the small bettors' money as well as the big bettors' money, and uses that to perpetuate crooked politicians and this rotten thing that we know as the syndicate. Well, we've got the syndicate, and we've got the implication again in relation to politics. Both of you gentlemen, as you went along, indicated that if the American public would create, in a sense, a moral climate, that this relationship between organized crime, for example, and political offices would not exist. I mean, would you, Mr. Gilbert, comment on Mr. Babb's idea about this? I would say that I'm firmly in accord with that, that the card game or the Legion post or paternal organization, that no law enforcing agency should invade the sanctity of those places. I'm in accord with Mr. Babb that the syndicated gambling, the thing that goes towards corrupting public officials, that that source of revenue can and should be cut down at its source, not to leave the incentive there for the thing that motivates the conduct of all these people is money. And if that's eliminated, now they talk about Chicago, that crime is prevalent all over the United States. New York City is, wherever the press publicizes the fact that syndicate operations are there in every large city in the United States. It's not an evil that exists alone in Chicago. I think that the only reason that this evil has been tolerated to the extent that it has is because the public do not necessarily associate the placing of a small bet or the playing of a slot machine with the syndicate. If they only knew that the profits that those two devices automatically extract from the pockets of the people and what is done with that money, I think they would rise up and revolt and would not even then be willing to tolerate the conditions as we have them today. The slot machine is a mechanically exact device. It's been called a mechanical pickpocket, and it's exactly that. Do you gentlemen think that the people who place these bets are actually interested in law enforcement? I mean, let's put it another way. I once expressed it like this, that everybody wanted honest government, but occasionally people wanted their tickets fixed. I mean, my feeling was that you couldn't have both, and which is first? I say in that connection here, I say in that connection that the citizenry have to be aroused and know that to what to exact offer their officials, and that a man that's a stopper speeding ticket and he starts to bribe a police officer who is underpaid and his salary is not up to what it should be, that that's an inducement for him to do other than a sworn duty, and that's one of the things that helps to break down our moral fiber of the law. It's just like the prohibitionary. You try to enforce an unpopular law. As an example, you take inside the racetrack, it's illegal because certain percentage of that money goes to the coffers of the treasury under the guise of the spirit of help the veterans. By the same token, right across the street from that racetrack of a man, as Mr. Babish said, that a barber, a teamster, somebody else makes a $2 bet, he's arrested and he's put in jail, and therefore that breaks down the moral fiber of the law, and it has a tendency to discourage men from doing their duty. Mr. Babish. Well, a public official, such as a sheriff, a sheriff in particular, let me say, cannot again afford the luxury of determining which law he will enforce and which law he will wink at. If the law is under statute books, then it must be enforced. In the best of the ability of the official elected to enforce it, it's up to the state legislator to change the law if it becomes unpopular or it becomes unrealistic. The situation where the small bettor is concerned is, I think, largely due to the fact that he does desire to gamble on the one hand, but he doesn't know what's happened to his money on the other. I think that we have enough decent citizens in this community to change this entire picture. If they realize the use to which their money was being placed, if they realize that they were perpetuating the evil, that keeps them in the condition that they now are. I don't think they would be so anxious to bet. They would bet with each other instead of placing their bets through one of these syndicate outlets or syndicate outlets. Now, gentlemen, all of us live in Chicago. It's our home, and we'll probably continue living here. And we hear a lot about Chicago's reputation. What about this reputed reputation that Chicago has in relation to crime and gambling? Well, let's say Cook County. I'd like to speak on that. I don't think that Chicago's reputation as the crime center of the world is the fault of the decent people in the city of Chicago. I think it's mighty unfortunate that it exists. I love Chicago as much as anyone in this city. It's been good to me. I've gotten an education here. I live here. I intend to raise my family here. I'm more interested in protecting the reputation of the city and keeping it from being slandered and destroyed by another person. There's no question that that's the proper attitude, and that's the attitude that's been assumed by myself and the men that I've been associated with in the state's attorney's office for the past 18 years. I say that publicizing the fact that Chicago is the crime center of the world, that era during the 32 and 33 when the World's Fair was here, that we were held in that esteem. But there's been something done on the part of the law enforcement agencies, on the part of the mayor of the city of Chicago, and also the chief of police of the city of Chicago, and the members of the police department. We've eliminated and driven out of Chicago, the racketeers and gangsters, so that there's no, at this time, in the city of Chicago, they can't point to any place where there's any blackjacks, dust, traps being carried on, no sheets hanging on the wall. Anything that's done is being done in a like nature of a bit being taken over a counter. Now, the big gamble place was in the county, and the slot machines were in the county, and that was all under a Republican regime. So I say that, again, I get back to the point that it's all of the law enforcement agencies' duty, it's the civic groups, the chiefs of police in the respective towns and the judges, and if they stand shoulder to shoulder, they will eliminate that even. I don't think we have to go clear out in the county to find situations that deserve to be corrected. I think the recent developments that have occurred up in the 42nd Ward have pointed the finger very carefully at the fact that there are a lot of intolerable situations that exist right under our very noses without having to take a drive in the country to find them. We see the situation where a police captain in charge of that area appears before a federal investigating committee, and after his admissions of his enormous wealth is suddenly given a 29-day vacation in which he can prepare a written statement on how it all happened. And a new captain is sent into the area with the instructions to clean it up, which I understand he's endeavoring to do at this time. Captain Gilbert, any comment? Yes, there is this comment about it. Chicago is the second largest city in the United States, and it's really a liberal city, to the point that there's a million visitors come to this city every year. There is restaurants, and there's taverns, and the law is being enforced as to the time that they're to close. There's no gambling in that era. There's some complaint about B-girls, and there's some complaint about other acts being carried on over there in violation of the law. But the civic organization, the crime commission, and the press and everybody else in the records in the Chicago Police Department show that Chicago is in a better condition now, and that crime has been reduced 75%. Of course, in a big city like Chicago, you will find some evil of that kind existing. But no, in an organized way. Now, I want to be quite careful, gentlemen. In a sense, we're not debating and discussing Chicago. We're discussing the office of Sheriff of Cook County. In that very area that I was discussing a moment ago, and which seems to have been given a clean bill of health by Captain Gilbert, I would like to point out that these very visitors who come to Chicago and bring prosperity to Chicago as part of their convention activity, the very thing that threw the spotlight on that area was the fact that a number of these visitors were beaten and assaulted in one of these honky-tonk taverns in that very area. It was the subject of a grand jury investigation, and as is the custom with Cook County grand jury investigations, it resulted in no convictions of anyone. The proprietors of the tavern were given a mild slap on the wrist, and the citizens who were beaten, the visitors to our city from other parts of the United States, certainly took back to their home city no favorable impression of this great city of ours. Mr. Babb knows full well, as being a lawyer, that you have to have somebody testify of when a crime has been committed or a violation of the law, and when he makes the statement that the grand jury, the grand jury done its duty, functioned properly, return an indictment. The trial was set. The men that this crime was committed against refused to come back to the state of Illinois and refused to come back to Cook County to go before the jury to testify. And there was no other procedure to be followed, only that procedure. Just a minute, gentlemen. This point of Captain Gilbert interests me very much. You mean to say that people would not testify, would not come through? I'd like to ask you both. If the enforcement of the law is dependent upon the testimony of the person, why don't they testify? Our experience has been that you have to have everybody stand, as I said before, when any violent act or any crime is committed against a person, it's his duty to testify before both the grand jury and before the peditury. He's got to come in. And all that the arresting officer, all the state's attorneys can do, is present that evidence. That's all. The people in this particular case returned here from the East Coast and testified at one time, and the case was continued, and when they didn't come back again, the case was thrown out of court. Dave. An old Chicago... Now, I think, gentlemen, I'm going to interrupt at this time, because I think our point has been made. There are several other things that I would like to bring up before we conclude, which goes out of the discussion so far. I think we've covered what is the cause, and we've talked back and forth in regard to the temptations of money and the temptations of the public, but I'm particularly interested in regard to how this organized crime we've talked about can be controlled. Who wants to... Mr. Gilbert? I would say that as the head of whatever department, and when I'm elected sheriff, that as sheriff of this county, I'll be the trailblazer and the pathfinder, and show the way that it can be done. It can be done by the organization that you build up, the key men that you put into key spots that you best authority with, the prevailing upon the chiefs of police and all the police departments in their respective towns, the prevailing upon the judiciary, and as I said, repetition again, about the business people, to alert them of these evil that exist, and work, and show as an example, as the head of your organization, and that will be conveyed down all through the rank and file of your organization, and you will be able to eliminate an evil that's so easy that within three months the thing can be taken out of it, because when they know that you can't, they can't operate, that will be stopped. Go ahead. My opinion, the cause of the continuation of organized crime and the success of organized crime is the fact that there is no punishment, merely arresting a few of these hoods is not a deterrent to crime. The only thing that operates to deter them in their continued operations is conviction. To do that, you present evidence, and you'll get convictions. There isn't a lawyer in the world clever enough to beat a right case if it's properly presented. The recent October grand jury here in Cook County has requested a special investigation and a special prosecutor to investigate the situation that exists in our community. I can point to you to the two cases, two states, where it is common gossip and common knowledge that when you commit a crime, you're punished and quickly. Those are the two states of Iowa and Michigan. Why, there's no question about it. When you commit a crime in Michigan, you can be on trial the second day after and the convictions stand up. You can't just stop this thing with arresting these hoods and tossing them in jail for a night and then letting them go free. Might I ask you a question to clear one thing up in my mind? I mean, what about this problem of testimony? What about this problem of seeing things through? You didn't quite clarify that for me, Mr. Ratt. The testimony is the evidence presented by an eyewitness to a crime or by a witness who knows something about the crime and can present proper evidence. Evidence comes from a proper investigation of a case, proper preparation of a case. If that is lacking, your case is a failure before the jury is selected. You might just as well forget the whole thing. A conviction is obtained on sound evidence. Captain Gilbert. The statute clearly is defined by the legislator who created that statute and every one of them cases there's been the limit fine and every one of those arrests, the limit fine. Now, you can't because of the fact you're vested with authority, you can't be divested of a conscience as the law is on the statute. You have no right to invade the sanctity of anybody and arrest that man just because you see him on the street. He's got to violate the law. The Bill of Rights throw the same cloak of protection around him as it does you, despite the fact that he may be a gangster, an ex-convict, or somebody else. You have got to know that he's violated some law and you make that arrest and you've got to present that evidence. And that's what you've got to do now. In all of these arrests that have been made, evidence that has been presented, and a limit fine has been obtained in every one of those cases. What cases are these? Every slot machine case that there's been an arrest in. Every one of those cases. I didn't know we were talking about slot machines. I thought we were talking about syndicated vice. Well, syndicated vice, any arrest that's been made, and there's no, under no set of given circumstances that there have been any of these cases where the evidence hasn't been presented, and then the juries have a function to do. Now, again, gentlemen, we're sort of at a point where we're assuming a tip for tap. In order to help our audience in the brief time that we have, I would like to hear from both of you some further discussion in regard to what you can do to prevent organized crime, what you can not only do from a legal aspect, but in regard to the overall possibilities. I'd like to speak on that point, if I may. I have said that one of the great deterrents to crime is an organized and aroused public. I'd like to consider that when I'm elected sheriff of Cook County, I will have four million deputies in Cook County assisting me by the voice and the force of public opinion. I am going to keep the newspapers fully advised and informed on everything we're doing to strike at organized crime, and I want those people with me 100% of the time. Together, we can do the job. Exactly as I said, cooperation on the part of everybody, the judiciary, the press, and everything else, and that's what's got to be done to correct this evil. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the next couple of days you can act on what you learned. You're going to have a chance on Election Day. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on how can we control organized crime were the two candidates for sheriff of Cook County, Johnny Babb, Republican, and Daniel A. Gilbert, Democrat. Kermit Eby, social scientist of the University of Chicago, served as chairman of the discussion. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of how can we control organized crime contains the full text of the discussion, special reading lists, discussion questions, and comments and opinions of roundtable listeners. Write to the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37, Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. and close $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the roundtable has the great privilege of presenting Mr. T.S. Elliott, reading and discussing his own poetry. Be sure to tell your friends to listen to this unusual radio event. May we invite you to join the new roundtable home study courses in human rights, world politics, and economics in the modern world. These three courses are open to all, and two of them offer college credits. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, with a brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Today's program originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. . .