The following program is transcribed. Step by step, we are building a civil defense organization that will be manned and ready for whatever may come. Whether you survive or not in any emergency will greatly depend upon how well this organization functions. But your survival depends also on another factor. You yourself and your knowledge of what to do and how. That is why we ask that you listen attentively to every word that is said on this program. This is the eighth in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communications lines are destroyed. This is the network from which you will get your official information and news in the event of an emergency anywhere in New York State or in nearby areas. To bring you essential information and instructions. To tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help. Each week at this time, we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now here is Bill Leonard. Our subject for discussion this week is in a certain sense at the very heart of the entire civil defense problem. Bomb shelters. We've received letters from every part of the state of New York and from neighboring states asking vital questions about shelters. To answer these questions, we've invited Captain E.R. McClung, technical specialist for the New York State Civil Defense Commission, to be here with us. During the latter part of this program, local stations will be given the opportunity to take up particular problems of survival as they may affect their own communities. Captain McClung, let me begin by asking one question that occurs repeatedly in the letters we've received. Is there or is there not a construction program in progress to provide shelters throughout the state? There are at present no funds available for construction of public shelters, although federal appropriations for this purpose have been proposed. At the present time, the program consists of urging building and homeowners to designate the strongest portions of their buildings as shelters. Where are the funds to come from? At the moment, from private sources. Now, Captain McClung, let's turn to some specific problems as raised by letters we've received. This one's from Mr. G.O. in upstate New York, and he asks, We've just moved into a new home. Like many now being built, it has no basement. What other shelter can we use? One room within the house can be selected to serve as a refuge. This room should be prepared so that it is protected from flying glass, collapsing ceilings, missiles, blast, and fire. If the house is not of sturdy construction, an outdoor shelter of simple design and built of non-critical materials is advisable. However, it must be borne in mind that an attack may occur without warning, in which case one would not have time to transfer from the house to such a shelter. Mr. J.M. writes that he's heard a lot of talk about building small shelters in individual homes, but are there actually any real plans, blueprints, and so on, about how to build them? Various schemes have been suggested and published in newspapers and magazines, which show how homes can be modified to include shelters. The State Civil Defense Commission has a special technical committee of architects and engineers drawing up specifications to serve as a guide to building owners. For the moment, until the committee's recommendations are published, the most practical approach is to arrange for a competent engineer to examine the individual structure concerned to determine its characteristics. After such a survey has been made and estimates of costs received, a competent construction firm can then be engaged to do the work. Here's one from a listener with a scientific turn of mind. It says, In atomic bomb blasts, are brick walls blown in by concussion or drawn out by vacuum? And it goes on, Aren't the corners of brick buildings more likely to withstand demolition than walls? Explosions frequently create freakish results. The impact of a blast wave upon a wall of a building will be dependent upon a number of variables, such as the height of the explosion, its distance from the building in question, the accumulated effect of a reflected blast wave, etc. It is entirely conceivable that a brick wall which has withstood the direct blast might be pulled down later by the suction wave exerting its force on the wall from the opposite direction. No infallible rule can be given. Normally, it might be expected that the corners of brick buildings may stand, even if middle portions of the wall have fallen. Also, the corner of a building will tend to divide the blast wave and, to some extent, deflect it, thereby reducing the pressure effect. Captain McClung, a listener from the Bronx, writes, Can we use the clothes closets in our apartments as shelters? If no better place is available, clothes closets may be expected to offer protection against flash burns, flying glass, and, to some extent, against blast. However, they are not recommended because of the hazard of suffocation due to insufficient ventilation, and they may also turn out to be traps due to the jamming of a door in a closed position. Most closets have shelves and are plastered, so that if one is forced to use a closet, protection against the plaster and shelves may be provided by covering one's head and body with a good heavy blanket or even with a book or some other handy object. One more question. No one says anything about the use of portable radio sets or shelters provided with such equipment. Why not? I believe that this listener is not aware of the fact that portable radios operated by batteries have been named as one of the very necessary pieces of equipment, particularly because centrally generated power may be cut off locally. It has been said on this program and in all civil defense information that all bulletins will be received by the population by means of radio broadcasts. Instructions will be sent out from the control stations, which will direct civilians and all civil defense activities in relation to prevailing conditions. You see that it is therefore very important to have portable sets available in shelters. Thank you, Captain McClung. Tonight's civil defense program has been devoted to questions primarily about shelters, and answering them has been Captain E.R. McClung, technical specialist for the New York State Civil Defense Commission. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. New York City, a prime target area, must solve a vast number of complex problems with regard to shelters. Here with us to discuss this subject in terms of New York City is Mr. Bernard Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Buildings. Mr. Gilroy, I have quite a stack of new letters here from New York residents that I want to get to, but not before we summarize a few constantly recurring questions, and one of them that we're always getting is this. Are subway stations good bomb shelters? Only those subway stations having shelter signs at entrances should be used as shelters by persons in the street when the siren sounds an alarm. Signs within the subway stations will give directions. Subway station platforms are not to be used. It will be necessary to keep the trains running, and to use the train platforms would be dangerous. Let's get down to specific questions. Mrs. E.D. wants to know, where are all these bomb shelters that she's heard about? She says she hasn't seen any. Perhaps Mrs. E.D. refers to the lack of structures erected to serve primarily as bomb shelters. If so, there have been no such shelters built. Surveys of thousands of buildings have been made to locate pedestrian shelters. Before any building may be designated as a shelter, the consent of the owner is necessary. 295 such shelters have been marked to date. If a bill now in the legislature in Albany exempting owners from liability becomes law, a great many more buildings should be made available as shelters. A lady from the Bronx says that she lives on the fourth floor of a six-story brick apartment building. A long hall runs right down the middle of the floor dividing the apartments. Is this hall a suitable shelter? It is recommended that persons get four or five stories below the roof if possible. This building is probably a non-fireproof structure with the public halls having window openings in the outside walls. Keep away from doors to apartments and away from glass. If cellar space is available, it is recommended that the cellar be used. Commissioner, one from Manhattan here, Mr. G.J. writes, we live in a large apartment project. The buildings are 13 stories and nine stories high and there are thousands of apartments in this project. However, there's only just room enough in the basements for a room which is always full of baby carriages, strollers, and bikes. What can we use for a shelter? Mr. G.J. lives in a project of fireproof buildings. The public halls and stairways will provide substantial protection. Mrs. R.T. writes, I'm a housewife and we live with our two children in a three-room apartment over a store. In case of attack, what shall we do? Go downstairs to the hall or just draw the blinds and stay in the apartment? Get into the cellar if it has two means of exit. Otherwise, go to the hall and seek the most sheltered portion. I have a postal card here from Miss D.G. of Manhattan whose question brings up the whole problem of what the disabled, the ill, and others like small children are to do in event of attack. And she writes, my mother is a deaf mute. Many times, she is alone. How is she to know if an attack comes? I'd suggest that D.J. arrange with neighbors in the same house to warn her deaf mute mother. If there is no one at home to take care of ill persons and children, enlist the help of neighbors. Bedridden people who cannot be moved should be placed against a wall away from windows and the covers drawn over them. Under the bed is preferable if practical. Mr. A.D. of Brooklyn who has a small factory writes, is property insurance against atomic bombing being written and would you advise taking it out? As yet, we have heard of no such insurance being offered. As to advice about taking such insurance, one should be guided by factors such as the property's proximity to probable target areas, the cost of the insurance, et cetera. We counted advice. This letter from Staten Island says, my father does not speak or understand English very well. He reads the Polish paper every day, however. Will he get all the information he should have on what to do in case of attack? Yes. All foreign language newspapers and radio stations receive civil defense information in their own language whenever that is practical. Your father can get this information in Polish directly from the press or radio or you can translate it for him. Just time for one more. We've all noticed the signs which have gone up all over the city pointing towards shelter. I sometimes wonder whether the actual entrance, where the actual entrance is because a lot of the signs seem to point to store fronts rather than to building entrances. Wouldn't it be possible for the city to indicate exactly where the buildings should be entered? No store is designated as a shelter. The nearest building entrance in the direction of the sign arrow is the shelter. Much objection was raised to placing signs directly on the buildings as securing them would in most cases mutilate the walls. In conclusion, any cover is preferable to exposure on the streets. Get undercover when the siren blasts. Well, time's about up. Thank you, Mr. Gilroy, for your helpful answers. You've been listening to Mr. Bernard Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Buildings of New York City. We'll be back next week to answer your questions on health. Remember, this program, Plan for Survival, is your plan for survival. You've been listening to the eighth program in a series called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those dealing with health. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Send us your questions and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. We'll answer your questions on subsequent programs just as quickly as we can. Be sure to listen at this same time next week when we'll discuss health. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.