This is Martin Bush of the WNYC newsroom speaking and telling you that fuel storage tanks in the Port Newark area exploded and burned today sending clouds of smoke into the air. The blast was reported to be on Doremus Avenue near Newark Airport. No further details were immediately available from the Associated Press or the United Press. However, WNYC was informed of this explosion by Ronnie Liss, a well-known radio actor, who was on the phone with us at the present time, and by telephone recording, Ronnie, we'd like to know what your impressions of this catastrophe are. Yes, Marty, I'm sitting at my window here, which is on Riverside Drive in Manhattan. I'm overlooking the Jersey area. I should judge that I'm about eight or ten miles away from the blast area, and sitting here in my window, I can see every two minutes or so another large orange blast of fire rising up into the air and a huge black smoke cloud hanging over the whole area. The blasts, I should judge, have been coming at very intermittent intervals. This is about the tenth one I just saw on a moment ago. I've seen at least ten or twelve in the past twenty minutes just watching here at the window. We get the echo of the blast every now and then. It's not very loud. It's like a deep rumble. Perhaps you can hear it. As I'm watching it now, I just see a single black smoke cloud about two miles up in the air. A moment ago, while you were talking, a very large blast came. A large, round, egg-shaped ball of fire rose up into the air. It rises up very quickly, and then it diminishes again with a little tail on it. There's another one now, a little one. I just see it over the hill. A little puff of red smoke coming up. A big red puff of flame coming up. It's rising now. It's coming up very round. It's turning. It's about a half a mile or a mile into the air, and now there's a little tail on it. Now there's a big black smoke cloud. The fire is dwindling now. Now it's just a great big puff of black smoke rising about a half mile into the air. It rises up very quickly into the air. I don't know. I imagine it's fuel oil or something. It shoots up with a great speed to whatever height it reaches, about a mile, I guess. And then it just diminishes again into smoke. Well, thank you very much, Ronnie. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to Ronnie Liss, a well-known radio actor who was not on the exact spot of this fuel storage tank explosion in the Port Newark area, but is reporting from his window on Riverside Drive. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the WNGIR mobile unit has come in just as close to fire as we can. Right now I'm taking cover behind a truck. Around me sparks, cinders are flying. The area around me seems to look like a battlefield. Nothing surrounding us but meadows that have been seared. Nothing but exploded tanks, hose lines, firemen, and burned out rubble. This looks like a battlefield. And it is in the battle of the firemen against the flames that are eating away at the 75 storage tanks on the Passaic River. Fireboats have been brought over to New York to wet down the Atlantic refinery, which is located right next door. I just found the deputy chief, Joseph Higgins, the deputy chief of the Newark Fire Department, who's in charge of directing the campaign against the flames here in Newark, New Jersey. Chief Higgins, have they determined as yet how the explosion started? No, we haven't caught up with that yet. How many tanks have exploded in this fire? Well, in the vicinity of 60 to 65, 500,000 cubic foot propane tanks have already exploded. We're now making a driver's effort to prevent 60 more from going up. And we're also trying to prevent the fire from spreading to the Atlantic refinery company, which is located on the West Bank of the Passaic River. I think you brought fireboats over from New York for this purpose too, haven't you? Yes, we brought two fireboats from New York to supplement two of our own. And we're now laying lines, foam lines, and carbon dioxide lines from the Atlantic refinery plant into the east side of the Warren Petroleum Company, which is now on fire. At the present time, however, the fire is confined to an area of about, I should say, four square acres. And we have every hope now of confining it here without any further spread. Chief, I've noticed that the area surrounding this has been burned pretty badly. I imagine that about an hour ago this would be the most dangerous spot in Newark, wouldn't it? Well, if anybody stood underneath one of these tanks there for it exploded, within say three or four hundred feet of it, I think they'd have been roasted to death. The heat was entirely extreme. It was unbearable at a distance of a hundred yards. And of course it has knocked down telegraph poles and sheds and everything within the area. Our initial lines all had to stay without the area and killed down all fire that was spreading throughout our Port, Newark, and Meadow area, which we have done very nicely. Yes, I think you have, and I think the whole Newark Fire Department has been complimented for their wonderful efforts here. I can assure the people of this vicinity, however, that there is no danger of the city of Newark being destroyed by any means. The fire is entirely confined at the present time to the grounds of the Warren Petroleum Company, with the exception of a few surrounding sheds. Thank you very much, Chief. I understand there's an evacuation going on in the area. In other words, you're bringing out everyone but fire and police personnel. That's correct. All of our reservemen are now reporting on duty. And I understand that some of our neighboring municipalities have sent apparatus in to assist us. We're very thankful to them and we're placing them in our down next or in our heavy industrial area, so that any further outbreak of fire might be successfully combated. Thank you very much, Chief. You're very welcome. Alright boys, that's all I can give you. Alright boys, that's all I can give you. Alright boys, that's all I can give you. Last However. hear an awesome sound of the hot boat抓, Sound of gloom, sound of flooring on forty- stick, km. It's magnesium,,... benut romantic,solence! alarm sûres! , ...ication of Ż about by airplaneας h the front, fueling on baySD.... and copper here on, which is thejal circuit? Here's a new vehicle of three parts cymeden, Ford pulled the ground, which is why new speciallyadiens that are intimidated and what I want to see doing. There's an extra C gere um, side of the front end of nokia, and then see how he sighs... ... realization happen. ... ... You know, a lot of the lines of the right personnel that have been being destroyed, that you've been Ingredient, And do you want them to go back and stand past in the center of the city, or do you want to use them down here? Fire 154. Chief Summers talking. Chief Barnes speaking. I have an extra company here on Dreamers Avenue. Do you want them to stay here? Do you want them to go back and service in the center of the city? 142. Attention Chief Summers. Chief Barnes has an extra company down there. Lee, I think he said. Do you want them sent back to the center of the city, or keep them down at the scene of the fire? Send that company up to Dreamers Avenue or opposite the pumping station. We may need them up there. 143. Did you receive that? Send them up to the pumping station up at Dreamers Avenue. Okay, I'll send them up there. I'll send them up there. And then 142. Chief Summers has no time to go back and I see you at the present. Okay. 143. Uh, there's too much excitement down there. I haven't got a chance to talk to you. Uh-huh. In the present time. Would you want to talk to Captain Cohn anymore? Uh, yes. We'd like to try to get Captain Cohn if you can possibly raise him. Huh? Yeah, if you can possibly get him, we'd like to speak to him. Captain Cohn, available? Go ahead. I have to, I have to, you ask me, I ask him, and I put the receiver up. This is Martin Bush of your city station's newsroom speaking to Lieutenant McGee of the Newark Police Radio System. He is going to speak to Captain Cohn, who is at the scene of the Newark fire. We'd like to know if Captain Cohn or any of the firemen know what caused this blaze. No, I haven't. I personally witnessed an explosion, and I understand there were several before we arrived. Your truck is right there, Gap. Uh, 143. Hello? I'm in 143. Hello? Can you contact Chief Summers again? Captain Cohn said he has no idea just what caused it. He's seen, heard several explosions. We have a report here from the Newark Fire Chief, Charles Burnett. He said the fire is beyond control, and he expects 13 more explosions. According to this report from UP, he called on the New York Fire Department to send fireboats to the scene. What was Captain Cohn's reaction to it when you told him this news? That's what we'd like to find out. Well, of course, on the Captain Cohn, of course, he's taking care of the police angle of the management of the fire. Of course, that's up to the fire department, and we relay messages to fire headquarters. We have a speaker piped off here, and when the fire department chiefs that are all equipped with radio, when they talk back, they make the request directly to the fire department. Of course, the fire department is not located here, and they do that business between themselves. So we couldn't really answer that. Lieutenant, can you tell me what means are being used to fight the blaze? Are you using chemicals at the present time? Well, I imagine it's more water, because you see, it's right along the riverfront. Oh, it is along the riverfront. It's along the riverfront. The Remus Avenue parallel to the Basake River running approximately north and south, you know, like the New York Bay. And they've got two Coast Guard and two, well, of course, they're not like your fireboats. They're smaller fireboats. And then the lines running into the industrial area there, they've stepped up the pressure on it. And I don't know whether they have sprinkler systems in some of the places, but, of course, that's outdoor stuff. Lieutenant McGee, we know it's a difficult question to answer, but could you tell us what Captain Cohn thinks is the estimated damage? Well, I don't know. I don't think he could answer a thing like that. In fact, I don't think anybody at the time, because more or less on the sporadic side, you know, they're going up here and there. And we've had requests to try to locate the people in other factories there to go down and stand by the building in the event that the blaze should spread. But so far, I understand it's confined within that particular area. Could you get any estimate? I mean, within the immediate vicinity, not to any other concern. I see. Could you get any estimate of the number of firemen on the job? Well, the fire department won't answer that now. And? Well, they've raised all available. They send out what they call... Are you recording this? Yes, we are. They send out, you know, the regular system, the regular complements of engines that cover the various boxes, the various sectors of battalion chiefs. And we have a running schedule here. And of course, you have to read them off. And then they have to move up system. And they did call. I heard the call here for the various battalion chiefs who were down there to assign all available apparatus. Now, just which one went down there, I don't know. That would require a survey to make that. So it would be pretty hard for me to tell you. And of course, the fire department, so much excitement for them to talk to you just now. Yes, we see a report here from UP once again from another deputy fire chief. And he says... I'm right near the mic here. What did you say? That signal R in that last one? We have a report here from another deputy fire chief. And he says 125 gas tanks have blown up along the waterfront. And he claims that the flames are impossible to control at the present times. Do you know whether or not any homes are in danger, Lieutenant McGee? No, that is strictly an industrial area. As you're coming over the Pulaski Highway, do you ever come over this way? Yes, I know what you mean. When you come over the Pulaski Highway, you're on that down ramp. Just as you cross the river, you look to your left. Public service has some gas tanks there for storage of gasoline and diesel oil, I presume. And the sun oil companies around there have propane, some propane outfit. And Riley Tarn Chemicals, which is a chemical outfit. I don't know just the nature of the concern. You know, we've had several fires down and around there. It's confined into that particular area, which would be just west of Wilson Avenue. I would say within 400 or 500 yards south of the bridge, between that and the river, both sides of the road, which is Doremus Avenue. We have a report, too. No reference is in around that particular section. We have a report, too, that two workmen were sent to the hospital badly burned. Do you have any more word of casualties? Of course, you know, so much confusion, we couldn't just tell. We don't buy the hospital. They show up eventually and they hold them there. And we've had offers of hospitals to stand by here. We have City Hospital. They have two ambulances down there. The Bethesda Hospital has made an offer to stand by. You know, they're calling in. But I haven't heard of them being called upon for any assistance. They're on an emergency basis. All the hospitals around here are on an emergency basis in case anyone is brought in. But we haven't heard much on that particular angle of injury. It seems to be more fire than personal injury. And have you heard any report of whether or not they're getting enough water pressure to fight the blaze? Well, yes, of course. That is in the high-pressure area down there. In the industrial area, they have these bigger hydrants, you know, bigger than the high-pressure system. And, of course, they have the water department on a stand-by basis there. Always somebody of the emergency trucks go out and they raise it once at the outlet coming in from the... into the city in there. And then I heard another request, do you want us to step it up again? But there's no request for a second step-up. So evidently the water pressure is all right. Well, thanks very much. Thank you very much, Lieutenant McGee of the Newark Radio System. We're going to try to get in touch with you a little later. But at this time, we're going to put a report, a full report of the fire in Newark on the air. Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome.