Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable fellow of Wiles. Mr. Albert, Reverend and the Senators, ladies and gentlemen on the platform, and friends, it is the third time that I have had the honor to be on this platform at the beginning of this great work that has now brought to a successful completion. As Ike Albert said, we have today lost a great friend in Louis Hanbury. We were down to his funeral this morning, 11 o'clock, a very sad occasion, and a great loss not only to this beautiful job that has been done here, but to countless other public and private benefactions of which he was a great one. May God make him happy and strengthen his relatives to bear the loss with which we share. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr. Albert said, after that I had, of course, a visit with my own church for her at mass. After that, out to Queens where we just got there in time for the opening of a new synagogue and cultural center, Forest Hills. Now here at 3 o'clock I'm on the air again where the Jewish teachers are giving a luncheon in honor of our great president of the Board of Education, Maximilian Moss, and at 4 o'clock I'm on the air again at Central Park at the Interfaith Celebration Land. So that if I leave after I speak, I want you to understand that it in no wise expresses the feelings of things that I would like to do. I would ask for nothing better than remain and to take a part in the completion of this great day. Here in our city where now after three and a half years I have more than ever come to realize the one, one of the many, but one big problem that has never been adequately met by the city and hasn't yet been met, is that of furnishing the proper hospitalization for those who need. What the municipality is trying to do, what we are going to ask you to do in this coming election when it comes to that amendment to the Constitution, which I'll speak to you about in a minute, is just the city side of it. Where is not for what the great public itself in its support of volunteer hospitals has done? Done quietly, done with a terrific amount of energy, and with unparalleled generosity, our city without that volunteer setup would be a hopeless failure in coming anywhere as close to meeting the needs of our city. When we take that least of all problem, that least of all in the minds of you and me when we're healthy and strong, when men and women will stop to think of what happens in the field of chronic diseases and the diseases attendant to old age, when we stop as we do here today, to look at a work that was taken up immediately following the war, when construction prices rose to about 147% above the cost of 1939 and prior to that. Men and women who had the courage, born out of their sympathy for this great class of human illness, born out of their humanity, to undertake at that time the construction of this hospital, I could not ask for a greater privilege than to remain here with you and the ladies and gentlemen who made this possible as long as I could remain all you wanted me to say. Nothing that I say to you today could adequately express the feelings that I have of that courage and that humanity. We turn now to those who down through countless years will find help because of this work, those who otherwise would be driftwood in society, would be left alone for their sufferings. Here they will come year after year, generations when we're all gone will come. Here they will get that help and walking through the doors. May the good God that gave them such friends as long as platform and presently today and those who couldn't come, may he also look kindly on them and encourage them and point to them the day when their poor sufferings will be at least lessen so that they may be able to take their places in society with dignity, with satisfaction within their own hearts and may they in turn pray for those who have made that great a possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject I referred to a few months ago, in our municipal set-up of hospitals, we have 28 of them. We've tried with a few pennies available to do something for our municipal hospitals. We have spent already in these three and a half years, 42 million dollars in new hospitals. But the field of hospitalization is so great. The problems of administration of hospital plants that are antiquated, too old, for modern, up-to-date administration, make even the 42 million dollars that we have spent a drop in the bucket. True, we have raised the expense budget from 37 million dollars to the present stand which is 77 million dollars. True, we have tried to help the volunteer hospitals handling our city cases. We've raised the daily rate from 3 and a quarter to the present rate of 8 dollars. That, conceded me, is not enough and does not at all pay the expenses that the volunteer hospitals have to go through to keep our public patients. But it's the best we can do. And looking around at the thousand and one problems that face us, the pollution of our waters, our bathing beaches, the school program that has to still be met, that 50 schools that we have built, or will have built, at the end of this administration, doesn't come anywhere as near meeting the school problems. Our health centers are still demanding help, our housing, our waterfront. All that public money is made less than the actual dollars because of the high cost of construction. And as I have seen our municipal picture, our city will never, will never reach the day when we can adequately meet their needs unless we can borrow at least 150 million dollars earmarked for hospitals, and city hospitals that is, above our present borrowing power. In order to get that, we had to approach it this way. I had to go to Albany to two separate legislatures, not just twice for the same legislature, but to two separately elected legislatures, and ask them for a resolution to permit us to borrow this money. I have received from Albany, on two occasions, the passage of the resolution. It is now up to the people, and it will, it means that it will be voted upon this November, in the form of an amendment to the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, that means that every, it must be voted upon, all the way from Montauk Point to Buffalo. The people of the entire state must vote on it. It is quite true that if we get it, it will be a tax on the city of New York, and not a penny of it will come from upstate. But nevertheless, since it is an amendment to the Constitution, it must be voted upon this November by the entire state. I plead with you today, in the presence of this great work, to register and vote for that amendment. If it isn't carried overwhelmingly in the city, don't expect too much excitement about it out of the city, because after all, it is our business. If you give us that $150 million for hospitals, the hospital council, every welfare council, the medical society, everyone interested in hospital work will tell you, and will come out openly and tell you, that the least we can hope to do the job with is $135 million, possibly the $150 million. The plans are made. The incoming administration, I'm not drawing a line on it. The incoming administration, if you vote properly, will have $150 million for this hospital program. Inside of five years, we would have a municipal hospital set up that could not be paralleled by any community in all the world. Again, ladies and gentlemen, on today's work, may God bless everyone who planned it, who supported it, and who will still stay with it until it's paid off free and clear. So that everyone who needs it, and can get in, will have a guarantee. An answer to a prayer, a silent prayer in their sufferings to high heaven for help. This is your answer. This is God's answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Hirschfield, Mr. Ellis, Reverend and distinguished gathering of citizens of our city. My function is short. Interfaith Day has honored me with the chairmanship of these ceremonies. I'm deeply grateful and thank the committee on behalf of the entire city for the energy that has gone into these ceremonies, not only this year, but every year since before the war. Ladies and gentlemen, to the artists who have so kindly given of their God-given gifts to make this a pleasant afternoon, the whole city also gives its thanks. What are we talking about this afternoon? What does the interfaith movement dedicate itself to? Is it to promote rivalry between the faiths of the many peoples in our city? No. Rather, it is to unify everyone in a common faith without interfering with their form on the basic constitution under which we all have the privilege to live. Think of it. Think of it this afternoon that throughout the world, the injustices that have been impressed upon people, the tyrannies on their thinking, the controls on what they do, the snooping to find out things of which they're suspected, the indecencies that are perpetrated by groups on groups. What we're talking about is that every man, woman, and child of whatever race, creed, or color within our midst has basic fundamental rights to be respected and has an obligation to respect the same rights of their neighbor. What we are really doing here, you and I and the rest of us and the committee is after, is that we dedicate ourselves to that fundamental faith that's common to each and every one of us. Faith in our peoples, faith in our neighbors, faith in our neighbors, faith in our nation, and faith in the Supreme Maker that has made it possible for us to be here. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my function is complete. Thank God for the beautiful day. Thank God for the freedom of the sunshine that pours down on this gathering. Thank God for the beautiful day. Thank God for our city, for our state, and for our nation. And with God's help, similar, equivalent privileges for all peoples of all the world as soon as it pleases His divine will. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. John Cashmore. Thank you. Thank you. John Cashmore. Reverend Clardy, Mr. Albert, distinguished guests, fellow Brooklynites. Thank you. Thank you. Today, they stepped out of my car. I heard Mayor O'Dwyer asking everyone in the city of New York to vote for a $150 million amendment to build better hospitals for those less fortunate than ourselves. And as I walked down the aisle, come up on this platform, and speaking to the radio audience, I saw a great big canvas sign. On it, there wasn't any advertising. It just said $350,000 needed to equip this building. Bedside cabinet, $25. Hospital bed, $50. Wheelchair, $75. Complete bed unit, $100. Furnishings for salarium, $500. Bed tablet in adult wards, $1,000. Bed tablet in children's wards, $1,500. Dedicate two bedrooms, $2,500. Dedicate four bedrooms, $5,000. Dedicate salarium, $10,000. I'd love to see which isn't there right on the very top. You brought nothing into this world, and therefore you can take nothing out of this world. The last Saturday, two weeks ago, I drove 70 miles to attend the party that was given to 150 boys. Gone. As I parked my car and I walked up a hill, I heard a great cheer. A flat tire had just caught an outfield fly, and his side had won. side had one. A flat tire is a boy without legs. And they were playing those with one arm, one leg. Here were boys from the borough of Brooklyn, 150 of them. And whether they wore the olive drab of the Army, or the blue of the Navy, or the forest green of the Marines, you and I remember when they went away to defend this great nation of ours. It brought back to my mind as I came up here some of those who are in wheelchairs too. Now you and I as I said are living in the greatest county in the United States. You can't find more intense Americans than right here. The city of New York can't do it all. What they can't do, you have done. I was trying to think of how I could thank Mr. Aldrich, the President, the staff of this great institution, the nurses, the doctors, the board of directors. And then this morning I went through my warehouse of memories. And I remembered just a few weeks ago a prayer that Rabbi Tedeschi gave at a great banquet. I think it's so applicable. I'd like to read it to you. If you want to be rich, give the staff of the staff of this great institution, the nurses, the doctors, the board of directors. And then this morning I went through my warehouse of prayer that Rabbi Tedeschi gave at a great banquet. I think it's so applicable. I'd like to read it to you. If you want to be rich, give. If you want to be poor, grasp. If you want abundance, scatter. If you want to be needy, poor. Do more than exist, live. Do more than look, observe. Do more than read, absorb. Do more than hear, listen. Do more than listen, understand. Do more than think, ponder. Do more than plan, act. Do more than talk, stay strong. So, Mr. Albert, I say to you, on behalf of the great borough of Brooklyn, which I have the privilege and the honor of representing, that we all hope and pray that God in his infinite wisdom will give you, the board of directors and the nurses, and the patients of this institution, the health, the strength, and the courage to carry on the great work, which is God's work, thank you, and God bless you. Thank you.