Ladies and gentlemen, we have an intermission guest today. He's just wandered in here, baton under his arm, looking like the cat that swallowed the cement mixer. You know, as if he were hiding great tidings. Let me introduce Leon Bazin, who has been conducting some of the contemporary concerts in the American Music Festival concluded last week. Mr. Bazin is musical director of the National Orchestral Association and right now is one of the moving forces of the ballet at the city center. Thanks, Julian. Of course, you realize all that is a lot of hard work. But I haven't told it all yet. He's just been appointed director of a music workshop at Adelphi College out in Garden City, Long Island. I think I know what he has on his mind, and I'm going to ask him some questions, for I think you'll be interested. All right, Leon? Go right ahead. I can tell it better if you do. Well, here goes. Remember, Leon, that chat we had about audiences in America? I certainly do, and I still say our problem in America is one of audience, not artists. The musical audience has always seemed to me too small, and it needs to be more aware of music. But I can see in the near future a new audience in the making, an audience that should arise from the very cradle of cultural education and classrooms and campuses everywhere in the United States. Can you explain that a little more fully, Leon? Well, I can try. I mean that the audience of tomorrow are the children of today. Their cultural education should begin between the ages of six and eleven. As far as music is concerned, too much music of an indifferent sort has been tossed at them, at home and in the schools, and naturally they have shied away from it. Little attention has been paid to their natural curiosity, and no means have been provided to satisfy this curiosity. Everybody is curious, as you know. And if you are curious, you're bound, in some form or other, to be educated in the same time. That's quite a profound statement, Leon. Tell us some more. I'm not trying to be profound. I just simply say that the classrooms are the beginning of any cultural absorption. Do you mean, for instance, as far as music is concerned, the individual instruments that make up an orchestra? Well, that could be the beginning. I believe that the individual instruments should be brought to the classrooms, to the very young children. And they should examine them, they should look at them, and even hear them play. But once having shown the instrument to the child and let him handle it, how do you propose to sustain the interest of a whole group of children? Oh, that's very easy. Believe me. Make the child part of the show. For example, if he hears a piece of music and he wants to dance to it, why not? But there's one thing I will not allow, and that is the mention of the composer's name. Why don't you? Most teachers begin on composers before music itself. Well, I'm not a teacher. I don't believe that I am, but I do think that I understand children. And I believe that it is much better that he doesn't know the name of the composer because he's not influenced by their greatness. He just likes it or dislikes it. And if he likes it too, you'll remember it. You've tried this sort of thing before, haven't you? Oh, yes. I've tried this. These are... have been tests. I've tried these four years ago. I tried it during the war in the city of New York, grade schools, and some of the private schools. Then I made the test in one of the cities in Delaware, Wilmington, and finally I did a whole state job. The results have been startling and revealing, especially in Delaware. The questions asked by the children were simple and trusting. Interest, their natural curiosity and spontaneous response made a deep impression upon me. And now you're going to do the same thing in Nassau County schools. Yes, but the reason for Nassau is much bigger. I believe, you see, that the college, such as Adelphi College, should be the center of all activities related to cultural life. As you see, first we had the individual school, then I came to the city, and I came to the state, and finally, this is going to be the culmination of a plan. And this college shall furnish all the needs of the lower schools. In other words, just a little like a booking house, you know, the type that books concerts and helps the community get the right thing at the right time. And to show how the thing works, we'll start by having a concert, or rather a demonstration, at Roslyn on Thursday, afternoon, March 23rd, for the children. Well, what do you do in these demonstrations? Well, now, you don't want me to give out state secrets, do you? But I'll tell you one thing. Well, that happens, I'm certainly not on the platform, and I can assure you that the children will be on the stage in less than four minutes. To digress a moment, Leon, how does all this tie up with a workshop? Is the workshop sponsoring this work in the grade schools? And if so, what is the ultimate object? Yes, the workshop is sponsoring this spade work. Although my first experiments in New York and the state of Delaware were undertaken entirely by the National Orchestra Association, just to test out a theory, as far as the workshop is concerned, the whole thing is part of a long-term plan to bring together the children and, I'm sorry, the teachers and the children of tomorrow's audience, because the college graduate should be able to teach intelligently the very beginnings of any cultural art. Well, this seems like a, really, a far-reaching plan, and it should succeed, but isn't it going to take a good deal of time? Well, I think anything worthwhile does take a great deal of time. As far as success is concerned, I think that the children and the parents are beginning to realize that something has to happen as far as the cultural progress of the country, and it's not going to be done overnight. I think the results will perhaps take ten years, but suddenly, I believe we will find ourselves, I mean America as a whole, with something we've never had before, an intelligent, discriminating, and educated audience for music, an audience free of social politics, of artificial stimulus on the part of concert management, and an audience interested primarily and solely in music for its own sake. Tell me, Leon, when does this workshop open, and how is it going to work? Well, the workshop will open at Adelphi on July 5th, and will continue until August 15th. Students can enroll now. I mean all types of students, those playing instruments, composition, conducting, maybe... Educators, too. Educators, by all means. I believe they'll probably like to go to Adelphi instead of maybe Salzburg this summer. Wouldn't that be nice? And, I can assure all of them that they will have a very good time, and yet, get a great experience in music. You're going to have private classes, aren't you? Yes, very definitely. Each individual who wants to have private lesson will be able to do so with some of the leading instrumentalists in our symphony orchestras. And we should... Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. How about your faculty? I mean, is that... Well, my faculty will be made up of solo instruments from orchestras all over the country, such as, we might mention right now that we have a regular quartet, string quartet engaged. Three of the members will be from the Philharmonic and one from St. Louis. That sounds awfully interesting. Well, it's not only interesting, but I think that the people, certainly the radio audience, must realize that this is not a thing of the present, it's something of the future. Well, you're not taking just only children, not beginners, they're advanced students, they're musicians. I would like to call them post-graduates. Post-graduates, yeah. Well, this seems to be the whole story. I want to thank you for coming here, busy as you are, to make the whole thing clear to the radio public. Ladies and gentlemen, you just heard Leon Barzan, music director of the National Orchestral Association, and a moving force in the city center ballet, explain some of his plans as director of the Summer Music Workshop at Adelphi College, which opens July 5th. Sounds fascinating, doesn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, we have an intermission guest today. He's just wandered in here, baton under his arm, looking like the cat that swallowed the cement mixer, you know, as if he were hiding great tidings. Let me introduce Leon Barzan, who has been conducting some of the contemporary concerts in the American Music Festival concluded last week. Mr. Barzan is musical director of the National Orchestral Association, and right now is one of the moving forces of the ballet at the city center. Thanks, Julian. Of course, you realize all that is a lot of hard work. But I haven't told it all yet. He's just been appointed director of a music workshop at Adelphi College out in Garden City, Long Island. I think I know what he has on his mind, and I'm going to ask him some questions, for I think you'll be interested. All right, Leon? Go right ahead. I can tell it better if you do. Well, here goes. Remember, Leon, that chat we had about audiences in America? I certainly do, and I still say our problem in America is one of audience, not artists. The musical audience has always seemed to me too small, and it needs to be more aware of... But I can see in the near future a new audience in the making, an audience that should arise from the very cradle of cultural education and classrooms and campuses everywhere in the United States. Can you explain that a little more fully, Leon? Well, I can try. I mean that the audience of tomorrow are the children of today. Their cultural education should begin between the ages of six and eleven. As far as music is concerned, too much music of an indifferent sort has been tossed at them, at home and in the schools, and naturally they have shied away from it. Little attention has been paid to their natural curiosity, and no means has been provided to satisfy this curiosity. Everybody is curious.