The Northwestern University reviewing stand begins its 16th year on the air. What does atomic energy mean for medical science? Atomic energy provides us with a tool as important as the microscope, whereby we can study not only the various processes which make the human machine run, but also just what is wrong when a part of this human engine breaks down. Provides an increased number of radioisotopes and various radiations for the treatment and diagnosis of human disease. It also means that we must try to find out means of preventing and means of combating the destruction of the body caused by excessive exposure. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program which today begins its 16th year on the air. Today we discuss the medical implications of atomic energy. Our give-and-take discussion will center around the uses which medicine can make of atomic energy and the means of protecting the human body against its misuse. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. James Barrett Brown, Professor of Clinical Surgery at the School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, and Chief of the Division of Plastic Surgery with the Veterans Administration. Dr. Liam Jacobson, Professor of Medicine and Associate Dean of the Medical School at the University of Chicago, and consultant to the Argonne National Laboratory. And Dr. Paul Schlerb, Post-Doctorate Fellow of the Atomic Energy Commission, Assistant in Surgery with the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, and Fellow in Surgery at the Medical School at Harvard University. Now I hope we can consider two issues in this discussion today, gentlemen. The constructive uses which medicine can make of atomic energy, and medicine is a protection against injuries inflicted by atomic energy. How can medical science use atomic energy, Schlerb? What are some of the direct therapeutic applications? It can be used in the treatment of some types of cancer, in the diagnosis of certain conditions such as goiter, and cancer of the thyroid gland, and as basic research to find the cause of disease. One of the important aspects of medicine are cancers of the blood and blood forming tissue, for which, for example, radiophosphorus is very useful. The treatment of cancer of the thyroid with radioactive iodine, and the treatment of goiter with radioactive iodine. In general, the results of treatment of most types of cancer has been disappointing with these products of atomic energy called radioactive isotopes. Well, now you refer to these radioactive isotopes, Dr. Schlerb. What are they? The word isotope is derived from the Greek iso meaning same, and tope meaning thing. An isotope of an element, such as calcium for example, is calcium which is identical with ordinary calcium chemically, but the calcium isotope sends out electrical impulses similar to x-rays, which can be detected with an instrument known as a Geiger counter. In therapy, I think the fact should be mentioned that there are only about six which are presently used in treatment. These are radioactive phosphorus, gold, manganese, arsenic, sodium, and iodine. Where do you get these radioactive isotopes? Isotopes are made in the atomic pile at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and are essentially byproducts of atomic bomb manufacture. The other source of radioactive isotopes, of course, is the cyclotron. And they're made, however, in the cyclotron in smaller quantities. The most important source is the uranium pile at the atomic energy installations. Dr. Schlerb was saying a minute ago that the use of these isotopes in surgery had been disappointing generally. Do you agree with that, Jacobson? No, I don't agree that they are disappointing, at least from the point of view of therapy and medicine. Certainly, they are making many people comfortable with, who have, for example, leukemia or live diseases of the blood-forming tissue. They're doing a beautiful job in patients who have polycythemia, the long name which really means that they have many more red cells circulating in the body than they should have. Dr. Brown? I don't believe Dr. Schlerb meant that they will continue to be disappointing. It's a matter of technical management of how to utilize the energy that is available. Now, you've been talking here pretty largely about the therapeutic uses. That is, the uses of atomic energy in treatment. How about their application in diagnosis? Could I mention another thing first, however, that comes into this problem? We've mentioned radioisotopes here. We should point out that many of the conditions which are now treated with radioactive isotopes can also be treated with radiation such as x-ray or radiance, and perhaps almost as effectively. Only in certain instances are radioactive isotopes more effective. Isotopes give off rays which are similar to x-rays. These rays destroy body tissue as well as cancer tissue. The objective of any medical treatment is to destroy the diseased or cancer tissue without harming the normal tissue. And for this reason, the dose of the isotope used must be estimated carefully. Well, now, I take it from what you've said that the use of the radioactive isotope is relatively new in medicine, whereas we've used radiation such as x-ray and radium for some time. Am I correct in that? Yes, that's true. X-rays and gamma rays from radium were made available at the beginning of this century and have been used effectively since that time, and great strides have been made in that field. The first isotope, deuterium, was discovered by Urey in 1932. Well, now, come to my question, gentlemen, about the use of these isotopes in diagnosis. What are those uses, Dr. Jacobson? Well, some of the important aspects of their use in diagnosis are, for example, in determining how many red cells one has in the body. This is an important problem because under certain circumstances, patients have anemias. In other conditions, they have too many red cells. By mixing radiophosphorus with red cells and then injecting them into the body and taking out a sample, and determine how many red cells the patient has. These principles are important in surgery and medicine to measure the amount of water and salts in the human body so that these may be replenished or removed as necessary. You've been discussing this tracer concept here. What do you mean by that, Slurb? Tracers are of use in the localization of brain tumors and other cancers. These tracers, such as phosphorus, will go directly to a brain tumor occasionally, and can be, and their localization can be determined with a small Geiger counter. I'd like to bring out the very important diagnostic use of, for example, radioidin in the diagnosis of the disease of the thyroid state, of the thyroid itself. For example, if the patient has a toxic goiter, one can determine that by, with tracer amounts of iodine. Also, it should be mentioned that sodium is used in determining the efficiency of the circulation in feet. In an individual's feet, let's say a person who has arteriosclerotic changes in the feet, or has gangrene as a result of diabetes or something like that. Sodium can be used for tracing the efficiency of the circulation under those circumstances. And in all these diagnostic techniques you're using, these radioactive isotopes. Now, some reference was made to the Geiger counter here a few minutes ago. How do you use that in medicine? A Geiger counter is used to count the number of these tracer atoms by measuring the number of rays given off. Ordinarily, the isotope mixture is placed under the Geiger counter and the number of radiations counted. The Geiger counter may also, however, be applied to the skin and various regions of the body in which the isotope is apt to accumulate, and the amount of that accumulation may be measured. Well, I'd like to bring out an example of its effectiveness in this respect. In patients with cancer of the thyroid, which ordinarily spreads to bone, a dose of radioiodin can be given by mouth under those circumstances, and it's absorbed, and the radioiodin will go to the tumor. And then by using the Geiger counter, the tumor masses can be localized throughout the entire body. In addition, because these radioactive isotopes can be localized, the surgeon is better able to remove all of the tumor tissue. Now, you gentlemen leave us with the layman with the impression that atomic energy, in terms of these radioactive isotopes, can perform an important therapeutic role. It can be used in treatment of cancer, and it performs an important role in diagnosis. What contributions can these isotopes make to basic medical research? That is, what are some of the newer developments we might look forward to? By using the general principles described, it is possible to make a more detailed study of life's fundamental processes. It's possible, for example, to find out just what happens to the food we eat and the water we drink. The problem of where this fuel goes and how it is burned to provide us with growth and energy is gradually being solved. It has long been known, for example, that people suffering from diabetes do not use sugar in the same way as a normal person. Isotopes are finding us, helping us to find out how diabetics do use sugar. I'd like to bring out another example that perhaps would be well understood. Digitalis is used in the treatment of heart disease. No one up until this time knows exactly how this drug acts. At the present time, radiocarbon is being incorporated into the molecule of digitalis, and studies are in progress trying to determine just exactly how digitalis operates in the body. Now, this is a very fundamental and important thing in the treatment of heart disease. And these studies to which you men refer are in progress where? In the great medical schools of the country, I take it. You're engaged in some of that research, Dr. Schlerb? Yes. Isotopes are not generally available to the general practitioner, and probably never will be because of the inherent danger associated with their use. We've read in the press about the betatron, the proton beam. What are those, doctor, in language which we can understand? Well, the betatron is a machine, such like the cyclotron is a machine. The betatron produces a ray, which is called an electron. And this is being worked on at the present time in hopes that it can be used like radium or like x-rays in the treatment of cancer. And furthermore, with a proton beam, which they expect eventually to get from the cyclotron, they hope that this radiation will be more effective than x-rays in that one can radiate a tumor far within the body without damaging the normal tissue in front of the tumor or behind the tumor. In other words, specific treatment of a tumor mass. Obviously, that's also the thing one is trying to get at when we give isotopes internally. You're always looking for localization within a particular area in order to get an effective cure or inhibition of the growth. In my original reference to the disappointing use of isotopes, I had reference to just that. The general use of isotopes in the treatment of cancer, in most cases, is associated with too much destruction of the normal tissue cells. I'd like to bring out one other thing. Dr. Schlebb mentioned the fact that it probably would be impossible to provide isotopes generally. I think that that may have to be modified eventually. Certain of the drug firms, for example, are now preparing isotopes for the physician. In other words, the physician doesn't always need all of the facilities, the Geiger counters, the other expensive equipment, in order to treat a patient with an isotope. Yes, it's true that an isotope such as phosphorus can be incorporated in a paste and applied to the skin and used in the treatment of certain types of skin disease. Now, have these developments you gentlemen have been discussing here come about pretty much as a result or as a byproduct of the research on the atomic bomb? I think not. They've gotten emptiness, of course. But sodium, for example, phosphorus, iodine, and some of the other isotopes were being used in the 30s. The only difficulty was that since they were being made with the cyclotrons and since there were only a few cyclotrons, there wasn't very much of the isotope available for the use in research or in therapy. And it's only now with the atomic piles in operation that they can be produced in large quantities. Well, now you medical men are pretty cautious here today in your estimates of what these, what atomic energy can do in the, in the, in the field of medicine. Do you regard this as, as a, as a development of, of first importance, Dr. Schlurb? Is it likely to, is it, is it likely to mean something of, of real significance in the field of medicine? Isotopes represent a tool which is used to study medical problems in much the same general way as, as a microscope is used. Except for their rather limited usefulness in a, in the relatively small group of diseases which were discussed, isotopes do not in themselves solve any problem and are not a substitute for intelligent experimentation. Do you think we're likely to save more lives than we will lose through the use of atomic energy? It depends upon how we, the people of the world, use atomic energy. Certainly the medical applications of atomic energy will save more lives than were lost at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. If the time and human energy spent in scientific research were to be devoted to the solution of problems which are concerned with people, groups, and nations getting along with one another, our future would be more secure. It will become increasingly apparent, however, in the years of atomic development ahead, that unless mankind destroys war, war will destroy man. I, uh, forgot to mention a while back that, uh, another one of the applications which perhaps will have very important, uh, bearing on, uh, medicine, uh, is the fact that they are using radiations now for the sterilization of foods. Now, this is apparently in, in research stage as yet, but one can see the large application, uh, in industry, in the preparation of foods, if sterilization of food, the point of view of bacteria, can be accomplished. Well, I'd like to take, uh, Dr. Slurb's, uh, lead here, if I may, and move us into the, uh, second area of our discussion. I know you're interested in this, Dr. Brown. We've been talking about the uses that medicine can make of atomic energy, and I hope we've made that, uh, fairly clear, at least, to our listeners. What can be done with medicine as protection against atomic energy in case somebody starts dropping these bombs on us, Dr. Brown? Well, security measures are being worked out for protection of the general public, and these probably can be based on the elaborate security management of the workers in these areas who are always exposed to the possibility of an atomic explosion. What kind of injuries do you get from the explosion of an atomic bomb? Well, when mass is turned into energy, which is what a bomb explosion is in the first place, somebody's probably going to get hurt. All, all explosives create blast injuries and some fire, and so does the atomic bomb in a much greater amount, and the identifying feature of an atomic bomb explosion is the radiation effect that it also has that no other explosive has. Now, do these injuries from blast and fire outnumber radiation burns? What's been the experience with that? The, uh, blast injuries, which would come under the head of trauma, such as broken bones and skulls, general injuries over the body, come up to about 70 percent in the areas that have been bombed. Burns come up to about 65 percent, and the known radiation effect, as far as lesions are concerned, is about 35 percent. Well, now, the, the peculiar, uh, thing about the atomic bomb is this, uh, radiation injury, I, I take it? That's the identifying feature of, of it, plus its greater actual blast and its greater fire hazard. How does a radiation burn differ from an ordinary x-ray burn, Dr. Brown? There's not much difference in the patient's reaction, as far as his pathology is concerned, because there's only, there are only a few ways to act pathologically, but the essence of it is much quicker. It's developed more quickly. Would you care to say a word about the, uh, the types of injury which occur from radiation outside of, uh, skin injury? Uh, yes. There are other types. I happen to have been the most interested in the skin injury, however, and it's the most measurable one. There are injuries to the blood-forming organs, there are injuries to the bone, possible injury to gonads, with possible some future effect on the development of the race. Uh, some of the workers in radiation, which, after all, is not a new lesion, have, had fatal termination with blood diseases, and with actual cancer having developed in their radiation burn. Well, I thought perhaps one might point up the fact that the, uh, if one were to categorize the effects, the burn comes first, uh, which involves you in, uh, in the problem of infection. In addition to that, the blood-forming tissues are affected, and these two are, make it difficult to combat infection. The loss of fluids and the loss of blood through wounds make us worry about the, uh, application here of blood transfusions and plasma, and so on down the line, so that the number of problems one isn't faced with in the event of atomic bomb is, is, is staggering in terms of medical care. How serious are these, uh, these injuries, these radiation burns, by and large? Well, if you get in the blast area and are not protected, uh, over a two-mile area, you're pretty apt to be killed. Whether that comes from the trauma of the blast or the immediate gamma radiation effect, doesn't make much difference, but it can come from the radiation effect, I should, should think. Uh, the seriousness are, bad lesions of the skin, as far as we are concerned, and then the workers we have worked with. We have worked with several workers and several damaged hands, who have unfortunately broken security, and have been burned themselves, and they develop what is known as a radiation burn. It's not taken care of, the skin won't survive, and eventually the patient will develop carcinoma. Uh, do you think that it would be, uh, feasible to, uh, construct medical facilities, uh, on the outskirts of the large cities, just to take care of the bomb problem, and the eventuality of a bomb, uh, in, uh, say, such cities as New York, Chicago, and so on? I believe that probably will be the basis of protection, but if there again you'll have tremendous problems, such as what would happen if the bomb didn't happen to hit the city, as happened one time in London, when everybody went down in one of the deep subway, uh, kiosks, and thought they were perfectly safe, and the bomb went right down the same entry, and frankly all of them were lost. So that there won't be any sure place to get, except to try to get as far away from it as possible. Dr. Brown, is, in your experience as a plastic surgeon, is the treatment for radiation burns the same as that for an ordinary burn? No, but the preliminary treatment is. The preliminary treatment for a radiation burn should be completely conservative. No amputations, whatever, should be done. Do you think that, uh, there's any chance that, uh, with the tremendous amount of research going on, on acute radiation injury, that, uh, we can expect, uh, any developments which might make it possible for us to apply something to an individual, and therefore avoid these, uh, burns? Uh, let's say apply something, or give the patient, uh, some, individual something to avoid the effects on the blood-forming tissue, and so on? We might get that on the blood-forming tissue, but I doubt if we'd get it on the skin, if the patient were once exposed, because the skin is such a local situation. So this thing has happened in animals, and will continue to happen in anybody that gets exposed to too much radiation. I think it might be pointed out that, with, uh, radiation burns, and, uh, thermal burns, or burns from heat, in many ways, the initial treatment will be the same, in terms of trying to, uh, combat infection with antibiotics, such as penicillin, and so on, to, uh, keep up the fluid balance, with blood transfusions, and plasma, and salt solution, and so on down the line. Now, do you think that, if we, uh, that, again, coming back to this research, do you think that, uh, if we, if we continue in the work that's being done now, we'll have a chance to cut down the, the, the death from radiation, and from burn to any appreciable figure? I'm not certain that we will, but that doesn't mean that the effort shouldn't be kept up. Now, the ones we have already seen have been treated conservative, unless they've, conservatively, unless they've had too big a blast, and if the blast, or the radiation effect has been too great, death ensues. But, if the skin is burnt, you'll have the acute burn, which we should treat, as Dr. Jackson has suggested, conservatively, and keep the patient up, and then the chronic burn must be taken care of later, to prevent the development of carcinoma. I'd like, again, to point out, uh, the, difficulty in, in treatment, when the number of casualties, uh, are as staggering as they would be in the bombing of a large city, uh, in order to, uh, to supply, uh, blood, and to supply plasma, tremendous stores would have to be, uh, stored up. Now, we would, there are substitutes for plasma, uh, on the market now. Do you think that they are effective, or that they can be, uh, they can be improved, to the extent that, uh, we would not have to store plasma, which is difficult? I think that's true, although, in the anemic stage, to keep the patient going, he probably will always need whole blood. Another thing that's important is the con-, possible contamination of supplies, so that mobility means a great deal, and impressing an individual patient to try to get away without killing himself doing it, and not to go back in the area. We've discussed some of the early effects of atomic bomb radiation. It's important to mention that animal work has shown that the offspring may be altered after such radiation. There is no evidence, as yet, from the inhabitants of Japan, that this has occurred, however. I'd like to bring out another, uh, several items, rather, of, uh, in research that may be of some significance. For example, uh, they, it has been shown that, uh, certain drugs, such as Tolun Blue, will help in preventing hemorrhage that's radiation-induced. That protection of the spleen will, uh, change the mortality of the individual's concerns. Well, gentlemen, in brief conclusion, we have discussed earlier the uses of atomic energy in therapy, diagnosis, and medical research, and have pointed out, uh, what medical science can do to, uh, to help persons injured by radiation burns. Our speakers are convinced, I notice, that more lives can and will be saved and lost by atomic energy. In this, we surely hope they are right. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, preparing for atomic age problems. Atomic energy presents many of the greatest problems of this age. We discuss its peacetime uses, we debate means of control, we talk of its impact in our daily lives. If you'd like to be informed on this subject, we have a suggestion. You can get an exact copy of today's discussion, and an extensive list of books and articles about atomic energy for just 10 cents in coin. Write the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Or to make sure you keep up with our future discussions, discussions about big business, old age, our Congress. You can subscribe to the weekly transcripts. One dollar for four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. James Barrett Brown, Associate Professor of Chemical Surgery at Washington University School of Medicine, Dr. Leon Jacobson, Associate Professor at the University of Chicago Medical School, and Dr. Paul Schlerb, Fellow in Surgery at the Harvard Medical School. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask a question that is of vital concern to every American who drives an automobile, or faces the hazards of our streets as a pedestrian. Can we stop drunken driving? Our guests will be Robert L. Donegan, Counsel for the Northwestern University Traffic Institute, Dr. R. N. Harger, Professor of Biochemistry and Toxicology at the Indiana University School of Medicine, and the Honorable Harry H. Porter, Chief Justice of the Municipal Court of Evanston, Illinois. We invite you to listen next week to our discussion, Can We Stop Drunken Driving? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. All tonight, the他說 수 Complacved inirie City School of都市駅 and erste Hem City School of chegou atust Vielen, we doSE problem at least here on campus, is the place a couple of differentclick- nhưng program to actually MINFLATING facility rig