Thank you very much, Mr. Fogler. I'm sure he has left us a message that we all can take home and think about, for you know that could happen practically any of us should we visit Europe. The diabolical ideology of world communism stands in strong contest with the spirit of freedom and of free men in America. Basically, this contest is one of evil on a mass scale against the moral principles that are the foundation of freedom. America is massing its military might and its productive might to meet the threat of communism. But gentlemen, that is not enough, and even that cannot be accomplished with manpower, machine power, farm power, or any combination of purely physical resources. The very core of America's strength lies in its moral power. This moral power flows from the individual citizen in his own daily life, from the labor, the teacher, the businessman, the government official, and the school boys and college boys. The sum total of the moral strength of all our citizens is the real measure of America's own strength. The standard of ethical and moral conduct of our society cannot be in terms of any one segment of our own national life. The level of national morality is, however, reflected to some extent in the moral standards of government and in those of business as it is reflected also in the standards of any other major group. I have the great privilege of introducing and presenting to you a man of very outstanding qualities. He has held many public offices since 1919 and when he returned from the Army service in the first World War I. For six years he was city attorney in Malvern, Arkansas, and later he was a federal prosecuting attorney. In Washington he served as a member of the House of Representatives for eight years. He was elected to the United States Senate in 1942 and was again re-elected in the year 1948. He is chairman of the Senate Committee on executive expenditures. That's a pretty good one to be on. He's a leading member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. He's a Democrat who's led in the fight for government economy. He is a vigorous opponent of administration fiscal policies. I understand from one of his own statesmen that his hobby is just hard work. This man, a public representative of the very highest caliber, believes deeply that high ethical standards in public life are most essential. By his own public life and his work in the Senate, he is he is eminently qualified to give us a forthright, provocative message on ethics and principles in government. It is with an honor to me and I'm sure to you that I should present to you the honorable Senator from Arkansas, the honorable John L. Honorable John L. McLennan. Thank you, Mr. Zinsmaster. Honored guests, members of the NAM, ladies and gentlemen. Honored and highly pleased am I to be your guest and to have this esteemed privilege of addressing the 56th Congress of American Industry. I am firmly cognizant of the exalted position of influence and power of your membership, both individually and collectively, in the social, economic, and political affairs of our country and of the entire world. I reject, however, as invalid and untrue, the frequent, recurring, demagogic accusations that the NAM and similar organizations are wholly selfish and serve only the economic, royalist version and ideals of society and government. If that were true, I would not be here today. I would not have accepted your invitation. I believe that you, like the rest of us, are the products and beneficiaries of the greatest and finest system of human society and government ever established by the ingenuity of man. You have, like the rest of us, in the past, in the past, in the past, and you will continue to make in the future, very substantial and patriotic contributions to the growth and progress of our country and to the prosperity and happiness of our people, and with all due deference. However, I shall speak to you, not as a special group or class, separate and apart from other segments of our people, but I shall talk to you simply as American citizens. I shall speak to you, not as a special group or as American citizens. I shall speak to you, not as a special group or as American citizens. I shall speak to you, not as a special group or as American citizens. I shall speak to you, not as a special group or as American citizens. This challenge to our survival and destiny demands of all of us profound faith in and strict adherence to the basic principles of liberty and government that were enunciated and ordained by our founding fathers. It requires qualities of all of us. It requires qualities of citizenship, courage, and statesmanship of the highest order. And it may well yet, this challenge and danger that faces us may well yet exact of us as the price of survival and security, sufferings and sacrifices comparable to those endured by the patriots of the revolution in gaining our independence. The existence of this world crisis impels the marshaling and mobilization of all of our material, moral, and spiritual resources to the end that we may develop the needed military might and power to repel the assaults of aggression from without, and to withstand the insidious and destructive forces of paternalistic socialism, corruption, and public immorality from within. Vast armaments and preparation for war, while indispensable in this period of crisis, are not the only essentials of national defense or to the preservation of our freedoms and way of life. There are other vital elements of strength that are equally essential and indispensable to security. Governments in the past have decayed and fallen from causes other than military defeats. The decline in public morality, the weakening of official integrity, and radical departures from the basic concepts of freedom, have all been destructive of human liberty and have caused the fall of mighty empires in the past. The current scandals involving graft, corruption, job selling, influence peddling, and gross improprieties in government that are now being daily revealed, of course, are most shocking and revolting. They have aroused the righteous indignation of all decent citizens. And it appears, unfortunately, that the end of these frightening revelations is not yet in sight. But public conscience demands the immediate removal of these malignant growths from the body politic. The health and validity of our government must be restored and freed from these evils, even though radical surgery may become necessary in the process. You and I know that in the course of human events, history oft repeats itself and teaches anew its tragic lessons. Let us listen to these resounding words from the pen of a great writer. It was the age of wisdom. It was the age of wisdom. It was the age of foolishness. It was the epoch of belief. It was the epoch of incredulity. It was the season of light. It was the season of darkness. It was the spring of hope. It was the winter of despair. Thus did Charles Dickens begin his immortal book, The Tale of Two Cities. The period he referred to, of course, was the French Revolution. But I think we may profitably ponder the significance of those words today. By doing so, we may find that they are remarkably applicable to conditions that now obtain in our contemporary world. The film is a great measure of prosperity. The film is a great measure of prosperity. No one can deny that this is the best of time. Business is flourishing. Standards of living and incomes have reached unprecedented heights. We in this country are certainly enjoying a great measure of prosperity. But do not these things, may not they well portend, the worst of times? We are again at war. We are faced with the real danger of a third world war in which atomic destruction would be indescribable. We are terrifically burdened with an astronomical public debt and with almost confiscatory taxes. Inflation is threatening to undermine the strength of our national economy. And we are beset up on all sides with the socialistic schemes clothed as welfare measures, which, if enacted into law, would further increase both the cost and power of our growing centralized government in Washington. We are being compelled. We are being compelled to pour out our substance in men and materials in an effort to build up the strength of other freedom-loving nations of the world to withstand Soviet aggression and treachery. With these burdens upon our people, they certainly have a right to expect and to demand rigid integrity in government, moral stamina, and faithfulness to duty on the part of every public servant. If these questionable and criminal practices that are now being exposed are permitted to long continue, then we may truly say that we are living in an age of foolishness, in an epoch of infiduity, and that we are about to enter the winter of despair. Immediate relief from the anguish and injury of these intolerable conditions is imperative. Some small progress has been made, but we've got a long distance yet to go if we are to do a thorough job of housecleaning. The removal from office of any and all of those who are found to be incompetent or unfaithful should be continued until order and confidence are completely restored in our government. Therefore, I do not agree with the views expressed privately by some that these current investigations should be brought to an end because they're destroying confidence in government. Instead, they should be continued and prosecuted, fairly of course, but with full vigor and thoroughness. Investigations as such is not what has shattered the confidence of the American people, but it's rather the impact of their disclosures and exposures of the evils to which I have referred that have shocked the sense of decency and honor of our citizenship. Investigations, their revelations, and the prompt removal of present officeholders found to be unethical and unfaithful in the performance of their duties will not alone provide a full solution of this pressing problem. They can and will supply temporary relief and improvement. But we must do more than merely treat the effects of corruption and unfaithfulness in government. We must take preventive measures to remove the cause. Many times, unethical conduct and corruption are, of course, the result of weakness and plain dishonesty on the part of one individual or individuals. Isolated instances of such cases may be expected to recur, human nature being what it is, but wholesale corruption and inefficiency, when we find that, in my judgment, they are a result of conditions and circumstances that create an environment of general laxity and public morals and of disregard for the fundamental of the basic principles upon which our government was founded and now exists. I cannot, I shall not have time to enumerate all of those conditions and circumstances, but I shall like, should like to refer to a few. Number one, this is what my own opinion, is an obvious deterioration of the highest standards of ideals and statesmanship in our two major political parties. Recent platforms of both the Democrat and Republican parties have, in my judgment, failed to clearly enunciate principles upon which the parties are presumed to differ or to clarify and emphasize the important issues to be resolved by the people in the election. They seem to have been designed and constructed to conceal and confuse, rather to inform and enlighten. Obviously, they were written for the primary purpose of getting votes, rather than to make a clear statesman-like declaration of principle and policy. Number two. Number two. Number two is a sharp decline in ethics due to the lust for power that induces both men and parties to sacrifice principles of morality for the attainment of political victory. When lust for power is permitted to become the dominating influence of the life of an individual or in a political party, the temptation easily becomes irresistible to abandon all ethical standards, to sacrifice any principle, and to engage in reprehensible practices to gain their objective. It seems they embrace the doctrine that victory, honorable if convenient, but victory at any price if necessary. I need not cite special cases. They are known to all of you. Number three is the prevailing practice of rewarding services to the party or to some official by the appointment of those who perform such services to positions of public trust for which they are neither fit nor qualified to serve. To the victor belongs the spoils is a dangerous doctrine in practice. unless it is observed and qualified by proper restraint. And you know, I think some may have taken that philosophy not only literally, but have been taking it pretty much materially. I think a better philosophy to emphasize would be that upon the victor is imposed the obligation of faithfulness to duty. Number four. Number four is a tendency on the part of the executive branch of the government to formulate policies and legislations and on the part of the Congress to vote for measures and appropriations that are principally intended to benefit and to influence politically certain minority groups and classes of our people rather than to serve the national interest. when political considerations when political considerations are given precedence over and permitted to outweigh the national interest in the initiation of policies in the enactment of legislation and in the making of appropriations and expenditures of public funds other questionable practices and criminal acts are definitely invited and they will inevitably follow. Number five is the bigness of government. The centralization of power in Washington, waste and extravagance invariably associated with non-essential expenditures and unsound fiscal policies. Our federal government has become so big its functions so expanded and its obligations so enlarged that it is almost unmanageable now by democratic processes. It has become next to impossible to prevent waste, extravagance and needless expenditures all of which are identified either directly or indirectly with a form of if not the substance of corruption itself. Number six. The condoning or tolerating after exposure of gross improprieties on the part of subordinates by their superiors. The retaining of any, by any superior of a subordinate official known to be guilty of gross improprieties or other offenses that transgress proper ethics and principles in government sets an example that creates laxity and unfaithfulness. Favoritism that indicates or establishes a lower standard of ethic or public morals in the highest offices of government will contaminate other officials and agencies and services on a lesser level. The conditions and circumstances which I have enumerated are contributing, I think they're strong contributing factors, to the scandals in government that we're hearing of today. Therefore, it is seen, or at least it seems to me, that there is no quick remedy. There is no simple or easy way to proceed. The enactment of laws in certain areas will help. The creating of a commission on ethics in government as proposed by some may prove beneficial. However, in my judgment, in the final analysis, the people must help solve this problem at the ballot box. The strength of character and integrity in government will never rise higher than that possessed by those whom the people elect as their public servants. Ours, thank God, is a government of, by, and for the people. I believe they can make their sovereign will prevail in its affairs by voting patriotically and intelligently and by emphasizing that they will not tolerate in government either parties or men who do not subscribe to and observe the highest standards of ethics and who are not devoted to the basic principles of our liberties. They can bring about reforms in the conduct of public affairs that will ensure honest and efficient government. It is not a job alone for the President of the United States to do. It is not a job alone for the Congress of the United States to do. It is not a job for investigating committees only. This is a job for you and me for all of us to do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator McClellan. He certainly laid it on the line and it's just unfortunate that we don't have more Senator McClellans in government. Every now and then we hear even from people who ought to know better that American small business which provided the beginnings of our great industrial economy of today is slowly dying out. But these people don't know that there is more small business today than ever before in the history of the United States. Moreover, small business is just as vigorous and just as eager to grow into bigger business as it ever was. If not, even more so today. It may be trite to state but it is true to say that small business is the backbone of our nation's strength. There are so many small businessmen who are every day finding and winning new frontiers in industry. and through who through their enterprise and courage and imagination are making magnificent contributions to our national strength in these most difficult times. That to single out any one of them for special recognition is almost an impossible task. Nevertheless, a living example is always inspiring. So we have invited here today a man who we might say is not unusual in small business but rather he is a representative of the vitality and the initiative and the patriotism of small business. When there was desperate need for a small certain a luminous ring for a new aircraft interphone system to make it possible for high speed jet planes to keep in touch with each other even under the most worst battle conditions this small business man was able to find the answer. He found a new way to produce a ring that should cost 25 cents and to do it for only 4 cents and he found the way. And it was a much better ring at 4 cents than the old one at 25 cents. You'll be interested to know that the ring was produced for Radio Corporation of America and was through our good friend Frank Folsom one of our own NAM directors whom we can thank for making this small businessman achievements known. Now for this contribution to our nation's defense and to the recognized the vital importance of great teamwork between small and larger business I have the great honor to present this special scroll citation on behalf of American industry to a distinguished man of small business Mr. Angelo Tassi and if Mr. Tassi will step over here I'll be very pleased to present this scroll applause Now as a companion address on our morning program our final morning speaker will discuss ethics and principles in modern business It is fitting that this message should come from one of the nation's outstanding figures in industrial management He is one of our foremost scientists He began his professional career at MIT as a research associate director of research and as a professor In World War I he was a major in the chemical war service In the scientific world he's known among other distinctions for some of 80 technical studies and over 90 patents I think he has a patent on golf because every time I play with him he takes my money and I'm one of his customers He holds the chemical industry medal and in 1943 was honored with the Perkins medal the nation's highest award for work in applied chemistry He started out in industry as assistant research director of the Whiting refinery Whiting Indiana of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana Today he is chairman of the board of Standard Oil Company of Indiana and I think that's the second or third largest oil company in the country Our speaker is a member of the National Academy of Science a live member of the Corporation of MIT a trustee of the College of Worcester Ohio and of the University of Chicago and of the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago He is a national vice president of NAM chairman of our committee's research a member of our association's executive committee its economy advisory committee and NAM's industrial mobilization committee and I could go on and on and on and tell all achievements that he's achieved and I'm very happy to introduce to you my good friend and my golf partner Dr. Robert Wilson chairman of the board of the Standard Oil of Indiana Ladies and gentlemen in discussing the ethics of modern business I don't propose to engage in any dissertation on the philosophical meanings of the word ethics I think we business men know that its essential meaning is simply knowing right from wrong and picking the right way to live one's corporate and business life it means being able to say with St. Paul we have wronged no man we have corrupted no man we have defrauded no man before discussing the matter of ethics and principles in business it may be well to orient ourselves as to the general ethical situation in the country of period of general retrogression such as was widely considered to have followed the first world war many things seem to point in that direction most newspapers are filled with stories of crime lust and crookedness the key father investigation showed that many of our large cities are hotbeds of gambling and vice with gangsters making millions and debauching many of our officials and enforcement officers and some of even our best newspapers have a deplorable habit of referring to anyone who gives information about illegal operations as a stool pigeon or a squealer the finding of traders in high places and recent revelations regarding the widespread use of influence and bribery in the RFC and the Internal Revenue Department have dealt a severe blow to our traditional confidence in the honesty of the agencies of our federal government the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States gathered in Washington for their annual meeting three weeks ago issued a statement which made sober reading I shall not read it because Senator McClellan has covered so well the seriousness of corruption in high places even our college sports long considered to typify some of the best American traditions have been corrupted by gamblers again our standards of international morality have slipped so far that when some nation abrogates a treaty or nationalizes an industry few newspapers bother even to discuss whether or not the nation had a right to denounce the treaty in accordance with its provisions or whether or not the nationalization was in violation of a firm contract does all this indicate that the American public has become hardened to crime are we slipping back from the high standards and ideals which have long characterized our nation into a state of low morality such as prevails in some of the less enlightened nations my answer is that Americans generally do not accept or condone either private or official corruption the tremendous interest in the keyfowder hearings and the public indignation they aroused are highly encouraging evidences of our national conscience however if the criminal activities which they brought to light are not prosecuted vigorously by local city and federal authorities people will attend to become cynical and help hopeless about corruption and crime in most of the recent elections where there was any clear-cut issue between a corrupt administration and one that gave assurance of a thorough house cleaning the corrupt machines were almost universally swept out of power regardless of party the public reaction against corruption in high places is so strong that political leaders who at first seemed inclined to overlook it have been goaded into long overdue action to eliminate some of the corrupt individuals the widespread acclaim and almost religious fervor which have greeted general macarthur in many parts of the country are to my mind more a reflection of the public's high regard for his integrity and spiritual leadership than for his particular military views and much the same fervor was apparent in the recent election of rudolph halley in this city no i'm sure the american people are not ready to have our nation slip back in its moral and ethical standards if men like ourselves will take some time away from our businesses and professions to help provide leadership i believe we can help to stimulate a moral reawakening which will have profound results sometimes a simple illustration is needed to make us appreciate how much we all benefit by the generally high moral climate in america a refugee came to new york not long ago and spent her first night with friends in a modest walk-up apartment early in the morning she stepped out on the back porch overlooking many similar back porches and came back with eyes shining to say i've just seen the most wonderful thing in the world dozens of milk bottles and newspapers on those open porches and no one trying to steal them can you imagine what that meant to one who for years had had to be alert every moment of the day and night to protect her pitifully meager possessions but how about the assigned subject the ethical and moral standards in modern business in spite of a continuous barrage of wild charges by left-wing columnists and radio commentators and accusations by government officials against many companies or even whole industries i am sure from my own experience that the ethical standards of business generally are at an all-time high admittedly during the twenties there were some free booters in business who were taking the public for a ride but the depression weeded them out pretty fast and the security and exchanges act has kept the climate pretty unhealthy for crooks ever since moreover the ethical standards presently acceptable to the business community substantially transcend those which are set by law as a result the SEC has had very little occasion to prosecute any substantial company or important individual under that act i believe you could count on the fingers of one hand the number of prosecutions or scandals you can recall involving the officials of the corporate acts of any of the twelve hundred and seventy six companies listed on the new york stock exchange this represents a substantial improvement on the record of previous business generations true for every case of bribery of a public official there is always a briber as well as a bribe but how many of the bribing individuals or companies did you ever hear of before the exposure i'm not inferring that big business is inherently more honest than little business it's merely that a crook can seldom maintain a position of power in any substantial business though he can readily organize or sometimes gain control of a small corporation and use it as a cloak for his criminal activities one of the things that has surprised me in my management experience is the tremendous amount of business that is done every day often involving huge sums of money on the mere verbal agreement of two men who have confidence in one another true many of the deals are later reduced to writing as a matter of corporate record but by the time the lawyers get through dotting the i's and crossing the tees the agreement has often been carried out in full high moral standards do exist and must exist to make possible the efficient production and distribution of three hundred and twenty five billion dollars worth of goods and services annually in this country millions of transactions are completed every year without written contracts or guarantees fraud and commercial bribery so common in many countries are almost non-existent here on the much maligned stock exchange billions of dollars in goods and property are exchanged by a word or a sign the same is true among bankers my own company's credit sales total about nine hundred million dollars per year and are made to over one billion different individuals and corporations yet bad net losses for the last five years have not averaged one percent not one tenth of one percent but about one fiftieth of one percent but what I say about ethics and modern business is true why is it that our government always seems to be filing suits of one sort or another against large corporations or even whole industries it is said that in England they knight their businessmen over here they indict them and that's really not funny to a businessman these attacks give serious concern to everyone who takes pride in the high standards of modern business how can such actions be accounted for if businessmen are honest one reason is of course that the federal bureaucracy is overrun with so-called bright young men who are a hundred percent for the planned economy as part of a studied campaign to substitute socialism for the free economy they want to discredit private business management if they can they use their positions to create dissension between business and government to spread fallacies regarding business and to harass businessmen with complicated and conflicting regulations and litigation being honest and law-abiding does not of course comprise all the ethical aspects of business conduct in relations with employees great progress has been made during the last generation there are still sharp differences of opinion regarding the merits of certain feather betting practices and of runaway wages for favorite groups which are ruthless in exerting their economic pressure against the public but as to the ethical questions of honor and fair dealing industries record is at a historic high in the fulfillment of contracts written or unwritten between capital and labor there is no doubt in the public's mind as to which one keeps the better faith yet from some labor publications there is as much vilification as ever this is not because labor leaders are such immoral fellows but because they follow the philosophy of the squeaky wheel which has worked so often and so well for them in the past progress is still to be made in human relations in our plans but the strides of the present generation have been too great to require any apology at the public bar i wish some business critics could sit in at the earnest discussions of the n am board and committee meetings looking toward the solution of some of the problems of industrial health and safety the hiring of minority groups and handicapped workers benefit plans steady employment and so forth it would certainly open their eyes as to the seriousness of which business executives view their social responsibilities another place where we can judge the ethics and principles of modern business is in its relations to the community there again the critic of business may be invited to look reality in the face it is on the business people that almost every community relies largely for leadership in civic affairs including moral backing and financial sponsorship the sensational increase in the participation of business and community activities is demonstrated in materials displayed at this very congress and the evidence will be spelled out in detail at the afternoon sessions of today and tomorrow it may be of interest to appraise the factors which have been steadily improving business ethics at a time when moral standards in several other parts of the economy appear to have been deteriorating i don't think that businessmen can take the entire credit for the development even though they are justifiably proud of it to my mind the principal effective factors have been first the depression exposed and eliminated many whose standards have been inadequate and posted many conspicuous warnings for the present business generation second public sentiment demanding the highest standards of conduct for those handling or administering other people's money made itself felt not only by legislation but by insistence that only men of proven integrity be placed in responsible business or financial positions third business can be carried on far more effectively and promptly when honorable men are dealing with one another life is too short to maintain an adequate guard against a person whose integrity is doubtful so one simply avoids dealing with him if a business is to grow and prosper it must be firmly rooted in fair dealing fourth most men attain the leadership of our large corporations today by a long process of step-by-step promotion in competition with others as dr. copeland of harvard says in his recent book because of this continual sifting process it is rare that a man attains high executive position in a well-established company who does not who does not measure up to a high standard of conduct such men would be foolish if they did not regard their honor as a far more importance than any dishonorable profit most of today's managers of our larger industries and businesses are essentially professional men rather than owners they are able to able to balance objectively the proper claims of the three groups who must be joined as a team to make a continuing success of any enterprise namely stockholders employees and customers such managers are less concerned about immediate large earnings and more concerned about factors of importance for the long pull such as employee morale consumer confidence and public opinion they know that a business is to retain the freedom essential to its success it must construct itself so that it both deserves and wins the full confidence of the public the full confidence of the public sixth the story of the reasons behind the high standards of business ethics in america would be lamentably incomplete if tribute were not paid to the two greatest factors in the whole climate of america whole moral climate of america namely the influences throughout our history of our churches and our colleges they are the institution which have fed the fires of idealism in a material world and have guided and educated the consciousness of all of us in these days when new organizations to save the american way of life seem to spring up and solicit support almost every day we are in danger of forgetting america's oldest organizations the churches and the colleges which they founded they have done more than all the others put together to create and preserve our great american traditions of personal integrity and individual freedom the golden rule taught by the church for nearly 2 000 years is still the best guide for business ethics and personal conduct while i am sure that american business ethics deserves far more acclaim and less attack than it has been receiving i feel there is one point on which we businessmen can properly be criticized and that is with respect to lack of courage in leading the fight against dishonesty and demagoguery in city state and nation business and industry leaders knowing right from wrong and educated regarding the forces of economic law have a moral responsibility to take the lead in fighting for sound principles and opposing the bad but where are ethics and intellectual honesty when business for the sake of local or regional or national popularity joins with the economic ignorant uh... in taking advantage of the handoff programs offered by bureaucracy how many times have we local, or regional, or national popularity, joins with the economically ignorant in taking advantage of the handout programs offered by bureaucracy. How many times have we seen individual businesses and business groups refusing or fearing to support sound tax or other sound economic policies, or refusing to take a firm position against futile and damaging controls for fear of a few transient headlines? In recent years, we have frequently seen industry caving in before the combined pressures of big labor and big government, even though by so doing, management knew it was selling out the consumer, the shareholder, the pensioner, and the unrepresented employee. Many companies have an established policy of avoiding, like as if the plague, close contact with local, state, or national politics. Business leaders of past generations may have had their faults, but I think they, with their rugged individualism, showed more courage on vital issues than do many of the present generation of management. Maybe we have become so incest with the desirability of making friends that we're afraid to make even the right kind of enemies. As Mr. Fogler said, we should strive to be worthy of the hatred of some people. These are times that demand courage and leadership from businessmen. If the corruption which has been exposed is not vigorously attacked on every front, the public will be justified in becoming cynical, and all our cherished American traditions will be jeopardized. Even business cannot long maintain its integrity in a sea of corruption. It is high time we took our part as minute men in this battle, as did the merchants and artisans of Boston when they started the struggle for our freedom. Only if all the forces for righteousness join together in a supreme effort will we be able to win the battle for the restoration of high morality in our national life. Thank you. Thank you very much, Bob Wilson. I'm sure he gave us a real message. I'm sorry since he mentioned the meat industry and he didn't tell about the 151 taxes on a loaf of bread. Now, before adjourning this session, we have a special announcement to make. A telegram has been directed to us by Mr. Charles E. Wilson, Director of Defense Mobilization, asking us to make this announcement. So I'm pleased to introduce the chairman of the Steel Industry Scrap Mobilization Committee. He is also an NAM director and chairman of our Government Contracts and Procurement Committee. Our good friend and fellow director, Mr. Robert W. Wolcott of Pennsylvania. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by Mr. Charles E. Wilson, Director of Defense Mobilization, statement. If American businessmen are interested in keeping the furnaces of the steel mills operating at capacity, and I know they are, will they personally take charge of a thorough salvage operation in their own plants and immediately flesh out that dormant and obsolete scrap which experience tells us exists to some degree in every plant? Would you have your top organization support, cooperate, and work with the local scrap mobilization committees that are working to get this dormant obsolete scrap out of their neighbor's plant? The situation, I assure you, is most serious. With some mill... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...