The following is transcribed. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What should government do for the aged? It should make provisions by law to protect them from want, suffering, and distress under all circumstances. But the administration of the proposal must be practical, realistic, and economically sound. Government must accept the responsibility for seeing that the aged people of our country are provided with the necessities of life, plus property, proper medical and hospital care. Old age security should be provided through expansion and liberalization of the present old age and survivors insurance. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand analyzes the responsibility of government to the aged. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around social security, pension plans, and opportunities for employment of the aged. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our first speaker today, by transcription, is Mr. George McClain, Chairman of the Board of the Citizens Committee for Old Age Pensions in California. Mr. McClain. Mr. McClain. Mr. McClain. Howdy, folks. I am the type of American who believes that charity begins at home. That is one of the reasons why I cannot understand how our government can give not millions, but billions of dollars to all of the people of the world, and yet allow poverty, hunger, and even starvation among our needy here at home. Social Security was started here in the United States in 1936. That's 13 years ago. Yet no major improvement has been made in all that time. In the Social Security Act is the public assistance program designed to aid the old folks, the blind, and the needy children in a participation program between the federal government and the states. While members of Congress have voted themselves a nice, big, old-age pension, they have neglected to give the same security to the people who elected them to office. Now, does this seem fair? It is my belief that Congress should liberalize not only the Social Security Act, but also the public assistance laws, to the extent that there be a uniform old-age pension act throughout the nation. The government should encourage all states to pay a maximum old-age pension of $75 a month by paying from 50 to 75 percent of the cost. According to the per capita income of the states. This means that our government would match in dollars California's present $75 per month old-age pension. The government would also pay half to Illinois, New York, and the rest of the wealthy states, half of their pension cost. Now, to Mississippi, for example, whose average pension payment is only $18.79 a month. The government should pay 75 percent of the cost. In other words, the government should put up $3 to Mississippi's $1. This will encourage all states to seek that maximum of $75 per month for the needy aged. The United States today is gradually becoming a nation of older folks. 65 percent of our population is over 45 years of age, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Therefore, it seems to me, it is about time that we consider our older citizens' importance in our daily life, should they be in need of help, by retiring them at a pension of at least $75 a month. And this help should be granted to them with kindness, courtesy, and respect. They should be allowed to own their own home and have a reasonable amount of personal property. They should not be sentenced to idleness, as they are under our present federal laws. But they should be allowed to earn at least an average of $30 a month, in addition to their old-age pension of $75 a month. What is organized labor striking for today? Higher wages? Oh, no. They are striking for old-age pensions. Yes, the American worker today is asking for security in their old age. This they are attempting to secure by striking. And the employer is faced with paying the whole bill. The old folks can't strike. Their days of labor have passed them by. They can only depend upon the benevolence of the men they elect to public office. Unfortunately, they have found their congressmen and their state legislators to be long on promises, and very, very short on keeping those promises. The business of this country is faced with paying the individual workers an old-age pension, or broadening their tax base through Congress to liberalize not only our Social Security Act, but also to include our public assistance program, which is non-contributory. God's premise. conceptualize looking for full government-based new που changed moralize that ou lover canå选 you my Portuguese come to the absolute firm. And LOL. That is one of the colleges who is white and Black in New York. It is in 2011, which is now the alcoholic eternal life. can be done in every state in the nation because the old folks are sick and tired of being pushed around and neglected. There is a lot more fight in these pioneers than the average politician realizes. They have learned their power at the ballot box and while they can't strike, as the younger folks can, they can vote. In my travels throughout the nation, I have met thousands of elderly people, people who at one time meant much to the building of this nation. These people must not be the forgotten. They shall not be the forgotten. They are not the old of Europe. These folks are your mothers, your fathers, your grandparents. They are you and me in our old age. They are Americans and I propose that we do something about it. How about it folks? Are you with me? Thank you, Mr. McClain. We continue this reviewing stand discussion with Judge Edgar A. Jonas, United States Congressman from Illinois. Pat Greathouse, Director of Region 4 of the United Automobile Workers with the CIO. And Professor Alton Linford of the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago. Now, first of all, gentlemen, do you agree with what you've just heard from Mr. McClain? How about that, Linford? Well, McBurney, I have a good deal of sympathy for what McClain says. We haven't done so well by our aged. But as I see it, we can approach this problem from about six different ways. We can depend for old age security upon people's individual savings. Second, we can go into an employer-sponsored program. Third, we can go into a union negotiated plan such as have been set up by steel workers and Ford workers. Fourthly, we can depend upon public assistance or a means test device or five on a flat grant pension arrangement or six on an insurance arrangement. Now, what McClain is proposing is that we convert our present old age assistance program into a flat grant pension. Personally, I would prefer an insurance method. Great House, what do you say? Well, I agree with the aims which McClain is trying to accomplish in security for the age. However, I might differ with him on the way that we're going to get there or the means which should be used to secure this security. Jonas, what is your reaction to McClain's talk? Well, I didn't get much out of McClain's talk except that he seems to propose that there should be a flat pension fixed and that it should be paid out of the coffers or government of the United States. To begin with, he has given us nothing from a practical economic standpoint as to how his plan is carried into execution. Just by the way of comment, let me say that when he refers to Congress as being, and the members there being recipients of a pension, he's left out and omitted in this talk that they have to pay in a certain amount of their salary on a percentage basis, which is the only sound way of obtaining a pension. In Mississippi, if I may add, the state is without sufficient physical assets to carry the burden of pensions. They have a remedy. If they'll quit discriminating against their large colored population and give them an opportunity to produce on the same scale the white people do down there, they'll solve that problem. Well, now, what is the nature and extent of society's responsibility to the aged? How far should we go with this anyway, Great House? I think that society has a very definite responsibility to the aged people. Number one, I think that we should provide that when a man has reached a certain age, the age being used mostly now is 65, that he should be entitled to an income for life which would guarantee him the necessities of life, plus the fact that he should be guaranteed hospital and medical care when he's sick. I agree with that, Great House, and believe furthermore that in view of the fact that our aged population is going to double in the next 30 or 40 years, from 10 million to approximately 22 million, that we would do well also to give consideration to finding ways to keep, or make it possible at least, for the aged to remain at work longer. Well, now, isn't there some danger of removing incentives to economy, incentives to take care of ourselves? A good many people in America, I think, have been brought up with the idea that they ought to provide for themselves. As I follow the discussion here, you men are plugging for pensions for everybody. How about that, Jonas? Well, I don't think we can go that far to say we are plugging for pensions for everybody, but the pension system and contributing to the relief of the distressed and the aged is nothing new. We've had this in the country for a great many years. What we're trying to do presently is to streamline the plan and to make it compatible with the modern methods under which we operate. I don't believe that a proper program would do anything to the incentive for individuals. We all recognize that he is not going to get enough assistance from the government to provide for all of his needs. Also, he'll be able to help out if we remove the means test, which should be removed, which is now a penalty on people saving. I agree with that. It depends on how the pension is provided. It's also true that the aged, most of them, were not able to provide for their own old age security. In order to assure oneself of $100 a month at age 65, one would have to buy an annuity that would cost $15,000. And if he wanted an additional amount for his wife, who was also 65, it would take another $5,000 or $6,000. Now, we don't have the kind of wages in this country, a wage structure, that permit people to accumulate that much savings universally. So, since it can't be done by individuals by themselves, I think the government ought to assure that everybody does have old age security, but provide it in a way that it's a minimum amount, and they may give them encouragement and incentive to improve it. I think it's an overstatement to say at any time that people when they reach the age of 65 years refuse to work and don't want to work. As a matter of fact, a great many of the pensioners insist on working, but we have passed narrow-minded legislation preventing them from working, and I don't think it will conflict in any way with our organized labor or with any other institution of the country dealing with labor and economic problems. I think a very important thing on this whole matter of savings is going to depend on the amount of the pensions, because while you cannot determine how long one person is going to live beyond retirement age or if he's going to reach retirement age, you can determine by statistics on an overall program and percentage of people. You can plan much better an overall program for a large number of people than one person can plan for himself. Well, why not try to provide useful employment for the ages rather than putting as much stress on pensions as you gentlemen appear to give? I would certainly think that the best kind of old-age security is a well-paid job, something that the aged person enjoys doing, and I certainly believe that you have... the fact that many of our... are the leaders of our country and of the world are well beyond 65 and many of them well beyond 70. We don't have to retire everybody at 65, but the facts are that many employers do not employ aged workers, and once they become displaced, they find it almost impossible to get employment again. If it were a fixed rule that we'd retire people at 65, we'd probably have to retire the people who rule the world today. The president is over 65 years of age, Joe Stalin is over 65 years of age, and many able and competent men who are contributing towards the welfare of the world today are over 65, so I can't find any basis for saying that they should be automatically retired. Well, why not press that approach to the problem then, trying to provide opportunities for productive employment for this aging population? Well, we are in full agreement. By we... By we... I mean the organized labor is in full agreement for jobs for everyone. However, it happens that, in many cases, this is not true. We are faced with the improved technological improvements, which creates a lot more production. We are also faced with the fact that as more and more people become unemployed, you're either going to have to take care of the aged people on top, or you're going to have to give public assistance to people at the bottom. I say that if the aged people, if all people in America could be given employment, definitely it should be done to those people who desire to work. But those people who want to retire should be given the opportunity to retire, get a little rest, or if their health doesn't permit them, they should be guaranteed adequate living. We had a group of doctors on this program a week ago who took the position that it was, from the standpoint of health at least, it was the worst possible thing for these aged people to retire from active employment. Well, I agree with the concept and the viewpoint the doctors have stated. It's really ridiculous when we know that the return to the old law was provided that if you earn more than $14.99, it would be deducted for your pensions. At least under the new law, that's under consideration in Congress, people over 65 are allowed to work to earn up to $50. And when they reach the age of 75, they are permitted to work regardless of their income. Well, now let's take a look at these laws the Congressman is talking about. What provision do we make for the aged now, by law, Linford? McBernie, in 1935, in the Social Security Act, we set up two old age security programs. One, an insurance one that was expected in the long run to carry the great burden of old age security. This is known now as old age and survivor's insurance. Workers and employers alike contribute toward a fund out of which then benefits are paid to retired workers at age 65, to their wives when they are 2 or 65, or to dependent children, and to survivors, widows and children and parents of workers. Now that's an insurance plan. That's the insurance plan for the long run. Now, because there were many persons already old and because this program was not extended to all the working population, the Congress established another measure known as old age assistance. And that's what McLean is talking about. That's what McLean is talking about, and he would convert that one into a flat grant pension. With this plan, old age assistance is available to people only if they are in need and also aged. And it involves the federal governments making grants to the states to help the states provide the pension or the assistance to needy persons. I think that House Bill 6000 is the solution of the pension problem as it presents itself today. I think the public ought to know that in this legislation, there's a provision that the rates of contributions will increase. Namely, in 1950, they'll increase 1.5. They're at 1.5 percent. In 1951 to 59, 2 percent. 1960 to 64, 2.5 percent. In 1965 to 69, 3 percent. In 1973, 3.25 percent. Or that means that out of the employee's check, there's taken 3.25 percent, or 3.25 percent, and the same amount is taken out of the employer's income. This is not a great economic problem because it might be well to know that the actuaries who appeared before the committees in Congress pointed out that if this bill is enacted into law, the cost of operating it for the first 10 years won't be more than $3,800,000,000 a year, which is just a trifle over the total amount of taxes that the state of Illinois paid into the government of the United States during one year, to which, 1948. I think by saying that this bill, which is up for proposal in Congress, is going to settle the problem is not being realistic. First thing, it does not completely cover all the people in employment over 65, much less the people who are not employed. I think if we're going to have a real program, we have to have an increased plan for all people graduated upward by those people who participate in some kind of a contributing plan. But, Mernie, I think we ought to take note of the fact that this bill that we're talking about, House of Representatives Bill number 6,000, which has already passed the House, by the way, and will be before the Senate in January, is an amendment to the present old age, or the present Social Security Act, and amends both of these programs. It affects the old age insurance program by adding about, in three ways. First, by adding 11 million more of our workers to the system. Second, by liberalizing the benefits by about 70%, and third, by increasing the contributions that workers and employers make. In respect to the old age assistance program, or title of the Social Security Act, House Bill 6,000 would liberalize it somewhat by increasing the amount of the contribution of the federal government, and would further liberalize some of the eligibility requirements. But it doesn't go as far as McLean wants to go. Not nearly as far. But I think it ought to be pointed out, too, as Great House has indicated here, that House Bill 6,000, doesn't go very far. First, it includes only 11 of the 24 million of our workers who are not now in this insurance program. Why not include the other 14? Second, though it liberalizes the benefits by 70%, that brings us back up only to where we were in 1939, because the cost of living has gone up by 70% since 1939. Not nearly adequate enough. I want to say to answer to the remarks of Professor Linford that it's impossible from an economic standpoint to expand the Social Security program on a more flexible or greater basis than we've done at the present time. We have the benefit at the hearings prior to the time the bill was passed in the House of the best economic minds in this country, including those who had to do with labor, those that had to do with employment, those that had to do with finances and investments of all kinds and characters. And the bill, 6,000, is the product of the best thinking minds of this country presently in reference to the question of providing old age pension and protection for people who are in distress and want. Let me ask one practical question. How much does the person get under this new bill you were talking about? Well, at present time he gets the average benefits about $26 a month and that would be increased to about 42 or 3 under the new measure. I'd say that this whole program is not adequate if we're going to have to accept the responsibility of making democracy work and that's just what it amounts to. We have already negotiated in private industry some plans which call for $100 a month and I think that we will be much better off to have a program where we pay pensions to people that they can retire than we will be of giving relief to people and taking care of the unemployed in that way. In answer to what you say, Jonas, I'd like to make my position clear that I think Congress is doing the right thing. I mean, the step that's taking in House Bill 6000 is certainly in the right direction. I don't agree with you, however, that it's not that it's impossible to include the other 13 or 14 million of our workers. The self-employed and the farm workers and farm operators and government employees and so on could very well be included. Well, I want to call attention to this salient feature of this bill. not only under the new bill does the pensioner get $44, but he can earn up to $50 over and above that sum before it's taken away, before anything's deducted from his government pension. If a family is involved, they can get up to $150 a month. It also uncovers matters pertaining to veterans. It allows them $160 a month during the time they were in the war in addition to the pension they're going to get. It has to do with dependent children. It adds a substantial sum to what the blind get. And after all, these are the distressed people in this country we're talking about. Not the person who can take care of himself, but the people aren't able to take care of themselves. And that's what this bill is aiming at presently. Yes, but Jonas, the thing that I'm saying is that we might just as well include many of the farm agricultural workers as well as the farm operators and as well as the employees of government. Now, the thing that is serious about this is that a lot of people move around. It's true, many of our public governments have retirement systems, but many of our workers don't stay in those systems. They move around from private employment to public and back to private. And what we need in this country is one overall insurance pension program that will include everybody. We certainly don't have that now. I wanted to ask about these union negotiated plans such as the Ford Plan and the U.S. Steel Plan. How would they be affected if this House Bill 6000 were passed? One thing about the Ford Plan and the Steel Plan, I think that they have made the public conscious and the Congress conscious of the fact that the workers of this country were interested in a pension plan. The Ford Plan and the pension plan guarantees the $100 a month pension, including what they get from Social Security. Under the present bill before Congress, the benefits would not be increased to the employee who gets the $100 a month, but Social Security to overall people in this country would be increased, and the pensions of people not covered by these plans would be increased, the amount which the company pays would be decreased, and thereby we would be in a position to get other benefits from the companies. I want to say to my friend Great House that Congress was conscious of the necessity for an equalized provision by law for the poor long before there were strikes in the great industries calling for additional or flat pensions. There are four reasons why these company and union-sponsored pension programs will not be adequate. It's true, I think, the great advantage that they serve is that they have put large employers on the bandwagon in favor of an expanded and liberalized old-age and survivor's insurance, but through that method they never could have adequate coverage because it's only the larger and more wealthy employers that will provide them. They will provide pensions only to the workers who stay with them for 20 or more years, and probably the most serious thing about it is that pensions paid for by employers makes an additional obstacle in the path of an aged worker securing a job. It may be true that the Congress was cognizant of this fact, but they didn't do anything about it until we forced private employers to pay them, and private employers get on the bandwagon so they can save expenses. Well, we'll conclude on that word, gentlemen. Our recommendations have ranged from substantial government pensions for old persons over 65 to support of the present House bill providing modest increases under the Social Security Act. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion What Should the Government Do for the Aged? This broadcast is the last in a series of programs dealing primarily with problems of the aged. If you are especially interested in this discussion or the previous programs which dealt with medicine's responsibility to the aged, why not send now four printed copies with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Illinois. Our guests today were Pat Greathouse, director of Region 4 of the United Automobile Workers of the CIO, Edgar A. Jonas, United States Representative from Illinois, Alton Linford, professor in the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago, and George McClain, chairman of the board, Citizens Committee for Old Age Pensions in California. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss one of the most powerful men in America, John L. Lewis. There is no one of us who can remain unaffected by the acts of the mine workers president. Yet we wonder how he has achieved his power, what he has done to the people who stood in his way, and what he aims to achieve. These are the questions our panel of experts will try to answer. Our participants will be Saul Alinsky, who from personal acquaintance and Lewis' own files has recently written a dramatic, unauthorized biography of the mine chief. In addition, Elmo Holman, professor of economics at Northwestern University, and Selig Perlman, professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin. Northwestern University reviewing stand was transcribed. This is the mutual broadcasting system. education in the history of the whiteester's 것, and this is the issue of the state of Ukraine. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
