Yesterday, we took our tape recorder and we got an invitation from Northwest Airlines to try out one of their new super strata cruisers. So, we got our tape recorder out of the mothballs, strapped it over our shoulder, went up to the airline's terminal, where we heard the following announcement being made. Attention, please. Northwest Airlines announces the departure of the Boeing Strata Cruiser Courtesy Flight. Tourists from Idlewild. The limousine for the Boeing Strata Cruiser Courtesy Flight is now ready for loading at the rear of the terminal. All passengers aboard, please. As we just heard the plane announcer mention, we're speaking to you from the Northwest Airlines terminal here at Pershing Square in New York City. And we're about to take off in the limousine for Idlewild, where we'll speak to you in just a few moments on this tape, but in quite a little while as the limousine goes. And as the limousine went, we wound up at Idlewild Airport, got in the airplane, sat down, got our safety belt all carefully fastened, and listened to the hostess say... Fashion your safety belts, please. We're speaking to you right now from one of the seats in a Boeing Strata Cruiser in the service of Northwest Airlines. And the reason the motors are so loud at the moment is that we're at present taking off from Idlewild Airport, or to give it its correct name, the International Airport at Idlewild. We're moving along the ground very nicely now. The air flaps are down. We're slowly rising off the ground. And up we go, very, very smoothly. The sky is overcast right now. And perhaps the weather isn't as smooth as it might be. But this tremendous Boeing Strata Cruiser just glides right along without any trouble. Well, we're away from the airport now, well over the water. And we can see some of the planes perhaps coming from Mitchell Field over there. This is the plane you've been reading about. We've been invited by Northwest Airlines to come up and take a ride in it and tell you folks on Around New York all about it. This is the plane that carries the passengers on one deck and at the same time has a bar and lounge downstairs as well. The maximum cruising speed is, well, it exceeds 340 miles an hour. And they go way, way up in the air. The service ceiling exceeding 30,000 feet. The passenger capacity holds 61 here in the cabin and 14 downstairs in the lounge, as we mentioned a minute ago. And there's room for 24 people in the berths, which are just in front of us. And we can see they're made up just like Pullman berths. Well, next time we talk to you, we'll sign off now for a minute or two. And the next time we'll talk to you, we'll be way, way up in the air. And we'll attempt to describe to you what the inside of this airplane looks like. We're just going out over Rockaway Beach now and can see the people gathered at the shore. And then we took a short walk up into the cockpit. And now we're speaking to you from a distance of about 15,000 feet in the air. Cruising at around 300, well, over 300 miles an hour, they tell us. We've just been over New Haven. We circled there for a while. And then we came down over Bridgeport. And now we're heading back toward Manhattan here in this Boeing Strato Cruiser. We're up in the cockpit speaking to you. Perhaps you can hear some of the sounds going on in the background. And we'd like to describe to you the, I guess you might say, thousands of switches that they have up here. There are three men, the pilot and the co-pilot. And then the navigator seated right behind them, keeping an eye on things. And all of these switches and all of the humming that go on in one of these modern giants. It's a very beautiful sight. And a little earlier, as we walked down the corridor, we took in the bunks that are readily made up for the 24 sleeping passengers. Of course, this is just a trial flight for about an hour and a half. So the bunks were made up merely for exhibition purposes. And then we went back into the galley and looked at the very compact and spotlessly clean, tall steel equipment they have for serving meals a lot as they travel all about the world on these Boeing Strato Cruisers. And with the three men seated in the nose of the ship, we had a talk with one of them. And his name was... George Anderson, flight engineer. At the present time, we're descending about 1,000 feet a minute. My duties at the present time are controlling my carburetor temperatures, my oil temperatures, and my engine temperatures. Also regulating the cabin pressure. Could you tell me, do you find a lot of difference between these Strato Cruisers and the kind of plane you were used to flying before? Yes, it's quite a bit more complicated than the 4s on which I was before on an Orient operation. You mean you fly to Japan for Northwest? Yes, I've been on the Orient operation for the past two years on the 4s as a flight engineer. How long does it take to get to Tokyo on one of these planes? Uh, 32 hours from Minneapolis. Oh, on these, I'm sorry, I meant on the 4s. On these, I'm not so sure. I haven't had the latest information on the Times. And then back to our seat once again, on with the safety belt once again, as we prepared to come in for the landing. And now we're coming in for a landing at Idlewild Airport. The wheels have just been lowered. We felt a perceptible slackening in speed when they went down, waiting for the flaps to be let down. While we were up over the Jamaica area, we could make out the Jamaica racetrack. And we saw an open-air theater. And all of the city's park department's swimming pools were very easily identifiable, even when we were up several miles. And now the flaps are coming down. The stewardess is now telling everyone to stop smoking. The fasten safety belt sign is on. And we're still circling, preparatory to coming in. The atmosphere is not all that it might have been today, regrettably, because we would have liked to see more. But we circled around Manhattan, Ireland, and were able to make out everything easily. And now the flaps are way down. We're coming into the runway. And this gigantic Boeing Strato Cruiser has come right down. We're just about on the runway. The stewardess is telling us all about it. And now we're on the runway. And a very, very smooth landing it was, too. The engines have just been reversed. And that makes for a different sound in the pressurized cabin here. But it was a very smooth landing, a very smooth trip, and we're back at Idlewild. Yes, and once back at Idlewild, after a trip that took just a few minutes on this tape, but actually an hour and a half, we had a talk with an official of Northwest Airlines. We are going to talk to Mr. L.B. Kinports, the director of sales of Northwest Airlines. Now, Mr. Kinports, could you explain these courtesy flights, the one we've just been on and some of the others you've been making? Our object in bringing the Boeing Strato Cruiser to the various cities that we'll serve with it is to show the public the latest and most modern airplane. We are taking up top executives, travel agents, representatives from other airlines, so as they can become familiar with the deluxe equipment on the Boeing Strato Cruiser. Well, it certainly is deluxe equipment, all right. How many of these planes do you plan to have in service? We ultimately will have 10 of these planes in service at a cost of approximately $18 million. All planes should be in service by the end of the year. The last planes will go into Hawaii and the Orient service. And what points will they be flying between? They'll fly from Seattle-Tacoma to Hawaii and from Seattle-Tacoma via Anchorage to Tokyo, Shanghai if it opens up again, and Manila. Well, it certainly is something. This hour-and-a-half flight we had gave us a good indication of the wonderful things that are in store for travelers on these Strato Cruisers. And thank you very much, Mr. Kinports, for inviting us up today.