You You You You You You You You You You You You From George Gershwin's American folk opera, Poggy and Best, Bob Kennedy sings of what amounts to Poggy's philosophy of life. I got plenty of nothing. Oh, I got plenty of nothing, nothing's plenty for me. I got no car, I got no mules, I got no misery. The folks with plenty of plenty, they got a lock on the door. Trade somebody's a guan-a-rub while they thought I'm making more. What for? Now I've got no lock on the door, that's the way to be. They can steal a rock from the floor, that's okay with me. I got no money, I got no money. The things that apply, like the stars in the sky, all are free. Oh, I got plenty of nothing, and nothing's plenty for me. I got the sun, I got the moon, I got that deep blue sea. The folks with plenty of plenty, they got a lot of money. I got plenty of nothing, and nothing's plenty for me. I got the sun, I got the moon, I got that deep blue sea. The folks with plenty of plenty, they got a prey all day. Seems with plenty of sugar, don't worry how to keep that devil away. Away! Away! Now I ain't a fretta' bout hell, till the time arrives. Never worry longer than well. Never want the drive to be good, shouldn't be bad. Now I ain't a fretta' bout hell, till the time arrives. Never worry longer than well. Never want the drive to be good to be bad. Never was a drive to be good, to be bad What the heck are you glad I was alive? Oh, I got plenty of nothing Nothing's plenty for me I got my gal, got my load Got heaven the whole day long Why are you complaining? Got my gal Got my load Got my soul Betty Dennis swings into that popular specialty Cuban Pete Successor to Mysterious Moe's, the peanut vendor And probably of the same lineage as Piccolo Pete Here's Cuban Pete You've been to the dancing show You've seen how the rumba goes Such rhythm Fascinating rhythm How then it brings news to you They've just introduced a new sensation A dancing creation They call him Cuban Pete He's the king of the rumba Now when he plays a maraca Chik-chik-boom, chik-chik-boom Hooray for Cuban Pete He's the craze of the native breed Now when he plays a maraca Chik-chik-boom, chik-chik-boom Then your reaches they sing And how they swing to this from their own It's very nice So full of spice And to the meters they bring A happy ring, never a carol Singing a song All the day long Hooray for Cuban Pete He's the king of the rumba And when he plays a maraca He goes Chik-chik-boom, chik-chik-boom Hooray for Cuban Pete We're a king of the rumba And when he plays a maraca He goes Chik-chik-boom, chik-chik-boom It's very nice So full of spice And to the meters they bring A happy ring, never a carol Singing a song Never a care old singing a song. Opening on, hooray for Cuban beans. He's a king of the room for me. Now when he plays the maraca, he goes chick chicky boom, chick chicky boom. And here is a light waltz that is fast becoming a popular favorite. While the orchestra plays, Bob Kennedy sings the vocal of Redwood. My Redwoods, the woods of my dream. Oh, Redwoods, your hills and your streams. Call me back once again to my childhood days, to a home by the well where my sweet heart prays. I'm longing to go back again To hear that beloved refrain There is no other place in this world for me it seems My redwoods, the woods of my dream I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again Thanks for Peele I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again I'm longing to go back again The End The End The End Thanks, Seymour, for your dash of novelty. And here are those five original whacks to close our show with our old girlfriend, Dinah. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The Fastest 30 Minutes on the Air. And so, ladies and gentlemen, ends another edition of the N-Y-A Varieties, featuring N-Y-A boys and girls, on the direction of Art Landry, assisted by Michael Whitehill. Write in and let us know what requests you have and if you have liked this show. And so it's goodbye until next week at this same time, when our troupe will again present the N-Y-A Varieties. The N-Y-A Varieties is a presentation of the National Youth Administration for New York City. This is the municipal broadcasting system.
