Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Mr. Martin Uvelmans, Director of the Amateur Radio Branch of Civil Defense Communications. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight our civil defense report is concerned with the activities of part of one of the most important divisions of the civil defense organization, the Amateur Radio Branch of the Communications Division. As usual, we have set up the material in the form of a candid question-and-answer session. This, I believe, is the best way to indicate to the people of the City of New York how we are mobilizing on a standby basis in order to be fully prepared for any conceivable emergency. The necessity of maintaining an adequate civil defense organization cannot be underestimated. Although the world news has seemed hopeful recently, we must not relax our vigilance or become complacent. America's strength lies in our ability to remain constantly on the alert. Now I would like to introduce my guest, Mr. Martin Uvelmans, Director of the Amateur Radio Branch of the Civil Defense Communications. Mr. Uvelmans, would you tell our audience why there is a need for amateur radio workers in civil defense? Well, Commissioner, as you know, the basic potential for service by amateur radio to any community is to supply communications in such situation where normal communications have been destroyed or where, due to force of circumstance, the system is overloaded beyond capacity. In such a case, amateur radio can fulfill this emergency function well, and the record shows that it has done so in the past. Amateur radio does not propose to replace any of the existing means of communication, but rather to supplement them in the event of a crisis. Would you tell us how large a civil defense amateur radio organization you have at present? At this time, we are just getting underway on the basis of establishing a nucleus organization in the five boroughs. From this nucleus, we expect a very rapid expansion. As an example, we have already sworn in approximately 30 radio amateurs in Queens County. An amateur frequency station has been set up in a civil defense borough control headquarters, which will coordinate the efforts of the amateurs in the field who have transmitting and receiving equipment in their cars. At the present time, a similar setup is in course of organization for Brooklyn and the Bronx, and soon organizations will be provided for the other boroughs. To fulfill the complete civil defense needs of New York City, this basic organization will have to expand to allow for approximately 1,000 portable mobile units. How many people will man each of these mobile units? These units can be manned by the driver operator alone. For best efficiency, however, particularly when a heavy message load is being handled, Each car should have another radio amateur on board. Ideally, then, we hope that the amateur radio branch of the Civil Defense Organization will eventually enroll approximately 2,000 licensed amateurs. Some of the members of our audience may be acquainted with the work that radio amateurs have done during past disasters. But I would appreciate if, for the benefit of the rest of our listeners, you would tell us something about these past activities, Mr. Ormond. Commissioner, if I were to begin to recite the services that amateur radio has rendered in various communities, we would be here for the rest of the day, and still the story would not be completely told. During such major catastrophes as the Texas City explosion, the recent explosion at Perth Amboy, the Long Island Railroad wreck, last year's hurricane in New York City, and during almost any disaster that you can think of in modern times, amateur radio provided a vital service, and in many cases made a vital contribution to the saving of life and property. I would like to tell you of one such case. During the last hurricane which struck New York, one of our radio operators seasoned his service to the community with a touch of heroism. I speak of radio amateur W4KKM, Mr. Robert Green, who drove through the worst part of the storm from Wanto Long Island along the Jones Beach Gauzeway to the Coast Guard life-saving station at Short Beach, Long Island. Because of the storm, the station was at that time without communications. This radio amateur provided emergency communication for the life-saving station until normal service was restored. Well, that was certainly a good job, Mr. Ullman. It's obvious from what you said that radio amateurs will be of great value in the civil defense program. If we are to judge from that past work, could you tell us more? Commissioner, if an emergency situation should arise where radio amateur is needed in civil defense operations, his help will not be just desirable. It will be an absolute necessity. Well, I'm inclined to agree with you. Will you tell those radio amateurs who may be listening why a different mobilization plan is necessary for civil defense as compared to other disaster programs? That matter, Commissioner, is of great importance to the rank and file of amateur radio and, in fact, has been the basic consideration in our entire plan of procedure in enrolling amateur radio in the civil defense program. Let us take, for instance, the case of a serious accident such as the recent Long Island Railroad wreck at Kew Gardens. An amateur nearby, perhaps, sensing the opportunity or the need for emergency communications, steps in, offers his services to the authorities on the scene. In such a situation, the use of the amateur services is largely dependent upon his own ingenuity and initiative, qualities with which I might say most of these gentlemen are richly endowed. In the case of a more sustained emergency communication need, such as the last hurricane, the communication aid given to the community generally is on a well-organized level by virtue of the fact that the more complete organizational facilities of the American, rather, of the Amateur Radio Emergency Corps come into play. As you know, this organization is under the sponsorship of the American Radio Relay League, the parent organization of all amateur radio in the United States. In civil defense, however, we are confronted with an entirely different situation. Should there be need for amateur radio communications in civil defense, then certainly we must anticipate a situation where communications will be more or less under the control of the military. Would you tell us something more about how amateur radio civil defense operations would differ from those in other disasters? I mean, besides what you've already given to us. As I previously pointed out, Commissioner, where there is an ordinary emergency communication need, the amateur simply proceeds with his communication activities under the privileges granted to him by his Federal Communication Commission license. However, in a situation where we would be under military control, only those amateurs, properly cleared by security and sworn into an organization controlled by competent civic authorities, would be permitted to transmit radio messages under the control and direction of authorized civil defense administrators. It's certainly obvious that full security measures are necessary when it comes to the matter of civil defense communications system as well as the military. Don't you think so? Certainly, Commissioner, that is very true. Security is the controlling need. Then, of course, there is also the matter of organizational structure under which a radio amateur can serve his city in civil defense. It is not enough to have merely an organization of potential service to the city, particularly when the use of that organization is tied in with government regulations such as the various rules of the federal government under which radio communications are permitted. It is necessary also that the actual enrollment of the individual amateur be made into the ranks of the New York City Civil Defense Corps. It will perhaps be of great interest to many radio amateurs, Commissioner Wallander, to know that your director of civil defense communications, Mr. Seymour N. Siegel, has made a very careful study of the problems of fitting the radio amateur into the civil defense organizational structure. We might mention also that we have sought the views of the radio amateurs themselves on matters of their participation in civil defense by consulting with the members of an advisory board. This you know to be true, don't you, Mr. Yewellman? Yes, Mr. Wallander, I do. And it can be said here that the radio amateurs owe a vote of thanks to the members of that board for the constructive work that they have done in laying out this program which makes possible the participation of amateur radio operators in civil defense. This advisory board to the director of civil defense communications consists of Mr. William Kohler who holds amateur license W2AAG, Mr. Leonard Victor, W2DHN, and also Mr. John Kutches, W2ESZ. Now, Mr. Yewellman, let's get down to the matter of actual operations and the equipment required for amateur radio civil defense activities. Tell us about that. Well, sir, from the angle of the amateur, the principal need is for mobile units. A mobile unit, by the way, is an automobile with a radio transmitter and receiver. The cost of such an installation is approximately $250. At the present time, we understand that there are about 250 such units in existence in New York City. There is every indication, however, that once the existence of the Civil Defense Amateur Radio Division becomes known, many amateurs will install equipment in their cars. The advisory board has enlisted the aid of several radio engineers who are making a very serious study of the design of simplified equipment which will materially reduce the cost of these installations. As you know, this cost is now being borne by the radio amateurs themselves as a public service. By the study of equipment and other allied research, we feel certain that we shall obtain information which will enable us to reach the goal of 1,000 mobile units that I mentioned earlier. These mobile units will be used for vital communication with the major city control stations. At these control points, the city will have installed suitable fixed radio stations to enable communication with the mobiles. Pending the installation of this fixed equipment, the radio amateurs are further stepping into the breach by installing five such fixed stations at their own expense until such time as the city equipment becomes available. At the time of an attack, then, amateur radio operators will be used to relay information about the various incidents that have taken place at the scene of a disaster. Is that so, Mr. Ewellman? That is correct, sir. It must be kept in mind at all times, of course, that the amateur will step in where regular means of communications have been disrupted. I think it can be reasonably presumed that there would be great need for amateur radio after a disaster in order to facilitate the movement of emergency equipment and the other various other rescue services. It is certain that the need for radio amateurs and civil defense is great. You have made it plain that in the past these patients have shown their willingness to cooperate in community efforts to alleviate suffering. And I think that's a very noble attribute. We don't have too much time right now, Mr. Ewellman, so I'll have to cut this short and with my full thanks to you and the group whom you are working with, your associates, for the fine work and the fine contribution to civil defense that they are making. Thank you very much, Mr. Ewellman. Thank you, Commissioner. You have been listening to the important series of Reports on Civil Defense in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization. Presenting his report this evening was the director of the amateur radio branch of Civil Defense Communications, Mr. Martin Ewellman. Next Tuesday evening at this time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. to Matt