This is London calling North America, London Letter. This week, MacDonald Hastings discusses, among other things, what he considers to be one of the more interesting facets of British administrative experience. This is MacDonald Hastings from London. And one day this week, Mr. George Bernard Shaw wrote a letter to the editor of the London Times. And writing letters to the Times is one of the great man's literary hobbies. And at the age of 90, Mr. Shaw's golden pen, or I should say his typewriter, because he still does quite a lot of his own typing, execrable it is, too. At 90 years of age, Mr. Shaw's brain is as agile, and his comment on the follies of humanity is as devastating as ever. In this particular letter, quite a long one, Shaw is again hammering the case which he stated years ago in the play The Doctor's Dilemma. He's warning us and the government of the danger, he says, of permitting the medical profession too much political power. He thinks that all patients should be protected from what he calls the abuses of their doctors by a controlling body consisting entirely of non-medical people. At present, he writes, the British General Medical Council consists of practicing doctors exactly as if the prison commissioners were practicing burglars and murderers. It's a typical piece of shavian, half-humorous, half-bitter invective. But what interested me particularly in this letter wasn't the main theme, but a paragraph which Mr. Shaw put in at the beginning by way of an introduction. Here it is. Sixty years ago, Shaw writes, when my friends Lord Passfield and the late Lord Olivia were resident clerks of the Colonial Office, they gave me a copy of a report on the Virgin Islands. In the hope that it might find at least one reader. They might have made me a present of the islands for all the British public would have known or cared. Mr. Shaw goes on to make the point that what he remembered about the report is that only one of the islands had a doctor on it. That was the island with the highest mortality. Never mind that. Consider the paragraph that precedes it. It's worth considering, because in a few words, almost without thinking about it, Mr. Shaw touches the nerve of imperial and colonial affairs in Britain. Sixty years ago, says Shaw. But he might have been writing of a report published the other day. The average Britisher is as unaware of the Virgin Islands now as he was then. And on the face of it, that sounds like criticism of the way England does things. If we care as little as that about our overseas interests, you might say, the mystery is how we acquired them in the first place, and the wonder that we haven't been thrown out long enough. If I can help in interpreting the answer, I think you may appreciate something about the English which may not have occurred to you before. Perhaps an explanation may make the current situation in Palestine, in India, the British colonies generally a little clearer. The first thing to say is that we English, for all our undoubted racial gifts, we are a very lazy people, as Shaw indicates. We'll avoid work and trouble if we possibly can. But against that characteristic, we have a very strongly developed sense of justice, law and order. If something is manifestly unjust, or illegality and disorder are substituted for law and order, our energy is quite unrelenting and remarkable until it's put right. I needn't give you any instances. You can think of dozens, even in recent years, for yourself. The story of the expansion of British possessions, mandates, dominions all over the world, if you examine it without prejudice, has been almost entirely accidental. We came to India in the first place in search of trade. Our traders were massacred in shameful circumstances by the inhabitants, so in a lazy sort of way, the East India Company gave the traders a private army to protect their skins. The private army found that it couldn't keep law and order by local action, so it extended its activities. Before we knew what had happened, we were governing India. It's almost exactly the same story as the story of the acquisition of the Great Plains of America. Webb, in his monumental history, one of the most wonderful books I've ever read, by the way, as an American, I hope you've read every word of it, Webb shows how the conquest of the Great Plains by the Anglo-Americans centered on Texas was almost accidental and so casual that at the time, the settlers hardly realized they were doing it. British expansion in the 18th century followed the same path. The search for trade came first. The need to protect our trade brought the canon. The passion for law and order led to the acquisition of more and more territory. To begin with, the trade made England rich. Before long, what had started as a conquest became a responsibility. It wasn't a one-way arrangement anymore. The price of conquest was that Britain had to provide a police force and a civil service as well. Where we came as conquerors, we finished as the public servants of the countries we've occupied. And throughout the entire history of British expansion, it's probably true to say that the average Englishman at home has only been half interested in what's going on. But throughout the centuries, it's become a tradition in England that it's part of our job as a country to keep the peace and preserve law and order in all sorts of strange places all over the world. When a volunteer joins the British army, he signs up for a given period of home and foreign service. A certain period of years overseas, anywhere overseas, it is a part of his contract. When a young man is starting on a career here, almost inevitably, he considers, sometime or another, whether he will join one of the overseas services. The Palestine police, the colonial office, the trainers and administrator in some forsaken corner of the tropics, the Indian civil service, or one of the overseas trading concerns. The pay, it's nearly always bad. Often enough, the job means the best years of a lifetime spent in an appalling climate. No other white man for hundreds of square miles, no thanks for doing it. But it's a tradition to serve the crown. And although the seaside hotels of England are peopled with men, prematurely aged in the service of king and country and heaven knows where, living on a sparse pension with nothing to commemorate their years of unselfish labour, except perhaps a signed photograph from the king, although on the face of it there's nothing to commend it and no credit to be gained by, the young men of Britain still go out in their thousands and preserve the law in half the troubled corners and soul-shattering climates of the earth. It was some of those men who were blown to blazes when the terrorists blew up the King David Hotel a few weeks ago in Palestine. It's men of that breed who've been getting bullets in their backs in Egypt. It's those men who've got the responsibility of keeping order and administering the civil service in India, while the Indians themselves are threatening civil war because they can't agree between themselves to accept the British offer of complete independence. It might have been all right in the old days when you could say that England had bring Britain was gaining some advantage by her presence in other people's territories, but now there's no advantage. The British have no interest in Palestine except the wish of all just men to see this problem of Arab and Jew settled once and for all. Politically, we want nothing in India except to get out as quickly as possible. Commercially, we seek no more than the trade that brought our merchant adventurers to India in the first place. Although at the moment it looks as if Dr. Ginna, the Muslim leader, wants to precipitate a civil war rather than affect the settlement. And if that happens, our men will have to die straightening the mess out. Yes, we are getting a little bored with it. You don't hear people saying in Britain we want our boys home because the habit of world responsibility goes too deep into our past. But you do hear people saying that it's high time that the responsibility was shared. After all, we don't even get thanked for what we're doing. On the contrary, we get the bird for not doing the job far better from every rival faction on Earth. Mr. Shaw is right about the Virgin Islands and all the other places but for the wrong reasons. Britain won her possessions largely by accident and there's nothing we should like to do more now, most of us, than to get rid of some of them. Even though we're trying our best at the moment. But it isn't good enough if we just walk out. The responsibility remains. And if nobody succeeds us or shares with us, well, for my part, I don't care to guess the consequences. From a military standpoint, it's fashionable to take the view at the moment that Britain is no longer a great power by comparison with the might of the United States, Soviet Russia. But from the standpoint of world government, Britain is still chewing the lion's share. Perhaps it's a good thing for the moment. Perhaps Britain's administrative experience is the most valuable contribution she can make for the common good in these chaotic times. But it's obvious that if collective security is to be the ultimate aim of the world, individual responsibility isn't enough. It's as obsolete as the Victorian concept of the British Empire. The new idea in world affairs is exemplified, in my opinion, not so much by the peace conference in Paris at the moment, which isn't a real peace conference because it leaves Germany out. The new idea is exemplified at its best in the Nuremberg trials, which were at last drawing to a close. You may think the Nuremberg trials have lasted too long, but the verdict is a foregone conclusion. But those are incidental considerations. What matters is that the Nuremberg trials have re-established as nothing else could the majesty and dignity of the law. These ruffians in the box who laughed at the law and the retribution of justice have been indicted and broken by the very thing they used with most contempt. They've been made to wilt and grow pale under the relentless cross-examination of a mere lawyer. And at the end of it all, they're going to taste something which will cut deeper than the whips they used in the concentration camps. They're going to have to sit and listen for the quiet, ice-cold summing up of an English judge. Now, this is MacDonald Hastings signing off from London. we have spared no effort to make the initial package air tour to Havana on September the 28th and the ones to follow memorable experiences. Ten and a half hours will take the air traveler from New York to Havana via Miami for refueling and on a nine days all-expense tour of real holiday country at an all-inclusive fare of $185 plus $16.50 government tax. On arrival at Havana, transportation is provided to the National Hotel for a full week's stay on the European plan. Room and private bath, of course, are reserved for each visitor in this hotel. Relaxation, rest, gaiety, and informative trips are part of the tour. At the end of the ninth day, the traveler will find himself back in New York City with a newer and fresher viewpoint. What promises to develop into a pirate air cruise of the Spanish main will be the all-expense tour to Puerto Rico. At the moment, our schedule takes us only to San Juan and the surrounding countryside and beaches of Puerto Rico. But plans are underway for flights into the Old French, the Dutch, and English quarters of the more remote islands. A nine-day trip at well under $200 on one of our twin-engine deluxe DC-3s leaves New York at nine o'clock in the evening and with a stop in Miami for refueling, arrives in San Juan at lunchtime the next day. motor rides around the coast of the island, swimming, beach parties, and other planned activities will give the United States tourists via Axaco a better understanding of Puerto Rico as well as a delightful vacation. Our plane leaves San Juan at 4.30 p.m. on the eighth day with arrival in New York the next morning at 9 a.m. By providing a new, a better, a more complete service for more people at a reasonable price we expect to grow and prosper ourselves. There is, however, another objective to the establishment of these so-called package tours. We are deeply sensible of our responsibility to the peoples whom we serve. We understand the importance, the vital significance of cordial inter-American relations, particularly in the Caribbean area, and we recognize the necessity of bringing these neighbors to our country and making it possible for increasing numbers of our own citizens to visit the Caribbean area. We are anxious to learn something about its customs and its peoples. We find that we are, after all, in spite of national and racial differences, one people. We are bound in the ties of hemispheric solidarity by mutual respect, mutual appreciation, and mutual necessity. I say necessity because we must trade with each other, support each other in the face of international controversies, and, if need be, form a strong bulwark of defense for those liberties which are traditional to the peoples of North and South America. Today, they seem to hang in jeopardy in a troubled world. That, in itself, is our second most important reason for establishing this new service. For we believe in the system of western hemispheric well-being and we believe that we have a logical place in the inter-American scheme of things. I dedicate this new service and, in fact, every service of our company to the welfare of the peoples of the American continents and I hope and expect that one day American Air Export and Import Company planes will be serving all 21 of the American republics. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Court. For introducing our next speaker, I'd like to add that I could hardly imagine any broadcast or meeting being held to promote intra-American relations that didn't have on its program the man who has made such great contributions to the understanding between our countries. Therefore, my pleasure to introduce an old friend of mine, Mr. Frederick Hasler, Chairman of the Board of the Continental Bank and Trust Company and Honorary President of the Pan American Society. Mr. Hasler. Mr. Chairman, members of the Aviation Section of the New York Board of Trade, the inauguration of a new air service to the Caribbean area is an event of great potentialities. Air transport is a factor of major importance in building up goodwill and an expanding trade between Caribbean countries and the United States. And this applies with equal force to all countries south of the border. The Caribbean Republics, together with Canada, are our nearest neighbors. And it is always good policy for a nation to surround itself with friendly neighbors. And at this time, we need them badly and thank God we have them. with nations as with families, there is a feeling of satisfaction in knowing that your next-door neighbor is a good friend who can be relied upon in case of trouble. This reliance works both ways, of course. Therefore, we should make the most of every opportunity to strengthen our cultural and commercial ties with our assisted nations in the Caribbean. Air transport offers one of the great opportunities to do this. Every person from the United States who visits the Caribbean countries, whether for recreation or business, is a potential ambassador of goodwill and confidence in our country and its people, in our way of doing business, and the goods we have to sell. The fact that John Jones or Mary Smith can now visit the Caribbean area by plane within a very brief vacation period means that many more of us will go to those countries and acquire at first hand a knowledge of their customs and an appreciation of the fine qualities of their peoples. The United States is faced with the necessity of expanding its foreign trade to maintain a high level of employment. The fact that merchandise from many of our industrial centers now can be cargo-plained to Caribbean points literally overnight and return and on return bring back goods we need is going to build, is going to building up a two-way trade relations which in the long run is the soundest foundation for strong international friendship and prosperity. The great advances in passionate plane travel have been well publicized but comparatively few people realize the strides which cargo air transportation has made during the last few years and the extent to which its facilities are available for fast shipment of merchandise. On my trips to Central and South America during the last two years I was amazed to learn that airlines in several countries had regular timetables scheduled for cargo planes the same as we have for passenger service. There was no waiting until the plane had a capacity cargo before it took off. Weather permitting the flight started on scheduled time regardless of the size of the cargo. In a number of countries particularly where highway facilities are poor and rail service slow. This air cargo transport makes available to individuals and business firms the equivalent of a shopping service they would have if they were located in the cities from which they order goods. To take full advantage of the saving in time made possible by air cargo transport governments should recognize the necessity of eliminating as much as possible the now necessary paperwork and of lifting other restrictions which delay the delivery to consignee of shipments from foreign countries. Consular invoices are one of the worst bottlenecks in slowing down the actual delivery of merchandise to consignees. They are a relic of the time when the world moved slowly and it took weeks to transport goods across the Atlantic. It seems to me that consular invoices should be dispensed with by shipping merchandise with just an invoice or bill of sale showing the actual sales price of the goods ship. By agreements with foreign countries the bill of sale could be recognized as acceptable for custom house valuation purposes. I hope for the benefit of those engaged in foreign trade that the International Conference on Trade and Employment which is scheduled to be held next year and the preliminary conference which will prepare the agenda for it will give consideration to this suggestion. Mr. Carroll I wish to you and your associates the best of luck and I hope that the splendid record which you have made will continue forever and ever. We are glad to have a new company with us. thank you Mr. Hasler to develop air transportation one must have a demand for our goods that is the farm buyers should have more knowledge of what we have to offer. The next gentleman I am going to introduce has had a very important part in the introducing of American products throughout the world. It's my pleasure to introduce Mr. Gene Sitley who is chairman of the export committee of the aviation section and also publisher of world business GIA the export business publication. Surely this occasion warrants a friendly and cooperative nod from the men and women who have put in years of effort in bringing the importance of inter-American well-being to the public notice. I say this because it is a new and different way of building an increased solidarity between the peoples of the Caribbean area and the people of the United States. New because it brings within the reach of many the advantage of inter-American travel. Different because it stresses the cultural values to be obtained through travel by the people of Puerto Rico of Cuba of the entire Caribbean area and the citizens of the United States. The war has shown us that we cannot regard the Atlantic and the Pacific as impregnable moats. Our defenses no longer are aided by time and distant factors. Our defense lies in our own people and in those strategic areas which will provide bases for fleets, air, and seaboard. Of such bases, Puerto Rico is among the most important. Her dominant position in the Atlantic means that every airbase, every aircraft, every group of trained ground personnel added to the area will mean one added asset to our nation in the defense of the Western Hemisphere and this country. Axaco, in developing this Puerto Rican service, is doing part of that job. Its personnel, its ground establishment, and aircraft, its knowledge, are all part of an expanding commercial air transport network that is vital to our hemispheric solidarity. In inaugurating this new air service to the South, Axaco is contributing one more link that will help bind the people of the Americas closer together in mutual understanding. On behalf of the Export Committee of the Aviation Section of the New York Border Trade, I would like to add my word of welcome to this new carrier into the field. Thank you, Mr. Sitley. Just in case there is no controversy as to which came first or which is most important, that of travel or that of air cargo, we made certain to have on our program one who does represent solely that having to do with air travel. Therefore, my pleasure to introduce Mr. Robert C. Morgan, publisher of the Travel Agent. Mr. Morgan. Well, many thanks to you, Mr. Chairman. You only represent freight where the real profit is, of course, in passenger business. midnight. everyone danses閉