Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how can we get greater competence in public office? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the question of morality and efficiency in public office, and ways and means of raising our standards of public service. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Joseph A. Conner, Regional Director of the Seventh Region with the United States Civil Service Commission, Roland B. Posey, Chairman of the Department of Political Science at Northwestern University, and Arnold S. Zander, President of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees. Now what is the situation in public office? Is morality in public office at a low ebb? Is it deteriorating? What interpretation do you place on the scandals and alleged scandals in public office, Zander? Well, I certainly do not think that morality in public office is at a low ebb. We all regret the scandals which have been uncovered, but that is no admission that our situation is deteriorating. I would say rather that the outbreak we've had is a repetition of some we've had in the past. It's not a new thing. It's an uncovery and rather indicates an expectation on the part of people generally that they want a high level of performance in public service, a higher level perhaps in public service than in other activities in our community. Do you accept that analysis, Posey? In part, I would agree. I'd say that morality is not at a low ebb. But I would add to that, however, the statement that the public right now is excited about this problem, and so public attention to it is at a climax, which is a good thing. I was going to ask, do you think that the American people expect, Connor, a higher level of honesty and competence in public officers than they expect in private business? Most decidedly. Let's illustrate. If a man in business or industry makes a profit in a deal on the side, it's nobody's business. But in government, no matter what you do or everything that you do is everybody's business. Certainly there is a tendency on the part of the public to expect more of a public servant than from a person in business or industry. And I should add to that that the public has a right to expect a higher level of integrity and efficiency, too. The purchasing agent in private industry expects Christmas gifts from the people from whom he buys, whereas the public purchasing agent better not accept gifts. That's one indication, I think, of a different standard which the people expect to have followed. Now, do you men really believe what I understood, Xander, to say, that the level of governmental performance compares favorably with past performance? Do you go along with that, Posey? I do, indeed. I would say over the decades, even over the centuries, if one took a very long view, that one would find that the level of performance in public office has been getting better and better. The fact that the public is excited about this problem right now, as they should be, is an indication that the public is insisting that, like Job's wife, public servants be above suspicion. We used to have night watchman government. All the competence we needed was the ability to walk the streets and say, all's well from hour to hour. At the present time, we have multiplied the services of government. We have recognized that to live together in great cities, we must have common services performed by public representatives and public servants. And by the very nature of things, we have and must have, must continue to have, a higher and higher competence. It's more and more important to us, also. Government is costing more and more in our pleasant, complex day and civilization. And as government costs a larger proportion of our national income, it is more important that governmental services be performed well. The fact remains, gentlemen, that thousands of the people who are listening to this broadcast have been reading the newspapers and listening to the radio, and they're aware of what they believe to be a pretty serious scandal in public office. Now, are you trying to whitewash that situation? You've been offering extenuation here, but what is the situation? Well, I certainly would not whitewash it. I would say that not only thousands and thousands on the outside, but thousands and thousands in the public service, and probably in the Bureau of Internal Revenue itself, are as anxious as any of us are to have this whole mess cleaned up. I think that a lot of our trouble in internal revenue, and in a good many other scandals in government over the years, result from a lack of openness in the operation of government. I think that we in this democracy of ours should recognize that we live as in a fishbowl. Certainly our public servants should recognize that. And I would go so far as to have our internal revenue operation carried on openly in the public view. Yeah, but let's not overlook the fact, Xander, that if a public employee does anything or strays from the beaten path a little bit, it becomes headline news, whereas the many thousands of competent and good government employees, if they do something worthwhile, little or nothing is ever heard about what they have accomplished to increase efficiency in government. I think that point is very important, and I'm glad you made it, Connor. There are more than two million civilian employees of our national government, and so far there has been graft or alleged graft on the part of not more than 100 of them. Let's say that that figure went up to 500. 500 out of two million is still a small number, and it is unfortunate that some of our honest public servants are tarred by the same brush. And I think we must make the point that for every public servant who gets involved in these things, there is some interest on the outside which is tempting him, or many interests on the outside tempting him. For every graft taker, there is a graft giver, and that cannot be said too often. It's no defense and no whitewash of the public servant, but it is a reflection on the moral code of the rest of us. I would like to emphasize the point that Xander has just made. For example, if a banker goes wrong, we don't condemn the entire banking world because of it, but if an official of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, for example, goes wrong, the general public is inclined to think that everyone who works in that particular bureau is a grafter and can be corrupted very easily. Well, now implicit in what you men have been saying here is a conception, I take it, of the kind of men and women that you would like to see in public service. I wonder if you could make that explicit, Posey. Yes, it seems to me that in our governmental service, we have the right to expect the cream of the crop. We have a right to expect a level of competence equal to or above that of any other phase of our life. You think it's reasonable to expect that? I think it not only is reasonable, I think it is necessary. I think we have, in that case, to put ourselves in a position to attract the best. It isn't reasonable to expect to get the best unless you set up conditions of employment which will induce them to come into our service, and I don't think we've done that now. What would you do in addition to increasing pay and adding some additional benefits at the present time to improve government service? Senator Conner, I'm glad you've minimized the factor of pay because it is important, and I think it can be proven that particularly in the higher rungs of public service, we pay too little. I think that difficulty increases as we go up in the hierarchy, but it is only one of the elements of compensation which will attract people. Certainly, we've got to protect them from the kind of blanket criticism, the charges which have been made of late. Let me put it this way. I think that if our political life throws up the kind of intellectual barbarian who came up recently and imported into our country methods which have brought into use here the term McCarthyism, that a lot of us have got to rise up in protection of the public servants he attacks by broadside charges. Of course, just a minute ago, you were objecting to the veil of secrecy that surrounds some of our public offices and public servants. Perhaps that's one way of lifting this veil. I think so. I think if we had not required in Wisconsin the reporting of income taxes in a way which makes them reviewable by the public press and by citizens, we wouldn't have discovered some of the things that this junior senator has engaged in. I object to that, I might say, and I hope that Illinois never has the situation Wisconsin does. I think it's a person's own business what his income is and that one's income tax return should not be made public property. Well, I think, Arnold, that you don't entirely mean that everything in government should be thrown open to full review and audit. Wouldn't you accept the fact that there are certain functions of government that for national security reasons we would have to keep closed or secret? Yes, I certainly would, of course. Anyone would have to recognize that there are areas which we cannot throw completely open. But I repeat that all the openness we can give within security restrictions, we should give. And on this matter, for instance, in internal revenue, where an administrative person can decide on the amount of rebate to be made to a person or a corporation, it seems to me that that should have public inspection. If an administrative official makes that decision and he is a person of the highest integrity, then the results are satisfactory and there is no criticism. I'm afraid that your suggestion is one which is directed at the present scandals in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, but a suggestion which, in my opinion, might produce evils not equally bad, but certainly evils also. No, I think just the reverse. I think that until we have openness in the matter of internal revenue, we invite scandals so that instead of having my attitude result from a feeling about the present scandal, it is an attempt to defend against this kind of occurrence. If administrative discretion is too broad, why then let Congress pass a more specific law to narrow that area? Do you think that by having more open-mindedness in our governmental affairs that we would prevent scandals such as we've discussed here from arising? I think it would be a very definite factor in preventing them, yes. I think that they could be discovered earlier if they occur at all and therefore would be an element in defense against them. Do you think it would necessarily diminish influence, for example, the anonymous phone call, the unrecorded conversation? Well, I think it's been a very wise thing to find out that influence was sold in the case of our national housing effort when a certain senator took $10,000 from a housing interest and wouldn't probably have been discovered if it hadn't been for his income tax report. My only point is that when you require publicity on certain actions, you then force other actions, perhaps, to be even more secret than before. Are we advocating secret alliances secretly arrived at? No. Or are we in favor of operating democracy so the people who must pass the laws know what is going on? That's all right with me for the people who pass the laws to know what's going on. I agree with Posey that if we got a higher type and a more competent individual, the chances are that we would not have to operate in this open-mindedness as you have pointed out. Well, if I'm laboring this point too much, I would say that we'll get more competence and maintain it at a level if we operate openly. Now, how dense is this veil of secrecy that concerns you, Zander? Well, it will go all the way from internal revenue, income tax reports, to the fact that in Congress we're getting more and more voice votes. We can't pin the record on our congressmen as we used to do. I think we should have them out there recording their votes where we can hold them accountable. I think part of this possibly is a veil of secrecy, but I think also that Zander is unknowingly alarmed at the complexity of our governmental operation, the size of the mechanism, the variety of functions that government performs. The bigger and more complex a thing is, the harder it is for its operations to get out in the open. And so, the greater the effort must be to acquaint our people with the operation and so that they may judge the ability of their public servants to serve. I grant that, but I still don't want my income, however small, to become a matter of public knowledge. Well then, what you're in fact saying is that the general public must take a more active part in governmental affairs today than they have heretofore. There has been too much of a feeling upon the part of most of the general public to, well, let someone else take the responsibility for operating our government. What I'm saying in part is this, that if a, if a man enters public life poor, serves as mayor or commissioner of a city for 10 years at a meager salary and leaves public office with a quarter of a million or a million or two million dollars in personal assets, we are inclined to build a monument for that man. In foreign countries, certainly, I can speak personally about Sweden, a man who grafts in public office is ostracized for life. That's their phrase. We don't ostracize them here. Nobody in this country admires a person who gets rich on the public payroll unlawfully. Nobody admires that. I should like to suggest that possibly we may be overemphasizing this point. I should like to point out, for example, that one of the needs in public service is for a system of supervision that more adequately recognizes the competent person who is doing a fine job. I agree with you on that very much and it seems to me that the time has long since passed when governments should enable their public officials, the public employee, to have the same opportunities as business and industries provide for their employees. Let me illustrate. A man works in a business or an industry, if he is to be worth anything to that business or industry, quite frequently they will provide the funds, pay his way to take courses in a college and university. Now what happens on the government level? If the individual wants to get ahead in the world and to become a better administrator, he has to pay that out of his own pocket. Certainly, I think the government, if they want to increase the administration of government in this country, should enable top-flight administrators to go to colleges and universities at public expense in order to get that education. And here we get back to this matter of pay too, Connor. When a man in governmental service makes an outstanding job as an administrator, then business lures him with offers of more money. He may be making eight, ten thousand dollars a year, and a private business will offer him three times that sum to go to work for it. And now we're talking about the kind of people we want to recruit from the point of view of competence. I think we're getting around to methods of selection and security and employment. I'd like to point out that fewer than half of the states of the Union, or approximately half of them only, have what we call civil service administration and select people on the basis of merit and fitness. In a large number of our states and local communities of government, we select people purely on the basis of political patronage. I think that is an extremely important point. In our federal service, there are about 16,000 persons who are appointed by the president with the consent of the Senate. These are the persons not in the classified civil service. And I'll wager that if an examination is made of those public servants who have been proven to have betrayed their trust, if such an examination, I repeat, is made, it will show that it is these non-civil service people, these political appointees, who have done these heinous things. Perhaps we can use that investigation which you suggest ought to be made in order to influence more of our legislators in favor of the extension of merit systems of selection in government. But even if you set up these merit systems or extend them, do the jobs for which you're trying to recruit offer sufficient incentive to the kind of competence you're trying to get, Sander? I don't think they do now, but I think we can very easily fix it so that they will. How would you fix it? I would say, one, that this very fact of careful selection will be an inducement. It's always an enticement for people to stand high in an examination and win their spurs properly. Then we would, I think, have to pay people in the higher echelons more reasonably than we do. And then we ought to give them the rights and freedoms which people have in private service, which in some cases are denied in public service. For instance, public employees are not covered under federal wage control legislation or Social Security except by recent enactment in part. They're denied in many instances the right of organization which is now generally accepted in private employment. I should like to suggest also that the attitude of the public is important here. We, the people, generally do not look upon governmental employment as employment equally honorable with private business. And as long as we do that, governmental employees must feel, as they meet the public, at least a slight sense of inferiority. Now that's bad. That's bad. There's nothing dishonorable about working for the government. Well, why, Posey, why that attitude on the part of the American people? I think it is in part because we have worshipped in the United States the freedom of private enterprise, the essential excellence of going into business yourself, founding your own firm, and the Horatio Alger story from rags to riches. I think that's a partial explanation. Might there be some explanation, too, in the feeling that we have a great many overlapping and unnecessary bureaus and officials in public service that are hanging on by their teeth. Yes, but back before that even, I would say also that too many people are deluded by that deceptive little phrase that after an election to the victor belong the spoils. spoils politics. Now, on the point that there may be too many bureaus and agencies, I think we could look at that for a moment and analyze it. There isn't a bureau or an agency of government that hasn't been created by the legislative body due to one or more pressure groups. And as long as those pressure groups exist, the legislative bodies will continue to create more and more bureaus. But they may have been created by legislative action, Connor, under pressure from various sources. But once created, there are pressures within the bureau or the department that keep them there whether the need for them continues to exist or not. There isn't any doubt at all about that. It follows a human tendency that once having created a bureau or an agency, the people therein naturally are interested in seeing that that bureau stays alive purely from an economic standpoint. not only stays alive but grows. Sometimes expands, yes. But the pressure to continue these activities is also from the outside. I read with considerable amusement last night of the National Convention of the National Farm Bureau Federation which went on record as expressing itself in opposition to government bureaucracy. However, they were careful to add to that that they wanted price supports for agricultural prices continued. they wanted soil conservation services continued. All the services carried on by government to benefit agriculture they were in favor of. Ones to benefit other people they were against. Of course, it's only human to feel that way, isn't it? I think there's an element of morality in that very thing. A lot of our critics of government and the people who talk about the multiplicity of bureaus we have are themselves representative of pressure groups. and they will contend vigorously for the continuation of something in their own self-interest. If they are moral in their criticism they should at least admit that situation and take steps not to criticize broadside again but to criticize in specific instance with proof of lack of need for the bureau. I agree to that. I think that we need in Congress and we need in our administration more representation of the broad general public interest and that we should not conceive of any majority as being made up simply of a collection of special interests. Well then what you're saying Posey is that we need some sort of a committee or a commission to constantly review the functions of government to determine which are essential and which have served their purpose and could be eliminated. I would favor Posey if you'll excuse me I would certainly favor the establishment of a permanent Hoover Commission if we should call it that a permanent body to question the need for continuation of certain agencies and to question generally the operation of our democratic machinery. I don't think anyone could dispute that the creation of a commission which had the task of investigating the efficiency of governmental services is a good thing providing that commission is nonpartisan and independent of political pressures of all kinds. A continuing body which would be responsible primarily to Congress rather than the President. I would agree on that point providing that such a commission was made up of representatives from the legislative body and the administrative on the executive side plus representatives from the general public. My reason for making this statement is that I think that since the legislative body has the control over appropriations and determines what functions are to be performed by government it's very essential that the legislative body take a very active part and interest in such a commission. Whether there should be legislative participation or whether the commission should be responsible to Congress I am not prepared to argue but I do agree that the proliferation of governmental bureaus that the high level of governmental expenditure both of those factors depend primarily upon Congress. which I would emphasize that in our kind of complicated society we are going to have I don't think there's any avoiding having many public services which means many public bureaus and commissions. We don't want overlapping agencies which we have. We should discover them and do something about it. But we're not going to reduce actually General we're just not going to get back to a smaller civilian service. Well of our total federal budget for the present year there has been authorized by Congress for purposes of national defense the sum of 60 billion dollars which is about 80% of the entire national budget. There's no question but that as long as national defense takes such huge a total that we're not going to have simple government again. And in that connection I think we get this problem that if one attempts to criticize the national defense agency you have to be charged with being even unpatriotic but there are such things as military supervision of civilian activities in the defense agency which result in inefficiencies and lack of effective supervision which we ought to have. Yes, Xander over half of all the civilian employees in our federal government are employed in the Department of Defense. It is almost impossible for an individual to build a career service in the Department of Defense as a civilian that is because the positions at the top are occupied by military people. Now you've hit the very point that I think is important in this discussion and that is the need for better and greater career service than exists at the present time. Well, Posey mentioned that before and I would certainly repeat from the point of view of state and local governments that we are under a very strong necessity of establishing a career service at every level of government and we don't have it now in many places. We haven't eliminated from the American scene by any means the idea that a person may be appointed to governmental service on the basis of his political potency. Political patronage, appointments as rewards for party service. It seems to me that that kind of thing is at the root of most of the evils about which we have been talking this morning. One time in a large European capital I asked about the turnover after elections and was told that only four people would change. Well, now, in this country that kind of situation is unheard of. Here we change them by the score and in some places what I have seen myself public departments completely cleaned out of people with an entire new staff coming in after election. Well, you wouldn't advocate no change at all after a change in administration would you, Zandri? No, I would agree to changes in high policymaking positions but only in those places. I'm not at all sure that I agree with you gentlemen. I would be in favor of virtually no change whatsoever. I can't see why any position under that of departmental head should be a patronage position rather than a merit position. Well, most certainly you would agree that there are certain positions of a policy determining nature that when an administration changes, those people occupying those positions would change also. of course we could very easily bog down in the exact definition of the point at which we should break off from patronage positions to career places. Well, the point is we need to get political patronage out of the public service. We all agree on that. We agree on that. We agree that policy should be determined politically and administration should be in the hands of career people. We return there, I think, to this question of the standing public service has in the eyes of our people generally. If we did that, we would improve its status. Decidedly, I think we might I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion of the question how can we get greater competence in public office? We want to thank our guests, Joseph A. Connor, regional director of the 7th Region for the United States Civil Service Commission, Roland B. Posey, chairman of the Department of Political Science at Northwestern University, and Arnold S. Zander, president of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Madison, Wisconsin. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may wish to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now here again is our moderator, James H. McBurney, to tell you about next week's program. Next week we discuss the question, has Christmas lost its religious significance? Our guests will be the Reverend Eugene Bartlett, minister of the First Baptist Church in Evanston, Illinois, Randall H. Cooper, president of the State Street Council of Chicago, Lawrence Sizer, director of public relations for Marshall Field and Company, and the Reverend Leo R. Ward, professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. We hope you'll join us again next Sunday for the question, has Christmas lost its religious significance? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual broadcasting system. is команDING which has been being and awarded the theán and the at am the more vähän