New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce, a new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, Era of the Canals on New York, Queen of Commerce. No one knows who thought of the plan first. Probably many of the earliest trappers and voyagers in bringing their heavy loads of fur down from the Iroquois country sparked the idea between curses at the cutting shoulder straps, the mosquitoes, and the rough going on the long, dangerous portages along the Mohawk and other rivers. We know that as early as 1724, New Yorker Cudwalder Colden, the Surveyor General, proposed to Governor Burnett the desirability of linking the port of New York to the Great Lakes by a series of man-made inland waterways. But it was after the Revolution that the idea again came under attention. This time, the energetic merchants and citizens of New York City could see the vital need for providing a quick, safe, and cheap way of transporting the ever-increasing flow of produce and merchandise from the heart of a fast-growing empire. As one said, ships of the world do not come into New York Harbor to get out of the wind or to enjoy the climate. They come for cargoes and trade. Here, at last, was the way to supply that demand. Pennsylvania and Maryland hoped to get this trade overland by the Cumberland or First National Road. George Washington had dreams of a southerly series of canals starting from the Potomac. In New York, men like Christopher Collis, a leading merchant, Elkano Watson, friend of Ben Franklin, Governor Morris, exporter, and Governor DeWitt Clinton, saw the challenge. Thus, a practical plan for the Erie Canal was sought. In 1808, the governor's engineers and surveyors, led by Ben Wright and James Geddes, found the lowest pass through the entire Appalachian chain of mountains from Maine to Georgia at Fort Stanwyck's, where Rome, New York now stands. This was at a narrow point on the Mohawk River. A few years later, the almost impenetrable forests of the Rome swamp were being cut down by brave, hard-working men. Well, Johnny, we cut down a lot of trees today. Sure did. Don't we ever get out of this swamp? Nothing but muck and lizards and snakes. Well, this is where we laid it out, and this is where we're going through. That's right. You and the chief engineer, Ben Wright, did survey all this, didn't you? Yeah. One of our markers should be right here somewhere. See it? No. Let's see now. Maybe it's behind this laurel. Freeze, Johnny. Don't move. A timber rattler. Hold it. I'll get him. Hold it. There's another. All right. Got them both. Glory be, Sam. One more step, and I'd have been a goner if it weren't for you. Look at the length of those snakes. Ah, wasn't nothing. That's easy shooting. I still think anybody who wants to travel through this forsaken country must be crazy. Sam, one of these days, big boats with fancy ladies and gentlemen will be sailing in luxury through these woods, right past that huge oak tree up there on that knoll. That's about the biggest tree I ever did see. I still don't believe it. It ain't right to have ships go a-sailing over mountains. Well, now, just think. Maybe millions of tons of freight will pass right this spot here, right over our heads someday. I can't figure it. Why, Tom Gunn and I eliminated a couple of ambitious young mohawks not a quarter mile from here on a year before last. Sam, did you ever hear of Canvas White? Sure. The canvas of our tent was white before we hit this pesky slope. Oh, I don't mean that kind of canvas. Canvas White is a man. He's an engineer and a friend of DeWitt Clinton. The governor sent him to England to study the canal systems there. Well, he's back with all the answers that our engineers, Ben Wright and James Geddes, needed to know. Say, I did hear about some fellow named White finding a special lime rock quarry up in Madison County. He's going to grind it up and make some kind of stuff called cement. That him? That's right. He's got lots of good ideas. Well, I don't know. Say, look over there. That is the biggest oak tree ever. Ain't she a beauty? Sure is. We've got to chop her down. Come on, Sam. Let's get back to work. We've got a lot to do. When old Josh Hathaway, canal commissioner, revolutionary hero, and once one of Stark's Green Mountain boys, sank his spade into the turf near Rome, New York in 1817, he started a ditch. That ditch, eight years later, was 40 feet wide, 363 miles long, and filled with four feet of water. This was the Erie Canal. By 1819, boats were being hauled from Rome to Utica. In 1823, tows were reaching Rochester. By 1825, the entire Erie Canal system was completed for passage from the Great Lakes to the sea. Suddenly, every settlement and small town along the route became a potential seaport to the entire world. The whole nation waited expectantly. New York City, the chief supporter and the chief beneficiary of this great project, looked forward with pride and excitement to the completion of the first trial voyage. On October 26, 1825, the sumptuous passenger canal barge Seneca Chief left Buffalo bound for New York Harbor. Country people traveled long distances to the canal in order to witness the thrilling spectacle as the barge was towed through the countryside. Although a holiday spirit prevailed among her officials and passengers, they were nevertheless deeply impressed by the smooth, steady course of the boat through the almost unbroken wilderness over land where no water had ever flowed before. Good morning, Captain. Well, good morning, Miss Huntington. I trust you and your mother spent a restful night? We were comfortable enough, but the excitement kept us awake, I guess. Those awful sounds. Mr. Hodges said that the horrible sound we heard last night was a mountain lion screaming. Mr. Hodges said that the Oh, excuse me, Miss Huntington. The tiller there! We're coming into a swampy stretch! Keep your bow clear of those overhanging trees! Where are we, Captain? Just coming into the Rome swamp. Oh, isn't it beautiful? Oh, look. Look at that magnificent oak tree on that little knoll. What a lovely spot. It is a monster of a tree. As to the spot, I don't know it. It looks nice now, but I wonder what evil that old tree has seen. Why? What do you mean? Well, I've heard it was once a favorite council place of the Iroquois and their allies. Goodness! Yes, it was also a meeting place for the lads who cleared this route and dug this ditch through the swamp. They had to fight mud, mosquitoes and snakes and even an occasional bear. Gracious! Who knows what once may have happened right here below this spot. Well, that's right, but I'm alarming you undue. Not really, Captain. I'm not worried as long as the sun shines in this heavenly blue sky. Well, at any rate, we'll be in Rome this evening. Always dreamed of going to Rome. This one isn't exactly the eternal city. This will probably be the only Rome I'll ever see. Well, it's a pretty nice town. I understand that Rome folks are planning a big soiree for us tonight. And they're going to top it off with a big square dance on the parade grounds of old Fort Stanwyck's. Well, Mother and I... I should consider it a great honor if you and your mother would permit me to act as your escort while ashore. Why, Captain, that's very sweet of you indeed. I'm sure that Mother will be delighted also. You city ladies probably have never seen a real country hoedown, but you may find it fun watching. Watching? Yes, you have no idea how these country folk bounce around when they get warmed up. Why, Captain, didn't you know Mother and I were brought up in the country, way out in the Bronx? And you know what they say about Rome. What's that? When you're there, you do what the Romans do. What? Well, yes, you're right. Do as the Romans do. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. And so, following the festivities in Rome, New York, the Seneca chief, joined by many barges and other craft as the trip progressed, continued on her way until she was lowered through the locks into the Hudson River. There she and the other craft Then escorted by several of the little steamboats of that day Sailed on down the river Until New York was sighted at last It was November 4th Nine days after leaving Buffalo When the gay little flotilla went on To arrive at the battery before noon The city really unleashed itself Castle Clinton, then a fort Fired a salute of 17 guns The Navy Yard in Brooklyn repeated it Bands played, flags waved And the whole populace turned out That night there were to be parades Fireworks and a Grand Canal ball Held in honor of the city's guests And earlier in the afternoon A great naval fleet accompanied the Seneca chief And her companion craft out into the narrows Here, after the most impressive naval maneuvers And an elaborate ceremony Governor Clinton poured a cask of Great Lakes water Brought by the Buffalo craft Into the waters of the sea Thus was symbolized the joining of the waters And here was officially dedicated The nation's first great man-made inland waterway system That waterway still carried on In the present Erie and New York barge canal systems Is one of the great factors Which has made and kept New York The Queen of Commerce You have heard another transcribed episode Of New York, Queen of Commerce Era of the Canals In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator Alan Feinstein as John Jervis Alfred Israel as Sam Young And Martha Barron as Betty Huntington Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz Production assistant was Helen Milstead New York Queen of Commerce Was written by Kenneth H. Dunshee This program is presented by your city station Under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee Of the Downtown Manhattan Association The Department of Commerce of the City of New York And the New York Journal American And is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore These programs also are heard three times weekly On the New York City Board of Education Station WNYE-FM Rebroadcast in the city's classrooms Be with us again next week For New York Queen of Commerce With public それ精神 unity of the glamour The New York City of New York The New York City of New York Hayden Oh i should say ConOW Yes sellstore ko k elekt konow während k na h h o e u The End