The Masterwork Hour has concluded earlier this evening, so we may bring you a special broadcast which follows. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. WNYC, the voice of New York City, and WNYC-FM. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. From Jones Beach State Park, your city station brings you the proceedings at the opening of the new Marine Stadium. There are many notables here this evening, and Governor Thomas E. Dewey is on hand to participate in the opening ceremonies. As you probably heard, the PA announcer here has just introduced the Honorable Robert E. Moses, Commissioner of Parks of the City of New York, who will introduce the Governor. Commissioner Moses. Long time since we started Jones Beach. We began 28 years ago. This was a remote, isolated, sandbar, approached only by boats. We were going to four townships. Long Island Park, the missionaries were about as popular as skunks at a lawn party. We didn't have too many friends in all days, either. We didn't have too many friends in all days, in those days, either. All that we began with was a little patch of land. Come on, man. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, due to some technical difficulties here at the Marine Stadium, we were unable to bring you at this time the remarks of the Honorable Commissioner of Parks of the City of New York, Robert E. Moses. We might at this time tell you a little bit about the Marine Stadium here at Jones Beach, Long Island. The completion of this new stadium marks one of the most important milestones in the history of this park. Since the year 1926, when plans for the park were first drawn, the story of Jones Beach has been one of continuing improvement and continuing expansion. The original plan, considered by most people to be visionary and unrealizable, has been faithfully followed, and incidentally additions will soon be required to keep up with popular usage and demand, and, of course, the tremendous growth of the nearby suburban population. The new stadium has been eagerly awaited by many thousands of Jones Beach patrons who enjoyed music over the water and music under the stars at the old temporary wooden stadium built as a work relief project, which was raised in the year 1945 when it became unsafe. The new structure on the same site, Don Zax Bay, retains the basic plan of a stage separated from the spectators by water, so that water shows and events can be accommodated, including swimming, water skiing, water belays, and diving exhibitions. The big difference between the old and new structure lies in the fact that the new stadium is a modern steel, concrete, and brick structure seating 8,206 persons and equipped with the latest innovations in lighting and sound. The stage, with a width of 104 feet and a 76-foot revolving center, has pylons on either side, supported by low, medium, and high diving boards. All seats have an unobstructed view, and they're much closer to the stage than they were in the old wooden structure. Access for performers and other stage personnel from the shore to the stage is provided by an underwater tunnel instead of by a pontoon bridge. Public facilities include a colonnade furnishing shelter in case of rain, a lounge with food bars, and a whole lot of other improvements. Pardon me at the moment. We're speaking to you from the control booth, which is, I would say, approximately a good 800 or 1,100 feet from the stage across the expanse of water here at Saks Bay. At the moment, Commissioner Robert E. Moses, Park Commissioner of the City of New York, is speaking. As we mentioned a moment ago, due to unfortunate technical difficulties, we are unable at this time to bring you the remarks of Commissioner Moses. Governor Thomas E. Dewey has also arrived and is scheduled to speak following Commissioner Moses. The applause you hear follows the remarks of the Honorable Robert E. Moses, Commissioner of Parks of the City of New York. The audience here at Marine Stadium is standing now and applauding Commissioner Moses, just having introduced the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you one reason why there are so many vacant seats there. It's because all the people that are aiming out here are jammed up five miles. We are still evidently unable to bring you the remarks from the public address system, which is set up on stage across this expanse of water here at Marine Stadium. Governor Thomas Dewey is at the moment at the podium, having been introduced by Commissioner Robert E. Moses, and is addressing the fairly large crowd which has assembled here this evening for the opening of this new Marine Stadium. The spotlight is showing on the podium where the Governor is speaking. Of course, it's surrounded by various other dignitaries, including Commissioner Moses. The photographers are on stage taking pictures of the Governor at the moment while he addresses the audience. And it was seen from our standpoint up here in the control booth that the stadium is approximately one-half full at the present time. We understand that a preview was held here last evening of this evening's presentation. A production entitled, incidentally, Nights in Venice. It's very appropriately titled, too, we think, inasmuch as we mentioned before that there is all this wide expanse of water separating the control booth from the stage where the productions are presented. We see directly in front of Governor Dewey there is a fairly large, pardon me, orchestra pit with the orchestra assembled, the orchestra which played the Star Spangled Banner to open our program this evening. Immediately in front of the orchestra pit, and incidentally it looks as though the members of the orchestra are actually sitting below the level of the water, although, of course, they're not, and they're protected by a fairly high wall, a sort of a colonnade extending around the front of the orchestra pit. Directly in front of them we see lined up four gondolas, which are evidently to be used in this evening's production of A Night in Venice. The stage itself represents a considerable engineering feat, we should think. We were backstage earlier this evening before taking the air. You reach the stage from the mainland by an underwater tunnel, and incidentally it was your announcer's experience that that was just about the coolest spot to be found around the city of New York these past few days. It was really quite comfortably cool down there, and you go under the Sun to Water Tunnel, you come up on the other side and find yourself backstage after having climbed about three or four flights of stairs. The settings are really remarkable. As we mentioned before, the stage has a pylon on either side of it with diving boards set at various levels. There are no diving boards there, of course. One of the diving levels being taken up by a balcony, and on one side of the stage, and on the other side, another balcony overhung with brightly striped canopies. The settings for the stage have been really very well done. And this evening's production, as we understand, will be the official premiere of a series of summer concerts and musical productions to be given here at Marine Stadium at Saks Bay. The Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York, has just concluded his remarks. The audience once again has arisen and has applauded the Governor. And now another gentleman is speaking at the podium. Unfortunately, we still find ourselves in a position where we're unable to bring you the remarks from the microphone on the podium on stage. The stadium seems to be filling rather rapidly. The front rows of seats, of course, as usual, are practically filled. As we mentioned before, we are speaking from the control booth here, which is roughly 800 or 1,000 feet across the water and up about, oh, 100 feet or so from the stage. The photographers are still on stage taking their pictures, of course. Governor Dewey, having concluded his remarks this evening, has taken a seat. And we understand that in just a few moments, the official premiere will get underway with this Michael Todd production of A Night in Venice. By the way, we were speaking with Mr. Todd backstage earlier this evening before we went on the air. I shouldn't say backstage. On stage would be a better way of describing it. Mr. Todd playing the part of the typical harassed Broadway producer running around with a pair of swimming trunks on and very wonderfully tanned and, of course, occasionally tearing his hair, trying to get things lined up. Because, as in all cases like this, where you have a great many people working and a great many technical and electronic developments to take into consideration, there is, of course, quite a problem involved in getting all these things integrated so that everything works right at the right time. We had an amiable chat with Mr. Todd, and he seems to have high hopes for the summer seasons of concerts out here at Marine Stadium on Zax Bay. And we can wholeheartedly agree with him because the setting is truly an ideal one. After the almost intolerable heat of the city for the past couple of days, and even continuing now, I would say offhand that it's a good ten degrees cooler, if not even more than that, out here. Of course, you do get the breezes coming directly across the water. Members of the audience this evening were naturally all talked out in summer clothes, cool, casual clothes. The ladies with bare shoulders are very wisely, too, we think, and the gentlemen, most of them in sports togs, open collared sports shirts or seersucker suits. It's a very gayly attired crowd out here, and it goes right along with the picture from the stage, which the title this evening, of course, as we told you before, is A Night in Venice, and the stage is very gaily comparisoned, and all sorts of various brightly-hued colors. The backdrops have been very well done indeed, and from our point of vantage up here in the control booth, we, of course, can see directly over the tops of these backdrops, and see on the other sand the other reaches of Zax Bay, with still a few swimmers out there lolling on the sands, although, of course, it is getting dark, and most of the folks out here have decided to come over here to the stadium and witness this evening's premiere production of A Night in Venice. We regret that technical difficulties have not permitted us to bring you the broadcast in clarity that was scheduled at this time. Now we ask you to join us for our regularly scheduled programs, which will continue in just a moment. This is WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM. Good evening. We invite you to the University of Chicago Roundtable for a discussion of the question, The Attack Upon Academic Freedom in America and Britain. Tonight and every Thursday night at this time, your city station broadcast by transcription these unique and literate discussions of currently critical issues. Gathered about the roundtable each week are some of the best-informed minds of our time, seeking to expose and resolve problems of immediate and crucial interest. Our guests this evening are Bertrand Russell, S.G. Raybold, George N. Schuster, and Robert Redfield. Today's roundtable comes to you by shortwave transatlantic radio telephone from London, England, and New York City. And now to open to the discussion, here is Alan Simpson, historian of the University of Chicago. Wayne Simpson,世界, andco.com. I'm told of you así.