It reflected our interest in politics, wars, world conditions, and international problems, for such things have become increasingly important to us. But other things, not so pressing perhaps, are also important. So it is particularly gratifying to have as our first speaker today a man who represents here, at least, a purely literary accomplishment. Probably most of us have never actually read Boswell's Life of Johnson, but we've all heard of it, and we've generally accepted the idea that it is the first biography in the English language. In fact, Boswell's name has passed into usage as the symbol of the perfect biographer. We say, for instance, of a man about whom a good study has been written, he's found his Boswell. For many years, however, thanks to Boswell himself, we've known more about Johnson than about his great biographer. Then in the 20s, there were found in the possession of Boswell's descendants, living at Malahide Castle in Ireland, vast quantities of Boswell's papers, including large parts of a voluminous journal. Colonel Ralph Isham finally acquired these, and they were printed in 18 volumes as the private papers of James Boswell. They were full, as Mr. Crouch has said, shameless and brilliant. Later, more papers were discovered, and there may be still more. At any rate, all the documents we now know of have been acquired by the Yale Library and will be published, or at least the most interesting of them will be published, from time to time, not as bibliophile items, but in regular trade editions like any current book, so that they may reach a large book-reading audience. The first of these books is Boswell's London Journal. It is a good choice with which to initiate the series, for it has great fascination for any book reader, as its steady presence on the bestseller lists indicates. It records Boswell's second journey to London when he was only 22, with all his adventures amatory and social. And it covers the high spot of his life, though he may not have so considered it at the time, his first meeting with Dr. Johnson. A committee at Yale has been preparing the Boswell documents for publication. And I've asked a member of that committee, Mr. Herman Liebert, to tell us today something of the fabulous story of the papers, and something of the almost equally fabulous Boswell himself. Mr. Liebert's background is that of a newspaper man. For eight years, he was with the Paul Block newspapers in New York, first as a columnist and feature writer, and then as member of the executive editorial staff, responsible especially for editorials on national and international affairs. During the war, he was for four years with the OSS as principal economic editor of the Europe-Africa subdivision. Up to this point, I admit, there seems little connection between him and Boswell. But when the war was over, he began to work on a forthcoming book on Dr. Johnson and his circle. That work was temporarily interrupted by his appointment as assistant executive secretary of the President's Committee on Foreign Aid, the Harriman Committee. Mr. Liebert edited the committee's report to the President recommending the Marshall Plan, and he has since intermittently assisted in the preparation of Marshall Plan testimony for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Now, settled at Yale as research assistant in the Yale Library, he is preparing a guide to the growing resources of the library. And he has gone back to his interest in Johnson and, inevitably, Boswell. He has published a number of monographs on Johnson for the various learned journals and is at work steadily on the Boswell papers. It is, therefore, with great pleasure that I introduce to you a man actively concerned about the problems of the world in which we live, who is, at the same time, a humane scholar of a world 200 years ago. Mr. Herman Liebert. Thank you, Mr. Van Doren. I can't help thinking how very much James Boswell would have enjoyed this sight. This great throng of people gathered here in a great hotel, sponsored by a great newspaper, all sitting down to listen to someone, no matter who, talking about him. I must remind you that I am here to talk about him. Mr. Gunther and Miss Skinner are here in their own right. They are the real, live authors of the books that they wrote and that you and I have richly enjoyed. But I am the pale, thin shadow of the author who, would I assure you, be here if he could. Gunther and Skinner are, if you like, senators, and I am a mere representative, a kind of medium or telephone through which I hope you will be able to reach back nearly 200 years to see and to hear this author who wrote today's bestseller so very long ago. If I can serve as a kind of isthmus between the continent of Boswell and the continent of you, then perhaps you will not be too greatly distressed that the author cannot be here except by proxy. I am not going to offer you the dry bones of Boswell's biography. The full story is very vividly told in my colleague Fred Pottle's excellent introduction to the London Journal. What I will try to do instead is to give you some sort of feeling for this man Boswell, a little as if he were here today, so that you can look at him and form your own opinion of him and his book, just as you can for Miss Skinner and Mr. Gunther. The first extraordinary thing is that a group of this sort should spend any time about James Boswell. It could never have happened so little as 30 years ago. Boswell was then, as he is now considered in some unconverted quarters, a drunken clown who by some unexplained chance wrote a great book. Boswell's life of Johnson has always been admittedly great, really almost since the day it was published. And it's now recognized, as Mrs. Van Doren has said, as the world's greatest biography. But in his own time, and almost in all times until ours, he has been sneered at. What is even more extraordinary is that they sneered at him knowing very little relatively bad about him. We know very much more that's bad about him. And at first hand from Boswell himself, in this unbelievably complete collection of letters, journals, diaries, private papers of all kinds. And yet, no other literary figure of the past, I think it's safe to say, excites so much attention, at once from the man in the street and from the scholar. We know more about James Boswell than we know about any man living or dead. More than any of you know about your wives or husbands, or your children, or your best friends. More, almost, than you know about yourselves. We know more about him than any valet ever knew of his master. And yet, Boswell is a hero. In fact, this completeness of knowledge is, I think, one of the keys to the mystery of Boswell's newfound fame. We can get so much inside his skin. We can hear so clearly that inner prompting voice of self speaking to self. More clearly, perhaps, than most of us hear it in our own lives. That we soon find ourselves feeling with him. Responding to his changes of mood. Making his pleasures our pleasures. And his pains our pains. Mr. Gunther has made a specialty of being inside things. I think it's safe to say he has never been inside anything more fully than we today can be inside the soul of James Boswell. It's fortunate, I think, for Boswell that his vast collection of papers has been found in this age of psychoanalysis. When fewer and fewer of us are going to bed and more and more to the couch. We can appreciate his self-analysis just as Boswell would have understood our modern passion for anatomizing personality. He sought desperately to anatomize his personality in his journals and the memoranda that he wrote to himself telling how he should behave. And we who now have them all can read them over his shoulder and derive that special frisson of eavesdropping or reading postcards. This is by no means to suggest that Boswell's journals are smutty. That they in any way resemble the very private, dirty joke. The sniggering self-consciousness, for example, of Samuel Pepys. Or the will to excite of Casanova. It is true that Boswell recounts his sexual adventures with complete candor telling us when, where, and with whom. One passage in his journal I might read you. I don't think it will offend. He is in London, and he writes, I sallied forth to the piazzas in a rich flow of animal spirits and burning with fierce desire. I met two very pretty little girls who asked me to take them with me. My dear girls, said I, I am a poor fellow. I can give you no money. Boswell was scotch. But if you choose to have a glass of wine and my company, let us be gay and obliging to each other, without money, I am your man. They agreed with great good humor. So back to the Shakespeare I went. That was a tavern. Waiter, said I, I've got here a couple of human beings. I don't know how they'll do. I'll look, your honor, cried he. And with an imitable effrontery, stared them in the face and cried, They'll do very well. What, said I, are they good fellow creatures? Bring them up then. We were shown into a good room and had a bottle of sherry before us in a minute. I surveyed my seraglio and found them both good subjects for amorous play. I toyed with them and drank about and sang Youth's the Season and thought myself Captain McHeath. And then I solaced my existence with them, one after the other, according to their seniority. Well, now that is just what it is. And yet I don't think there is anything suggestive, anything incentive in the telling of that. I... I don't think one is moved to go out and do likewise. Miss Skinner, who has been interviewed by Dr. Kinsey, can tell you how utterly objective, how sterilizing complete candor can be. One of the greatest living novelists, Somerset Maugham, put his finger on this in choosing Boswell's London Journal as his number one book of the year. Boswell's London Journal, he wrote, is not only very good and amusing reading, but it makes everyone who reads it realize that he is a far finer and nobler man than ever James Boswell was. This is a very nice feeling to have. It is nice to feel superior, but it's sometimes deceptively easy. One of the things that has delayed Boswell's fame is that his vices were conventional and only his virtues unconventional and therefore hard to appreciate. We know that he hoared and drank and repented and did it all over again. Regrettable weakness, if you like. And yet I venture to suggest that the pattern of sin and repentance and sin again is not wholly unknown to anyone in this room. Boswell's trouble was that his vices were visible. Their evidence was plain even in his own time. He was often pushing and equally often painfully ingratiating. If he was peacock vain one day, he was just as likely to be full of flowing remorse the next. These things about Boswell any fool could see. And a great many fools who did so concluded that they could dismiss Boswell as a silly, inconsequential person. Only when his real virtues, less conventional and therefore less patent, have become increasingly visible as his reputation mounted. What then were these virtues? Well, even the general events of his life have to be put into some kind of perspective for those of us, virtually all of us, who were raised on Macaulay. We tend to forget, for example, that Boswell was a man from an ancient, almost a noble family. His father, a distinguished judge, was what would be equivalent today in America to a justice of the Supreme Court. Boswell was related to many of the oldest families in Scotland. We must not think of him, therefore, as a kind of adventurer fresh up to London from the sticks. We have only to look in the London Journal to see the entree he had to the great houses, the Duke of Northumberland, the Earl of Eglinton, the Duke of Queensbury, to see that he came of a good family. And then we forget that he was an affectionate family man. Too much has been said of Boswell's devotion to women and wine, and very much too little of his love for his wife, his constant concern for his children, his affection for his mother, and the affection he would have had for his father if that chilly individual had allowed it. One of the finest features of Boswell's archives is the full light they throw on his family relationships. We have letters to and from his father, his mother, his wife, his children. And without exception, under the close scrutiny of posterity, Boswell appears as a fond husband, a fond parent, and a fond son. If for his sins, I think, he were stoned by those who have never done worse, he would not be very badly wounded. It often escapes us that Boswell was a very busy and not wholly unsuccessful lawyer. We think of him hanging loose about London, visiting and writing and drinking, but we overlook his professional career. Mr. Pottle first pointed out a fact about the life of Johnson that bears this out. We think of the life as a long run of endless conversations, but if you look at them carefully, you see that they all occur in the, or almost all occur, in the months between March and May. And these are the months when the Scotch courts had their long vacations. Only then was Boswell free to come down to London and to visit his friends and record their conversations. And the mass of legal papers we have at Yale bears out the fact that Boswell was a busy lawyer. We tend also to forget that he was an intentional and a careful collector, one of the very few men of his age who systematically collected materials about his own time. He knew what a collector was, and those of you who have collected, for example, antiques, can agree that his definition of a collector is a pretty good one. Here it is. Every ingenious fragment is venerable to the virtuoso and always pleasant to a curious, inquisitive mind. But a collector should have the industry of a Hercules, the patience of a Socrates, an eye like Argus, and a purse like Croesus. What many don't realize is that this vast body of manuscripts is not just the casual contents of Boswell's desk drawers or the turnout of his overcoat pockets, but a great systematic collection that he formed and for which he made very careful plans. The story, the long, complicated story of how those manuscripts survive beyond and are now placed beyond the reach of time is one that I would like to tell now but cannot. You'll find it recorded fully in the book. It is a romantic story. But I must pass on to what I regard as the internal traits of character that make Boswell great, the traits that are large enough and good enough to outweigh his weaknesses. And they certainly all appear in the London Journal. The first of them, I think, is the sheer exuberance of the man, the warmth and vitality, which is so powerful that one can literally toast himself before it as before a well-built fire. It appears in this book at the very beginning when Boswell approaches London in the coach, and it burns just as brightly throughout. I'll read you just one brief passage. When we came upon Highgate Hill and had a view of London, I was all life and joy. I repeated Cato's liloquy on the immortality of the soul, and my soul bounded forth to a certain prospect of happy futurity. I sung all manner of songs and began to make one about an amorous meeting with a pretty girl. I gave three huzzahs, and we went briskly in. I think you can see in that, just in those few words, the young man arriving in London, full of enthusiasm, that warmth transmits itself. It was this warmth that he also transmitted to his contemporaries that made him a social companion almost universally liked. You must remember that this Boswell, whom we are asked to dismiss as a fool, was a friend of Johnson and Oliver Goldsmith at 22, visited and corresponded with Voltaire and Rousseau at 23, won the friendship of John Wilkes at 24, and by the time he was 33, was a member of a literary club, which I suppose for sheer intellectual brilliance had never been equaled. Before he died, he was in correspondence on friendly terms with virtually every important man of his age. Not all of these men, surely, can have been wrong in granting their friendship to this young Scotchman. Johnson did not suffer fools gladly, and yet the record is perfectly clear that he welcomed Boswell from the beginning. Another of Boswell's most engaging traits, I think, is his complete honesty. It is a disarming weapon. A man who has behaved foolishly will perhaps earn your contempt, and he will double it if he comes back to try and explain his offense. But if he comes to tell you candidly of his foolishness, if he anticipates your reprehension by scolding himself and offers repentance before you've asked for it, he will at first rob you of your powers of criticism, and before very long he will have won your affection. Boswell never spares himself. He never conceals the basest of his actions. He never crawls in the face of the consequences. And if this honesty saves his sinning of its real evil, and I think it does, it robs his vanity of its unpleasantness, too. He is one evening at Lady Northumberland's magnificent party. And he writes, I felt a little awkward this night as I scarcely knew anybody in the room. I told my lady so. She said that that would go off by degrees. I could observe people looking at me with envy as a man of some distinction and a favorite of my lady's. Bravo, thought I. I am sure I deserve to be a favorite. It was curious to find of how little consequence each individual was in such a crowd. I could imagine how an officer in a great army may be killed without being observed. I came home quiet, laid by my clothes, and went coolly to bed. There's conduct for you. I think, I don't think we dislike that kind of vanity. I think we smile with Boswell when we read that as if at ourselves, knowing that we and he are both human and that only he is honest enough to record it. Another of his virtues is his consuming curiosity. When a man today is nosy about the sexual habits of the sea urchin, we call him a great scientist. When he is nosy about Shakespeare's off-color puns, he's a great scholar. And if he is so nosy that nothing in nature can satisfy him, so that he must invent characters and put them down at a cocktail party to see how they behave, then we give him a prize as a great creative artist. But only if he is nosy about his living and breathing fellow creatures, only if he observes the human comedy as it is, does he run the risk of being stoned for a gossip and a peeping tom. For that virtue of Boswell has bitterly suffered. I think he should be praised for creating great art out of material even more stubborn than the sculptor's marble, for using real men and women as his characters, and for maneuvering them with perfect command. Well, these are some of the characteristics that I have tried to indicate to you about Boswell. I think he is a great artist. No artist, I suppose, has ever had a higher compliment paid to his art than Boswell. In the case of Mr. Tasker, in the life of Johnson, Boswell describes in three brief lines a poor poet who called on Johnson to get an opinion of his work. His name was Tasker, though Boswell does not tell us so. Some years after the life was published, Isaac Disraeli, the father of the prime minister, was visited in Devon by Mr. Tasker, whom he did not know or never even heard of. But he was so much struck with Tasker's resemblance to Boswell's tiny description of him in the life that he asked Tasker whether he had not had an interview with Dr. Johnson, and he proved to be the same man. I think you'll agree that's an extraordinary tribute to Boswell's art. Well, I warned this man, I think if you read his journals, you will too. They render me willing to forgive all his excesses, all his foolishness, all his vanity. My affection for him makes me glad that his writings are at last to be published, and they are all to be published. We are making no selections from his writings. We're going to publish everything we have, and I'm glad they are all to be published, because I think then a great man will come at last into his own. I don't think you can read the London Journal without agreeing with my high estimate of him, and without sharing my pleasure that in this troubled world, which we have so fantastically made for ourselves, we now have something as lively and as diverting and above all as revealing of the nature of man as this true story 200 years old and still as fresh as the sunlight after a rainstorm in April. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Leavitt. Now it's up to us to find out more about Boswell. Our next speaker is going to do a skit for us, and if you will have patience with a slight rearrangement here, we're going to fix something in the way of a stage for her. While they're doing that, I think I can move over here and tell you about her. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, she's going to that too. One of the nicest things about the publication of the new book by Cornelia Odey Skinner is that we dare ask her to talk at a book and author luncheon. This is the third time that she's been with us, and she might as well be warned. We shall urge her to come as long as she continues to publish books and as long as her generosity and good nature hold out. She says she doesn't make speeches and that this time, as she's done before, she'll give us a little sketch instead. That, in a way, is even more generous of her because the sketches are characteristic of two of her skills. She not only acts but writes her solo dramas. Her first appearance on the professional stage was with her distinguished father, Otis Skinner, in Blood and Sand. Since that time, she has built an enviable reputation in the theater, winning the applause and affection of theatergoers throughout the country in such plays as The Searching Wind, Lady Windermere's Fan, Shaw's Candide, and many others. She began fairly early in her career to experiment with solo sketches which she wrote herself. These were so successful on tours throughout the country in Canada and in London that she developed them into solo dramas and finally carried the form to its furthest possibility by dramatizing a whole novel, Margaret Ayer Barnes, Edna, His Wife, for a solo actress. It was a brilliant success. Miss Skinner's success as a writer, too, has kept pace with that of her career in the theater. She's now published eight books, one of them Family Circle, a full-length, utterly charming account of the gifted and delightful Skinner family. The others, light-hearted, humorous sketches on various subjects, domestic and otherwise. Two years ago, four of these volumes were collected into one under the title That's Me All Over. Now we have a new collection of sketches that appeared originally in the New Yorker, Nuts in May. Many of them deal with subjects that are part of our common experience. How to get a young son, for instance, into his first evening clothes. The pitfalls of visiting a child at boarding school. Or with the things that are, a good many of them deal with things that are beyond the range of most of us, but fascinating to read about, such as an actress's opening night or her dressing room callers. A family audience with the Pope and most recently, that experience to which Mr. Liebert referred, Miss Skinner's titillating interview with Dr. Kinsey. And now, this is another happy occasion when once more, I may introduce to you, Miss Skinner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's all right. This sketch that I'm going to do has nothing whatsoever to do with books. And it's called A Subscriber to the Symphony. This being a predominantly feminine audience, I thought it would be appropriate also. It's one that I don't have to move around very much in so I can sit by these microphones. It is a train of thought. It is what goes on in the mind of the subscriber to the Friday Symphony who goes to the concert by herself. Ah! Just on the dark. That's luck for you. Awful people who are late for the symphony. Oh, it's inexcusable to be late. Darn near didn't get here myself before they closed the doors. Oh, this is civilized. The symphony all to myself, nobody to gab, gab, gab with. It's the only way to go to the symphony is by yourself because you've got to concentrate. That most of the women in this audience don't concentrate. Ah, this is delicious. After all that shopping. That must be why my feet hurt so. I guess I'll kick off my shoes. Concentrate better on the music without my feet on my mind. Oh, here comes Mr. Grabowski. Ah, I do admire him so. As if every woman in this audience didn't. Only with them it's because of his looks, not his conducting. Silly old hands. He is good looking, though. Buzz, buzz, buzz. Would they quiet down so that he could begin? Oh, no. Not the symphony ladies. What is the matter with women? I hate women. Look at them. Not one of them watching Mr. Grabowski. Look at old Mrs. Prendergast. Beating her big front with her program. What does she think a program's for? For God's sake, why didn't you bring along a Palmley fan? Oh, it's begun. What? No, no, I'm not going to look because I bet I can tell. Oh. Beethoven. You can tell right from the start it's Beethoven. Nothing like Beethoven. I'm so glad I joined that music appreciation course. Learn how to appreciate. Oh, yes, yes. Da, da, da. This is that lovely, lovely opening allegro. Or is it the Andante? At any rate, it's something. Because this was, this was what I was playing the other night on the gramophone when, when Robert and I had that silly, silly fight. Honestly, why Robert and ever, I ever have to fight? Except why he makes such a fuss whenever I play any classical music on the gramophone. It's just as I said, Robert's simply an act with you. And I must say a rather tiresome one. Symphonic music isn't tiresome. You could learn to like it if you just learned to like it. Well, I think it's important for Bobby. I suppose you'd have Bobby growing up to listen to nothing but boogie woogie and football songs. Well, it may interest you, Robert, to realize that a few people in this community are interested in some more cultural things than golf in the stock market. Even your little glamour wampus is in our music appreciation course. Oh, as if you didn't know who I meant. Well, it's too silly even to talk about it, but, well, Peg McFadden has a definite reputation. And when you leave the country club dance and are gone with her for over an hour, of course, I don't think anything. But I do think what people think. Not that that's what I think. Oh, this wonderful, wonderful Beethoven. As if I'd waste an instant of it thinking about Peg McFadden. Why, if I ever started thinking about Peg McFadden, I wonder what I would think. I don't suppose she'd Robert so much as, of course, she's capable of anything. And Robert, thank goodness, isn't. Oh, yes, yes, this is that, that familiar part that's so familiar. Dee, oh, the part with the bass violins. Dee, dee, dee. I wonder how you know you've got a talent for playing a bass violin. Dee, dee, dee, dee. Maybe Bobby's got a talent for playing a bass violin. I certainly hope he hasn't. Dee, dee, dee, dee. One, and two, and three, and four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, awful lot of pipes in that organ. Ten, eleven, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, twelve, sixteen, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, the cymbals. That obscure little man in the back row who clashes them just once during this performance. His butt, one big moment, except when he pings the triangle. I bet I could ping a triangle. Honestly, how can people cough? It just shows you're not listening. Most of these women don't come to the symphony to listen anyway. They come just because it's the thing to do. It's Mrs. Prendergast who's doing all that coughing. No wonder she's put herself in a draft. The way she keeps fanning that upholstered old bosom of hers. I bet she looks funny in a bra. I bet she looks funnier without one. I don't look too bad in a bra. I look kind of young. I don't remember ever having seen Peg McFadden in a bra. I bet she wears falsies. That would be a disillusionment for her collection of scalps. Not that Robert's one of her scalps, he's merely amused by her. After all, last summer, I was amused. That's what you want to call it. I wonder what he's doing these days. I wonder if he thinks of me now and then the way I think of him now and then. And this isn't going to be one of the nows. This music's too important. Oh, there go the brasses. I mean the woodwinds. Those things you blow on. You can tell which men are playing by their foreheads turning red. Especially that clarinet player. One who spreads that little piece of cloth on his knee for catching the spit. Oh, what a greasy fat face he's got. The way he puffs out his cheeks whenever he blows a note. I wonder if he's married. I wonder if he puffs out his cheeks whenever he kisses his wife. I'd certainly hate to kiss him. I'd much rather kiss Mr. Grabowski. What if I did? What if I were suddenly to rush up onto the stage and kiss Mr. Grabowski? What if I suddenly lost my mind and did? Oh, I mustn't think of it because I might. I don't know that I even want to kiss Mr. Grabowski. I don't know about his mustache. It's funny when you kiss someone with a mustache you don't notice the mustache. Or do you? let me see there was that Englishman years ago and that incident last summer had a mustache. I wonder how many nice women, because I'm a nice woman, I really am, I'm a nice woman. I wonder how many nice women have incidents. I wonder how many women in this audience have had incidents. incidents. I bet Mrs. Prendergast never had an incident. I bet she's the kind that always undresses underneath her nightgown. And what on earth would make me sink a thought like that, honestly? Oh, I must listen to this music and take some of this beauty home to Robert and Bobby. Bobby especially. Dear, darling, dreadful Bobby. Thirteen, such an awful age. It's so hard to tell what a kid's really thinking. He seems so slap-happy and yet so vulnerable. Last night, when that thunderstorm came up, and I went in to close his window and found him sobbing in his pillow. I said, what's the matter, honey? Did you have a nightmare? Is it because you didn't make the team? Couldn't you tell me? All right. Call me if you want me. Nights are funny, funny time. Later, when I got back to bed, Robert was very sweet, very understanding when I said, Bobby was crying, Robert. He wouldn't tell me why. Growing pains. Yes, I suppose so. When do growing pains stop for any of us? Sure, I have them. I have them all the time. But I never thought you did. We know so little about what's going on inside the people we love. Except love. I guess that's all we need to know. Oh, I must listen to this music. Maybe if I put my shoes on, I'll concentrate better. there's my left shoe, and where's my right? Where the hell's my shoe? Slipped into the next aisle. Well, I'll get it after this movement. It's nearly the end of this movement anyway. Oh, oh, Beethoven, glorious. Wonder if he wrote this before or after he went deaf. I'm... Beethoven, my goddess Brahms. whoever holds iTunes to delineate for page tocroft.ored to appreciate ơi s success 壹そして asegこれをおいし ut 原因 very幸 You'll all be relieved to know she found the other shoe. John Gunther's career as a newspaper correspondent, radio broadcaster, historian of current affairs. Has been long, full, and distinguished. After the First World War, he spent 12 years in Europe as representative of the Chicago Daily News. And during that time, as head of one or another of its bureaus, he covered every type of story. Wars in Syria, revolutions in Spain, conferences in Geneva, political upsets in the Balkans. In 1936, he gathered together his knowledge and impressions of Europe, checked his personal fact-finding against historical research, and published the first of his famous inside books, Inside Europe. That book, an enormous bestseller in England as well as in America, in fact all over the world except in a few countries where it was suppressed, had what is still a unique publishing history, I think. It was kept up to date and new material added right up to the beginning of World War II. At that time, there had been seven different editions, the last containing 75,000 words more than the first. The other inside books included Asia, Latin America, and finally, the USA. Mr. Gunther's studies of Asia and Latin America had involved a trip around the world, 30,000 miles in 11 months, with visits to all the major Oriental countries and to 20 Latin American republics. The United States, of course, he had been observing for years. But when he came to write his report on his native land, he put in 27 months of concentrated work, 13 of which were spent in acquiring first-hand knowledge and impressions of the 48 states. After the great success of Inside USA, he revisited Central Europe and, in behind the curtain, gave us a knowledgeable newspaper man's account of what he found there. And then came what you might have thought impossible, a meaty, lively, well-balanced, and fresh book about Roosevelt, Roosevelt in retrospect. Last summer, he and Mrs. Gunther started out for Japan. Mr. Gunther wanted to gather his own impressions of the much-discussed MacArthur, the most dangerous man in the world to some, to others, the world's potential savior. Newsmen are apt to think that a special divinity looks out for John Gunther. He seems always to be in the right spot at the right moment. He was in Moscow when Ribbentrop flew in to sign the Russo-German pact. He was in the House of Commons when Great Britain declared war. He represented the American press at the invasion of Sicily. He was the only correspondent present when Eisenhower first landed on European soil. Last summer, once more, his luck held. He had gone to Japan with no expectation of special drama. But there he was when North Korea invaded South Korea. And so, his study of MacArthur became not only the riddle of MacArthur, but the riddle of MacArthur and Japan, plus Korea and the Far East. Mr. Gunther saw MacArthur at length, had an audience with the emperor and empress, discussed problems of the occupation with the general's aides and the officers of SCAP, talked with members of the Japanese diet, with Japanese and American businessmen, with American army officers, with labor union leaders, with students, and with Japanese communists. In conclusion, he puts and answers such questions as, do the Japanese really like and admire MacArthur as much as they say they do? Has Japanese militarism been permanently eradicated? Do the Japanese repent Pearl Harbor? Have they learned anything politically? Has MacArthur done a good job? How do the Japanese feel about communism? Do the merits of the occupation outweigh its defects? What is the basis of MacArthur's own zealous belief in the democratization of Japan? I hope Mr. Gunther will answer some of these questions for us today. And after January 31st, when it is published, I strongly urge you to get and read his book, for it gives the best balanced, the most informative, and the most perceptive account I know of a great controversial figure against the background of the disturbing problems which confront us in Asia today. I'm happy to be able to introduce to you the author of The Riddle of MacArthur, a distinguished political reporter, John Gunther. Thank you, Mrs. Van Doren. Ladies and gentlemen, mostly ladies, I see. As Mrs. Van Doren has just said, with words somewhat too kind and comprehensive, I've just come back from a brief trip to Japan. I followed that with a journey around the rim of Asia. I hadn't been in Japan or the Far East since the war, and it was a very striking experience to see how things had changed. The whole field is so vast that I can't possibly hope to cover anything more than a very brief fraction. I thought I'd talk a little bit about things in Japan itself, a country that always has been of great importance to us in one way or other, and that's more important now than it ever has been. It was very striking to see how the Japanese have changed. They're very much more relaxed than they were in 1938 and 39. They're a very odd people. Once, as we all know, they were our savage and bitter and placable enemies. Now they seem to be close to being our best friends. One of the reasons for that is beyond doubt MacArthur's own administration and the various accomplishments of the government he's set up. As Mrs. Van Doren said, we had a good talk with him. We also met a considerable number of other Japanese, and I must say they did impress me a great deal. They're totally unexpected. I'd had several books published in Japan before the war in Japanese translation, also one or two since the war. As a result, we were inundated with visitors of all sorts and classes. I got letters by the dozen day after day from Japanese who happened to hear that we were in Tokyo. These letters were not unamusing. People would offer to set up channels of secret communication for us with high officials there. People several times would give us invitations asking us to come out and see the magnificent damage we had done to their factories. I remember one letter which suggested titles for the forthcoming book I was apparently going to write. One title that I thought had great possibilities was Through MacArthur's Buttonhole. Another was A Peephole Through Paper Screen. One letter began, I am just an ordinary, uneducated man, 53 years old. I would like to put myself at your disposal for research. I have no vices except drinking, women, and smoking for 25 years. I saw that gentleman. He then offered to take a trip on foot through Japan and send me a postcard each day as to what he would find out. The other afternoon I came across this which I want to read to you. It starts, His policy, it will be seen, was to assume a resolute attitude toward the Japanese government. He determined to carry out this course strictly in all his official relations so as to ensure a successful issue to the delicate mission with which he had been charged. He was resolved to adopt a course entirely contrary to that of all others who had hitherto visited Japan, to demand as a right and not to solicit as a favor those acts of courtesy which are due from one civilized nation to another, to allow none of those petty annoyances which had been unsparingly visited upon those who had preceded him. It's very familiar all this, you see. To disregard the acts as well as the threats of the Japanese if they in the least conflicted with his own sense of what was due to the dignity of the American flag. He was prepared also to meet the Japanese on their own ground and exhibit toward them a dignity and superiority. That was a game at which he could play as well as they. Also, he was well aware that the more exclusive he could make himself and the more unyielding he might appear to be, the more respect these people of forms and ceremonies would be disposed toward him. Therefore, it was that he deliberately resolved to confer personally with no one but functionaries of the highest rank. As a man, he did not deem himself too elevated to hold communication with any of his brethren in the common heritage of humanity, but in Japan, as the representative of his country and the accredited guardian of the honor of that flag which floated over him, he felt it was well to teach the Japanese to respect the country from which he came. That, ladies and gentlemen, was written about Commodore Perry in 1853, which goes to show, I suppose, that history often repeats itself. Although one eminent British historian said, I recall, that when history did repeat itself, it was apt to stutter. However, it is quite striking that 98 years later, General MacArthur has conducted himself so that practically every word of that passage could apply to him. MacArthur is really quite an intricate character. He has great virtues, he has great defects. before I had been in Tokyo a week, I learned things that everybody in Japan took for granted but that I had never heard of before over here. MacArthur, in five years in Japan, had never been outside Tokyo except twice until the outbreak of the Korean War. He's never seen anything of the countryside, any of the provincial cities. I was even more astonished to discover that in five years there, he had never talked to more than 12 or 14 Japanese. He keeps himself completely aloof. He's almost the figure of a Latter-day Caesar, an Augustus Imperator. When he goes from his embassy to the office, all traffic along the route stops. He works every day, Christmas, New Year's, Easter, Fourth of July, makes his staff work every day. He hasn't had a day away from work for something like 30 years, yet he works a rather relaxed day like Mr. Churchill. He likes to take a nap after lunch. He never entertains except on strictly business affairs at lunch. Mrs. MacArthur takes all the social burden. If you try to analyze his character, which is what everybody who goes to Japan must want to try to do, it's obvious that he has some negative qualities, one might say. His theatricality, what one might almost call his histrionicism, his hamminess. He's very much of a showman. I should say that of the total world supply of superiority complex, he's cornered a good 98%. Some of his advisors are not nearly as idealistic as he is himself. Like all people who come to be head of a court rather than merely a staff, he is surrounded by lesser people who are often sycophants. He has this extraordinary ego. Also, he seemed to me in many ways rather archaic, like a figure out of a different century. His optimism has always been very marked and that derives from rather deep philosophical background, that he is like the 19th century philosophic reformers. He does honestly believe that things will come out for the best in the end. I think it's been rather neglected in MacArthur literature that he is so genuinely a reformer. Then, as to other good qualities, everybody knows about his courage and his devotion to the interests of the United States, his wonderful sense of discipline, of fixed duty. history. The Korean War was a frightful tragedy for him. Some very badly informed critics of MacArthur here think of him as a kind of warmonger. Nothing could possibly be more untrue. He knew as soon as the Korean War occurred that it must, of necessity, put his whole record in Japan in jeopardy. Almost at once, I heard people say in Tokyo that he must have seen in his own future the choice of things that might happen to him. If he did succeed in stopping communism dead in its tracks, he'd go down into history as one of the greatest men who ever lived. But no matter how pure his motives, if beyond his own control, the war should spread to get us embroiled in a war on continental Asia, he might be regarded as someone who would contribute to the catastrophe of a new world war. Many people have been puzzled at the change in the American fortunes in Korea during the last month. It's a little early to describe exactly what happened with hindsight, but most of the really reputable correspondents who were sending things back, like Mr. Bigard of the Herald Tribune, one of the best correspondents of all, have analyzed it, I think, as a result of MacArthur's own optimism, perhaps a little bit as a result of the fact that he doesn't understand all the pressures of the modern world, and above all, gross, shocking blunders in information for which some of his picturesque subordinates were responsible. Nevertheless, the fact is really quite amazing that MacArthur not only walked into a trap, but he walked into a trap that he himself had announced was there. He apparently told Mr. Truman at Wake Island that there was no danger of Chinese intervention, no danger of whatever. I actually had correspondence from people high in SCAP, SCAP is Supreme Commander Allied Forces, what everybody calls the organization in Tokyo. I had letters in late October saying that the American troops would be out of Korea by Thanksgiving, much less Christmas, which MacArthur announced later. Then when the Chinese did make their first advance, he announced in a loud and complaining voice to the whole world that this was an abominable and shocking thing, that people should make a new war behind a privileged sanctuary. Even so, he sent troops up and, as we know, they were pushed back. The present situation is, I think, not quite as bad as some people fear. Whether or not we will hold in Korea, nobody can know. It has, however, been a very grievous blow to MacArthur from the point of view of the culmination of his career, ending in an equivocal situation, to say, to put the best possible light on it, instead of the victory that he had so absolutely confidently hoped for. He's a perfectly fascinating person to meet. Lunch at the MacArthur's is quite a ceremony. if you're lucky enough to be invited to lunch, the whole entourage in the billet where you live knows about it. Our lunch, I think, was on a Friday, and we were informed on Tuesday that we should be down in the lobby at 1 10 4 1 12. We were later told quite ceremoniously that 1 9, would be the correct hour. It was then, I believe, changed back to 1 10 or 1 12. When we arrived downstairs, the colonel in charge told us with awe that an extraordinary gesture had been made that the supreme commander, he's always called the supreme commander, had sent his own car. Well, it was only a little green sedan with the five stars on it, but I was amused that a huge purple sticker, an imperial chrysanthemum, was pasted on the windshield. This indicated to all the traffic cops and so on that this was one of the supreme commander's own vehicles, delivering a guest to lunch. We were very much amused getting into the car. A colonel whom I've never seen before or since arrived, sat down, and said, we'll slow up now because we usually calculate to get at the door of the embassy at 1.28 and a half. And it was then only 1.24. We went around a few side streets. During all this time, I was enchanted because I knew, like everybody else in Tokyo, that MacArthur himself has never arrived home for lunch until 2.15. and the intervening period is spent with very pleasant talk with Mrs. MacArthur who's a southern lady, good many years his junior, a lady who misses nothing, very sharp, very adroit, great charm, no pretension, an admirable hostess, very good mother. They have a boy of 12 or 13 who, strangely enough, has never been to school and, of course, has never seen his own country. Because the MacArthur's haven't been back for 13 years. We got so interested in what Mrs. MacArthur was saying. For instance, she told us that she had never met the emperor or the empress, and that the general had never met the empress, and she had heard that we were going to be received by the emperor and the empress, and she sounded somewhat envious. She said, wouldn't it be possible for her to get a pass into the palace garden someday? Because the MacArthur's have utterly no social contact with the Japanese of any kind. MacArthur sees the emperor, but alone and strictly on a business basis. As I say, we were so interested in this that I didn't notice that at the other end of a room, almost as big as this, a door opened, and there was a rather smart military figure crossing very quickly. Mrs. MacArthur looked at us and said, why, there is the general, exactly as if she hadn't seen him for three months. And of course, he had only left an hour and a half before because he doesn't go to work till 1130 in the morning. The general strode rapidly across the room, clasped her in his arms, kissed her on the cheek and said, why, Jeannie, darling, as if he in turn hadn't seen her for six or seven months. And I, to be frank, wasn't quite sure whether this was an act or not, but I later found out that the same act, whether or not it is an act, takes place almost always when people have lunch there. And his conversation, as you know, is spectacular. He's an absolutely magnificent talker. And I've had a certain amount of experience with people who talk a lot, and it's usually rather hard to talk to them if they never stop. It was quite a feat as against Mr. Roosevelt or Mr. Churchill, to try to get a word in if you were a newspaper man trying to ask them a question. And I thought that I had many years ago worked out a technique to deal with this. I would wait very carefully for the precise moment when the eminent creature had some food in his mouth, because at that precise moment, they could, of course, not speak. But MacArthur completely threw me off base, because during a lunch that lasted three and three-quarter hours, he never ate a thing. However, there was some give and take. And I was, this is a very small story, but I was quite impressed. At the very beginning of lunch, he had said something about Hirohito, the emperor, and I asked him if he had seen a recent article by the Duke of Windsor in Life, in which the Duke, who was then Prince of Wales, described a golf game he had had with Hirohito when Hirohito was crown prince. On the Tokyo golf links, these gentlemen assembled, and Hirohito took a swipe at the ball and missed it completely. And it then became obvious to the Prince of Wales that he had never had a golf club in his hand in his whole life, whereupon the Prince of Wales had to pretend for nine holes that he couldn't play either. And I just thought of this as a mildly amusing anecdote to start other conversation. But MacArthur looked at us very warily and then said, what an interesting story. How pleasant that two gentlemen, each of whom was destined to be head of state, should be gentlemen with each other. And it was very quick and I thought showed a great wit and an original approach. Mrs. Van Doren asked a number of questions which I asked myself in my small book. It's really very difficult to try to answer them in any kind of brief space. The great thing to say about MacArthur, no matter how the military business turns out, is that he did a perfectly remarkable job in Japan itself. We've been there five years. MacArthur, who's not given to understatement about his own achievements, calls it quite simply the greatest achievement in all history. he also said it was the most profound and stirring spiritual development ever known to man. Well, whether it's all that, I don't know. But it is an amazing thing that after entering conquered territory, we have so arranged things so that the great mass of the Japanese nation respect and admire MacArthur and respect and admire us. MacArthur really performed a series of reforms that the reality and extent of which are not understood in this country. The new Japanese constitution is the first one in the world, I believe, that grants as of right equality in all respects to women. It's not in our constitution. It's the only constitution in the world that as of a matter of organic law gives labor the right of collective bargaining. MacArthur abolished the nobility. He made an enormous land reform. He sent health teams out into the villages. He pressed a button and the next day 83 million people got vaccinated. The result that the whole standard of public health in Japan has become enormously elevated. The reforms can be listed almost without end and it's the chief burden of the book I tried to write. I wanted to write about the pro and con record of what we have done in our five years there. Everybody asks, will it stick? Have we really democratized an oriental country in five years? The answer is, of course, that we have not. Nobody can democratize anybody in five years. But we did make a very good beginning. I think that most people, fair-minded people, will agree that a good deal of it will stick. Political power of an unprecedented sort was given to three great segments of the Japanese electorate. The women, who were, of course, given the franchise, labor, who have the most highly protective laws of any country in the world, and the peasants, who were given the land. I don't think that any people in those categories will ever allow any Japanese government to take away what the Americans have given them. There is, unfortunately, a very strong communist movement in Japan. Even now, the electorate, as of the last elections, was about 10% communist. The Communist Party is quite legal. It's never been suppressed there, although most of the leaders have been purged. It may be that we have inadvertently opened the door to future communist success by the very vigor and scope of our own reforms. MacArthur's answer to that, and to all expressions of doubt about his achievement, is very simple. He's an idealist, as I began by saying. He's an optimist. He's a philosophical reformer. One can only hope that what he thinks is true. And his whole credo can be expressed in a single sentence, that once people have been given freedom and allowed to make it work, they will never allow freedom to be removed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm off. That was strictly ad-lib. ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of our program today. Some of you have asked me when it will be rebroadcast. I'm told by WNYC that it will be on the air at five o'clock this afternoon. air beer on, ice Editor wheelах inspiration I'll say