Get up there. Come on, Bill, Nellie. Pretty heavy load you've got there. I don't blame those horses for not wanting to pull it. Yeah, and if they make these drays much heavier, we're gonna have to have some stronger streets. Why, these bricks just chip and crumble no time at all. Oh, well, they can always put another layer of bricks on top again. Man, there goes 5.15. Yep, right on time, too. You can set your watch by it. Say, did you see that trestle shake when it went over? Yeah. You know, if they make these trains much heavier, we'll have to start building stronger bridges. Well, if they need more concrete to hold up the bridges, I reckon we can pour it. Hey, Al, did you hear about our new contract? Yeah, quite a building. They get taller every day, don't they? I don't know. They can't go much higher. Taller buildings and heavier machinery, that means we're gonna have to have thicker walls and thicker floors. Yeah, sure, and someday they'll be so thick, there won't be room for us inside, unless we find a better way. Yes, a better way had to be found. A way better than just piling brick on brick, pouring concrete on concrete, if roads and bridges and buildings were to be bigger, stronger, and better. Our story today is of a man who led the way in knowledge of concrete and reinforced concrete, and of other men who have helped to bring knowledge to replace the guesswork, and of the great laboratory which has grown, and today is doing more research in concrete than any other place in the world. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois, research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Throughout the world, Europe, China, Japan, Australia, South America, wherever concrete is known, the University of Illinois is known. For in her laboratories, the most outstanding and far-reaching contributions in this field of construction have been evolved. But our story starts 11 years before the university itself was even opened. Back in 1857, when there was born in Cortland, a little town in northern Illinois, a boy who was named Arthur Newell Talbot. In his boyhood, he used to beg his grandfather to play mathematical games with him. And his grandfather, recognizing the boy's ability and quickness, would do so. Perhaps that was the reason that Grandfather Talbot was not at all surprised when his grandson, a student in civil engineering at the University of Illinois, set a record of scholastic achievement and delivered the commencement oration in 1881. After graduation, this young man went west to work on railroad constructions. But within a few years, he returned to the Middle West, to Illinois, to accept an assistant professorship at his alma mater in its infant college of engineering. He worked there and taught, more or less quietly, for three or four years. And then about 1888, he approached the head of his department with a suggestion. Mr. Woods, with your permission, I'd like to put together a small laboratory to test materials and to use in classwork. Well, Talbot, we did attempt a laboratory along that line some time ago, you know, and it failed. It just didn't seem to have much practical value as a teaching method. But of course, if you have any new ideas that might be useful... Then I have your permission, sir. I guess I really have no objection. Go ahead if you wish. Talbot did have new ideas and good ones. He began with his homemade equipment in one room. Within 15 years, the field of engineering was quite familiar with the name of Arthur Newell Talbot, a pioneer in research work on concrete, whose workshop had now grown to a two-story building. Then in 1928, a large four-story laboratory was constructed and dedicated to the testing of materials, steel, other metals, alloys, plastics, concrete, reinforced concrete. The building provided facilities and space for doing greater things, seeking solutions for problems of modern construction of highways, buildings, and bridges. For Talbot's ideas and his little workshop of 1888 had grown to include a group of men and equipment which provided the nation's first engineering experimental station, another link in the university's organization to push back the frontiers of knowledge, to disprove old beliefs, to discover and prove new facts, and to present these findings to the public. The station was set up in December of 1903 and the first bulletin was published in September of 1904. It was written by Talbot and its title, Tests of Reinforced Concrete Beams. It presented for the first time how steel and concrete worked together. It set forth the safety factor of reinforced concrete beams and gave data for engineers designing them. And it was based unscientific tests. Well, any sign of weakening with that last load? Yep, we finally got some results. Phew, I was beginning to wonder if we ever would. But that floor won't collapse, not yet anyway. So far, it's held 913 pounds per square foot plus 100 for the weight of the floor itself. That's more than three and a half times the weight it was designed for. And it's only started to chip and flake off. Boy, that's strong concrete. But it's not only the concrete, it's the design and methods we employ. And it was the study of these methods and these designs which showed the construction world how the reinforcement in floor slabs should be arranged so as to distribute the strength evenly. Building codes in many of America's largest cities today utilize these findings. Again, let's point out the value of the methods. For anyone could have added more and more weight to a floor to make it break. That's right. But it took a trained and far-sighted engineer to start the job of making reinforced concrete do a better job through better mixtures, better reinforcement, better arrangement of the steel hidden within the concrete structure, better design for safety, strength, and economy. All gained through the knowledge of material and design. And using twice as much concrete and steel as necessary through poor design or just plain ignorance isn't good engineering and it isn't good economics. Of course, every structure must have a safety factor. But there's no common sense in building a footbridge with enough material and cost to carry a locomotive or a railway bridge that would support a battleship. And that makes the results of value to citizens, to industry, to all construction, and to the taxpayer. We were to learn very soon this value for construction engineers began to encounter new problems in building. New questions arose. New answers must be found. It was this detailed testing and proving which made Talbot's name known everywhere. And then, in 1926, Urbana, Illinois, the University of Illinois announced today that Arthur Newell Talbot, famous engineer and world authority on reinforced concrete, would retire next September after serving a half century as a member of its company. The news had its effect all around the globe. In Japan, a prominent native and former student of Talbot's read of the planned retirement. Talbot retiring. It was he who taught us to use reinforced concrete in our newer buildings, the only buildings that have withstood our earthquakes. I must go to America immediately and learn about his latest work before he retired. And he caught the first boat and spent the remaining weeks studying with the noted professor, learning about new improvements and discoveries. Then he took these ideas home with him in the fall. As a result, not only were the buildings of Japan safer, but that nation also built the first concrete elevated railway, all based on findings that had come from the University of Illinois. But it wasn't only in Japan. It was true in other countries of the world where the tests of Talbot and his assistants grew into actual construction. And right here in our own country are examples of the influence of these findings. This job calls for a bridge strong enough to withstand strong stream currents, a good design that will assure us that the bridge will stand, the supports won't weaken and give way, traffic will be carried in safety. This airstrip's out of date. With the new heavy planes we have today, it's impractical. We need a material that'll last, stand up under the heaviest bomber, landing with a maximum load. Modern machinery and equipment demand stronger construction. Train trestles, subways, overpasses, skyscrapers, tunnels. How can we build for the future? Where can we get plans and materials and designs that will last? The answer to these and many other similar problems was found in the Talbot Laboratory. Let me tell you about one experiment. In this building is one area four stories high, almost a city block long. In it, a few years ago, a three-span concrete arch bridge was actually built 80 feet long. It was only a few feet wide, but it provided a slice, the full length of a proposed structure. The footings of the bridge rested on huge scales. Delicate measuring instruments were embedded throughout the structure. Then, they started applying weight to test its strength. Every force exerted on its footings, abutments, arches, and flooring was constantly checked and tabulated. A little more weight was added each day, and the process repeated until the bridge ultimately gave way. And then, men started their investigations to learn why it broke, where its weaknesses were, and how its successor could be built stronger. What was learned in these tests and in others which followed have been embodied in bridges built since that time. Since 1930, the Illinois Division of Highways has been using a method of design and control of concrete mixtures which is based upon a university research bulletin published in 1923. By this method, it is possible to utilize the sand, gravel, and stone produced within the state, each on its own merit as a concrete-making material. As a result, there is a greater uniformity of concrete in our pavements and improved methods for determining the quantity of cement for which we pay. Modifications of this method also have been adopted by the highway departments of Iowa and Michigan. Every large building and bridge rests on all-important pillars known as columns. More tests of concrete columns have been made at Illinois than at any other place. Of some 3,000 such investigations made in the world since 1904, at least 1,000 have been conducted at Illinois. Among the equipment used for these tests is one of the country's largest testing machines. It stands 50 feet high and can take specimens such as concrete columns 37 feet long. It's capable of exerting 3 million pounds of force in either compression or tension, squeezing or pulling. Some slabs tested by it have withstood 2.5 million pounds of pressure before giving way. The column tests have shown what happens and how when concrete gives way to various strains. And from their results, engineers around the world today design better columns. Columns that, if overloaded to the point of failure, would give warning by cracking and flaking instead of breaking suddenly and wrecking the structure which they support. The problem is not always to find out how to make a stronger bridge, columns, slab, or building. Just pouring on additional concrete and adding more steel would do that. It's to find a better design with which to utilize materials more effectively and possibly allow the same task to be accomplished with lighter or even less material, thereby saving construction costs. Today, more research in concrete is going on at the University of Illinois than anywhere else in the world. Many of the projects are set up on a cooperative basis with the university providing staff and facilities and direction and with the finances coming from the State Highway Department, the federal government, from manufacturers or from technical societies. The University of Illinois has conducted research to make American highways more durable, buildings stronger, bridges and tunnels safer, contributing to safety, speed, and greater efficiency. They have published the results of their findings for public benefit and their codes and tests have been utilized in buildings throughout the world. In this way, the University of Illinois has erected another milestone, a milestone of concrete in the progress of the nation. A task accomplished by research. Research which goes beyond teaching. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music