Ten years ago, in this auditorium, we began the first series of the Mott Haven Morrisania Health Panel meeting. The diseases that were considered at that time were the diseases that were important in the community. One of the very pleasurable aspects of that series was the sincere and valuable assistance that was given to us by the Bronx County Medical Society. We emphasized then, as we try to emphasize again in this series, the mutual work of the private physician and the New York City Department of Health. The Bronx County Society, in this series, as it did in the former series, is giving us the service of many of its prominent physicians on its program. The Society is represented here tonight by the Dr. Thomas, who is the president-elect of the Bronx County Medical Society. Tonight, we start the second series, Ten years afterward. Times change, and so do diseases. Diseases which were important ten years ago are not so severe and grave as they were then. Our first session of the series is devoted to a consideration of virus diseases, viruses and the newer virus diseases. All of us, I'm sure, remember the last few months in which we had an epidemic of poliomyelitis throughout the entire city. There were in this, these two districts, about 140 cases of poliomyelitis. Poliomyelitis is caused by a virus, and you will hear some interesting and important facts concerning poliomyelitis this evening. On behalf of the City Department of Health and the Mount Haven-Morrisenia District, I want to welcome you all to this opening session and trust that you will come to our future meetings. The speaker of the evening, who will present the subject of viruses and the newer virus diseases, is Dr. R. Walter Schlesinger, who is associate member of the Division of Infectious Diseases of the Public Health Research Institute of the City of New York. It gives me great pleasure to present Dr. Schlesinger. Dr. Meyers, Dr. Katt must oh my goodness, we are here with Mr. Newman? Dr. Myers, Dr. Katniss, ladies and gentlemen. Among the diseases of man that are caused by viruses, or I believe to be caused by viruses, are the following, and I just read off a partial list. Measles, German measles, mumps, chickenpox, smallpox, common cold, influenza, citricosis or parrot fever, atypical pneumonia, lymphogynuloma venerium, which is a venereal disease, the third important one of this group of venereal diseases, herpes zoster or shingles, herpes fibrilis or fever blisters, herpes, rabies or hydrophobia, polymyrolitis, certain forms of meningitis, certain forms of encephalitis or sleeping sickness, also called brain fever, infective hepatitis or epidemic jaundice, and the so-called serum jaundice. Now, it is easy to see that in this list there are many of the most common diseases which are now prevalent in this region. In addition, there are many virus diseases existing in foreign countries, especially in tropical areas. Diseases like yellow fever, dengue, break bone fever, sandfly fever, many others which are also caused by viruses. This list becomes ever longer. And as with the development, as Dr. Meyer said, disease pattern changes. As with the development of new drugs like the sulfur drugs, penicillin, septomycin, oriomycin, bacterial diseases are becoming more and more controllable. The virus diseases, which are not affected by these drugs, with a few exceptions, become more and more prominent. The great importance of virus pneumonia, for example, was not realized at all until about 10 or 15 years ago, when the old-fashioned bacterial type of pneumonia was pretty well eradicated in its full-blown form by the use of sulfur drugs. Up to that time, pneumonia was one of the most common and dangerous diseases in our hospital wards. Other bacterial diseases, like dysentery or typhoid fever, or even tuberculosis, have lost some of their previous impact on disease and mortality statistics, partly because of improved sanitary conditions. But from the point of view of handling epidemic or infectious diseases, from the point of view of the public health worker, it must be remembered that bacterial diseases, the handling of bacterial diseases, is greatly facilitated by the fact that infected individuals can be easily found, identified, that the bug causing the disease can be seen, readily isolated, cultured, and identified. Now, to appreciate, then, some of the problems which face it in the fight against virus diseases, one must be aware of the essential difference between viruses as a general class of infectious agents and other microbes. Now, from the list that I recited at the beginning, you can see that there are many different types of viruses and virus diseases. I would say so many that the assignment of talking to you about viruses in general is almost as complex as the job of talking about birds or fish or, I'd say, about animals, with one exception. When we talk about any of these species, they are parts of our daily life, of our daily world. We see them. And even if we don't know all of them, all the varieties, we don't have personal experience with all exotic and prehistoric birds, let's say, at least there are enough examples of each variety around so that we can readily appreciate the differences and similarities between them. There's no difficulty at all, even though we realize that, let's say, that the lion and the mouse are extremely different, there's no difficulty in recognizing that they are both mammals. And the same goes for the swordfish and the goldfish, or whatever else you want to say. And the same applies to the plant world. Now, for those of us who are not familiar with the microbiological world, it is very difficult, I believe, to visualize that a similar degree of diversity exists in the cosmos that we can see, that a similar degree of diversity exists in the cosmos that we cannot see. But since that is the world that we want to talk about, I am not sure that there will be much time left to talk about individual diseases, because I believe there is not much point to talking about individual diseases from the point of view of their virus ideology, unless those who listen have a more than vague idea of what a virus is, and what the problem of present-day virology in general is. And we will touch on some of the problems with regard to individual diseases as we go along in this general discussion. Are the existence of minute living organisms far smaller than the single cell of the human body could not be proved until the invention and development of the microscope, which made it possible to magnify bacteria and mold so much that individual cells, their life cycle, their independent multiplication could be studied. Now, you know that the era of scientific bacteriology dates back only about or less than 100 years. And during this era, infectious and epidemic diseases have been removed out of the philosophical or mythical realm. diseases both of man, of animals, and of plants. The study of moles and protozoa and bacteria has revealed that they are not only important as causes of disease, but that they play an important part also in the life of other higher beings. You know that bacteria, that the metabolism of bacteria, plays an important part in fertilizing the soil, and that their metabolism also plays an important part in vital functions of higher living organisms. Now, the ability to see them under the microscope and to cultivate them in pure form in a variety of artificially prepared environments has led to their use, the use of bacteria particularly, as excellent models and studies on fundamental biological problems, such as nutrition, genetics, and general biology of the cell. In fact, I think it is fair to say that modern bacteriology has become largely a field for people interested in and well informed in chemistry and in physics, and that their relation to disease has become of secondary importance. Of the myriads of bacterial and mold species, only a tiny fraction is involved in the production of disease, and many important discoveries which have led to a better understanding and prevention and cure of disease have had their origin in work on organisms which have nothing at all to do with disease. This has been possible only because bacteria and molds could be treated, could be studied, as autonomous living beings and did not depend for their life on, or for their survival on other living organisms. I went into this discussion of bacteria and molds mainly so that we could contrast them with the situation which faces us with regard to viruses. The inability to cultivate viruses so arbitrarily and with independence of other living beings is the main reason why the term virus is so closely linked with disease. Virus is the Latin word for poison. It is a good descriptive term because, with very few exceptions, their ill-making or poisonous effect on other living beings is the only way by which we can readily recognize their presence. Now that is not to say that disease-producing viruses may in nature not be a vast minority just as they are in the case of bacteria. It is well known now that animals and plants can be infected with viruses without showing any sign of disease. Now in these cases, the presence of such viruses in the infected host can again be detected only by finding means of producing disease either in another host or through some operation in that spontaneously infected host. There are a number of such viruses which can be isolated from healthy host organisms and cause disease and artificially infected hosts but of which it is not known whether or not they can cause any disease in nature. That situation is somewhat like the famous cartoon of a couple of years ago where a very sad-looking scientist was shown with a microscope and one of his colleagues explained about him, well, the poor fellow has found a drug for which there is no known disease. But by and large when we talk about viruses nowadays we are concerned with agents which are capable of causing disease in either plants or animals. And even bacteria below the lowest form of single cell organisms are subject to infection by certain specific viruses, the so-called bacterial viruses. Now originally, in the late 1890s, viruses were set off as a group by themselves when it was found that the juice expressed from the leaves of tobacco plants which had a mosaic disease or the juice extracted from organs, from cattle which had foot and mouth disease, as these juices or extracts were still infectious for healthy tobacco plants or for healthy cattle even after they had been put through earthenware filters which retained bacteria. For many years thereafter, viruses were defined as filterable infectious agents or filterable viruses. There are, however, certain bacterial species which will also pass these filters. And on the other hand, viruses, this group of agents that we talk about, cover a tremendous range of size. And therefore, it has been necessary to redefine viruses. And the one characteristic by which they differ from all other known infectious agents is the fact that they can multiply only in the presence of certain susceptible host cells. Now, how do we measure virus multiplication when we talk of multiplication? Since the detection of virus depends on the ability to produce recognizable disease in some host, we can determine the least amount of a given material that we want to test the virus which will produce that typical disease. When the virus causes, for instance, typical lesions like the tobacco mosaic disease on the tobacco plant, we rub the sap from a diseased leaf on the leaf of a healthy plant and we dilute the sap and we count the number of lesions. The same thing can be done with many human and animal viruses which go, for instance, or multiply on the membranes of the chick embryo in the fertilized hen's egg. We dilute the organ extracts until the point at which they produce no more lesion and that gives us an estimate of how much virus is present. And by comparing, for instance, two extracts, one obtained early in disease and one obtained late in the disease in the same host, we can determine to what extent the virus has multiplied. And the same thing with viruses which do not produce lesions, visible lesions, but characteristic diseases. We dilute the organ extract to the point where they no longer produce the typical disease and that gives us an idea of the amount present. Now, it is important, therefore, and I don't think an understanding of the present status of viruses and virus diseases can be had unless it is understood that when we talk of viruses, we mean the sap or extract from infected organs. This means that we are not dealing with a virus alone but with virus, you might say, contaminated with organ tissue of the host. Very often, the virus itself is just a minute fraction of the stuff that we are working with. There are only a few viruses that have been pretty well freed of such impurities. and it is clear that the presence of such contaminating matter has made it very difficult to find out what viruses consist of. Some good beginnings have been made at chemical analysis of certain viruses but we are very far from being able to tell, to classify viruses on the basis of their chemical composition. Despite the high degree of impurity of most of our virus preparations, it is impressive how potent they are. The lung of a mouse, a single mouse, infected with influenza virus or the brain of a mouse infected with virus causing one or the other form of encephalitis, sleeping sickness, may contain enough virus to kill one billion other mice injected with an extract from it. viruses. These amounts vary, of course, for different viruses, just as there are many other differences between viruses. Again, because we don't know more about them, we define virus as viruses, all organisms or infectious agents, which require for the multiplication susceptible host organs. virus. There are many different types of tissues that can be infected. Many viruses cause disease only in a single or in a select few animal species or completely innocuous virus. Now, only with regard to size, there are tremendous variations between different viruses. The one particle of foliomyelitis virus, which is rod-shaped, needle-shaped, has a diameter, a smaller diameter, of about one-two millionth of an inch. That of smallpox has a diameter about twenty times larger. You can compare that perhaps the scale is something like a small moth board compared with a foot board. Now, the virus of influenza is somewhere in between folio and smallpox. Now, I had a slide here which showed a single red cell, a single red cell from blood of a chicken. Now, we don't have the facilities here for slides, but I might say that the virus in relation to that single red cell looks, under the electron microscope, like a salt, table salt, next to a pen's egg. A single particle is the size of one kernel of salt. blood. And if you remember that one drop of blood contains about 250 to 300 million red cells, you can imagine, or you can't imagine, I can't, how many particles of influenza virus one such drop could contain. Electron microscopy and other physical means have revealed not only such tremendous variations with regard to size between various members of the virus family, but also many other important differences with regard to structure. Some of them are round, some of them have tails like tadpoles, some of them have definite internal organization like the cells of larger living beings, and some are, as I said before, rod shapes. But now, from the practical point of view, from the point of view of a laboratory worker, working with, who wants to find means of working with a given virus. These physical characteristics are not nearly as important as the behavior of the virus in relation to its host or victim. We want to find out whether a patient is infected with a virus. We can't just take a loop full of stuff from some organ and put it on an agar plate and wait for something to grow out. First of all, we have to know where to look for it. Secondly, we have to know into what animal to put it to prove its presence. And third, we have to make sure that it is one but not another type of virus. Now, for instance, if we want to look for a virus causing an infection of the respiratory tract, the throat or lung, air pipe, we would look for it in those organs or in their secretion. and so on. If it is the sprain or the spinal cord, that's where we would have to look. And there are viruses, as you hear, that cause the infection of the skin. And others are all over and seem to spread by way of the blood, so we would look for the virus in the blood string. But these rules do not always work. And, of course, you realize that it isn't possible to remove someone's brain or spinal cord just to find out what virus is in it. We look for the virus elsewhere in the secretions. Poliomyelitis virus, for instance, in a person paralyzed with polio or also in individuals who do not have paralysis but carry the virus. Without the full-blown disease, polio virus can be isolated not only from the central nervous system but also from the washings from the mouth and throat and in stool. But even the knowledge or suspicion that a virus might be present in a given organ would not help unless we have available an animal in which we can produce a characteristic illness. Now, there is hardly another field in medicine in which the use of laboratory animals is so essential and has proved so beneficial not only to man but also to wild and domestic animals as the virus field. There is hardly a species of animal which hasn't been used for that purpose. One of the most important tools in virus work is the chick embryo. A large number of different viruses causing diseases as distinct as influenza and smallpox, yellow fever, encephalitis. mumps, fever blisters. Many others have been grown in hens eggs. Others require more closely, hosts more closely related to man, to the natural host. And one of the most important laboratory animals there is the white mouse. Now, just as the virus may multiply only in certain specific organs of the natural host, so we must also know into what organs of the experimental host to put the material. Certain viruses have to be put directly into the central nervous system. Others have to be put, dropped into the nose to gain entrance to the lungs and so on. Some viruses can infect a large number of different animals, but others are extremely choosy. Polio is one of them. polio infects, with the exception of one type, one strain about which we'll talk later on, infects only monkeys. And that alone, the cost of monkeys, the difficulty of working with monkeys, makes it clear one reason why progress in polio research has been relatively slow. But you must also remember that there are many viruses which cause important diseases of man, which so far have defied all attempts and many attempts to produce illness in hosts other than man. Well, among those diseases, the common cold, for instance, and atypical pneumonia, there have been agents isolated and it has been claimed that they produce characteristic things in various animals, but none of them have withstood the test of time. Measles, German measles, epidemic jaundice, chickenpox, common cold. Oh, I mentioned that already. But the point is, and I want to make sure to say, it doesn't mean that these agents may not have been propagated and grown in some other host, but they haven't produced a recognizable disease in experimental animals. So we still don't know whether they are there without putting them back into man. Now, laboratory animals are important not only as artificial victims of disease. We don't use laboratory animals only to make them sick. The propagation of a large number of viruses in chick embryos and in animals has been the only means by which it has been possible to produce vaccines for the protection of livestock and man. Now, such vaccines can be produced mainly in two ways. Some viruses remain essentially unchanged when they are put into laboratory animals. viruses. Now, in order to make these viruses non-infectious for man, whom we want to protect, we have to change or kill the virus by chemical or physical means so that it would be no longer infectious but will still be capable of immunizing the person. Such methods have been developed, and they are being used in quite a number of vaccines produced for use in man and various domestic animals. Influenza vaccine is one of those. This is killed or inactivated virus. Now, other viruses, though, undergo characteristic changes when they are put into experimental hosts. They lose their infectivity for their natural host. They become modified so that you can put them into, produce an inapparent infection in their natural host, which simulates the natural infection. Now, those viruses can be used for immunization without any further treatment. And such vaccines are used for the protection against smallpox, yellow fever, and quite a number of other diseases. Vaccines used for rabies are either form. and they're both forms available. The first vaccine ever used was that for small, against smallpox, which was developed over a hundred years ago, or at least it was discovered over a hundred years ago. And Pasteur was the first one to change rabies virus by continued passage in rabbits, laboratory animals. Now, unfortunately, there still remain a large number of viruses, among them poliovirus, which have not been changed sufficiently by animal passage to be used as safe vaccine, which do not withstand the effects of chemical or physical methods to make them non-infectious, but still usable for immunization. Now, what do we try to do by immunization? We try to imitate in a safe manner what nature does in a spontaneous disease. When a person is infected with a virus, he responds to it, not only, and not necessarily with illness. He also produces, in the fight against the invader, substances which are capable of killing or inactivating the virus. These substances are called antibodies. They are present in the blood and in the tissue of infected persons and of convalescent persons. Now, there's good evidence that these substances, antibodies, may be directly responsible for the protection of an individual against the particular virus against which they are produced, just as they can destroy the same virus in the test tube. Now, the job of a good vaccine is to stimulate in the individual an antibody response comparable to that which would result from natural infection. Now, these antibodies can be measured in the laboratory. And such tests can be used not only to determine whether a person is immune or not, but they can also be used to make a diagnosis of an illness. This service, this diagnostic service in virus diseases, is one of the many services which the New York City Health Department is making available free of charge to the practicing physicians in the city. Now, if it can be shown that a patient's blood taken before the onset of illness has no antibody, but that a later sample does have some, then one can say that the illness was due to the virus with which the antibody reacts, even though the virus itself has not been isolated from the patient. Now, such tests, tests for antibody, are done with quite a variety of viruses, mumps, various encephalitis viruses, influenza, and a great many others. Now, the chief limitation of these tests, of the usefulness of those things for diagnostic purposes, is the fact that so many people have at one time or another been infected and may not even know about it, but most of the more common viruses. They process antibody as a result of these infections, and it cannot be proved if we find such antibody whether or not they have been acquired as a result of the illness which we are investigating or as a result of some other experience with that virus. Now, this difficulty exists, for instance, with regard to poliomyelitis. Infection with poliovirus is much more common than the disease polio. That is to say that the vast majority of the population carry the virus around with them at one time or another. As I said before, actually, the virus can be isolated from the secretions of healthy persons as well as from paralyzed ones during the epidemic season. And paralysis is a very rare accompaniment of infection with poliovirus. We do not know what factor or factors are responsible for the different response of a few individuals who develop paralysis. What makes the virus in these individuals go up to the spinal cord and damage the motor nerve cells so that they incapacitate the limb that then becomes paralyzed? We don't know what the difference is between those few individuals and the vast majority of people who don't develop any signs or only very mild signs. One very suggestive bit of work has been presented that suggests very strongly that overexertion, too much dancing, walking and jumping around during an epidemic season, so stimulates the cells of the spinal cord that they become more easily victim to poliovirus. That, I believe, is the only, that and tonsillectomy at the time of the epidemic season. Those two things, I believe, are the only factors which have any reasonable evidence to support them. And I believe that the one warning and the only cautioning that is justified in the light of what we know and don't know about polio is to avoid overexertion during the epidemic season. Well, you can see from what I've tried to say that even if we had good antibody tests for poliovirus, it would be very difficult indeed to prove in the individual case that the antibody is present as a result of the illness which we are investigating. In our area, about 90% of the so-called normal population has polio antibodies. That means that they have at one time or another been infected with the virus by the time they get to be 15 years of age. Now, there's one other great difficulty which you must remember when you appraise the difficulties and the problems that face people working on viruses. And that is the fact that they, these virus diseases, may be due not only to one type of virus, but to several, which are indistinguishable from each other, except in that antibodies produced against one will not react with the others. Now, this part is true not only to one type of virus. Now, this part is true not only for polio. It is, well, I shouldn't put it that way on. I should say this, this, the presence of several types producing the same disease, but being actually different in regard to the antibody they produce, applies to polio and influenza and to many other viruses. It is now known, for example, that there are at least three different types of polio virus. All of them distributed all over the world, and all of them producing typical infantile paralysis. Now, as I said before, it has been possible with only one member of this group, one type of polio virus, to infect hosts other than monkeys, and that is mice. In 1935, Armstrong of the United States Public Health Service succeeded in infecting mice with one bona fide strain of polio virus. All the other types and strains up to that time were infectious only for monkeys. There are a few other strains of virus that have since then been adapted to the mouse, but all these strains are of the same, what we call immunological type, as the original, the Lansing strain isolated by mice. All other virus strains can be roughly classified, apparently, in two other groups which are infectious only for monkeys. Now, while it has been possible, for instance, to prepare a vaccine from this mouse infectious type, which will protect monkeys against artificial viruses with that type of virus, no such progress has been made for the other types. Now, when it comes to the practical problem of immunizing human beings, it is very dubious that a vaccine containing only one type of virus would be at all beneficial when it is known that there are at least two others against which there would be no protection, even on theoretical grounds. Now, the same thing goes for influenza. Now, the same thing goes for influenza. Vaccination, there are two known basic types of influenza virus. They are called A and B. And vaccination against these two types appears to protect against the natural disease. And then, after 1947, it was thought, and there was good evidence for it, that vaccination on a large scale, with these two types of influenza virus, might cut down the incidence of influenza. But then, in 1947, another type virus, which was very closely related to the type A strain, made its appearance. And the incidence of influenza virus was very closely related to the type of influenza virus. And the incidence of influenza virus was just as high as among non-vaccinated virus. There was just a tiny difference in the type of antibody produced in response to one as compared with the others. And that was enough to break down the protection created by vaccination. Now, as far as influenza immunization, while we are on the subject, is concerned, that question of influenza vaccination is open to some debate. And, you know, influenza has not been since the, since the twenties, a, uh, uh, uh, it hasn't appeared in its violent form. The type of influenza which, as some of you remember, killed more people in the 1917 to 21, than were killed on the battlefields during World War I. That form of violent, vicious influenza has disappeared since then. And what we have now is an influenza consisting of a one to two day fever, some malaise and general ill feeling, but nothing much else. Now, the vaccination against influenza produces very much the same sort of thing. And it is very debatable whether wholesale immunization against a disease which is so mild should be undertaken. And I believe that the consensus of the experts right now is that immunization against influenza should be undertaken only in groups in whom a wholesale epidemic outbreak of influenza would be a serious matter. Troops or, uh, staffs of hospitals, nursing staffs and physicians, or inmates of institutions, and so on. Troops or, um, um, I might say here that, um, as far as the pandemic type of influenza that was, uh, that existed after the World War, the First World War, no one knows what that type of influenza was due to. Whether it was one of our known influenza viruses or whether it was a combination of one of those with some other infectious agents. We do not know. Hence, we also don't know whether any of the strains that we have now would protect against that type of disease should it break out. There is some indirect evidence that it probably might, that it might. But, uh, uh, we simply don't know where that type of virus has gone, where that type of disease has disappeared to. Just like other diseases, for instance, the so-called sleeping sickness, encephalitis lethargica, that existed at about the same time. We don't know where it has gone. It hasn't been with us since. Instead, many other forms of encephalitis have now been identified, but they are definitely different from those that we knew, uh, um, during the post-World War I era. Um, altogether, speaking of immunization, in this area, there are not really many virus diseases against, against which wholesale immunization would be practical at this time. The only one which has proved of unquestionable value is the protective vaccination against smallpox. That one, I believe, everybody considers a must, and rightfully so. Protective vaccination against rabies is a somewhat more debatable issue. You may have seen in the newspapers the other day that one of the experts from the U.S. Public Health Service warned against the indiscriminate use of rabies vaccine on the ground that the unfavorable reaction to rabies vaccine had been just as numerous as the contraction, uh, as, as the, uh, number of people who may have been protected against rabies. Uh, and, uh, despite innumerable statistics, the real value of immunization against rabies after bite by a rabid dog is far from proved. That is not to say that dogs shouldn't be immunized. They should, by all means. So they won't get rabies. And so they can't give it to man. What I'm talking about is the practice of immunizing against rabies after the infection has been contracted by a dog bite. But there is, as yet, no effective vaccine against measles, mumps, chickenpox, or any of the other virus diseases which exist in epidemic or in endemic form in this area. Progress is being made with many of the viruses, notably with mumps, which is a very serious complication of our life, I might say. It has been found in recent years at a, a large number of cases of meningitis, uh, are due to mumps virus, even though the typical disease mumps may be absent in that patient. They may not have the swelling of the parotid gland, but they may have only meningitis. It's a benign form. The number of deaths are negligible, I believe. There's no potent vaccine against the common cold. Cold vaccines, which appear in the market, have no scientific, scientifically proved value. The agent, or agents causing the common cold, are not involved in the production of these vaccines. Perhaps they cut down some of the secondary bacterial invaders that complicate our colds, but there is no scientifically proved evidence that they are beneficial. And the same goes for this disease virus pneumonia, about which all I can say now is that pneumonia may be caused by a large number of different viruses. One of them is the citricosis, a parotid gland, which produces not only pneumonia, but a great many other sites, and has been, uh, the cause of many epidemics, not only in this country, but also elsewhere. Um, there is no, uh, virus per se, of virus pneumonia. We merely guess that it is virus disease, and the evidence is pretty good, indirect evidence. We guess that for a great many other virus, uh, a great many other diseases, mainly sort of febrile diseases, sore throats, uh, which don't respond to sulfur or penicillin. In fact, you can say that nowadays it is fashionable to call anything that doesn't respond to sulfur or to penicillin a virus disease, virus X, especially. Well, that's all right, because it doesn't mean anything. It means I don't know. In the army we called those things G-O-K, God only knows. Or F-U-O, fever of unknown origin. Now they are virus X. We don't know what they are. Now, uh, I don't think that there is very much else to say. Dr. Myers asked me to discuss some newer virus diseases. Uh, when he mentioned that to me, I said, there are no newer virus diseases. They are all old, ancient. Polio has been known since the days of the old Egyptians. What we have is newer knowledge about viruses. We have a great deal of newer knowledge about virus diseases. Most of it acquired during the last 20, 15 years. About polio, I hope that there will be a few questions. I don't believe that it would be fair now to start a discussion of polio because it would take all evening to do so. Um, there has been, and I believe that ought to be mentioned, and you probably have read about it. During the last two years, Daldorf in Albany and Melnick and others at Yale University have found that a great many cases in certain outbreaks of so-called poliomyelitis appear to be caused not by poliovirus, but by a virus which does not fulfill the criteria of poliomyelitis. That is, it is not infectious for monkeys. It doesn't produce a disease of the central nervous system in monkeys. Instead, it is infectious only for suckling mice, mice aged one, two, seven days. In these mice, it does not cause a disease of the central nervous system, but a disease of the muscle. And by causing this infection of the muscle, it leads to paralysis and death. The importance of this new, newly discovered virus in outbreaks of so-called poliomyelitis is as yet unknown, but it appears to be in certain outbreaks a very definite factor. And that is cheering news because it is one virus which can be easily isolated, which can be easily identified, and which I believe will lend itself to, with greater ease, the production of an immunizing vaccine than poliovirus itself. Now, I think you see that most of the job which lies ahead in this virus field is still a matter of the research laboratory. And I am afraid that this brief summary very much reflected that. What I talked about were not really public health problems as they affect you and me. But they are, what I was trying to do is give you a cross-section of what the man working in the laboratory with viruses is faced with. I think it is only right to say here that the city health department is giving to the people of New York and to the physicians in New York all the services which present-day research make possible from the point of view of virus diseases. That is, the city health department has one, the city health department has one, the virus diagnostic service, two, it issues free of charge, smallpox vaccine, rabies vaccine. I believe it is free of charge, isn't it, Dr. Mayer? And it runs all those other tests which lend themselves to use in a routine laboratory. The rest of viruses and virus diseases is still in the realm of research. Now, you hear very much about viruses. And naturally, people are scared about all these new things that come up. I think that's, in a way, it's bad that there is so much publicity about these things. But if you read the publicity right, I think you will realize, for instance, that even in this year, 1949, when we had by no means the largest polio outbreak on record, we had the most reported cases because many cases are now reported as polio that were not recognized in earlier outbreaks. But even in this year, when we had a large, high incidence of polio, I am not sure whether the total number of deaths, I didn't check up on this, but whether the total number of deaths due to polio were greater or smaller than the traffic deaths on Labor Day weekend. And I think that's something to bear in mind. Thank you very much. I'm sure we have all listened with a great deal of interest and benefit to the talk which Dr. Stringer has given us. And as is our custom here, previous times, we're now so open to the audience. And Dr. Stringer, I'm sure, will be very pleased to answer any questions that may occur to anyone. We have a traveling mic here. And if somebody will take this. And if anybody wishes to answer the question, it will be asked right into the instrument. Are there any questions that anybody, this lady, would like to ask a question? Can I ask a question? I would like to answer the question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry. The question, since the cause of polio is unknown, why is it that during the epidemic, the border felt prohibits certain beaches to be used for people? I mean, where is the connection? since we don't know how the patient gets the poliovirus. I'd like to know. Can you please repeat that question? I don't know. Do you need one? All right. Do I have to repeat it? Yes. Yeah. Oh, I am finished. Oh, good. Well, would you please, if you may answer this and then you can ask them. Well, that's a loaded question and I'm prejudiced. I personally do not believe that beaches should be closed. But the virus of poliomyelitis has been found in sewage. It has been found right in the East River. You see, you say the cause of polio is unknown. The cause is known. It's the virus of poliomyelitis, which will infect monkeys and in some instances, mice. What we don't know exactly is by what way or by what ways the virus can infect. We know that the incidence of infection is very high, whether people go swimming or whether they don't go swimming. The virus is all over. You catch flies in the month of July and you find poliovirus on them. Probably if you sample the air, you find poliovirus in it too. Now, you can't close that to the people. Now, I'm, this is not according to Hoyle and I don't represent the health department. I do not believe that the beaches should be closed. I think certain beaches should be closed, and Coney Island is one of them, on the basis of general sanitary rules because they are filthy. But I don't think they should be closed because of polio and I think it throws an unnecessary scare into the people if beaches are closed on that pretense. If beaches are dirty, let's call them dirty and say that they are to be closed because they are unsanitary. But let's not scare the people and say if you go swimming in that water, you get polio dirty because there is no good evidence to support that state. Dr. President, may I ask you what you mean by dirty? Do you mean bacteriologically dirty or do you mean dirty from a sanitary aspect? Just what, just, just what do you mean? Both. Because as far as I, as far as I know, Coney Island is kept in a perfectly sanitary condition. And the beach. The beach. But not the water. Well, the water has been passed upon by our Department of Health and is one of the beaches in which bathing is approved. I must go on record as saying that. Well, do you know of any beach in New York City that has not been, that has been closed? Oh, yes. Which one? There are certain beaches right in the Bronx and also on Staten Island that are closed. That's, yes. Well, I know there are some in, in the Long Island Sound. I don't know how the coli count of those beaches compares with that of Coney Island. Maybe you know. Well, I do know this, that there is no, there has been no rejection of bathing at Coney Island by the Department of Health. The only beaches that have been closed are certain beaches that are adjacent to the East River, the Harlem River perhaps, and the Hudson River, and some on Staten Island. Well, my, my point is this, that if virus is present in, uh, beaches that have a B. If the coli count, let's say above a thousand or above, I don't know, two thousand, then there's just as much chance, almost as much chance of it's being present at the proper tide in beaches that get the dirt on the outgoing tide as it is in these beaches on the incoming tide. That's, uh, uh, a matter of, of, uh, individual well, taste and judgment. I do know that the water at Seagate is extremely filthy. And it is, there is no physical barrier between Seagate and Coney Island. That is true. Seagate is the Department of Health that is not approved, they. Well, I, I, uh, I don't, I wouldn't go swimming, let's say, in, in, myself in August in one of these beaches, uh, but more out of general self-respect than out of fear of polio. I, uh, the point is that epidemiologically, so far, there is some basis for believing, for instance, that where general sanitation is bad, where you have, for instance, I think a few years ago there was an outbreak of polio in, I think it was Kansas City. On top of our calendar, there, in ... Purchase one of these beaches clubs in the camp, you know, they run all around, where they, where they would, where they leaves and stuff, but... who go swimming in contaminated or potentially contaminated water run greater risk of contracting polio, paralytic polio, than others. Because there's one other thing, and that's really a matter of faith. There are those, and they are very respected epidemiologists and virus workers, who believe that one of our troubles is that we are living too clean, and that one of the reasons why the incidence of polio among our armed forces when they got abroad to the Philippines, to the Middle East, to Japan, was the fact that they had not acquired that degree of immunization through repeated and continuous contact with the virus that the natives of those countries had acquired. And we ran into that in all those areas. Now that is, again, as I say, that's a matter of faith right now more than anything else. We simply don't know. I agree, as I said before, on general principles that all features that do not come up to a certain standard of bacteriological and aesthetic cleanliness should be closed, but not because of polio, but because of general principles. It might be interesting to tell you in conjunction with what the doctor just said about persons being exposed to other persons who have carrying the virus of poliomyelitis. That in this section here, in the Mott Haven section, we had perhaps 70 or 80 cases of polio, reported cases. In the poorest sections of this district, there were the least number of cases of polio. And up in Mottasania District, in the avenues that parallel Grand Concourse and are near the Grand Concourse, where there are fine apartment houses, there seemed to be far more cases of polio than there were in what you might call the slum districts of Mottasania. I'm just bringing that to your attention. There is no physical barrier between Coney Island and what do you call that place? Seagate. Don't you think of that? Yeah, the reason for not stopping bating at Coney Island is a reluctance on the part of the health department or fear of offending the interest in Coney Island. It would be a real estate bating interest there. If it would have something to do with it. Well, I think the New York Health Department, of which I'm not a member, has shown on occasion, and on several occasions, remarkable independence from such considerations. I, uh, and I certainly wouldn't want to, to, uh, assume that. I, uh, well, there is germs there, the same germs? No, but not as many. You have to set certain standards. There are germs in every border, in all water. There are germs in the air. They are all over the place. You have to set certain arbitrary standards, which you consider safe. Now, those have all been worked out over the years by hygienists and bacteriologists. And it is known that in a given community, the bacteria which are present, and normally in the intestinal tract, uh, always are present in the water. The sewage is, is drained right into the East River in New York. That's well known. And those organisms are supposed, uh, are bound to be there. Now, unless there's a very large epidemic, let's say, of dysentery or typhoid fever, you can depend on the fact that the dilution of any individual or scattered typhoid or dysentery cases, by the time the water reaches, uh, or the sewage reaches Coney Island, or an area in which the bacterial count is so high, or is, is, uh, at a given level, is sufficiently, that the sewage is there, sufficiently dilutes, so that these few individual typhoid or dysentery carriers would not be a menace to the public health. And it is on those grounds that certain beaches are kept open and others are closed. But they're so close together. Oh, yes, but the, but, but, but, it's just a, a foot or two, the distance. Oh, more than that, but, but, there are an awful lot of gallons of water in between. And the, and the stuff settles down. It's, it's, uh, the, the, you know that, for instance, well, I happen to live out in Great Neck. The Great Neck beach, Stepping Stone, has been closed. But, in Port Washington, which is only one peninsula further out, there's a beach that is opened by the same Nassau County Health Department. And that's, just the stone's throw away. Because the dilution by that time, the dilution of the sewage, is at a, is of such a degree that conditions are considered safe. Could you have another question? for the attack middle-aged people and people past middle age? Uh, how would you define middle age? Yes. Yes. Well, uh, adults, definitely, yes. People past the middle age, uh, well, I want to play safe. Very rarely. I haven't seen the most recent statistics on it. I'm sure that Dr. Myers is much more competent to answer that one than I am. Most cases occur under the age of 50. I should say 80, 85% of cases under the age of 50. There is a shift. You have probably heard about that. There is a shift in the last 10 or 20 years. Yeah. To a, incidence, later incidence, in upper level of Asia. Well, we were, still, 80, 85% of cases are under 50. We were certainly impressed during the war. I mean, with a high incidence of, uh, severe polio among our troops. Now, that is an 18 to 35 year age group and, uh, when they were exposed to particular hazards of unknown nature, unknown nature in relation to poliovirus, uh, the incidence was far higher than it would be in a similar population here at home. Dr. Schlesinger, what specific chemical means, if any, have been used in the identification and study of viruses? Um, well, uh, one is the electron microscope, which I mentioned briefly. It's a physical method of characterizing them. The main methods, the chief method that has been used to purify them, as much as has been done on that, is the analytical ultra centrifuge. A centrifuge, which is an air-driven turbine which spins at, uh, uh, um, centrifugal field, something like, uh, or up to 120,000 times gravity. Of course, the, uh, centrifugal speed that you need to spin down a virus depends largely on, on its size and on its density and so on and so on. And, uh, influenza virus, for instance, can be thrown down in a centrifuge, almost quantitatively, in a centrifuge that, or smallpox virus too, that spins, uh, spins, uh, at about, uh, oh, 16 to 18,000 rotations per minute. Um, but, um, yellow fever, dengue virus, require something like, uh, uh, 30 to 40,000 rotations per minute. If you come up to polio virus, you require tremendous centrifugal fields. But there are other methods too, uh, uh, the, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, for their purification, then, then there's the famous Sharpless centrifuge, incidentally. Uh, but, uh, by and large, I think most of the purifications that I'm familiar with have been done by means of the ultra centrifuge. Uh, electrophoresis, no. Um, um, well, dialysis is a tool, of course, which you need in, to, to free the, the, uh, virus of contaminating materials. But as such, it is not enough to get out, uh, uh, organ proteins, for instance. All you get out are soluble salts. But you're still, uh, uh, left with a, with a mess of, uh, 99.99% of parts, uh, of animal tissue and, and, uh, 0.01 part of virus, arbitrary. I have one other question, doctor. What investigations have been made into the relations of allergies towards viruses? Or has there been any definition between the two since viruses are not, uh, specifically defined outside of their methods of culture? Well, that is one very good way of differentiating them from allergies. There's no known agent, uh, as such causing allergy, which is known to, uh, produce, uh, that, uh, is known to multiply independently. In the presence or absence of, of, uh, living cells. Allergy, uh, may be a factor in certain virus diseases, but whether that is allergy to the virus or to some byproduct of the disease is not yet known. There are some toxins, too, that can be separated from, from, uh, certain viruses. but, um, it cannot be said now that there's any, uh, relationship between allergy and viruses as a class. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you. Gentlemen, down there. I remember reading, um, somewhere that, uh, they claim that, uh, viruses, or I shouldn't, say claim, but I thought that viruses were, in reality, uh, large protein molecules. I wonder if there was anything to substantiate that. Yes, there is. For a few viruses, those viruses are plant viruses. Uh, Stanley, in 1935, showed, and, I think, uh, finally, to everybody's satisfaction proved, that tobacco mosaic, the disease that I mentioned earlier in the evening, um, was caused by a virus which could be, um, obtained in pure form, in the form of, of crystals, needle-shaped crystals, which were then chemically analyzed, and which appear to be self-reproducing, um, molecules. Now, whether you want to call those living molecules, or whether you want to call tobacco mosaic, a virus, a, a, a protein, or nucleoprotein molecule, that is a, largely, a philosophical, uh, question. Um, whether we want to reduce life to such low an order or not, I think, again, that's a matter for individual, for an individual to decide. Uh, I intentionally didn't go into that because, uh, it has not yet entered into the field of human virus diseases. There is no human virus, uh, which has been sufficiently crystallized so that we can say one way or the other. Are there any other questions? The gentleman has a question. It might be that the staff will say it affects the human being and the closing. No, I hope not. It is not, it is not known to, uh, have any effect at all on, on, uh, uh, any living organism other than the tobacco plant. Uh, I think it's been tried just as it has been tried to put poliomyelitis into tomatoes and into fish. Are there anyone there? I'd like to ask a question. May I, can I through here? Can I ask through here? Um, could you tell us pos- something about any possible relation of viruses to cancer? Very briefly. Um, a virus causing a cancer-like growth in chickens was one of the first animal viruses that was characterized by Rouse, who is still active at the Rockefeller Institute. Um, this virus, uh, it's the so-called, now, so-called Rouse sarcoma of chickens as a transmissible agent which, uh, uh, can be, which definitely causes these tumors. There are others, uh, experimentally produced and naturally occurring tumors of various animal species, rabbits, and mice, about which there can be no question that they are due to the action of viruses, either by themselves or in conjunction with certain, uh, uh, agents like tar-like substances and so on. Uh, one of these, uh, tumors, the so-called, uh, breast tumor of certain strains of white mice has caused a great deal of, of excitement because this factor is transmitted through the milk of nursing mothers to their, uh, offspring and these mice then develop breast cancer when they mature. Uh, as to the relation of any of these viruses to human tumors, nothing at all conclusive is known. Uh, no virus has been isolated from any malignant tumor of man. There have been claims that certain walk-like growths of man are caused by viruses. There's one, uh, that was isolated in Austria and I think produced, um, uh, growths in a benign tumor, that is, that I think was claimed to have been transmitted to dogs and, um, then there's the virus of a disease known as molluscum contagiosum, which is also a definite virus entity. Beyond that, as for cancer or sarcoma or any, or leukemia or any other tumor-like disease of man, no viral etiology has been found. The gentleman in the rear has a question. Uh, doctor, you suggest that maybe our habits are too clean that, that, uh, cleanliness, uh, causes a, a lowering of, a resistance against these, these virus diseases. Do you see any practical application for this? I was referring specifically to polio. I don't, I'm not sure that I would want to, uh, decrease our cleanliness, uh, because if we do so, uh, we might again run into cholera and typhoid and dysentery. I was just trying to use that as an, as a, uh, as an illustration of the fact that perhaps we can overdo things a bit on that side and unnecessarily, uh, um, scare the population into avoiding also other activities. Why, people wouldn't take their children shopping. I kept them pent up at home. But when daddy came out there where we live, for instance, in, in, in Long Island, people kept their children home all day, but then daddy came home on the Long Island Railroad and carried home anything that he picked up in the city. Well, uh, that doesn't make sense. And, uh, uh, I, I think it's, it's on that side that we are, uh, that there's a tendency to overdo the running away from things. I think sanitation is fine. Don't misunderstand me. I want to thank everybody for having come tonight. Next, uh, the next meeting, I want to, which I want to draw your attention to, will be on November the 3rd. And that is on a Thursday night. And all the subsequent meetings, including that, will be on Thursday evening. The next meeting will be on syphilis. I think you will all realize that this is a very important problem, and it's a very important problem in these districts. We have every year, hundreds of newly reported cases of syphilis occurring in these two districts. And at that meeting, on November the 3rd, the whole subject of syphilis will be investigated and given you. And the occurrence, the proper and most recent methods of treatment, and particularly what the Department of Health and the medical profession through the private physician and the community is trying to do to overcome the spread and incidence of syphilis. Thank you very much. Thank you.