President of the United States of America, with Governor Thomas E. Dewey, with Reus and the President of the United States of America, with Governor Thomas E. Dewey, with Governor Civil of the United States of America andouverts of large companies and organizations like against堀 and feud of 여기서 society. מלכ מלכי המלוכים velang evitim breliban ve grupol iayetz т Surveyem resmonus dei طazu Greens B proprio i Daniela The next speaker, former borough president of Manhattan, a member of the City Council, who recently introduced the bill establishing this playground and has been one of its chief sponsors, Mr. Stanley Isaacson. Commissioner Moses, Mayor O'Dwyer, and other members of the Board of Estimates, mine will be a very brief statement. The City Council has the power, with the approval and concurrence of the Mayor, to name streets and parks and playgrounds. And I can assure you never in our history was a name better deserved, a name more appropriate than that which is being bestowed upon this playground which is being dedicated today. Right nearby is the school of the great-grandfather whose name is affixed to this playground. His father is the controller of the City of New York today and has had a long and distinguished career in his native state and his native city. And we are naming this playground in honor of a man who gave his life for his country, who sacrificed himself, that freedom and liberty might continue here, and that the children who will enjoy this playground may grow up in the spirit of freedom and in the spirit of liberty. I am delighted that I have been privileged with the entire Council, because all the members of the City Council gladly shared in this act. I am delighted that we have had the privilege of joining in the dedication and in the naming of this playground after Captain Joseph. The next speaker is Mr. Irving M. Bunim, President of the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School. This lifetime teaching is very proud to be Baby of the Fil inc spannend dynamics, Mr. Irving M. Bunim, President of the City of of class, my разные names have waited that many people will enjoy this وcharging relationship with their relative children. Especially timbers of fiscal make the difference around the country. adjacent to our school will indeed be a great help to us in our program of building our youth of sound mind and sound body. We are particularly grateful to you for having dedicated this playground to the memory of one of our sons who fell in battle, the supreme sacrifice in the service of his country, Captain Jacob Joseph. This is the fourth generation of service and self-sacrifice on the part of family Joseph in this country. From the very moment that the Chief Rabbi arrived on these shores, the American community was enriched by brilliant careers of selflessness and patriotic devotion, service and sacrifice in the interests of their fellow citizens. The Chief Rabbi of the City of New York established institutions for religious observance which are functioning today with ever increasing importance and efficiency for the principles of American democracy for God and country. The service of his eminent grandson, Comptroller Lazarus Joseph, to his fellow citizens is an open book written in letters of gold to serve as a model to be emulated. The life of Captain Jacob Joseph was dedicated, offered and sacrificed on the altar of good citizenship, loyalty and patriotism. It is indeed fitting that this playground shall be situated on the Lower East Side which constituted the headquarters of his eminence, the late Chief Rabbi. The Rabbi Jacob Joseph School will continue in the spirit of the Josephs to inculcate Torah and the love of God and man in the hearts of our students. With the adjacent buildings soon to be made available to us through the kind efforts of the Mayor of the City of New York, we hope to enroll many more hundreds in the Joseph Golding High School of the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School and to give them the benefit of our program. In our curriculum, we aim to fortify religious spirit with practical and useful secular learning. And at the same time, we aim to enhance studies of matter with the Spirit of God. I wish to thank the Honorable Robert Moses and his very capable assistants, the Police Department, Mrs. Harry W. Golding, Martin North, Samuel Horowitz, Abraham Gribitz and Benjamin Canikrae for their splendid cooperation in the dedication of this ceremony. If young Jackie Joseph and his many thousands of buddies could be heard now, they probably would say, We are not here to dedicate, we are not here to consecrate. Do not write our memorials upon steel, bronze or stone. Rather, let it be written upon the hearts of the delegates of the United Nations, so that this tragedy shall not again befall the human race. They might add homiletically, keep your oils pure, for if your oil be tainted with greed, power politics, betrayal and blood, it may cause a combustion that will ultimately consume all of humanity for eternity. Only fewer oil may feed the eternal life to bring forth the true brotherhood of man and fatherhood of God. May the standards of truth, honesty and fair play obtain in the United Nations, even as the codes of morality demand it from every honest human being. Then your sons and daughters will not be slaughtered upon the battlefields of greed. They will live on by the promise of Isaiah, and nations shall not live sword against nations, and they shall learn war no more. Only in the realization of this message can we truly honor the memory of Captain Jacob Joseph. I thank you. I now present the President of the City Council, Counsel Vincent Impilateri. To Moses, to Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be here today and to participate in these dedication exercises. It's a very happy moment for me to preside at the session of the Council that unanimously adopted the resolution making this part possible. On occasions such as this, the political differences of the members of the Council are easily forgotten, and they all agreed that this would be an excellent thing. One thing that impresses me here today is the fact that among this audience, in tribute of the memory of a Jewish patriot and American hero, we see represented the American Legion, we see represented the Catholic war veterans, the veterans of foreign wars, as well as the Jewish war veterans. That's democracy in action, and I'm very happy to say it. I never had the pleasure of knowing Jackie Joseph in person. I've heard many fine things about him. I know of the excellent stock from which he springs. Coming from a patriotic, fine gentleman like Larry Joseph, from his charming wife, I can realize the type of young man that he was bound to be. But only recently, I had the pleasure of meeting a young man who knew Captain Joseph, who served with him, and who told me there was a boy who was a hundred percent soldier and gentleman. That statement was made by Bonnie Ross. I'm very happy to be here to share with you in dedicating a part to the memory of an American of that character. Thank you. At the conclusion of the mayor's speech, we ask the audience for a minute of silence, to be followed by the playing of taps and then the star-spangled banner. I now present the mayor of New York, William O'Dwyer. Mr. Moses, Rabbi Weiss, Mr. Pelletieri, honored guests who have been here, Stanley Isaacs, who have dressed you, Lazarus Joseph, the controller of the city. And to you, dear ladies, to your lovely children, and to all your friends, we are not doing today what we would like to do if we had enough room with which to do it. But as Commissioner Moses has said, we have taken every inch of space that we believe is hallowed ground today, because from these sidewalks and from this neighborhood, a family history has grown up, has come down from the holy man himself, who founded the family line, and who ended that line for one at war with the enemies of the nation, who paid his price for the liberties of heaven so dearly once, and his price was the price of his young life. So that this afternoon, we are attending a ceremony that is at once a sorrowful one, and all we can do, Lazarus Joseph, is to say to you that from this evidence of our sovereignty and our love, from this please accept it in the spirit in which it's given, that youngsters may grow here and revere and love the name that is attached to it, that children may grow up healthy and strong in the liberties that were won by your deceased and darling son and his fellow man, that these children may grow up with the hope, with the reassurance that for them, all of us, children that you see here today, children who are not yet born, will never have to pay the price that your son pays, that they will live in a world that will know what liberty is, without hatred, without victory, without war, a world that was planned by our founding fathers, a world that is America, a world that we hope and pray will be the entire world. God bless you, Larry. You just thank you. Please come to the flag. Right now the mayor has walked over to the foot of a flagpole where the plaque commemorating the memory of Captain Jacob Joseph of the United States Marine Corps is about to be unveiled. The flag of the city of New York has just dropped from the plaque of the flagpole, and we'll hear taps on the anthem in just a moment. This is just a necessary moment for taking pictures. Pops. Pops. Dis handled by the length of my Cadape of the leaders in the propaganda of pen of the United States Marine Corps was cautious in authority in cutting ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ The City of New York, in the presence of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Comptroller of the President of the City Council, and the members of the Board of Estimate who were completely represented here in the very historic neighborhood of Rutgers and Henry Street, paid memory, beloved memory, to an Eastside boy who made the supreme sacrifice at Guadalcanal in 1942. Captain Jacob Joseph joined the United States Marine Corps in 1940, and the supreme sacrifice followed just two years later. As we said, he was one of the youngest men to hold such high office among a group of valiant young men who made an astounding record there in the Pacific when the liberty and the freedom that we all love and adore seemed to be very much in the balance indeed. All patriotic organizations were represented here today, delegations from the United States Marine Corps and all services participated, and certainly the neighborhood turned out. And the heart of New York City certainly goes out to this young man, and as the Mayor said, the playground here where other young boys, youngsters, boys and girls, will enjoy the sunshine, fresh air, and exercise of this playground. It means that valiant, strong, fine New Yorkers will grow up in the atmosphere and the tradition of fine boys like Captain Jacob Joseph. And so we take leave of you from this very interesting neighborhood of Rutgers and Henry Street and return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. Thank you. Thank you.