This is Gabriel Pressman bringing you the WNYC Campus Press Conference, a new program in which the editors of college newspapers interview prominent persons in the news. During the month of October, the Campus Press Conference has been transcribing the various candidates for United States Senator from New York. Our guest today is Joseph Glass, candidate of the Socialist Party of the United States. And here to interview Mr. Glass are Jack Freeman of the Fordham Ram, Mrs. Stell Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Erwin Chapkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University, and Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. All right, panel members, who has the first question? Mr. Chapkin. The Socialist Party, USA, has been most closely identified with the personality of Norman Thomas, isn't that correct? That's correct. Now, in this particular year, I understand that Mr. Thomas was opposed to the party's running candidates. That's correct, too. Now, why did they choose to do so in spite of that? For the simple reason that in our democratic deliberations, the members from all over the United States gathered in convention at Cleveland decided that they thought it would be best to have a campaign where we could be seen and heard, even though it's not quite as much as we would like to have it. Nevertheless, we felt that that is a way to do it in America. Your presidential candidate, sir, I believe, is Darlington Hoops. Is that the name? That's right. Darlington Hoops of Pennsylvania. He is a Pennsylvania Quaker who was formerly a member of the state legislature there. He's a lawyer and a longtime member of the Socialist Party. Mr. Deutsch? Well, I'd like to throw in the usual question. Who do you think Mr. Glass is going to win the presidential election? Truthfully, I haven't a definite idea. Not Mr. Hoops. I don't think Mr. Hoops will win, unfortunately, for the American people. But the chaos and confusion is so great that almost anything can turn the election, particularly in these last few days. The people are so weary from all of this election oratory that anybody's guess is as good as anybody else's. One thing you can rest assured of, don't put too much stock in these polls. They invariably either go wrong or have reasons to give you why they got a bad break. But I don't profess to know. You really think the election is this close or you think that the experts are so leery of what happened in 1948 that they're just a little bit cautious about saying anything definite? I don't believe there are any experts. You and I are just as expert as anybody else who pretends to be. They don't know any more than you do or I do if we're alert. I see. Mr. Freeman of Fordham. Well, Mr. Glass, I would like to clarify the Socialist Party stand is contrasted with the Socialist workers and the Socialist labor. Well, as to the Socialist workers, they are communists who are ordinarily referred to as Trotskyites. They are the outs in the communist group that would like to be the ins. The Socialist labor party is the De Leonites who believe in industrial government. And we are not part and parcel of that group because we believe strictly in democracy. We believe that times change, people change, circumstances change. And a party that is alive and dynamic, though not necessarily very large, is going to take some sort of cognizance of the fact that you've got to do things a little differently than you did 50 years ago. And when, as the Socialist labor party boasts, is the oldest Marxist party in America, I say that may very well be true, but it's not the wisest. And, of course, we believe that we are. Miss Siegel. Would you back a policy similar to the one followed in England? Yes, except... By the Labor Party. By the Labor Party. I assumed you meant the Labor Party. Yes, we would back such a program, except that, quite frankly, I would like to do things a little more rapidly. And I might even want to be a bit more radical in certain fields. But I would accept that activity as the kind of thing we'd like to at least start accomplishing here in America. Mr. Deutsch? By rapidly and more radically, just what do you mean? Do you mean violence or just an increase in speed? Just an increase in speed. Violence begets violence, and I think it's stupid to even think. And, pardon me, I don't mean what you say is stupid, but what I mean is stupid on anyone's part to think in terms of a violent revolution in America. Not only because the government is so firmly entrenched and has all the armed forces and police behind it, but history has shown that those who live by the sword perish by the sword, and we don't approve of that thing. Mr. Chavkin? Your party has made some boasts about the fact that its platform of 1928 has become the Democratic and Republican platforms of more recent years. Do you regard this as a definite contribution on your part to American thinking? Or do you think that this is no tendency on the part of the country to really go socialist? Well, Mr. Chavkin, let me put it to you this way. In the first case, I deny absolutely that the Democratic Party has adopted our platform. What they've done is taken some of our ideas and handled them very poorly, like unemployment insurance, Social Security, aid to the blind, to the widowed, etc., all the way down the line. Unfortunately, the major parties don't seem to have within their ranks men and women capable of comprehending fully, now, Mark, did I say comprehending fully those advanced ideas which we have been giving to America? But this much everyone is compelled to admit, and this I am told to the point where it almost sickens me. They all say, you people are too far ahead of us. You are the people's conscience. You are the guiding light whose beam we try to follow. And, of course, they don't, unfortunately, follow it the way we would like them to. Well, it sickens you to be called the guiding light? Well, it's annoying after a while to have so-called intelligent people keep telling you you're the guiding light. What's wrong with seeing a beam of light and following it to the proper path? If you have any intelligence, you go along. And I can't for the life of me see why a good idea is not accepted without suffering, and that's what is done in our country. Mr. Deutsch. Well, I was just going to ask, what are these plans and ideas that you've given to the Democratic Party, or whatever party that they followed, poorly or otherwise? Well, workman's compensation, the eight-hour day, unemployment insurance, old age and survivors pension, rehabilitation on the farms, TVA. Do you want any more? No, I just want to know... I saw you raise your hand. I thought you wanted to ask me something. Yeah, I do want to ask you something. I yield. Well, in what way haven't they followed this idea? In this way. They haven't, for example, taken, let us say, old age and survivors' benefits and adjusted them to the existing purchasing power of the dollar. For example, if ten years ago you got $60 a month, they expect you at this time to continue to survive on pretty much the same kind of money. It's true that they might raise a few pennies here and there, but that sort of thing should be graduated according to the times. Each decade, let us say, or each ten years, there should be a revision of social legislation. And, of course, in the business of unemployment insurance, we would never think of giving back hundreds of millions of dollars to employers. We could gainfully use that money in education, to build schools, to give teachers higher salaries, better and more lunches to children who need it. Oh, think of all the things you could do with the money that was given back in the unemployment insurance business here in New York, for example. Well, we don't want to let you monopolize the discussion, Mr. Deutsch, but we'll let you get around to a short questionnaire. We'll come back to you later. Well, I just wanted to know if then you would agree that the only difference was one of degree. It's not only degree, but it's development, you say. There are changing times, as I said before, changing circumstances, and we do not see the major political parties acting as though they fully comprehended what the true benefits of these laws are. Mr. Freeman, Mr. Glass, what is your stand on Korea? I believe that in Korea we became unfortunately embroiled. I believe that Russia, true to form, had been looking upon Korea as another one of those avenues to which they could spread their poisonous doctrines and attitudes. Much as anyone who is a socialist regrets it, we are compelled, perforce, to admit that America must do something to stop the oncoming communist hordes and to try at the same time to impress upon the communists that while we won't take any more of her aggression, we are still in a position where we would like to sit down seriously and talk about stopping this war and preventing any future wars. But in Korea, I say that I believe that this last issue should be submitted to an international commission where all of the prisoners should be permitted in neutral territory to choose whence they wish to go and should not be compelled to return to the place from which they came if they feel that their lives or their future is at stake. Miss Siegel? Then you would disagree with the socialist labor and the socialist worker parties which say that the threat is from capitalism itself and that because of the nature of capitalism, we must fight and that Russia is not a threat to the free world at all because the structure of her society does not necessarily need war. Miss Siegel, those aren't your views. Those are the views of the social truth. I understand that Miss Siegel was expressing or paraphrasing the opinions of the two prior guests. First, I will say this. I don't agree at all with the Trotskyist position. I think that they are pro-Soviet and I think that they are completely wrong. To say that Russia is not an aggressive nation, to say that Russia is not seeking to build an empire, is just completely shutting one's eyes to the facts. Now, I agree that in the past wars were, we might say solely, the making of the breakdowns in the capitalist system. But I cannot go along with this business in Korea. This is not a capitalist war. Of course, it's true that these capitalists are making blood money. That's one of the great misfortunes about the capitalist system. We socialists would like to see a 100% tax on the profits and armaments. We would like to see total universal disarmament under international supervision and control. Total universal disarmament for permanent peace. But we also recognize the fact that there are certain things that must be handled in a way that recognizes the political implications. And Korea is one of them. And I think that when the SLP and the Trotskyites get together, they are both simply uttering again phrases that have no meaning in the real picture that faces us today. I trust that's the answer to your question. You think their phrases are a little out of date, huh? I think that's a classic understatement. They're not a little out of date. They're completely out of date in this case. It's not that I... Pardon me. I don't want to be misunderstood. Don't get me wrong. I think that the failure of capitalism can again lead to war. And I think this madman, Stalin, has happened to hit upon something correctly. Much as I think the man is incapable of becoming a great thinker, even a fool sometimes can utter wise words. And I believe that when he said that the next war may come not from the totalitarian group, but rather between the surviving capitalist countries themselves, there is a strong danger that that madman has guessed it right. Well, this Korean war is a pretty bloody war, and it isn't between capitalists, is it? No, I don't think so. I would say that this Korean misfortune is definitely one of the things that were planned by the communists. This business of war of attrition, breaking down those who would oppose communism effectively, is part and parcel of the plans of the Comintern. Mr. Chavkin. Now, you said in another context, Mr. Glass, that you would be slightly more radical than the British socialists. How close would you put yourself with the position of an iron Bevan, particularly his foreign policy position? I am very much in favor of many of the things that an iron Bevan said. However, I do not believe that his approach to what America is trying to accomplish is exactly the way I see it. Of course, I'm not being fooled by the fact that there is much of the capitalist profit-seeking in the iron business here in America. Let me interrupt for just a minute. Mr. Bevan is the leader, is he not, of the left wing of the Labour Party in Britain? Well, you can call it the left wing insofar as international affairs are concerned, you see. Otherwise, I do not believe that there would be much of a cleavage between Bevan and Morrison and Attlee and the rest. I think, for example, that they could have a common base on the question of nationalization, socialization, and so on. But I don't agree with Bevan on the question of what can be gained by England if they go along with America's attempt to rebuild a military force in Europe to meet an onslaught by Russia and her satellites. I have the distinct feeling that this is one of those things that we are reluctantly compelled to accept. However, let me bring this to your attention again. We still feel that even though you cannot get behind the Iron Curtain with ease, it is our duty in America to again and again and again, a billion times over if necessary, repeat to the whole world that will hear it the fact that we are peaceful people, and to start with we should repeat that formula. We are in favor of total universal discernment under international supervision, inspection, and control. And, of course, add to that the idea that we are ready to give aid all over the world where it's necessary so that people will become at least partly self-sustaining and thus be adherents to the Democratic bloc. Of course, there's much more I want to say, but I see you're itching to get at me. Yes, there have been several itching hands here. Miss Siegel, you had your hand up for some time. I would like to go back to some of the domestic issues of the campaign. Could you tell us what you think of the Taft-Hartley law? I think the Taft-Hartley law is an extremely bad law. It was ill-conceived, and I think it has done more harm in the matter of labor-management relationship than any good it had hoped to do. I think it is a law which completely fails to recognize the inequality and the economic bargaining power between labor and management. And I imagine I could take this whole period to give you a bill of particulars on the defects in the bill. On the positive side, would you give us an idea of what type of law you would advise? I would advise a law that would be very similar to that which we commonly refer to as the Wagner Act. I believe that law was fair, it was just, and it was being properly administered. One thing I would like to make certain, I don't care whom this hurts or whom it antagonizes, in any law I would like to see a very, very stringent proviso against any group, whether it be management or trade union, that discriminates against anyone because of race, creed, color, or political proclivities. If I may follow that up, one more question. Do you think that there should be some provision for stopping strikes which would hurt national security? I do not. I believe that if the people are given an opportunity to talk together freely and to sit around the table with persons who are calm and understand the problems, eventually intelligent people will come to a conclusion. If you want the right to stop a strike, why shouldn't there be the same kind of a right to say to capital, you go ahead and produce regardless of how much profit you make? It should cut both ways. And under capitalism, you're not getting such a law. Mr. Freeman. Well, the point is, though, I think that Miss Siegel meant was that we do have emergencies, and we have to meet them. Now, you will certainly have an emergency if workers in a vital field go out on strike, much more so than if... Well, as a matter of fact, I don't believe that the producers will ever fail to produce if they have the contract. You are Mr. Freeman, I take it. Mr. Freeman, I recommend to you that you go back and read a little bit of history in which capital refused unless the government, and this I'm now talking about the Second World War, the beginnings thereof, absolutely refused to make any investments unless the government would guarantee them profits, build for them huge plans, guarantee to turn it over to them, and whatnot. It was the most shameful display of utter disregard of the needs of the country, much more shameful than anything ever done by labor. And I think if it's a matter of import to you that you should go and make such a check and see what was done by capital big business to squeeze every penny of profit out of what they could get under the war economy. Well, Mr. Freeman, does Mr. Glass's suggestion that you go to the library answer your question? Well, no, not quite. I would like to know what he thinks of President Truman's action on the steel strike. Well, that's a matter which can be debated both ways. I personally think that Mr. Truman should have tried a bit more to permit the people to continue their negotiations. I'm not in favor of seizing the plants unless we're going to nationalize them. For that, I'm 100%. But what he does is simply prevents the union from carrying on an effective strike. This alleged help for labor may be satisfactory to some people who have a hero worship complex of Mr. Truman, but not I. As far as I'm concerned, I see in it a disservice to labor. And I think that there will come a time when labor will wake up and say, just a minute, don't bring us gifts that have a slight bit of poison behind it. There's no inconsistency, you see, there between your previous statement that we should prosecute the war to Korea to its fullest and your answer that the government should not intervene by seizure in these vital disputes. Oh, no, there's no inconsistency at all. As far as I'm concerned, I say this. If the right thing were done, we wouldn't have any private concerns making any money out of this war effort. If we must sacrifice lives, I feel quite strongly that profit is certainly less important than saving lives. And if anything can be done to expedite the end of the conflict in Korea by increasing the armament's output and decreasing the profit so that we could use it for better purposes, by all means, do it. Mr. Freeman, pardon me, Mr. Deutsch is spoiling to get into this, I can see. Well, I just wanted to ask Mr. Glass first if he heard Senator McCarthy speak earlier in the week. I did hear, uh, it pains me to use the term Senator. I heard that unspeakable person, and my contempt for him is such that if I were to express it, this would never get on the air. I think he's one of the most loathsome individuals I know of. Mr. Deutsch, does that answer your question? Well, it answers it partially. I just wanted to find out if Mr. Glass felt that the methods that Mr. McCarthy, notice I didn't say Senator, used to, uh, well, to get what he wants. Do you think that they menace democracy? I haven't any doubt about it. That's a loaded question which could give me hours of talk. Anything that's done by a demagogue of that type, by a man who's an unmitigated lawyer and has been proven to take things out of context, a man who has proven his cowardice and refusal to come off the Senate floor to make certain statements so that he could be brought into court, a man who is capable of doing all of the worst things that can be done under the guise of exercising his democratic rights, I don't think he's fit to associate with them. Frankly, if he was in his room, I'd walk out. That's a pretty strong answer, I would say. Mr. Chavkin. While we're on personalities, Mr. Glass, you said earlier that the difficulty in carrying out the programs you stand for that have been undertaken by the present administration was the fact that they were very poor administrators. Do you see any hope in either of the two major candidates now that there'll be an improvement after the election? That was a long question. We only have time for a short answer, sir. The answer is it doesn't make much difference. However, there's no doubt in my mind about it that Mr. Stevenson is far superior to Eisenhower, but those people whom Stevenson is going to be surrounded by are going to scuttle every attempt he might make. Thank you very, very much. Well, this has been another edition of the WNYC Campus Press Conference, a new program transcribed in which the editors of college newspapers interview prominent people in the news. Today's guest was Joseph Glass, socialist candidate for United States Senator from New York. On the panel were Jack Freeman of the Fordham Ram, Mrs. Stell Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Erwin Chafkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University, and Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. This is Gabriel Pressman inviting you to join us again every week for the WNYC Campus Press Conference.
