And at this time, it would have been his great honor and privilege, as it's going to be mine, to introduce a man whom this city loves well and deservedly. A great statesman, soldier, humanitarian, a very great American, our own Mayor, Vincent R. Impelletari. Mr. Sauter, Reverend Clergy, Mr. Baruch, Mr. Justice Gavigan, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, this great gathering marks the 12th annual I Am an American Day. The thousands upon thousands of New Yorkers who are assembled here this afternoon are met under God's blue firmament to reaffirm allegiance and faith in our country, its institutions, and ideals. No matter what our racial origin, our difference of political opinion, our divergence of religious faith, the fact that we are Americans brings us together today to pledge anew our devotion to our national heritage. New York City, for more than a decade now, has led the other cities of our nation with the greatest demonstration on this annual I Am an American Day. It was inaugurated prior to World War II, and these programs have carried on throughout the war years and during the postwar period. Since our last gathering here in Central Park, international tensions have again seized the world, and our loved ones are sacrificing their lives in Korea for the ideals of justice and freedom, which our country and the United Nations seek to preserve for the peoples of all the world. Our heritage of freedom as Americans did not come to us by accident. It was achieved only after generations of struggle suffering and sacrifice. Our forefathers settled here and set up a government with constitutional safeguards against terror, torture, oppression, and intolerance. Several years ago, Justice Learned Hand, senior judge of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, whose retirement was announced recently, addressed the I Am an American Day program here in Central Park. And I should like to refer to his remarks. I quote, We have gathered here today to affirm a faith, a faith in a common purpose, a common conviction, a common devotion. Some of us have chosen America as the land of our adoption. The rest have come from those who did the same. For this reason, we have some right to consider ourselves a picked group, a group of those who had the courage to break from the past and brave the dangers and loneliness of a strange land. What was the object that nerved us or those who went before us? who, in their own way, of their own choice, came to these shores. We sought liberty, freedom from oppression, freedom from wrong, freedom to be ourselves. Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women. When it dies, no constitution, no law, no court can save it. No constitution, no law, no court can even do much to help it. While it lies there, it needs no constitution, no law, no court to save it. What then is the spirit of liberty? I cannot define it. I can only tell you my own faith. The spirit of liberty is the spirit which is not too sure that it is right. The spirit of liberty is the spirit which seeks to understand the minds of other men and women. The spirit of liberty is the spirit which weighs their interests alongside its own without bias. The spirit of liberty. The spirit of liberty remembers that not even a sparrow falls to earth unheeded. The spirit of liberty is the spirit of liberty. The spirit of liberty is the spirit of him who, nearly 2,000 years ago, taught mankind that lesson it has never learned, but has never quite forgotten. The spirit of liberty is the spirit of liberty, that there may be a kingdom where the least shall be heard and considered side by side with the greatest. End of quote. Only a great mind could say so simply and so beautifully what Americanism, what liberty, and what freedom means to us. It is my privilege as chief executive of our city and as honorary chairman of this event to welcome the thousands of American native-born youth who have come of age within the last 12 months and the thousands of foreign-born men and women who have this year been granted citizenship through naturalization. With them, in just a few moments, we will pledge our faith in you to the glorious destiny of our country. Before closing, I should like to express our city's heartfelt appreciation to Walter T. Shirley, chairman, and to Jim Sauter, chairman of the committee on arrangements, and to the great stars and entertainers of stage, screen, opera, radio, and television who are providing us with such a grand program of entertainment this afternoon. I would, of course, also like to thank each and every man, woman, and child in this audience who, in spite of the threatening weather, took time out to join with us in celebrating I Am an American Day. Thank you, and God bless America. Thank you. Thank you.