Yes Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. of every New Yorker for the honored guest of today. We found it immediately upon his arrival on the Ile de France, and again this morning as he came up Lower Broadway. The throngs just took him to his heart as he took them. And I'm sure that as he opened his arms to the people that he passed, they felt as close to him as any Frenchman ever felt to him. It's a great privilege, Mr. Mayor, to present to you, His Excellency, Vincent Aureo, President of the Republic of France. Mr. Whalen. Mr. President, Madam Aureo, my fellow New Yorkers, we are indeed honored today by the visit of President Vincent Aureo, President of the French Republic, Friend of Freedom, and Friend of the United States of America. Mr. Vincent Aureo's lifetime of service to his country covers a period of two wars, great prosperity, deep depression, and political change. His political career began in 1914, and he is a real expert in government, whose service to his nation has been rewarded by a very grateful people. Let me tell you something of the career of this statesman, who has come here to tell us that France will stand firmly with us on the side of freedom. During the last war, after his glorious nation was overrun by the German army, Vincent Aureo was one of 80 courageous deputies who voted against the granting of full powers to the man who sought to govern France for the Nazis. For this, he was sent to prison. On his release, he joined the resistance, and so did his wife and his son. I'm happy to tell you that both Madame Aureo and his son are present with us in the council chamber today. Hounded by the Gestapo, he was forced to assume a disguise and to flee, alone and starving. Finally, he was driven from his homeland by the Nazis, but he took up the work of the resistance in London and headed the free French government there and in Algiers. France is honored to have as their president a man who has suffered and struggled so hard for her. Frenchmen in every part of the world must be proud of this first family, every one of whose members risked life and freedom for their nation and who have stood with courage against the most dangerous enemies of human freedom. As mayor of this great city, I am happy to offer the warmest of welcomes to President Aureo. I want him to know that all New York joins me in a friendly salute to him, to his charming wife, and to his son. All of us want them to know that their visit here has done much to strengthen the ancient friendship between Paris and New York, France and the United States. We wish them well, and we look ahead to the countless years during which our nations will prosper together in peace and freedom based upon a common faith in human liberty. It's now my great pleasure, as the mayor of the city of New York, representing all eight million people who live within our city, our city to present this token of our respect, our esteem, and our love for our distinguished visitor by handing to him this distinguished service scroll of the city of New York. President Aureo... His Excellency President Vincent Aureo of France is now standing beside the mayor. President Aureo, before presenting you with this scroll, I would like very much, for the benefit of the audience, for the benefit of the thousands upon thousands of people who are listening in, to read to you this scroll. For distinguished and exceptional public service, Office of the Mayor, City of New York, know all men by these presents that I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, His Excellency Vincent Aureo, President of the Republic of France, whose public benefactions in serving his country for 37 years and uniting it against aggression from within and from without, and in continuing the long and honorable friendship between the United States of America and the Republic of France, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep and abiding appreciation of the people of the City of New York. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this third day of April 1951, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor. It's my great pleasure to present this scroll to you, President Aureo. Thank you, President Aureo. Thank you, President Aureo. Thank you, President Aureo. Well, I guess all prodigal has to be abandoned now because the cameramen, with special lighting effects and everything, are very anxious to get this historical event. They're looking for young Mr. Aureo now to get him in the picture. They're taking him now up to the dais and making a family picture of it as well. In just a moment, young Mr. Aureo will take his place with his father and mother. And there he is now. And he blushes, looks quite excited under the circumstances. And now the cameramen have taken over and they're the boss of the situation. And their imperial orders are being issued to the mayor of the City of New York, the President of the Republic of France, Madame Aureo. And they've just ordered the young Mr. Aureo, Mr. Paul Aureo, to move over to the side of the mayor. And now they're grouping and the orders are being issued. The cameras are clicking. And it's a very, very active scene as this picture, this most amazing picture, which in itself causes the unity of France and America to be epitomized. And this wonderful city of New York that has always appreciated the culture, the beauty, the arts, the contours and the magnificence of France's contribution to life and history. President Aureo of France seems most happy and contented. He shows no indications of temperature. He's very, very poised and really seems to have been enjoying himself very, very much because the wholeheartedness and the affection of this reception seems to have reached even to a guest who up to now has been somewhat of a stranger here in New York City. It's an auspicious occasion indeed when the President of the Republic of France visits the City of New York. And now the pictures have shifted to the other side where another group of cameramen who were not in the last grouping and the pictures, well, these very notable guests, they move around very nicely and very obligingly because they realize the importance of these pictures and their essence of quality to history itself. And Madame Aureo's very large white hat, and it is an extremely large one for a windy day in New York, well, it's perfectly safe here in the Council Chamber, but we hope she's in a closed car when she leaves City Hall to go to other places. Those cameras are clicking and I never saw such a scene of activity in my life, and I never saw so many cameras, so many cameramen and so many special lights to make sure that this picture is a real authoritative depickment of what took place here in the Council Chamber today. It's very interesting to attend the meetings where the prodigal is set up for these formal occasions, where politeness and consideration and everything is stressed to the utmost, and courtesy especially. And then, of course, the hurly-burly of this struggle for pictures and the various agencies of picturization from the various newspapers and magazines, and the intrepid way in which they call out, just wait a minute, Mr. President, just wait a minute, wait a minute, don't move yet. These are the kind of orders that are going out, and certainly there's no Lord Chesterfield method followed, or any of the prodigals that we associate with the State Departments of either nation, but it is essential, it is a practical thing, and when we look at our papers and periodicals and see these pictures, clear, concise pictures, visual in every way of what took place, then we're very happy that these cameramen are so brave and on the job so thoroughly. It gives, I imagine, the President some idea of the directness of American methods, whereby the thing itself is what counts. Even though Hamlet is supposed to say the play is the thing, the thing itself is what seems to matter here in New York, and they just work exactly on that basis. The idea is to get pictures, and believe me, they get them. And now Mr. Oriole is leaving the stand. He's a very nice-looking young man, and looks to be about 5'8", possibly, if I'm any judge of weight, about 175 pounds. Now Mr. Whelan. Yeah. Do you want a little water? No, we're trying to get over. Mr. Whelan, I will pronounce it in French, and then it will be translated. Vincent. Mr. Le Maire, this incredible support of New York, this beautiful expression of your people for France, for you – this beautiful, mascarine of US University, for underapphrasing the extreme lightweight people for you. And the so powerful words, it is referred to asEN as yourца – this full and nice city. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. Thank you, New York. New York créé par l'homme, voulu par l'homme et toujours au service de l'homme. New York, dont nos meilleurs écrivains ont célébré l'incomparable et saisissante grandeur. New York, l'audacieuse. New York, l'organisatrice. New York, la généreuse. New York, toujours nouvelle. New York, foyer de toutes les richesses et de toutes les activités. Quel extraordinaire et exaltant exemple vous nous offrez de l'invincible puissance du travail libre et pacifique. Des millions d'hommes de races et de nationalités différentes sont venus sur cette terre de tous les pays du globe trouver refuge, travail et liberté. Et par la diversité de leurs origines et de leurs caractères ont fait une unité puissante et harmonieuse. C'est à une seule cité une vivante démocratie internationale. Et la France, elle aussi, hospitalière aux exilés. La France formée également à travers l'histoire d'une riche et éclatante diversité et qui, à son tour, fait de l'Union française une vaste communauté de peuples et d'hommes égaux en droit et en devoir, sans aucune distinction d'origine, de race ou de confession, la France qui, comme vous, aborde le régime d'oppression et veut la paix dans la liberté, la France vous admire, vous comprend et vous aide. Mais New York ne s'est pas contenté d'accueillir et de recevoir. New York a toujours su donner. C'est d'ici que sont partis déjà deux fois dans l'histoire des millions de jeunes Américains qui venaient défendre ou reconquérir les sources de leur civilisation. Côte à côte, avec nos soldats, ils ont combattu pour un même idéal de justice, d'indépendance et de dignité humaine. Ainsi ont été fortifiés par l'épreuve commune les liens qui, depuis la guerre d'indépendance, ont toujours uni nos deux nations avec une constance unique dans l'histoire. Ainsi s'est trouvé une fois, une nouvelle fois, justifiée dans la fraternité des armes, le symbole de liberté sculpté par un fils de notre chère Alsace et que Paris et New York portent tous deux fièrement au seuil de l'Ancien et du Nouveau Monde. Paris, qui va célébrer cette année en des fêtes éclatantes sobis millénaires et qui, après ces deux mille ans d'histoire, a prouvé qu'il était resté le Paris des révolutions de la liberté, le Paris de l'intelligence et du labeur, le Paris de la pensée et de l'action, le Paris du goût et de l'imagination. Paris salue fraternellement New York, son ami des bons comme des mauvais jours, New York toujours fidèle, toujours resplendissante de jeunesse et d'espérance. Que les pessimistes, que les sceptiques, que les défaitistes contemplent en New York ce concret des hommes libres, animés d'une foi inébranlable dans le progrès humain et dans les destinées de la démocratie. Et quelle source plus vivifiante pour nous de confiance raisonnée et enthousiaste dans l'homme, sa paix, son avenir. Et vous, monsieur le maire, qui avez la lourde et noble tâche d'administrer cette grande collectivité, votre carrière et l'image même de l'efficacité de la démocratie américaine. Vous vous êtes fait vous-même, à force de travail et d'énergie. Votre indépendance, votre compétence, l'élévation de votre pensée, votre libéralisme, votre dévouement total au bien de la cité et à l'entente féconde entre les citoyens vous ont conquis l'estime et l'affection de tous vos compatriotes. À l'image de votre illustre prédécesseur, cherelle Lola Guardia, dont les Français n'ont pas oublié l'attachante figure, ni quelle aide active, matérielle et morale, il n'a cessé de donner à la France libre et au mouvement de résistance, vous êtes un grand ami de notre pays. J'ai aujourd'hui l'heureux privilège de vous remettre la commanderie de notre ordre national de la Légion d'honneur. En vous discernant cette distinction, le gouvernement de la République n'entend pas seulement honorer le premier magistrat de la plus grande ville des États-Unis, mais associé à la gloire de cette grande cité, ami, les mérites d'un homme dont toute la vie illustre la célèbre pensée de Lincoln, le gouvernement du peuple, par le peuple et pour le peuple. Vive New York, vive les États-Unis, vive l'amitié de New York et de Paris, vive l'amitié de la France et de l'Amérique. Applaudissements The interpreter now will give some idea for those who are not familiar with French what the President said. Monsieur le Premier de l'Amérique, The interpreter. Au nom de la République française, nous vous faisons commandeur de la Légion d'honneur. Oh, no, that's something altogether different. The animal Vincent Impoletere, mayor of the city of New York, has just been made a member of the Legion of Honor, and the President of the Republic of France has just pinned the red ribbon around his neck, and he's being kissed on both cheeks, one Vincent to another. And, oh, the mayor wears his decoration now and his face is as red as the ribbon. And President Auréole is most happy. La première accolade était réglementée, recommandée par la Légion d'honneur. Et maintenant, cela va faire plaisir aux photographes, je donne la seconde accolade, qui est une accolade d'affection et d'amitié. The maiden prime minister. And the President of France again kisses the mayor of the city of New York. That's prodigal. And when we transfer in our minds the love of power to the power of love that might well be epitomized by the kiss of peace that may be universal, and now the police of Glee Club, they contribute their part to the program, and they will sing. Not yet. Mr. Whelan changed the program for a minute. There's a desire for pictures with the mayor's decoration. And now the mayor feels all dressed up with that ribbon around his... And now Mr... Translate the President's address. Mr. Whelan, the translator's on now. Mr. Mayor, this unforgettable welcome of the city of New York is a striking expression of the friendship of your people for France. To you, Mr. Mayor, whose noble and lofty words have profoundly impressed me, to your beautiful and powerful city, to your magnificent population, whose welcome will be heard by my compatriots and received as the warmest demonstration of undying friendship, from the depths of our hearts we say thank you. Yes, thank you, New York, for all you have done for France, for freedom, and for humanity. I have come to bring you a message of gratitude and of admiration from my country. I have come to salute the largest city of the United States, the famous economic and cultural capital of the North Atlantic, the industrious and hospitable international city, the metropolis of the free world. New York, created by man, willed by man, and always at the service of mankind. New York, whose matchless and impressive grandeur has been celebrated by our most distinguished writers. New York, the bold. New York, the organizer. New York, the generous. New York, the ever-changing. New York, the center of all wealth and all activity. What an extraordinary and exalting example you offer of the invincible power of free and peaceful labor. Millions of men of many races and nationalities have come to this land from all over the world to find refuge, work, and freedom. And out of the very diversity of their origins and characters, they have created a powerful, harmonious, and peaceful union. This is a living international democracy embodied in one single city. And France, who also welcomes exiles, who has also been fashioned through her history out of a rich and colorful diversity, in turn, transforms the French Union into a vast community of peoples, of men equal in duty and in right, without distinction of race, origin, or religion. France, like you, hates regimes of oppression and desires peace in freedom. France admires you, understands you, and loves you. But New York is not satisfied only to welcome and to receive. New York has also always known how to give. It is from here that twice in history, millions of young Americans have gone to defend or reconquer the sources of their civilization. Side by side with our soldiers, they have fought for the same ideal of justice, of independence, and of human dignity. Thus have been strengthened by a common ordeal, the links, which have united our two nations ever since the War of Independence, with a constancy unique in history. Thus has been justified anew in the fraternity of arms the symbol of liberty, sculptured by a son of our dear Alsace, which Paris and New York proudly display on the thresholds of the old and the new world. Paris, which this year will celebrate its 2000th anniversary with glittering festivals. Paris, which after all these years has proved that it has remained the Paris of the revolutions for freedom. Paris, known for its wisdom and industry, for its ideas and its actions, the Paris of imagination and taste, this Paris sends its fraternal salute to New York City, its friend, both in the good and in the bad days. To New York, always faithful, always resplendent with youth and hope. Let the pessimists, the skeptics, the defeatists, observe in New York what has been created by free men, animated with an unshakable faith in human progress and in the destiny of democracy. What example can more invigorate us with enthusiastic and justified confidence in man, in his toil and his future? To you, Mr. Mayor, who have the hard and noble task of administering this great community, your career is itself the image of the effectiveness of American democracy. You have built yourself up through work and energy. Your independence, the elevation of your thoughts, your liberalism, your total devotion to the good of the city and to the productive understanding between its citizens have won you the esteem and the affection of all your countrymen. Like your illustrious predecessor, Fiorello LaGuardia, whose friendly encouragement and active material and moral aid to free France and to the movements of resistance, Frenchmen have not forgotten you are a great friend of our country. Today, I have the happy privilege of bestowing upon you the commanderie of our national order of the Legion of Honor. In awarding you this distinction, the government of the French Republic wishes not only to honour the first magistrate of the largest city in the United States, but also to associate with the glory of this great and friendly city the merits of a man whose whole life is an illustration of the celebrated sentence of Lincolns, the government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Long live New York. Long live the United States. Long live the friendship between New York and Paris. Long live the friendship between France and America. And now, Mr. Whelan. Will everybody remain in their seats? The commanding officer of the Presidential Honor Guard will prepare for a presidential review. In the meantime, we shall have the Police Glee Club render a selection. of the men of old their sons may copy their virtues bold. Courage in heart and a sword in hand all ready to fight and ready to die for all the land. Who needs bidding to death by a trumpet blown? Who lacks many to spare when a field is won? Who would fight when the foe and below the vast? And most people's true as cows might do when peril is fast? Glory and love to the men of old. Their sons make hobbies and virtues bold. Courage in heart and a sword in hand all ready to fight for all the land. Now to home again We come along and fiery strife of battle's over Precious pleasant land To toil as hard as us beneath the strangest sun Beneath the wildest strangest sun Many a maiden fed is waiting here to greet a true and soldier lover And many a heart will fail and drown Will fail to hear To hear the tale of peril He has run And many a heart And many a heart Will fail and drown Will fail to hear The tale of peril He has run We are at home We are at home We are at home We are at home We are at home We are at home We are at home Glory and love to the men of old Their sons may copy their merchant's phone Courage in heart and a sword in hand All ready to fight for Father Lamb All ready to fight Now ready to die For Father Lamb All ready to die All ready to die All ready to die All ready to die For Father Lamb And now Mr. Whelan Would the audience please remain in their places until the Presidential Party leaves the Chamber The facilities of your Municipal Broadcasting System have brought you the reception which the Honorable Vincent Impeletere Mayor of the City of New York tendered to His Excellency Vincent Aureole President of the Republic of France to Madame Aureole and his son Monsieur Paul Aureole In the course of this ceremony and the end of President Aureole's speech We had the distinct pleasure and honor of seeing the President of France personally in Just a moment We had the President of France We saw the President of France at least personally invest the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeletere with the Order of the Legion of Honor tying the red ribbon around his neck with the decoration that accompanied it in the practically covering the necktie that he was ordinarily wearing in the dress clothes which the Mayor was wearing at the time That came as a little surprise and immediately after that the interpreter from the United Nations gave the speech in English The musical organizations contributing to the reception today were the First Army Band and the Band of the Department of Sanitation The Police Glee Club of the City of New York gave the inimitable touch to the proceedings by singing one of the great classics of French opera the one item in that French opera on the occasion of its debut in Paris which made the greatest hit with the critics the Soldiers Chorus and we are accustomed to hearing the splendid work of the Police Glee Club in these prodigal ceremonies at City Hall and now is the President of France his lady and his son Paul accompanied by the Mayor of the City of New York the animal Vincent Impeletere descend the staircase of the City Hall here to witness the review in front of City Hall we take leave of you from the Council Chamber and join with the program now in progress This is the Municipal Broadcasting System the Municipal Broadcasting System