Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Andrew W. Mulrane of the Department of Sanitation, who is Deputy Director of the Emergency Public Works Division. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Mulrane, it is a pleasure to have you back with us again in this discussion of what the various city departments are doing to guard our homes against the possibility of an atomic or chemical attack. I am sure our listeners will be glad to hear of the civil defense plans made by your Department of Sanitation. It is nice to be back on the air with you again, Commissioner. I am grateful for the opportunity to inform the many people who listen to this program of the various services they can count on from their sanitation department. Commissioner Mulrane, what new civil defense measures has your department taken since we last discussed the situation on the air? Well, perhaps the most important or most interesting development is the preparation we are making to handle a job which, in the event of an atomic attack, would be rather remote from our assigned demolition and decontamination mission. Now, what's that, Commissioner? First aid. Oh, I see. First aid. You mean first aid for an ailing building or a cluttered street or what? No, not this time. I mean first aid, the medical kind. I see. Don't tell me your sanitation men would become doctors if an aggressor struck at our city with bombs or chemicals. No, not quite. But about 13,000 sanitation men and women would become qualified first aid personnel if an attack did materialize. That's quite different from our normal assignment and would be even farther afield under war conditions. Well, how will you manage this, Commissioner? To begin with, the American Red Cross has given 23 selected men in our department a thorough grading in first aid. These men, plus 70 others who were recently qualified as instructors, will form the sanitation teaching staff. Eventually, this faculty will instruct every member of the department in first aid. Well, I'm very glad to hear this, because as I know it, first aid is going to be a tremendously important job. That sounds like your project sounds like a very ambitious one, Commissioner. How did you approach this job, and how will you proceed with it? I didn't know you were equipped to go into the schooling business, but tell us something about it. Well, in the early phase of this training program, our own school comes in very handy. Your own school, Commissioner, what's that? Well, the Sanitation Department Training Center, a street cleaning college, some of our men call it. That's an institution we added last year. We renovated an old public school building in Ryerson Street in Brooklyn, and there we now train all the sanitation recruits. When it became necessary to train aid men for civilian defense, the training center proved a valuable asset. Oh, good. How long will this first aid course take, Commissioner Moraine? Eighteen hours. Eighteen hours, which must be split up so as not to interfere with our normal street cleaning operations. How do you propose to indoctrinate all of your 13,000 men in first aid, Mr. Moraine? Will you send them to your training center? No, sir. Our manpower situation is such that we are already strained to keep up with the job load. We plan to send our first aid instructors into the field. They will instruct members of the uniform force and section stations in garage and other job locations. Oh, I see. This is going to be a real on-the-job training, so to speak. Yes, Mr. Wallander. We can't afford to devote our men for two lengthy periods. Regardless of the urgency for training aid men, we still have over four million tons of refuse to contend with each year. Yes, and there still are streets to be swept, too. Isn't that so? Mm-hmm. About 4,000 miles of streets must be flushed or swept every day, and a fleet of trucks must be serviced, along with other jobs. Garbage is a big business in New York. Yes, I realize that a training program like yours calls for judicious development of men. I expect you'll schedule your training sessions on days when your job load is lightest. That's right. Probably most of our classes will be conducted on Thursday, Friday, and Saturdays, when the refuse output is not as heavy as earlier in the week. Well, that's fine. I'm glad you'll be able to spare the men for this important training in civil defense. Commissioner, we really can't spare the men, but we do spare them. Even though we need every available man on the street, I feel civil defense measures are so important that all of us, city departments and individuals alike, must make concessions. Well, I want to say right now, Commissioner Moraine, that you've always been very cooperative, and it's a nice thing to have you around. Will your first aid men have any special equipment to work with, Commissioner? Yes, in all probability. We have requested funds to purchase 1,500 first aid kits. These will be put in all our trucks. We also plan to have at our neighborhood locations a supply of bandages, splints, and similar equipment. It certainly is reassuring to know that these medical supplies will be so handy. Even sanitation trucks might be pressed into service as ambulances if an attack on our city did materialize. You're prepared for that, aren't you? Oh, yes, Mr. Waller. I think that in a pinch our trucks adequately would serve that purpose, even though this would not be our primary mission. Of course, Commissioner, demolition and decontamination would be the Department of Sanitation's chief functions in the event of an atomic or chemical attack. You're right, Commissioner. Most of our personnel in over 1,200 trucks would immediately swing into action to clear the streets of debris and flush into sewers chemicals which an enemy aggressor might deposit. How many flushing trucks could you employ, Mr. Moraine? About 175. And these would be supplemented by hose reel gangs and other personnel which would man over 4,000 lengths of hose. We now hand flush streets into markets and certain other areas with this hose equipment. Is flushing the only use to which you could put your tank trucks? Oh, no. Most of them could be used to haul milk and other important liquids if the city supply lines were cut. Well, that's some information. It's good to know that. How much do they hold, Mr. Moraine? Well, our modern flushes hold between 2,500 and 3,500 gallons. You could use these for hauling drinking water or even decontamination fluid. Incidentally, have you trained your men in decontamination? A few, and we plan to instruct more. We had 10 of our men attend a course in radiological safety. This was conducted at the Delafield Hospital by the Committee on Radiological Safety of the Public Health Emergency Division. And I suppose you plan to disseminate this type of information throughout the sanitation department? Yes, Commissioner, we do, in much the same fashion as our first aid instructional staff will do. Our 10-dink contamination experts will get down to the job level. Eventually, we plan to have at least one decontamination squad in each of our 60 districts. Commissioner Moraine, your program sounds like an ambitious one. Now that we know of some of your plans, perhaps it would be well if you told us how you would tie all the loose ends together in the event of an emergency. Well, as you know, Mr. Wallander, the sanitation department has a broad network of communications, including telephone, radio, and teletype. All of this readily can be geared to civil defense needs. I didn't know you had so much radio, but do your district supervisors have two-way radios too, in their cars, for instance? No, not yet. We hope to equip our fleet of cars with radio, however. This would aid inter-borro communications in the event the telephone or telephone-type systems were knocked out. As I recall, you said on our previous broadcast that 125 Waite Street is the nerve center of your organization. Is that still so? Yes, sir, that's so. And in view of special needs, civilian defense measures might impose on us. We are expanding our individual borough organizations. I would expect, Commissioner, you'll assign key personnel to strategic positions in these borough command posts. We shall. In each of the borough's civilian defense headquarters, we will have sanitation men on duty around the clock. Each man will be thoroughly familiar with our equipment and operations and will be ready to facilitate the activation of any type sanitation services which may be desired by the borough civil defense director. In the event of a localized action, would your men in the borough civil defense office work through your own Worth Street headquarters? Oh, probably not. They would elect the Department of Sanitation borough superintendent and obtain the equipment or the men nearer the scene of action. That could mean the dispatching of heavy rescue machinery, wreckers, bulldozers, cranes, trucks, and so on, couldn't it? Why, yes, Commissioner. All of that and such things as snowplows which could be used to clear the roads of debris. Our borough control men might also summon sanitation employees with special skills. Such as? All mechanics for one group. We have a large force of men normally used to keep our trucks rolling. This staff could help repair power lines and plumbers would help restore water mains and there would be many other jobs for our carpenters and similarly skilled personnel. Well, Commissioner, with your maximum apportionment of the forces available in case of emergency, I suppose you have provided a niche for your administrative staff. Yes, sir. Our clerical force, or that part of it which could be spared, has the mission of supplementing the men in the street. They would be given first aid tests and be assigned to job locations in administrative capacities and thus free in a uniform then for actual emergency operations. What you term job locations amount to quite a number of buildings, don't they, Commissioner? They do, Mr. Waller. The Department of Sanitation maintains over 350 city-owned or leashed premises. Our building houses everything from huge incinerators and waterfront disposal plans to small section stations. Well, you sure have a lot of buildings. In accordance with the recent Civil Defense Memorandum, I presume you have made provisions for a building control directive for each location. Oh, yes, we have. One man has been designated as a civilian defense coordinator in each building. In the event of a disaster, he would serve in a role similar to that of a chief air raid or fire warden and would direct safety measures. Well, it is very important to have that kind of a setup, as you'll agree. And that reminds me, Commissioner, in all those garages of yours, do you have any room? We're going to need some space to store extra firefighting equipment, which will be manned by auxiliary firefighters. Can you help us out there? I think we can, sir. Many of our 80 garages all over the city are overcrowded, but a few of the newer ones might be able to store your fire apparatus. Will you give us credit for another assist on your civil defense program for this accommodation? By Commissioner Mulrane, that's a bargain. You and your department thus far have shown the Civil Defense Organization every cooperation. I want you and your staff to know we appreciate your efforts. Thank you, Commissioner. We're always glad to help in the tremendous work you are doing and have yet to do. None of us want ever to use the forces available for the defense and possible rehabilitation of our city, but we must be prepared for anything. Well, that's exactly so, Mr. Mulrane. And during the last war, the people of London proved what preparedness can mean to the life of a great city. And with the help of God and men like yourself, we too shall be prepared to help our city withstand any assault an enemy might make upon New York. Thank you for everything, Commissioner Mulrane. You have been swell to come over here. Thank you for meeting with us tonight and for giving us this reassuring picture of what another great municipal agency is doing to safeguard the lives and the property of our citizens. You have been listening to another in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Andrew W. Mulrane of the Department of Sanitation, who is Deputy Director of the Emergency Public Works Division. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Sioux Falls of the Anti-Second Propulsion to komen, if that's not a big thing about our申請, most of the city of New York City companies are available in this evening. Another kangaroo team will again be devoted to masukvency. Hence, the Kansas City bereits has contained an outside of a 1970 by360 game. To be coming at this time when the vozph gedacht is due to this date, it is briefly the host of the indigenous государ and language Mainnet on свет means you have understood how to help us become an outside. There's a safe show on the outside set of umbrella act recommendations, and after demonstrating events from the exact었어요 will come back together andyn, things concussion to meet the społec, has become an external meeting the whole truck that chooses to order for a baldlike