We say that right in the middle of our explanation why the radio came in and we're down here at Idlewild, New York's international airport, where a great company is assembled to combine Richmond, Brooklyn, Army and Youth Day. Just a few moments ago, a young Master DeVito took off in a helicopter and was carried over to a Scandinavian plane that will take him on a goodwill trip to Europe. And the poise of this youngster, he didn't seem to be much more than 10 or 12 years old. He was speeded on his way by Borough President Hall of Richmond. And just as the helicopter left with the youth on his way to carry the message of youth to Europe, why the other helicopter of the Navy, the Sikorsky, has just landed and Borough President Cashmore is standing at attention, receiving the salute of guns as they are taking off here with all the formalities of a great day at Idlewild. Borough President Hall has gone down to greet him and these two great boroughs of Richmond and Kings, to be more exact, but more affectionately Brooklyn, are holding forth here today in the formalities. Now there's still a few moments, the guns are still going and the President can't move while the prodigal prevails. But as soon as it's concluded, why he and Borough President Hall will come back to the speaker's stand. We'll have music by the department of, the police department rather, band and glee club. And when the time comes for the anthem, with distinguished artist singing as well, Marjorie Fabregas, and then the regular order of program, the formalities of these two Brooklyn, these two boroughs rather, we're not entirely all Brooklyn, just part. And the Borough of Kings, more affectionately as I said Brooklyn, will take over. And the guns are still going off and the Borough President has to stand there until all the prodigal formalities are finished. We're having a lot of fun here at Idlewild. We're demonstrating the facility of aviation with the calmness and ease with which this Sikorsky, Navy Sikorsky, dropped here on the ground right in front of the speaker's stand on a space that is not much bigger than the ordinary extension roof of a private dwelling. We conducted that fine exhibition of communications and their facilities from the Herald Tribune plane a little previous to that. And the air factors of the show here today have been very interesting. And if that gun ever stops firing, we'll have some other kind of a program as well. And now, Groveray Whalen has conducted his guests here to the stand, and it'll only be a few moments now while felicitations and greetings are going on here at the speaker's stand before we present Mr. Whalen. This wonderful air show here today at Idlewild and every day this week, despite prevailing ceilings, why, they've put on wonderful demonstrations. Those jet planes, despite low ceilings, they've done some very remarkable flying, breathtaking flying, in fact. And then we've had all the dramatization of Coast Guard rescue work with the various types of helicopters. In fact, every way that aviation may be adapted to the present-day situation, why we've had that demonstration. Our host, Mr. Whalen, is very anxious that the police department make arrangements for the public to come in and occupy the seats here in the boxes and reserve sections here. He wants everybody to sit down and take a seat, and he knows that the police department, in their own smiling, efficient way, will manage this and permit the people to occupy these seats here. Mr. Whalen requests that his guests be seated so that they may enjoy this program here today. What do you want, Eddie? Yeah. Well, just to show you that the police department is always alerted, Eddie Dillinger now tells me that they're ready to give us some music before we start the regular formalities because all the neighbors from Brooklyn and Richmond are shaking hands and saying hello. So we'll listen now to the police glee club while they consistently sing Jubilee. Thank you. Thank you. It's 50 years today, it's the golden jubilee of the city of New York. 50 years and we have really gone a lot, and we're thankful for the many blessings that we've got. Our congratulations to, to the hope I borrows through. So I know that we are proud to be at the golden jubilee of the city of New York. It's the golden jubilee of the city of New York. Everywhere you go you hear the folks all say that New York's the greatest city in the world today. Our congratulations indeed, makes no difference what you're free. So I know that we are proud to be at the golden jubilee of the city of New York. N-E-W-Y-O-R-K, New York! Thank you very much, gentlemen of the Police Glee Club. We'll have the musical facilities of the police band under Captain Eugene LeBar and Eddie Dillon conducting the Police Glee Club in the formal features of this ceremony. And a fine young lady will sing the anthem when that time comes. Mr. Whelan is taking a few moments in order that the expressed wish of Mr. Whelan, that the police department arrange for the people to take the seats up here front and join in with the boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens in the celebration here today at Idlewild. Today is Brooklyn, Richmond, and Army and Youth Day. And as we said, for the benefit of those who may have tuned in a little late on the program, just as one helicopter took off with a youth from the borough of Richmond, God speeded by the borough president, borough president Hall, speeding on his way to Europe where a plane of the Scandinavian Airlines was waiting just across the field to take him from the helicopter, the Navy helicopter, the Sikorsky with borough president Cashmore aboard, alighted here at the field. And I'm telling you, if this keeps up much longer, none of us will use any other transportation but air. We've had such a concept of speed, tremendous speed here, and the demonstrations of air facility have been so great at Idlewild that we feel that everybody from now on in New York will be air-minded. And now I believe Mr. Whelan, our genial and competent host, the man who knows more about organizing a great demonstration to properly put forward the city of New York in its best aspects, is waiting now, and we have the distinct privilege of presenting the Honorable Grover A. Whelan. Thank you, Mr. Cowan. There's nothing like having a competent announcer to introduce you. And Tommy does that so well here that I'm sure that all those who have had the great pleasure of hearing him will agree with me that he does a swell job for our great municipal station, WNYC. This is, as you know, or was to be, before the elements interfered, Richmond Day. And Richmond very generously waived its sole right to the occupancy of this platform to Brooklyn. And, of course, as you all observed a few moments ago, the Borough President of Brooklyn, the Honorable John Cashmore, did not come the way of all we folks, but arrived in a helicopter. He had read of the assimilated rescue that we had the other day that unfortunately had an accident. And he was hoping for a similar experience, I'm sure. I hope you also heard, I think it was the 86 guns that saluted the President upon his arrival. He told me that if he had a Brooklyn policeman here, he would have ordered the arrest of the gunner because he had not received a permit from the President of the Borough of Brooklyn. He said there are presidents and presidents. And, of course, I'm not going to let him do anything to Richmond because it's an island separated from the mainland. But, Mr. President of the Borough of Brooklyn, John Cashmore, may I say to you that as the Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the Commemoration of the Golden Anniversary that you were a stalwart in the belief that this great international air exposition could be successfully planned and carried out. And I'm sure that last Saturday when you were here, when the eyes of the world were upon us, that we proved successfully that your judgment was correct. And I wish to take this opportunity to thank you personally for what you have done in connection with this great operation, as well as the Borough President of Richmond, the Honorable Cornelius Paul, both members of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment who believed that the New York International Airport needed just this to start it on its worldwide service to aviation. It's a great privilege for me to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable John Cashmore, President of the Borough of Brooklyn. Thank you. Thank you, Grover. And I want to say to you, on behalf of the greatest city's greatest borough, the Borough of Brooklyn, that while you are the greatest salesman in the world, I know how hard you've worked for four months to put this exhibition over. And while you're known as Smiling Grover Whalen, we're going to give you a new name because of the unfortunate weather conditions. And your new name, Grover, is Whaling Whalen. Ladies and gentlemen, Miss Marjorie Fabregas of the Metropolitan Laboratory will sing our national anthem. Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early night What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight All the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's last gleaming And the rocket's last gleaming The bombs bursting in air Came through, through the night That your flight was still there O'er the land of the free O'er the land of the free O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Will you please remain standing While the Reverend Cornelius Greenway, Pastor of All Souls Church of Brooklyn, gives the invocation. Almighty God, Grant that we are here today Not to strut, Not to preen our feathers of possession And power, But that we are here to dedicate the field To the service of mankind And grant that every plane That leaves this field And every plane that arrives May be a messenger of goodwill Among men and nations everywhere Amen Thank you, Dr. Greenway Grover Whalen Honored guests Ladies and gentlemen As your presiding officer I want to welcome you here this afternoon We are going to see a thrilling air show By the world's greatest pilots Before the show goes on We are having only a brief program of ceremonies Personally I've just had a thrilling time of my own Only a few minutes ago I was getting into a Navy helicopter At Floyd Bennett Field over in Brooklyn In less time than it takes to say New York International Airport We were crossing Jamaica Bay And only a few moments ago The helicopter landed us just a few feet from here So I feel more than qualified To pilot our program here this afternoon At the outset Let me congratulate Mayor O'Dwyer And Grover Whalen Both have worked hard for this golden anniversary air show Despite some bad weather It has been a success So I say congratulations to Mayor O'Dwyer And to you Grover Whalen The world's greatest showman since Barnum And I offer my sincere congratulations And Grover for the late comers Won't you just stand up And let everyone here see The greatest showman That we've ever had in this world Ladies and gentlemen Let's give Grover Whalen a big hand Now my own duties here are going to be very brief All of you know the presiding officer's job Is not to make a speech I am leaving this to the prominent speakers You'll be hearing in a few minutes I do want to say very briefly This great airport is going to mean much to Brooklyn It's only one eight and one half miles from Borrow Hall That's a fairly short drive by car But only a few minutes ago I think I proved this Brooklyn and Idlewild Are really next door neighbors They are no more than a few minutes flying time apart That's how close they'll be in the near future When flying becomes as commonplace as riding in our subways Or taking a trip by automobile Our program this afternoon Is really a four in one ceremony Last Tuesday was supposed to be Brooklyn Day But you and I know what happened We were rained off So Brooklyn and Army Day is being combined now With Richmond and Youth Day Brooklyn is proud to share this day with Richmond We are on it also By sharing the day with the Army and the youngsters of our city And now let's get on with the program I'm honored to have the Borough President of Richmond As the next speaker And I want to say to all Richmondites One thing You may be small in size But you are represented in our Board of Estimate By a man who knows how to act With grace and humility on certain occasions And when force and eloquence is needed To put over what is necessary for Richmond There is no greater representative In the Board of Estimate Than my side partner The Honorable Cornelius Hall The President of the Borough of Richmond Connie Mr. Chairman Reverend Clergy Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen First I deeply appreciate The felicitations of My friend John Cashmore The people of Richmond Borough Whom I have the honor to represent Are proud to be part of the great city of New York And we are extremely happy to join with the Borough of Brooklyn In the ceremonies today I bring felicitations from Richmond to his honor Mayor O'Dwyer Who has done so much for us during the past two and one half years And to Grover Whelan And to the members of his staff And to the least of those volunteers Who are working with him To fittingly celebrate The golden anniversary of the greatest city in the world Our own New York We do also wish the members of the Port of New York Authority Every success in operating this airport We are confident that under their able guidance Idlewild will be recognized throughout the world As the best airport And the gateway to the world I bring felicitations to Jim Burke For our president of Queens And to his staff For all they did to make this airport possible Last but not least I want to say that I am happy to share honors today With a friend of many years John Cashmore of Brooklyn Borough president And democratic leader We in Richmond feel very close to the people of Brooklyn And we are looking forward to the day When we will be connected by a physical leap Time does not permit me to say any more So I will close By wishing everybody witness this air show And all the participants In it an enjoyable day Thank you Thank you, Conor We regret General Courtney Hodges Is unable to be with us today He had a speech ready For our Brooklyn Army Day program last Tuesday Because of the rain The whole program was postponed Today The War Department has a special assignment of its own For General Hodges So he is represented by Major General Roscoe B. Woodruff Deputy Army Commander General Woodruff Won't you please stand up and take a bow General Woodruff You and I know That there is only one band In the city of New York So without further ado Let's hear from the police department band In a musical salute To the United States Army Which one is this? This us? This us? The Princess Ministry of Disease Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Thank you. We are to hear next from the head of one of the best-known colleges in our part of the country. I am pleased to present the president of Wagner College, Dr. Walter Langsam. Dr. Langsam. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is fitting that on this golden jubilee occasion, the day set aside to honor the county of Richmond should also be Youth Day, for surely that community, though old as a settled part of the United States, is young in spirit and potentialities. And these potentialities are closely tied to the character and ambitions of our youth in this great city. To judge from accounts published in the newspapers and magazines, it is the duty of adult speakers who address youth groups nowadays to warn their young listeners against the cold, cruel world which is waiting to attack them the moment they leave the shelters of home and school. The boys and girls who make up the listening groups customarily are told about the crushing responsibilities that they soon must shoulder and about their heavy duties as future citizens. Or they are warned that society already has called two strikes on them and that they have only one small chance in a thousand to avoid a fate of spiritual emptiness. For better or worse, I do not feel in the mood this afternoon to give that sort of discouragement. As one who grew up in and loves the city of New York, and as one with 25 years experience in the study and teaching of history, I am firmly convinced that life in the world today is better than it was yesterday. I have come to feel that any self-reliant, intelligent young person of today, particularly in the United States, can be happy and prosperous tomorrow. To go far towards achieving this happiness and prosperity, it is only necessary, in my opinion, to develop three simple personal characteristics. These three attributes are faith, optimism, and friendliness. To have faith means to know that God is interested in you as an individual. You cannot get faith from any other man or woman. You must feel it from within. It comes to you through the grace of God. But having faith, you can grow in it. For faith is something which is nourished and strengthened by practice and use. You can generally recognize a person of faith by his or her self-reliance and confidence. Faith makes an individual one to stand on his own feet. A citizen who has faith does not wait for the world to hand him a living. He goes out and cheerfully works for his living. He knows that hard work and skill in any station of life will bring their own reward. He wants to improve the world, not tear down society. He wants to help his fellow men, because he knows that every one of them was created in the image of God. Let us turn now to our second attribute, optimism. Here again, it has become somewhat the fashion to be pessimistic. And to be truthful, there is much ammunition for the profits of gloom. They can point to our epidemic of strikes and to our crime waves. They can talk of the latest international rivalries in the Balkans, the Near East and the Middle East. They can speak of famine and disease and the dangers of the misuse of atomic energy. But even if we are realists and recognize that there is much evil in the world, there remains plenty of cause for optimism. After all, right has triumphed over wrong in the greatest war in all history. The dignity of the individual has been upheld against evil forces that tried to drown him in an unthinking mass. Potentially strong United Nations has replaced the weak League of Nations. There has been amazing recent progress in medicine and the application of science to industry in the creation of more comforts for more people. Even the strikes, serious though they may be, cannot be called strikes against oppression and poverty. They are strikes to get for millions of people the highest income that labor has ever received. Looked at from this angle, the life ahead of us is life in a fascinating world. It is life in a world rich in custom and tradition, but a world also of progress, of change, of development. Almost I am tempted to agree with the wise old man who said, Ah, youth is a wonderful thing. What a pity to waste it on children. By all means, let us be open to change, but not to change merely for the sake of change. It is just as foolish to try to change things merely because they are traditional as it is to hold on to views simply because they are traditional. One must learn to judge each case on its own merits. When change obviously means improvement, then change is in order. Otherwise, it is better to cling to the tried and true. And now for our last point, namely, the matter of friendliness. Have you not found that people usually react towards you exactly as you approach them? Most of the people whom we meet in life are good and kindly people. Oh, some have poorer manners than others. Some are more aggressive than others. Some are less helpful than others. But most of them want to do that which is ethically right. And always remember that your own good breeding is the best safeguard against other people's bad manners. And now, in closing, let me repeat my hope that we may all grow in faith, be optimistic of the future, and be friendly to our fellow men. Then will we earn the pride of our city, the gratitude of our country, and the blessing of God. Thank you, Dr. Lansom. The famous Police Department Glee Club will now take over for a few minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The famous Police Department Glee Club The famous Police Department Glee Club For the strong obey When a strong man shows them the way Give me some men Who are stout-hearted men Who will fight for the right they adore Start me with ten Who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon give you ten thousand more Oh, shoulder to shoulder And bolder and bolder They go as they go to the fall Then there's nothing in the world Can't hold tomorrow plan When stout-hearted men Can stick together man to man Give me some men Who are stout-hearted men Who will fight for the right they adore Start me with ten Who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon give you ten thousand more Hold shoulder to shoulder And bolder and bolder They go as they go to the fall Then there's nothing in the world Can't hold tomorrow plan When stout-hearted men Can stick together man to man Thank you very much Thank you The Reverend Frederick P. Gehring Of St. John's University of Brooklyn Will offer a prayer Father Gehring In the name of the Father And now of the Son And now of the Holy Ghost Amen Amen O Heavenly Father Whose almighty power Reaches from end to end And who ordereth all things well Make this international airport An instrument for the accomplishment Of thy divine design Bless the beacons They may flash their rays of hope To anxious pilots Make fruitful the mission Of those who depart from this field In search for harmony and peace Sanctify the souls Of those who fly to this land So that they may share In that peace Which thou alone can give Through Christ our Lord Amen Thank you Father Gehring In Brooklyn We have a newspaper That is more than One hundred years old It's the Brooklyn Eagle During World War II Its publisher Crossed the Pacific by plane He saw the war areas Where air power counted so much I present to you Ladies and gentlemen Mr. Frank D. Schroth Publisher of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle John Cashmore Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen Since the dedication Of the New York International Airport Last Saturday The President of the United States This laid emphasis On the value to the Air Force The Army and the Navy On the planes that have been developed Since the World War And which can use the airport Upon the destructors of these planes And in general Upon the military might That it is hope Will keep our country at peace The President referred to the New York International Airport As a symbol of peace And at the same time As a most powerful implement For obtaining and keeping the peace The Mayor gave us his view That a full appreciation Of what the International Airport Means to this community Will come with the years Today has been set aside As Brooklyn Day And Richmond Day Our brother thus Has an opportunity to show Its great interest In air transportation We accept With satisfaction The estimates Of the military usefulness Of the world's greatest airfield And we have complete realization Of the part that it will play In the development Of the Army, Navy, and Air Forces But it is to air transportation As a major tool In Brooklyn's daily commercial life That we wish to address ourselves Brooklyn is the fourth city in volume Of retail trade in the country It is the seventh In total industrial production Just recently The Brooklyn Eagle Had occasion to survey The air possibilities For Borough industry This fact-finding study Demonstrated The need for improved Airline service For the heavy Brooklyn air traffic And led to the establishment Of the consolidated air services Directly from the Borough It is interesting to observe What this survey Of the status Of commercial aviation In Brooklyn developed It showed That in the hundreds Of persons And industry Queried Two out of every three Indicated that they use The airlines regularly For business purposes One out of every three Industrial firms Has a travel plan Or a transportation Charge account One out of every three Uses air cargo In one form Or another These facts however Are not surprising When you consider That over 50% Of the freight That clears Out of the port of New York Is shipped From Brooklyn Piers And within the next 45 days 750 freighters 750 freighters Will clear From Brooklyn Ports Much of the cargo That clears Through Brooklyn Docks Is initiated By Brooklyn Industry There are 308 concerns In the borough Actively engaged In importing And exporting The possibilities Of developing Airline travel Originating or Terminating in the borough Are shown When it is realized As the borough President said That the international Airport Is just Eight and a half Miles From the borough hall Probably a shorter distance Than any other bus Or airline terminal In the city There is practically No limitation To the possible growth Of Brooklyn passenger And commercial Air travel The people of no community Will have a greater sense Of air travel Consciousness Industry As well as Individuals Will come to realize The proximity Of this airport To the very center Of the borough We at Brooklyn Are happy to take part In the dedication Of the airport And in celebrating The 50th anniversary Of Greater New York We pledge our borough To its full power In making this The greatest airfield In the world Thank you Mr. Schroth As we close Our ceremonies Rabbi Joseph Klein Of Temple Bethlehemeth Will offer the benediction Rabbi Klein Our God and Father We thank thee For this privilege That is given to us To celebrate The opening Of this great Airfield We pray O Lord That thou wilt Always Pour forth Thy benediction Upon this airport Giving thy safety And protection To the ships That fly In the air And find a safe Refuge On this field We ask O God That every airship Which leaves This field Or enters On to it May be a harbinger Of peace And a messenger Of good Hidings May this Great International International Airfield Be a bond Of union Between our nation And all the nations Of the earth Furthering The causes Of commerce Trade But above all Of peace Amen Thank you Rabbi Klein And now ladies And gentlemen If you will watch Within two minutes Or less You will say And see The fastest Jet planes In the world And up until The time they arrive I'm asking The police Department Band If they won't Be good enough To take over Here and out Now aviation Has taken over And here at Idlewild New York's International airport The jets Have just roared by So fast That everyone Had to look quicker They wouldn't Even have seen them These marvelous Demonstrations Are part of The great air show Here and two days Remain Saturday and Sunday For you New Yorkers And all in the Adjacent states And territory To come to Idlewild And enjoy one of The greatest spectacles Ever organized Anywhere in the world Come out here And get the sunshine The vitamin D And the wonderful Experience of this Vast field And the wonderful Air shows That are part of Every day's Program here At Idlewild airport From now on For the balance Of the weekend Remember your Song and anthemies Come out to Idlewild Just a moment There are 20 Convalescent veterans Presidents From veterans Hospital At Northport Long Island And Mr. Whalen The borough presidents Of Brooklyn And Richmond Salute the veterans And all veterans Everywhere In the person Of these 20 veterans Here today And as the jets Roll over We take leave of you From Idlewild airport And return you To the studios In the municipal building While the army Takes over For an explanation To the audience Here of the air show That is in the air At this moment This is the Municipal broadcasting system And I have your... And... At this moment Where we're at At this moment I have made the So we're going to If you prefer that This is the For an application That we could Take out After all As the Again We're back After all foot We're to Again Now Remember We're more At this moment From all To the!? At this moment This is