They long for that day when they will be accepted as an equal. Now, the child's problem then is an effort to overcome these inferiorities, and the parents should both work hard to help him with these. Is this spoiling? Of course, you know this permissive philosophy of today, troublesome parents, and they say, isn't this going to give us conceited children? Isn't this going to give us thoughtless children? Isn't this going to make heedless children? And I grant you that a heedless child is a distressing thing. It's disturbing to have a child that will not listen. But what makes a heedless child? A heedless child is generally made by parents who do not heed him, who do not give enough thought to him, who do not impart to him the idea that his feelings and his thoughts are their concern. Because on this matter of spoiling, I don't think children can be spoiled by too much attention or by too much kindness. I think that's impossible. Providing, and this providing is very important, providing that the parents are alert and see that the child meets his responsibilities. His responsibilities in courtesy to his brothers and sisters, kindness and consideration to others, getting his lessons done, being neat and clean, being on time, and various other things. If the parent is good at eliciting cooperation and getting a cooperative child, then he can never spoil by too much love and affection. I'd say that the more concern and affection and consideration was given, than the more effectual, the bigger, the more altruistic, the more magnanimous kind of person you were going to have when the child reached maturity. I think there's still a great many parents who are too concerned about the matter of child-rearing and are very much afraid of what they call losing the upper hand, losing control. And so they keep the child at arm's length and they're not, they're not on any attempt, on any democratic basis with them or any basis of equality because they're afraid they cannot manage it, that it will not turn out successfully. Now I think there's no doubt but what any father who attempted to have this concern for the child and maintain some state of equality would have to be more alert, more resourceful, and talk more, and give reasons for things and discuss things further with his child than the one who merely attempted to have the child keep quiet and ask the fewest questions possible and to obey when spoken to. There are some fathers who believe in to treat them right, treat them rough, and tell them nothing. And that's a way, it's been used, but that father runs more risk, I'm quite sure, of having his son or daughter turn away from him sometime before the child has reached 16 and he's that lonesome father who in adolescence has no communion with his child. So I think it pays to talk more and be closer to the child and help in various ways as the child grows up. Some of those ways I'll mention in a moment. However, just before passing on, let me give you an example or two of why this is so important. We often forget now about the feelings of the young. But if you or I should go to a restaurant and we should ask to have our food cooked a certain way and that was completely ignored, we wouldn't like it very well. And if we went into a strange territory and we asked them directions and no one would pay attention to us or give us a civil answer, we wouldn't like it very well either. And so the children react the same way to us. If we do not explain, if we do not give a civil answer, they resent it. Children have curiosity and they ask questions and they appreciate having their questions answered. If you or I are riding on a train and the train is held up, the train comes to a stop, well, you know, practically everyone on the train wants to know what is the matter. And, of course, it's wonderful to be able to find out. Perhaps you can't go any farther or any faster. Perhaps you may sit there for two hours, but if you know that a wheel has fallen off or that the train has hit a cow or something on the track, then you have an explanation and you can sit a little more contented if you know the reasons for things. You hear the fire engines. Many people like to know where the fire is and they appreciate having an answer. Well, children have many answers. They have 20 questions. And they appreciate having answers and they appreciate the person who's cooperative enough to give them the answers or to discuss problems with them. Now, some fathers are a little reluctant to get in too close into the family life because they think, I don't want to become a slave to small family routines. My wife's been doing these things for years and I'll just start a bad precedent here by getting too busy and by taking the children out shopping and to buy some of their clothes or if he volunteers to take them to the movies on Saturday afternoon or if he goes to take them somewhere to a school affair in the evening when this has been done by the wife, he may selfishly think, well, now, maybe I shouldn't begin this because if I begin, I'll have to keep it up. And if it's been done otherwise, he may just think he's being a sucker. A lot of people are afraid of being suckers these days, you know, and they don't want to begin any kind of service because to keep it up will tax them, will cost them some exertion and they wish they hadn't started. But I assure you, fathers, that it will be a very helpful thing if you are willing to get into some of the small family routines and go with the children and help them select some of their clothes or take them to the school picnic or take them to the school play or take them to some sporting event or help them out in their play. If you can't play for any one reason or another, you can always umpire. And if you don't know how to umpire, if you're just there when children are playing, there's a little tendency, a little greater tendency for them to observe the rules of fair play and to preserve justice if an older person is around. Now, a few simple things, you know. I'm almost ashamed to mention them, but I think I shall. I wonder if every father is careful about greeting the children when he comes in at night, whether he asks for them, whether he talks to them, even for a few minutes of greeting. Of course, they may be at the television, they may be at the radio, and stay there several minutes after you come home. But just the same, if you make it a point to concern yourself about the children when you come home, they, of course, will return the compliment, and they'll tend to concern themselves about you. The same's true about going out. When leaving, does a father take the time to say goodbye to the children, say some pleasant word on leaving? It helps to make them feel important. It helps to make them feel they're important to the father. How many fathers pay attention to the children's games, the children's hobbies? How many fathers listen to the child's lessons? How many fathers listen to spelling? How many fathers read stories? Teach us business, this reading stories, you know. Listening to spelling maybe too a little bit, but it's wonderful discipline for the father. Perhaps you're thinking he could learn a little spelling too. He could brush up on his spelling. Well, he might. And he might go along on some of the lessons, you know, and catch up on some of those things he's forgotten. How many times does the father praise the child's performance when it's good? Or does he just growl when it's bad? You've heard about the woman who asked another woman, says, do you have a den in your house? Oh no, the other woman says, my husband just growls all over the place. But you'll find many young people who seem to remember that when they brought the report card home, father did a lot of frowning and scolding about the C's and D's, but he never had enough to say about the A's and B's. Likewise, if the son or daughter has a hobby, music lessons, anything that calls forth a performance, father may be long on the criticism but short on the praise. And so it's important that father prays. You see, the mother's in the home so much more than the father that what he says tends to take on a little more importance than what the mother says. Not always, but often. At any rate, he can at least supplement or complement what the mother says. Two people have praise instead of one. Two people have taken interest instead of one. And that's awfully important in creating solidity, substance, strength to the growing personality. You know, we talk about the strength of an individual's personality and we don't often think where strength comes from. Strength, of course, comes from love. it comes from interest. It comes from praise. It comes from concern. It comes from discussion of first little problems and then problems of increasing importance. It's these simple things that make strength, that give character. character. And in the beginning when I spoke about the father who had been working hard and getting established and being successful, shocked sometimes to come to later on and find character defects in the children that he never thought would be there. I guess we tend to take it for granted that as long as we're behaving successfully, if we're getting along all right as parents, why the children just by association with us is going to catch it by a process of osmosis perhaps that he's going to see and feel and catch on to the way we do things. I think we talk all too little about the way we do things. all too little. I think one of the many things we talk too little about as parents is about family life. We don't talk about family life and how we live it. I think that's one of the reasons that we're having so many marriage difficulties. There are many reasons for marriage difficulties, but I think one of them is that we are too reluctant to talk about how we live our lives, how much money we make and how we spend it and what things cost and how much we have for luxuries and even to confess that we have some differences of opinion once in a while and things of that sort. the result is that since children never hear anything from mother and father about how family life really goes, they get some picture of it from some other source, some romantic story, some movie, and they go into marriage and try to make a home and rear children and they do not know how and they break up under the effort. Now father, of course, should be a disciplinarian, not a harsh disciplinarian. What I mean is he should enter into the problem of discipline. That's a very hard part, thing, a very hard thing for the mother, to love the children, to be kind of the children, to be good to the children, and discipline the children. Father should be willing to take a very important part, a very prominent part in the discipline of the children. Dr. English, sir, I want to thank you once again for that very thoughtful talk about fatherhood and the role of the father. Would you please take that other microphone, sir, and we will go ahead with our question period. We have quite a few eager fathers here who have questions. What about the single child, Dr. English? Hasn't the father and the mother too, as far as that is concerned, a greater responsibility with the single child than when there are two or more children? Yes, I think they do have a responsibility with a single child in giving him companionship, a companionship that he might otherwise receive from an older brother or sister. I think the children do to an extent entertain each other. I don't mean by that, by the way, to say that single children are problems. someone asked me not long ago if that was true. And as well as I can recollect, I don't believe that there's any figures to indicate that the only child is any oftener a problem child than those in much larger families. I'm sure that must mean that the parents did very well by him. but I think there's no question but what an only child needs attention from the parents and the first child needs lots of attention from the parents and that when others come along, if the family is fortunate enough to have others, some of his entertainment and recreation will be taken care of by the other siblings. All right, Dr. English, thank you. Your question, sir. The child has been called the father of the man. According to this, if you have a competitive, sensate society which can only produce competitive, sensational-seeking children, why should you presume and plead for a greater interest on the part of such children when they themselves become parents? It seems you're rather naive in expecting the self-saint children who are raised by sensate-seeking parents to show a greater interest than our old children. It's a contradiction running throughout your entire talk, I think. May I repeat that, please? I think somebody in the back might not have heard all of that. Well, the child, the gentleman says the child is the father of the man. And if a competitive, sensate society can only produce competitive, sensate children, why should you plead for a greater interest in the part of such children when they become parents? The gentleman believes you're a little bit naive in that thought that that would affect it, sir. No, there is a tendency and quite a strong tendency for people who are well-treated to treat others well. Now, it doesn't always follow that that is true. But if we look at it in the reverse way, if we treat people shabbily or if we give them less than they need, they are prone to carry that out upon others. If human beings are treated ungenerously, they will respond in kind. And if they're treated generously and kindly, democratically, and cooperatively, there is a strong tendency that they will react in the same way. Also, remember, when I was talking about being considerate and thoughtful of them, I said, providing you brought them up to be responsible people, that you ask something of them. And I think that question often arises in the audience, that somehow the impression, without meaning to, I give the impression that we only give to the children and we do not ask them to give something back. We do not prepare them to grow up and assume responsibility and give to others. But we do. That is part of the work of the family. And I tried this evening to emphasize that that was an important part of the father's work, to be in there with mother, seeing that these children who were treated well grew up, however, in order to live a good family life, to be parents themselves, and pass on this kindness and goodwill to others. All right. I think possibly the gentleman was bringing up a point, too, there, doctor, about the problem of parents today, that many of them are really not perhaps ideal parents and that they are giving this same business back to the children, this competitive spirit of our modern society and the sensation-seeking, something like that. But there is today that brought up practically the 12th same way in which he raised his child. You just don't put out the point who to educate the father and give him the training and the background and the feeling to make his own child something different from what he was. His mother and his own father failed that we say. His teacher failed that we say. There's no particular segment of our society that you just don't put out that can make the adult man and woman today a human individual or personality to his own child. There's a terrible vacuum existing in our society and that's the fact. All right. The office can't give a tune. His work can't give a tune. His employer can't give a tune. Where in heaven's name is he going to get it? All right. Thank you very much, sir. I think you understand that now, doctor. It's a... Where do we interrupt this terrible cycle that we're in? Is there any place we can get off this treadmill? I accept this criticism and I think there's much truth in what this gentleman has said. However, the second point, I said I thought that there was a good deal of latent goodwill in fathers that was not being used and I think there are things that fathers can learn which will enable them to undo the work that has been done by their parents. I believe we can break into this circle somewhere in many homes and I think it can come about. I'm sure not by all because the pattern to repeat is there but I know that a good deal can be done about it. All right. Thank you very much. As a father, Dr. English, how would you go about explaining sex to an adolescent child and at what age would you think we ought to start talking about sex to our children? Well, I wouldn't want to wait until adolescence to talk to a child about sex. Psychiatrists and psychologists and educators are pretty well agreed that the time to start talking about sex is when the child is young and begins to ask questions and most children do ask questions, all do not. But the important thing for the parent, the father, as well as the mother, is to answer that first question and keep right on answering them and then by the time the child is 15, he'll really have some valuable and worthwhile information. Not long ago, we had a discussion about this in a large group of college students, students of all ages, from age 18 up to, I'm sure, 48 or more. Many of them were married and parents, and their contention was the parents didn't know what to teach the children. But it turned out after a discussion of this, it wasn't the parents didn't know, the parents know, but they lack the words. They lack the way of putting it. They lack the poise themselves and the comfort within themselves to discuss the sexual question, even with the very young children. So I would say that this manner of getting yourself prepared as a parent to discuss the sexual question is quite an important one. And there's two suggestions I would make. If you really sincerely want to equip yourself to do it, I would suggest that you read a book called A Basic Guide for Parents by Howard Whitman. The subtitle of it is called Let's Tell the Truth About Sex. It gives the question and the answer to any possible question a child could ask about sex. It's a very good book. It's a basic guide for parents by Howard Whitman, published by Pellegrini and Cuddy. First, get that book and read it. Second, in order to get the mood, the setting, there are some records on sex education at four different levels put out by the Christophers, by a group called the Christophers. Some of you may know of these records. There are four of them. One taking up the sex question of the child at four, one taking up the problem of menstruation, one taking up the problem of the sex relation for both the boy and the adolescent girl. Now, the setting of this is quite marvelous and very fine. There's only one or two things in it that you might take exception to, but I think if the religious tone, if there's too much religious tone in there for you, after all, you can tone it down to suit yourself. But it makes a fine starting point, and so with this record of this man and woman both talking about the sexual question of these different ages, plus this book, I would sure would make you all pretty near experts in discussing the sex question with your child at any age. All right. Thank you very much, Doctor. I gather the birds and bees and flowers have all gone now. Yes. Yes. No garden talk left anymore. That's right. All right, sir. Here's your question. This is the same subject, Dr. English, from the viewpoint of the child. Is it possible for a father to raise his children in such a way that during puberty they will feel free to come to him and speak freely about their sex problems, including masturbation? Yes, I think it is possible. I don't think it has been done very much, but I'm sure it's possible and should certainly be an aim and a goal. Before I get any farther, let me stress one thing that I mentioned. The father in the family should not leave the girl completely to mother. The girl has great need of the father's companionship and to share the father's opinion about things. And the girl should, the father should be a companion and a friend to his daughter as well as to his son or sons. And the girl should receive just as much attention from him as the boy or boys. And that includes the questions of sex and family life and marriage and responsibilities. Thank you. I enjoyed your talk very much. That's on the question, folks. I did too, but I mean, this person says them. And are there times, sir, when it is healthy and positive action to strike a child? For the father, mother, teacher, should anybody, in other words, strike a child of physical punishment? And are there any particular times that you know of or at any particular age when you know of it being very bad or good or so forth? Well, that's a very difficult question to answer in a group. I'm sure I couldn't satisfy all of you, but I certainly wouldn't sidestep it. I think that our aim should be to try to rear our children without physical punishment, without striking them and without spanking them. I think that should be our aim. I think we should try it as well as we can. I think that some people will succeed and I think others will not. Others will not because they just don't believe in it, that it can be done and since they don't believe in it, they won't succeed in it very well. Second, others will try the first method and they will try to gain cooperation, but I think our way of life is such that it's very difficult to be with your child often enough and to establish a kind of communion that you can always get cooperation, you can always reason the thing out, you can always explain or you can always have the desirable outcome. Now, if a child must be spanked, the child ought to, if the child's going to receive any physical punishment, it'd certainly be desirable to have it over and done with before they're seven or eight years old. That is, attempting to have any physical punishment of children beyond the age of seven, eight or nine, it becomes very undesirable, very difficult on their pride, it promotes bad relations, it promotes resentment and generally parents regret it in 18, when the child's in his teens, if they pursue physical punishment too long. It's best not to let these things go too long and if you must spank, then don't feel too bad about it. It may be technically, theoretically, a defeat in our system, but we live in an imperfect world and if we must be imperfect parents and spank occasionally, after we've tried other things, we've tried, let's say, everything else, then I think you'll find most people accept it and I'd say it is unfortunately still fairly common. All right, sir. I just want to thank Dr. English for settling a major problem in our household through my reading of your book Emotional Problems of Living. Our son would come to the dinner table with partly unclean hands and this was a constant source of irritation to me until, through your book, it was explained to me that this was a normal part of growing up. Since that time, he's lost his tendency of coming to the table with unclean hands. I'm very thankful for you for explaining it. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that's nice, doctor. There's a gentleman who's an honest man comes down to thank you for a little help you gave him with your book. All right? I appreciate that very much. Is there any particular program or special attitudes necessary for a father who is separated from his daughter and where the child is raised in the home of the mother? Well, I think the father should, of course, visit and keep a contact with this girl just as long as possible, as often as possible, because just because a separation has taken place doesn't mean the girl doesn't need the father's friendship. And if this is carried out tactfully and kindly, I don't see any reason why it should engender conflict or distress in the mind of the child. That's a fairly frequent occurrence these days, and so that I think there are some parents who feel, is it better to stay away? Is it better to stay out of the picture? Or is it better to continue contact with a child? I'd say that there might be some instances in which it would be better for to discontinue contact with a child. Sometimes the atmosphere is such that it's better. But I'd say in most cases I think that growing children need the interest of two parents and a continued interest even if there is a separation. Thank you, Dr. English. And your question, sir. Doctor, don't you think that our courts are working a hardship on our children by not permitting the fathers in divorced cases to see the children more often? When the courts permit them only to see them once a week or once a month or so on. I must confess that I'm not too familiar with what the practice is with the courts. I guess my answer to that would be pretty much the same as before. I guess that if there is any restriction put upon that I'd say it was a hardship because I do think that growing children need the interest of both parents and even though a separation has taken place then I do think that the children do need the father, the father's interest even though it's a more occasional one than when he's regularly in the home. You mentioned a great deal about parents. What about grandparents? Do you want to go one step farther, Doctor? I don't know. Here's one question. What is the place of the grandparents who think that they know more than their married children do? After all, they've been alive longer, had more experience. So what can you do about grandparents who are constantly attempting to criticize the parents now with the way the parents are bringing up the child? What do you think about this problem? Well, I think grandparents should take grandparenthood very carefully. I think that their attitude should be that of helping out when asked or offering to help out, but they should restrain themselves from offering too much advice and giving too much interference. And even such things as giving the grandchildren parents a presence is something they should consider very carefully. You see, I think grandparents should remember that customs change and values change, and that also that grandparents should remember they had their turn, and they brought their children up as they saw fit. And whatever their style was, whatever their technique was, that it doesn't necessarily hold for today. I dare say, I suspect that a great many grandparents' interference is because they're trying to correct some of the mistakes they made on their own. And they're trying to correct those mistakes on their grandchildren. Of course, grandparents have a great need for the affection of the young and for the interest of the young. They like to follow the young. But I seriously think grandparents must be very careful to enter into the family picture where they are growing children with a great deal of tact and a great deal of cooperativeness, not just sail in willy-nilly to give presents and do various things. One little problem I've heard about is grandparents. Grandparents are often around when they're not needed, but when the parents need a babysitter, there isn't a grandparent to be found anywhere around. And so sometimes grandparents get the easy end of this and there can be a great problem. And that's hold for any grandparents who are here, and it holds particularly of those people right here who are in middle age. The only way to prepare for old age or grandparenthood is now. You and I, and I'll still count myself in middle life, maybe I'm moving on, but I still count myself in middle life, but I've done a lot of thinking about how I'm going to behave when I'm over 65. Now I may not do any better than others have done, but I'm thinking about it anyway. I hope you will too. Thank you. I heard a grandparent say that it was wonderful to be a grandparent because you could enjoy the children and had none of the responsibilities, could tell everybody what to do and not have to make anybody do it. Wonderful situation. That's right. And parents shouldn't capitalize on that too much though, or they'll lose their popularity. Now, doctor, do you think fathers should take care of children during the night? Do you really think a father should get up and take care of a crying baby when the father has to get up and go to work the next morning and earn the money? And if he does do this, how is he going to be an efficient working individual the next day? I mean, there must be some limit. This gentleman is somewhat upset about the suggestion that the father have a great deal to do with the baby, particularly after hours. Well, I think that it depends a good deal upon the division of labor and how much the mother's doing. I think in the main that if the mother is not working herself outside of the home and there aren't too many children, there aren't too arduous duties, if there's no one else she's nursing or something like that, I think that it's right that she should take care of the child at night so the man will get his rest for his work. On the other hand, I think that there are though, that a man will sometimes carry that too far and that he will never do this even though he may be on vacation or on a time where there's a weekend, that the wife may get quite overburdened and like a little relief from this, but the husband will never step in and give her any relief. I think that the husband can and might give his wife some relief. occasionally at least at night and occasionally an afternoon or if he's off, could let the wife go out and get away from the children for a little while. It's a wonderful thing for a woman to be able to get away from the children for a little while and there are some families in which the mother never gets away from the children for months at a time and a wise husband, I think, would give her this opportunity and if she were wise, she would take it. First, you see, if he spent a half day with them, he would know a little more about what she does. Some men, you know, are prone to think the little woman doesn't do anything except sit home all day and eat chocolates. And if he takes care of the children for a while, he'd see that that isn't so. I've gone so far as to say I didn't think anybody ought to graduate from college these days who hadn't spent at least 24 hours with a two-year-old child. I'm quite serious about that. I think they have quite a favorable influence upon marriage. Well, Doctor, I certainly want to thank you for those comments. I'm a little bit glad Mrs. Fairchild isn't here this evening, though, because I'm liable to have to go home and do something with the baby tonight. And when I go home, I want to think about things you've said and read the paper and so on. Well, all right. Doctor, do you think there's any serious reason for great concern about the future development of, say, a nine-year-old, an only child? This child is consistently uncooperative. Do you think this is just a phase of a nine-year-old's growth, or do you think that could you tell without knowing the case whether that was a very serious situation? I don't think I could tell without knowing the case or knowing more about the case, what the future is likely to hold. That sounds a little formidable, that he's consistently uncooperative at nine, but I hope that's a little exaggeration because I hope he does some of the things that he's expected to at nine. I noticed that almost all of the questions tonight were from fathers. I think a lady isn't allowed to ask a question. I noticed there are almost all men here. if there's any lady that we've missed that you feel we haven't taken up properly. There's a lady with the red hat. Would you like to come down and take care of me? We can hear you better. That gentleman who said that we parents are like our parents brought us up. Well, now we have the opportunity for adult education. I think I'm a much better parent because of adult education than I would be if I didn't have the opportunity. All right. Thank you very much. This lady wants to bring up the fact that adult education has helped this individual a great deal and she feels she is a better parent now thanks to adult education and that there may be some opportunity of really helping parents. Of course, my answer is always come to Cooper Union, hear some of our good speakers and listen to the advice of Dr. English. I'm delighted to hear that tribute to adult education. I do think that some of these serious problems are going to be helped very much by adult education. All right. Here's a gentleman who just thought of a question. It isn't exactly a question. I happen to be a parent of a child who Dr. English helped when she was about seven or eight years old and through some psychosomatic methods he brought about a cure of the girl when she had certain physical stomach symptoms. He diagnosed them correctly as being of emotional origin and the treatment that followed brought about a complete cure. Isn't that wonderful? Wow. Gee, Doctor, I think that that is the first time since I've been here the last few years, didn't see more than a hundred, that I've heard gentlemen come down and speak to any of our psychiatrists and tell them that they have actually helped them or really done something to help their families. So believe me, you're terrific and thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.