From police headquarters at 240 Center Street, your city station presents transcribed the police graduation exercises. During the ceremonies you will hear from Police Commissioner Murphy and the police police club. And now ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem.айте Championships That our flags are still there Old days out at the strangles Rattle yet wave For the arms of the free And the home of the brave I first must apologize for being late We were waiting for the mayor And he has asked to be excused Because of the pressing business at City Hall We will bring the meeting to order By an invocation from Monsignor McCaffrey Monsignor? In the name of the Father and of the Son And of the Holy Ghost, amen Oh almighty and eternal God Who has dominion over all mankind Look down with favor upon these new members Of our department Consider that they begin their life work With high ideals and a firm determination To serve their city and their country Fearlessly, honestly, and to the best of their ability Grant that these ideals may never be diminished in their lives Raise up in this department, oh almighty and eternal God A stalwart body of men Consecrated to what is right and just And fearing thee alone May all that we do or ever hope to accomplish As the police department Redound to the greater honor and glory of God Amen In the name of the Father and of the Son And of the Holy Ghost, amen We have three trophies to award The first is the Mayor's Trophy Which is a Regulation Service revolver Awarded to Probationary Patrolman James E. Dix Shield number 991 Who attained the highest general average In all subjects 92.35% Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Police Commissioner's Trophy Which is also a Regulation Service revolver Awarded to Probationary Patrolman John J. Cassidy Who attained the highest mental average Of 97% Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause And the third trophy The Chief Inspector's Trophy Which is also a revolver Awarded to Probationary Patrolman William J. Bennett Applause Applause Applause Applause Mr. Bennett attained the highest average With Regulation Service revolver During the training period Average 90.50% Applause Applause And now the Glee Club will render a few selections for us Як requiring us These games play these schools Autistic Hunter Obrido Toham Newspoken Heroes The Hat of Social Clarke Forum B I was born on the 4th of July. And I'm a lucky baby. I'm a Yankee Doodle. I'm a Yankee Doodle, sweet Pop. And she's my Yankee Doodle. Joy-o, boy-o, Yankee Doodle. Went to London just to ride a pony. And I am a Yankee Doodle boy. Yes, sir, I can. Yankee Doodle, Yankee Doodle, Yankee Doodle. Give my regards to Broadway. Remember me to Harrow Square. Tell all the boys on 42nd Street That I will soon be there. And I really miss a whisper How much I'm yearning To meet the width that old time's wrong. Give my regards to old Broadway. And say that I'll be there ere long. There's someone there high and strong born. Her name is Mary. She's the sweetest girl lady. That I ever, ever knew. Tool is pretty clean. A small tree called the Thank you. Well, we get to do some happy landscape And they'd about to be there For far the maxim! From the sun looking. Even to The Red Sea. That sound so square is the Grand Old Man. Over there, over there, you're a brazil flag, you're a high-high flag, and forever in peace may it wait. You're the emblem of the land I love, the home of the free and the brave. Every heart beats true for the red, white, and blue, and its river of most of bright. What should all the plain and safe or cross? Keep your eye on the Grand Old Man. Thank you. Reverend Clergy, Deputy Police Commissioner, distinguished guests, members of the graduating class, and your family. I want to congratulate the members of the graduating class for their successful completion of the course of training at the police academy. It's a very strenuous course requiring physical stamina and a high intelligence level. It is probably the most intensive and comprehensive course given police recruits anywhere. The department spared neither the time nor the effort to see that you were thoroughly trained in your job. Of course, your education as a policeman is not over. Indeed, it has just begun. It will be necessary for you to continue your studies by attending the in-service training courses in the police academy so that you will be kept abreast of the law, the changes in procedure and police technique. There's also desires for you to study for promotion. The policeman worthwhile is never satisfied to remain in his present status. He wants to advance himself in the department. And this can only be done by strict application to your duty and the continuous study in your job. In this way, the individual policeman has an opportunity to benefit himself and the people of the city benefit also by receiving more intelligent police service. Only the first phase of your probationary period has been completed. As you know, you will continue to be on probation for a period of the first six months. You will be under careful supervision and check by your superior officers in the field. As well as your attitude will be examined and determined by those superior officers. In short, your conduct will be checked. And at the termination of your probationary period, I should have a pretty good report from these commanding officers. And should you measure up to the standard that we all expect you will, you will become a member of the finest police force in the country. And therefore, it behooves you to be punctual, alert, and attentive to duty at all times. I cannot too strongly stress the obligation of a policeman to be courteous to the public. You have been thoroughly schooled in the policy in that regard in the police academy. Courtesy to the public is a major phase in your instruction and will be exacted from you in your dealings with the public. Courtesy to the public is a timely understanding and a sympathetic attitude toward the people whom you meet in your various rounds of duty. Courtesy to the public is breaking about. Courtesy to the public is have been in your position and then 1982 of covert policy should be advocated over all sorts ofalet, restrictive acts of堺 Knowted police education says and ego... Courtesy to the public is subject to no public. Courtesycepts are rocketed and the décoration of policelerde and災 by the terus demolition with surprisingly, mês or wenteste enthusiasm. and different religions. And yet throughout there permeates a spirit of goodwill and tolerance. No city has the same spirit that exists in the city of New York, the spirit of goodwill toward each other. You hear the radio from the city station constantly saying that a city of 8 million people will live together in a spirit of goodwill and camaraderie toward each other. You are the representative of that composite group. And you must at all times exemplify equality and fair play amongst all segments of society. The department policy of fair play and equality must be demonstrated by you in your personal and official actions. Now you have been instructed on the necessary use of force and also on the unnecessary use of force. It is essential that the policeman control his temper at all times because it's only by the loss of temper, no matter how much the provocation gets under your skin, that a policeman can show to the citizens of the city, just the stuff that he is made of. Unnecessary force cannot be countenance. But the use of reasonable force when you are doing an honest policeman's job not only is countenance, but the law requires you to do it. But you have to exercise the degree of intelligence that you have so that you cannot be accused of using more force than necessary. But you are required to use the force when the necessary circumstances present themselves. Now gentlemen, welcome to the police department. I am proud of you. And I'm sure the rest of the lives that you each will have, you will be proud to be a member of the greatest force in the country. Thank you. And now I'll ask Dr. Bosch to say the benediction. Doctor. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. Amen. From police headquarters at 240 Center Street, your city station has presented transcribed the police graduation exercises. Participating in these ceremonies were Police Commissioner Murphy and the Police Glee Club. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. As a proudestisp asta you do. We return to our city and our teachers are working on homic payload Bitcoin. As aeta's demoway we return to our divine Viktor company and we return to our city with the canal on our patrol bus is on our sides and this is us nine to your side is our town. We return to our power and we turn the supporters to local orient and submit it to the victims of our sh export server to local and spirit to Australia in theенные and that we eastern