The Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey, acting mayor of the city of New York, is a host today to the Catholic Youth Organization here in front of City Hall. The Honorable Daniel Paul Higgins, who is president of the board of directors of the Catholic Youth Association, will preside and present the regular order of program. Gene Tunney, who will be active in the program and will speak a little later on, is receiving quite an ovation from the crowd here in front of City Hall, along with acting mayor Sharkey. It's been a busy day for acting mayor Sharkey. We've been on the go since early this morning when we unveiled the plaque to the recent mayor of the city of New York, whose loss we all mourn, the Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia. When that plaque was unveiled at LaGuardia Field by Mrs. LaGuardia at 10 o'clock this morning. And the acting mayor has been on a series of rounds since then. And now the chairman, Mr. Daniel Paul Higgins. I would first of all like to say welcome and thanks to all of you for coming here this afternoon on behalf of the Catholic Youth Organization. We are here to attend the proclamation ceremonies of the National CYO Week throughout the United States of America. National CYO Week will begin on Sunday, October the 21st and end on the following Sunday, October the 28th. This is the first year that we have had a National CYO Week. And the purpose of it is that we bring to the attention of all in our United States of America the work of the Catholic Youth Organization, the work that it is doing amongst the youth of America. And so this afternoon now I'd like to introduce to you the gentleman who is going to preside at these ceremonies. His name is Mr. Daniel Paul Higgins, who is chairman of the National CYO Week here in New York and who is also the chairman of the board of directors of the Catholic Youth Organization. Mr. Higgins. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Right Reverend, and Reverend Clergy, and Reverend Religions, ladies and gentlemen, and you children. Children of the CYO. It's a wonderful demonstration. It just shows in a little bit the number that we're dealing with all over this great diocese. Over 150,000 children. Think of that. Ten years ago, we're dealing with 3,000, maybe 11 years ago. And today, with the aid of the priest and the lay people, such people is going to say something today and this great Reverend Monsignor Moore who was in this work longer than I was. It's a real great pleasure to see this magnificent demonstration of you great children. Next great Americans. Now, as a presiding officer, I'm going to take very little of this time. And, uh, I think, first of all, the spirit of our Americanism and what we're striving to teach you youngsters and what you'd like to be good Americans, we'll hear the Star Spangled Banner played by St. Francis Xavier High School, Mr. McBride, the director, famous. The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The End The End The next order of our program will be an invocation by the Reverend Monsignor E. Roberts Moore, whom you youngsters will know someday by the history of Catholic youth as you get interested in it, a great person, a great priest, a great citizen. His record in civic work and things he's done is just beyond description. I'm not going into that. I just want to know that he's a great fellow, too. Thank you. Thank you. Oh Almighty and all-wise God, on this notable occasion, dedicated to thy honor and glory and to the salvation of souls, we ask thy blessing. The world which thou hast created is in an unhappy state today. It is in an unhappy state because it does not know thee, and not knowing thee neither loves thee nor serves thee. Until it does know thee, love thee, and serve thee, it will continue to be unhappy. The Catholic Youth Organization was created first of all that the Catholic young people of the nation might be brought closer to thee, and always in a bigger and better way do their share to serve thee and their nation in faith, rectitude, and courage. Then that by word of example, hand in hand with their Protestant and Jewish brethren, they may lead the way to the universal and full acceptance of thy word and thy law. In international relationships, in affairs of state, in local political administrations, and in business ethics, our generation has left and is leaving a very unhappy record. We have not shown the way as we should to our sons and daughters. We have left them confused, bewildered, disillusioned. To the task of repairing the ravages for which we are to a great degree responsible, we consecrate today this organization. Here on the steps of the seat of authority of our local government, and throughout the nation as well, we present to the nation, and indeed to the world, this effort in their behalf. And we ask of thee, O Lord, humbly but with great confidence, we pray and beseech thee to bless our efforts. Amen. The next man on our program is noted in the papers as, and on the record, as acting mayor. By gosh, I was nine years a commissioner of education, and I know what a mayor's job is. There's no such thing as an acting mayor. He's got a job, something I wouldn't want, after I know what it's all about. I met him this morning. He's here today, and God knows when he's going to go home. So we'd like to introduce Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey. I'm going to call him mayor for this time at least. Thank you, Mr. Higgins, Monsignor Moore, Reverend Fathers, Mr. Gene Tunney, young ladies and young men of the Catholic Youth Organization, and our dear sisters who are with us here today. In our troubled world of today, with confusion and overtones of war raging, there is among us an organization which faces the future with courage, confidence, and vision. I'm referring to the fine leadership of the Catholic Youth Organization and its 15-year fight to provide the youth of our land with inspirational guidance in social, recreational, spiritual, and education aspects of our life. This organization, which labors in the vineyards of our community, is building in our future citizens responsibility, self-discipline, and a spirit of fair play. This kind of training can only yield, from the garden, a fine crop of American citizens, ready and able to carry out the traditions of our nation and fulfill its destiny. The CYO is built upon the solid foundation of Christianity and Americanism. In its teachings and practices are the age-old principles that were enunciated by our forefathers. Yes, the doors of the CIO are open to youthful Americans, regardless of age, color, or creed. This, to my mind, represents democracy in its true sense. I am proud to be a supporter of this organization. As a father with a family of my own, three daughters, two of whom are members of the Catholic Youth Organization, the other one is too young to be a member, I know the responsibilities of fatherhood and how the CIO supplements the functions of the home. In the well-coordinated program of the CIO, a youngster finds his second home, where the emphasis is placed on religion and self-discipline. Allow me to review the four aims of the Catholic Youth Organization. First, religious, the CIO provides an interesting and practical program of Catholic action for the youth in order to develop their natural virtues and to cultivate and develop their supernatural virtues. In the recreational field, the organization provides a program for participation of youth through attractive activities built upon youth interests. Educationally, the CIO supports a program to provide opportunities for the youth through participating programs of activities and proper attitudes to satisfy their present needs and to inculcate proper traits of character for later life. And there is the social side of the program. Under its supervision, the youth develops a habit of proper conduct to meet social situations whereby they live up to the tenets of their faith. Your great organization, with its fine religious background, has had a tremendous impact upon this great city of eight million people and it will continue to have that impact by your great interest and activity in the organization. I am, accordingly, very happy as acting mayor of the city of New York and in the name of its eight million people to proclaim the week of October 21 to 28 as CYO week and age our citizens to further this wholesome youth program. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I was quite surprised to find out he's got children in CYO. I'm learning every day. This is growing too fast for me. Before we come to somebody that all you children know and I know you admire him, pull that off a little bit. I just want to tell you the Cardinal asked me to bring you a message, tell you that he sends his love and his prayers but I know that he'd be so happy to see this great turnout. I'll be glad to tell him about it. We have here today representing our board of directors Monsignor Drew, another great priest and a great worker and I guess everybody knows him. We have Gene Toney, of course, and Chai and Chris Connell and Charlie Ritter of the Catholic News, Dan Higgins Jr., Bernie O'Shea and others that might be in the audience but these are the people who have cooperated with the clergy and anytime the layman cooperates with the clergy you get what we see here today, CYO. The next person, it'd be silly to try to introduce him. I'm just going to mention his name but before I do I want to tell you when Catholic youth was growing way back 11, 12 years ago after 40 some years in youth work we had maybe 2,500 or 3,000. We were lay people struggling trying to interest Catholic youth but it was hard for the layman. 11 years ago we made this the Catholic youth where the priest and the lady worked together and we found Gene Tunney, the man I'm introducing next who would come from Florida to the Staten Island to referee about just because it brought the audience. He'd go out to Chicago from any place that he was. He's the greatest friend that Catholic youth has and we have many of them. Gene, I'd like to have you talk to these nice children. Mr. Sharkey, Monsignor Moore, Mr. Higgins, Reverend Fathers and children of Catholic Youth Organization. It's a far cry from when Monsignor Moore, Mr. Higgins and I joined it out to Chicago not 11 years ago but about 16 years ago to see the operation of the Catholic Youth Organization of Chicago. I had at that time just been elected to what they call the Catholic Youth Group here. It was a follow-up of the Ozenam Society and we went out and studied that for about a week what Bishop Shield had done with the youth of Chicago and it was from that foundation that this great youth organization has been built. I want to say that it is most gratifying to me as a member of the board of the Catholic Youth Organization to see this turn out here today and to witness this ceremony. Little did I think 16 years ago that this day would ever come and now we've got to thank the acting mayor for proclaiming National Catholic Youth Week and making New York City the center of that week. It is most satisfying to me to see the way this organization has grown and I want to say that it is not the directors of the Catholic Youth Organization who have done the work but it's the priests Father Engel and Monsignor Moore with the inspirational backing of His Eminence Cardinal Spellman. Without that there would be no such thing as a Catholic Youth Organization. It's most gratifying to me as a citizen just a plain citizen of this country to see an organization develop which has such principles principles of democracy which means that we have no there's no concern about one's race or one's nationality. All he has to do to belong to the Catholic Youth Organization is to be a good citizen and accept the principles that each boy and girl has to accept in order to belong to the group and there's no more inspiring group in this city or in this country than the Catholic Youth Organization and I want to thank the mayor on behalf of the board of the Catholic Youth Organization for giving us so much of his time and proclaiming this week as Catholic Youth Week. Thank you so much. Children, we're coming close to the end of our program but I'd be very remiss and I think you'll agree with me when I told you about the wonderful work that the clergy has done with the laymen not to mention I did mention earlier about the Reverend Religious but your nuns they are magnificent. Look at them here today. And the brothers. You see them in hospitals you see them in orphan asylums in every place and always smiling and I was brought up with them and God blessed them and I hope they'll pray for me. We have a musical selection now by the Fire Department Glee Club which is a magnificent one headed by Acting Lieutenant Paul Griffith. Abena Abena Ave Maria The heavens were opened Our lady appeared At Panama one day To tell us the name Of the great people prayer As our children We answered this way Dear lady of Panama We come on bended knee To make your intercession For peace and unity Dear Mary Won't you show us The bright and shining way We pledge our love and love for you A rosary each day You promised at Panama Each time that you appear To help us If we pray to you To banish war and fear Dear lady On first Saturdays We ask your guiding hand For grace and kindness Here on earth And protection For our land Amen Well I think you'll agree with me That both These great renditions From these two great organizations Are really wonderful At Glee Club You just can't beat them Now we have As a final number Almost concluding Our ceremonies We're going to have music By the St. Francis Xavier High School Band And so are the music Of the St. Francis Xavier High School Band We bring to a conclusion The reception Which the Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey Acting Mayor Of the City of New York Has tendered To the Catholic Youth Organization Here in front of City Hall today At which Mr. Daniel Paul Higgins Chairman of the Board of Directors Of the Catholic Youth Organization Acted as chairman Of today's reception At City Hall here today In the arrangements Made by the Honorable Grove Ray Whalen Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee Gene Tunney Who has been so active In inspirational work For the Youth of America Was one of the speakers Along with Monsignor From St. Peter's Barclay Street Monsignor Moore To be exact I thought he was going to speak But he is not Monsignor Moore And we're familiar With the Neighborly Quality Of this neighborhood Even though it is Entirely all business There are still a lot Of youngsters Living down Among these skyscrapers And no doubt Many of them Are members Of the Catholic Youth Organization Now that is about all We can bring you From City Hall The musical features Of the program today Were given by the Fire Department Glee Club Under the direction Of Acting Lieutenant Paul Griffard And the St. Francis Xavier High School Band That is all from City Hall Thank you and good afternoon Thank you and good cla Мне Thank you.