The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. This is the Police Safety Program brought to you each week at this time in cooperation with His Honor Mayor William O'Dwyer and Police Commissioner William P. O'Brien by members of the Police Safety Bureau. So be a little bit careful You cross the corners when the light is green Be a little bit careful You cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen Be careful, babe Be safer and safer For the ones so near and dear to us So be a little bit careful And take it easy Don't be in our eyes Good morning, good morning, good morning, boys and girls. Good morning, good morning. And how are you boys and girls this morning? Oh, I hope you're all feeling fine. I'm feeling good too. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Now, suppose, suppose we call our safety meeting to order And we'll open it with our usual ritual Thinking And I'd like to have every boy and girl Think Think Safety thinking music Think Safety thinking music, boys and girls And when you want to cross the street You go to the corner Be sure that the traffic light is green facing you That's very important And then Before you step off the curb to walk across the street Remember that now Walk across Don't run You look First to the left And then You look to the right And be extra careful And be very sure That all the cars have stopped Very good Now, this morning, boys and girls We have a very nice song I'd like to ask our singing policeman To sing to you I'd like to ask Mr. Singing Safety policeman Are you ready to sing a song for us this morning? Yes Oh, that's wonderful Boys and girls Pay attention to the words of this song It'll help you a lot These songs were written For Johnny Be careful Whose mother and father Are busy all day Whose mother and father And sister and brother Say, Johnny, be careful While you are at play Each little song Is a song with a lesson And this is the kind of a lesson we mean Stop, look, and listen While traffic lights glisten And only cross streets When the red turns to green Don't talk to strangers Don't play with matches These new little songs Know the right from the wrong So sing while you're learning And learn while you're singing And you will grow up To be healthy And strong Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Singing Police And all that was very funny Oh, that was very nice This morning, boys and girls I have a story I'd like to tell you What's it about? It's all about the time I was a policeman on post And I was walking up and down my post What were you doing then? I was walking up and down my post Well, no wonder all those sidewalks are cracked Oh, I just got to be sidewalks Oh, I just got to be sidewalks What? Here's the story that I'd like to tell you That is where I met Johnny B. Campbell Oh, yeah Mm-hmm He was riding a bicycle on the sidewalk Johnny B. Campbell was Did you say he was riding a bicycle on the sidewalk? That's right, Johnny He has no right to do that Oh, now, it wasn't one of those big bicycles It was one of those bicycles with a wheel in the front And two wheels in the back Well, that's not a bicycle That's a tricycle What are you trying to do? Get us mixed up or something? Well, suppose we say it was a three-wheeler It was a three-wheel bicycle That's better And I said to Johnny Johnny, do you know that on the street here Where you're riding your bicycle That there are two big garages Where the automobiles go in and go out And you have to be very careful? Do you know what Johnny said to me? What did he say to that? He said, Mr. Policeman, I am very careful And I said, why are you so careful when you pass those garages? He said, because my teacher taught me a song That makes me very careful when I ride my bicycle What was the name of that song? The name of that song was When you ride a bicycle And I'm going to ask our friend The Singing Safety Policeman If he'll sing it for us this morning Mr. Singing Safety Policeman Will you sing that nice song for us this morning, please? When you ride a bicycle Watch out for the motor cars When you ride a bicycle Never take your hands off the handlebars You pedal slowly to and fro You'll get where you want to go Don't do tricks you think you know Because you saw them at some show I'll be as cool as a nice thing go When you ride a bicycle Oh, thank you Thank you very much, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman That was very nice But do you know something else, boys and girls? Mm-hmm Johnny, be careful Started to tell me all about his cousin Oh, he had a cousin, huh? Yeah, sure he had a cousin What was his name? Well, I think you'll know him as soon as I mention his name And I think all the boys and girls will know him, too What was his name? Come on, tell me His name was Little Jack Horner Oh, I know him Now, just a minute now Suppose you tell us Where do you know Little Jack Horner from? Well, he's the little fella that He sat in a corner and he put in his thumb And pulled out a watermelon or something No, no, no, no Johnny, be careful, cousin Little Jack Horner Yeah He didn't sat in a corner Well, I'm sorry He went to the corner What? He went to the corner Well, what did he do that for? Well, he went to the corner Because his teacher told him That if he wanted to cross the street The safe place to cross that Was the corner Oh, very smart Very smart And do you know something else? That is the name of a song Little Jack Horner It is? Oh, sure And I'm going to ask our singing safety policemen If he will sing that song For the boys and girls this morning And if they pay strict attention to the words They will help them at all times All about playing Oh, the singing safety policemen He must know it Here he comes Yeah, I want to see if he's ready Mr. Singing safety policemen Are you ready to sing that song for us Little Jack Horner? Yes Oh, fine Little Jack Horner He went to the corner I listened and heard him say I looked at the light Then I looked left Then right And that's why I'm living today And then And then Johnny DeCampo Said to me While I was Walking along He said to me Officer Look down the street And What was down there? I looked down the street And there was Two little boys and girls They were playing on the sidewalk In front of a store How old were they? What do you mean Little boys and girls? Well, about I'd say about three years old Maybe four Oh, little Todd But you said they were on the sidewalk That's a safe place, isn't it? Yes, that's where they should play But Johnny DeCampo Said to me You watch, Officer What was going to happen? And I kept looking And you know Along the curb There were cars all parked Along the curb Automobiles all parked At the curb And all of a sudden One child chased The other child And the child ran out Into the street From between Those two parked cars Was there anything coming? Yes There was a big truck Coming down In the street Mm-hmm Oh, my goodness But Fortunately The man driving that truck Was very alert Oh, that's good That's good And he stopped that truck Just in time Otherwise This would be a very sad story Oh, I bet it would be And then Johnny DeCampo Said to me My teacher Taught me another song Oh, no fooling Another one? Oh, he knew What was the name of that one? And this song Was all about An automobile And the name of the song is The automobile Has to be guys And I hope our friend Mr. Singing Bicycle Well, say nothing Oh, he knows He knows all of them Here he comes now The automobile Bicycle Has to be guys To see where it is going And if I don't use my own two eyes Its horn will start a-blowing Beep, beep Beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep For like myself It cannot see What's happening Behind it So here's a lesson To be learned And I hope that You will mind it It's silly to play Too near a car For when the motor's running Boom It cannot look around And say to you I'm going Or I'm coming One, two, three, four, five What's that? One, two, three, four, five Oh, are those those five words You want the boys to remember? I have five words That I want the boys and girls To remember And the first word Is look Look Second one? Second is walk Third Cross Fourth and fifth And a fourth and fifth With safety Oh, that's well Now our friend Mr. Singing Safety Policeman I think I'm going to ask him To sing this song For us Mr. Singing Safety Policeman Will you sing this very nice song For us please? for all permet That's That is the Given сек The CNUSS In The Internet For us The snowball Come on Look Walk Walk, cross with safety. That is the safe thing for you and for you. You should look, walk, cross with safety and tell your ma and your pa to look, walk and cross with safety. Then they'll know how safe you are. Oh, thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. Now, boys and girls, we're going to ask you this morning if you will remember. You'll be very careful. And here's something else we'd like to have you remember. To walk safely, remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner, don't run in the street. But that's where trouble and accidents meet. Walk safely, you'll look less than right. Now the roadway is no place to play. Be cautious in bad weather. Be glad we're safe together as you walk safely each day. Say, don't you think it'd be nice if we had to sing in Safety Policeman sing that very important song again, don't you think so? I think it'd be nice if we had to sing in Safety Policeman. Don't forget, boys and girls, be careful. This program will be presented again at this same time next Saturday morning. This is the Municipal Broadcasting Station, WNYC, New York. That's brought seeing this report on the most important level of peace broadcast. That's what it is for right now. What's been waiting for, friends and girls? I think it's been the best possible for a lot of people they come in. This is called the New York City of the United Nations. This is所p of theMiC, New York City of the United Nations. Where do you want to be at? If you failed? If you have 왕ii, you're wrong. Four, every time for trade, you're right. Like, have prendra Faroe, Charlie. But then I hope you're right at it. Okay, we're afraid of carrying pots on because I can't handle that. And this васby is comingoty.