Imagine a thermometer so delicate, so sensitive, that it could flicker if the temperature went up or down by as much as one thousandth of a degree. Well, we now have a new scientific instrument that will measure temperature changes of one five millionth of a degree. Science calls it a calorimeter, and it's used to investigate the chemical changes in body proteins. Those are the substances which are thought to be the basis of life itself. You see, our body's growth and reproduction depend to a large extent on these proteins, for along with water, they make up most of the material inside each body cell. Their reactions, that is, the way they affect each other, are always accompanied by heat. That's true with all chemical reactions. Now, we all know that when coal or oil burns, a large amount of heat is thrown off. Well, that's only one chemical reaction, just like the effect of two proteins on each other, except that the heat is, of course, much, much smaller. By measuring this amount of heat, we'll know something about these protein reactions. Now, why does science go to all this trouble? Well, scientists believe that the proteins not only control our normal growths, but our abnormal growths, too, and that means cancer. That's why the Yale University Department of Chemistry is so elated over the development of this super measuring device. Dr. Julian Sturdivant headed the research crew at Yale, who put it together, and he thinks that it will help us find out more about cancer. Measuring these infinitely small amounts of heat caused by the reaction of body proteins may sound like a great waste of time, but as Dr. Sturdivant points out, the solution of many difficult practical problems is accomplished by, first of all, acquiring apparently unrelated fundamental knowledge. You know, in the days of knighthood, battles were won, and history was written largely through the efforts of men on the battlefields. But in the world of the 20th century, wars may be won far from those thundering guns of battle, thousands of miles away in some secluded laboratory. It would seem only logical, then, that in addition to keeping tabs on the number of men any potential enemy has in uniform and watching over an opponent's military strength, that we'd also need to have some idea of how far along he's progressed on such scientific weapons as the atomic bomb. That's the proposal which has been put forth at the 118th National Meeting of the American Chemical Society by Dr. Paul Howerton of Denver, Colorado. Dr. Howerton believes that we should set up a voluntary scientific intelligence service. It would seek to determine how strong scientifically any potential enemy is growing and what trend is being taken by that country's research scientists. Dr. Howerton believes that our military intelligence corps should be helped by highly specialized linguists and bibliographers who would search and analyze Russian technical publications as well as those from other foreign countries. You yourself know that few military men have the time or the ability to grope through foreign language technical periodicals and pick out the significant developments. This could be done, proposes Dr. Howerton, by recruiting American bibliographers who would evaluate and translate a digest of important scientific developments overseas which could affect our military machine. What's more, claims Dr. Howerton, American colleges and libraries are also most interested in learning of scientific progress abroad. Dr. Howerton, American colleges and universities, are most interested in learning of scientific intelligence corps to forewarn America against any new scientific discovery by a potential enemy. Boiling sulfuric acid is one of the angriest enemies ever faced by any metal. Yet, for one reason or another, we've had to live with sulfuric acid for quite a while. In the processing of steel, as well as in the paper and petroleum industries, there are certain jobs done by sulfuric acid which no other chemical can accomplish. Our big problem was to find some container which would hold this relentlessly corrosive acid in check. And up until recently, we thought the best solution to that problem was stainless steel. But that was before a group of man-made compounds came along which were called phenolic rosins and which belonged to the plastics family. Chemists have found that these plastics are even more impervious to acid corrosion and stainless steel. And phenolic rosins as a coating or as a sort of cement are promising to be very useful to the chemical, textile and food industries where acid corrosion steadily eats away at equipment. Dr. Raymond Seymour of the Atlas Mineral Products Company in Murchtown, Pennsylvania, described these new useful members of the plastics family to the recent national meeting of the American Chemical Society. He told of one tank, 60 feet long, which had been fed a diet of 100,000 gallons of boiling acid every day for 12 years without developing one single ulcer. Why? Well, inside it was coated with phenolic rosins. These new plastics are so simple to make that almost any of our listeners who cares to can whip up a batch at home. You heat two easily available chemicals, carbolic acid and formaldehyde, until a heavy syrup forms. Then all you do is mix in a little sand and a dash of sulfuric acid itself, and within a few minutes you will have a hard solid that is one of the most completely impregnable materials known to science. Phenolic rosins easily and cheaply made protection against acid corrosion. We've known for many years that Mother Nature stored one of her most effective insect killers inside the purple blossoms of an African flower called pyrethrum. But this ammunition against our insect enemies has been provided only when and where the old girl pleased, and not at all the way man has wanted it. The job of making this insecticide synthetically, that is, artificially from readily abundant materials, was an extraordinarily difficult chemical task. But it was climaxed by the production of synthetic pyrethrum, or, as it's called, alethrin. And this is the story of our guest today, Mr. Joseph Keneally of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation. Mr. Keneally, is it true that some 25 different chemicals which you people use are used to produce alethrin? That's completely true. Well, that seems like a pretty difficult synthesis job, then. Well, it is one of the most difficult synthesis being carried on in the chemical industry today, and the most complex, probably. How many steps do you have to go through chemically to... Well, there are 11 different chemical steps in the synthesis that make the complete insecticide. Do you think any of our listeners would recognize any of the chemicals used to... I doubt very much if they'd recognize them as any of the common chemicals, because they are mostly industrial materials that are not seen. All of them have names about a foot long, and I imagine. Probably so. Can you tell us what this new insecticide looks like? Well, it is a clear, brownish-colored liquid. Mm-hmm. Well, that sounds like whiskey, don't we? Well, you can't drink this as bad. Don't want to get a little mixed up there. Does this synthetic, though, carry the same powerful punch against insects as natural pyrethrum? As far as all of our tests have shown so far, it is completely as powerful as the natural material. How long have you been testing it? We've been testing it just over a year now on flies, mostly. Well, you should have some idea of whether it can do the job, then. I've seen it work. Oh, does it work on any other insects besides... Well, it would. It would work on mosquitoes and on some types of cockroaches and some agricultural pests. Mm-hmm. And, of course, those are the pests that cut down crops and cattle. That's right. Farmers want to get rid of. Will elethrin harm animals or men who come into contact with it, or does it just go after insects? It seems to confine its death-dealing activity to insects and has no harmful effects on man or animal. Well, why do we go to all the trouble of synthesizing pyrethrum, Mr. Keneally? Well, we were completely dependent upon the import of pyrethrum flowers for the natural pyrethrum material in most aerosol sprays or bomb sprays, as they're so called, or other fly sprays. Mm-hmm. And the synthesis of elethrin makes us completely independent of any foreign supply of the natural material. I see. We can make it in any quantities we want it or need it, and there should be some benefits from that. Well, who do you think will benefit the most from this chemically-manufactured insecticide? I would say everybody will benefit, eventually. Everybody but the insects. Everybody but the insects. True. The farmer probably stands to do very well with it, and even the housewife will find it eventually, we think, in the aerosol bombs used for fly sprays or for knocking down mosquitoes in the bedroom and stuff like that. Mm-hmm. Well, to protect our health from insect carriers of disease and to control the many kinds of insects which attack and destroy essential foods and fibers, those seem to be the two tasks which promise to be effectively performed by our newest insecticide, elethrin. Through its chemical manufacture, we no longer need to worry about supply or transportation difficulties. And our thanks for telling the story behind this latest chemical triumph goes to our guest today, Mr. Joseph Keneally. You know, speaking of plastics, as we were a couple of minutes ago, you may be interested in hearing of another new plastic product, a shoe which has been built of transparent plastic that you can see right through. It promises to help enormously in fitting shoes. You know, when you go down to the store and fit on a pair of shoes these days, the salesman usually gets down on his knees and pinches the shoe to see how it fits. Well, that's a pretty haphazard process. It isn't at all scientific. Or maybe you have the shoe x-rayed with your foot inside it. But many experts don't like the idea of shoe x-rays, and as a matter of fact, Washington, D.C. even has a law against it. Well, neither of these methods answers the most important question either. How does the shoe fit when you're actually walking in it? That's something that's particularly important to know in children's shoes. So, along comes this shoe manufacturer in Rochester, New York, with a clear plastic shoe made of vinylite plastic which feels and handles exactly like leather. So, now when you get a shoe, you'll know that it fits. The scientific world was electrified last spring when it was reported that antibiotics do more than just fight disease. The letterly laboratories in Pearl River, New York reported then, as you may have heard, that oreomycin has increased the growth of hogs as much as 50% and that this far surpassed even vitamins. This was news of the first order, for it meant that by adding a small amount of oreomycin to their feed, cattle could be raised more quickly and more heavily than ever before. Now we have more evidence that this nutritious power not only lies just in oreomycin, but in at least two other antibiotics, streptomycin and teromycin. As usual, these experiments were carried out first on guinea pigs and rats. And here's what the two chemist team at Washington State College discovered. One, there is something, and they don't know what, in both teromycin and streptomycin, which makes young rats grow faster. And two, this same strange something can be transmitted through the rat mother's milk. For growing rats whose mothers were fed antibiotics gain more weight than those whose mothers did not receive the antibiotics. Three, rats fed small amounts of antibiotics over a long period of time didn't seem any the worse off, indicating that it will probably be safe to feed antibiotics to farm animals to speed up their youngsters' growth. It's still much too early to tell, but the two Washington State scientists predict that someday it may even be found desirable to feed antibiotic concentrates to children who haven't grown the way they should. Thatates to each other. Another question or Troy at the bottom chart was a fortune to open. The other way they do not get connected to dernière assistants isФ-14 тип. They're given two swords that must have an лучше Party, which may splay them for when they dig theoscope working спас, however they did let them여ze them to Sic. Whether they're решил or something De competent or Duit, they're supposed to be unique or something. They tried to yawn, but we don't think so. Another question, could you have thought something? What can you imagine? Oh, how are you, Helen? WP? What can you sobre this? No pe poz! Yeah! Weroo, you're not running into qualquer override,