The Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation, in cooperation with this station, presents The Reign of a Queen. This is a story of a young girl, a girl like the one that may live down the street from you. This is the story of Jean Doran and of the great crippler infantile paralysis, which can strike anyone, anytime, anyplace, without regard to race, creed, color, or income bracket. Yes, and this is the story of the Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation's constant vigil to combat the ravages of infantile paralysis. Woodruff Dormitory at Pleasant View College is usually a bustling place. Pleasant View is strictly a girls' school, no men allowed. That's okay with Jean Doran and her chums, too, because they're much too absorbed with the adventures of each and every day on the campus and in the classrooms. And how does the day begin for Jean Doran and her roommate, Betty Ryan, in that neat little room in Woodruff Dormitory? Like this. Oh! Time to get up and out, Betty. Oh, what a day. Wet and muggy. Oh, that thunder kept me up most of the night. Hey, you! Get out of bed! Well, maybe a good gaspill of water will wake you up. Oh, you! I'm getting up. Get away from me. I don't ever want to see you again. Oh, that'll be pretty hard. You're my roommate, you know. Well, I'll get another roommate. Oh, no. Who would I have fun with, then? And what would happen to our little talks? Oh, you wouldn't leave me to the mercy of another dope now, would you? Well, I'm going to. Throwing water at me. You could at least have warned me. Oh, I did warn you, Bettykins. And anyway, better get dressed or we'll miss breakfast. We've got modern dance class right after, you know. Hey, who took my gym suit? Oh, don't know, but you better hurry or you'll miss your class. I just can't be late. I've already been late for three classes. Oh, what'll I do? I'll murder whoever took it. Hey, you've got an awfully guilty look on your face. Hey, you, come back here. Bye-bye, Miss Ryan. I'll be seeing you. Manning? Here. Pritchard? Here. Ryan? Ryan? That's all. Take your places, everyone. Miss Ryan will be excused the rest of the year. Oh, she'll just die. Oh, you can't do that. Oh, she couldn't find her gym suit. That was all. Oh, she was here on time. Miss Ryan can make her own explanations. And I will make my own decisions, Miss Doran. Oh, but you don't understand. If she gets a black mark against her for skipping classes, oh, what's the use? It didn't seem like the same old gym class for Jean without Betty, but they met again later for their daily get-together with Barbara, who is living for the day she'll be a nurse. Hey, you kids should have been at the hospital with me today. I assisted in the most wonderful operation. Really, you should have been there. Well, you should have been here. I just got kicked out of gym class. Oh, no. There go your chances of being campus queen. What happened? Oh, it's a long story, but... Well, we'll just have to put our heads together and back Jean for queen from now on. Who? Me? Yes, you. Listen, here's what we'll do. Get all the crowd together and we'll work on the campaign in our room. Make it three o'clock. The election is only a week away, so we'll have to rush. Jean will get all the votes that were pledged to me. Remember, three o'clock Friday. Gosh, you said Friday at three, and Friday at three it is. And look, everybody's here. Isn't that great? Hey, where's Jean? Haven't seen her around. She's been campaigning so hard, I guess she's a little beat. Complained of a headache a little while ago. We better keep an eye on her. A headache could lead into something serious. Hey, Bette, Jean wants you in her room right away. What's up? Feeling worse, I guess. Better hurry. Oh, she's just nervous. The recital tonight and the election tomorrow, she's worn out. Oh, take it easy on that door. I've got a terrific headache. My ache all over. I'd better go for a nurse, Jean. Can I get you anything? No, just get the nurse up here, that's all. Oh, take it easy. Everything will be all right. I hope. Let's take a look at that thermometer now. Hmm. Well, you just lie still in that bed for a while, Jean. My recital tonight? We'll see, Jean. It might be all right, but I want Dr. Fritchie to give you a thorough examination right after your recital, if you go on the stage at all tonight. Now, just relax, Jean, and I'll pop in to see you in just a little while again. Thank you, Miss Kennedy. Jean. Jean, maybe you shouldn't give this recital tonight. If you think that you're... Oh, no, Mother. I've got to give it. Miss Kennedy said that it was all right. All right, dear. Your father and I will be out front rooting for you. Now go out there and show them that you're already a queen. Oh, thanks, Mom. Good luck, dear. I know you'll be just wonderful. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to dedicate my next selection to my mother and father, who are in the audience tonight. Especially for them, I'd like to play my favorite, Chopin's Waltz No. 5 in A-flat Major. Oh, Paul. Isn't our baby wonderful? Yes, Martha. And how she's grown up on us. And she has so much zest and so much enthusiasm for life. Oh, just listen how she plays with her whole heart and soul. Oh. I like to watch her hands. So graceful, so confident, so self-assured as they glide over the keyboard. Martha, I'd say that our beautiful daughter has a great future in music. Yes, dear. There's your encore, Jean. Go ahead. Take that ball and wall them again. I can't go out there again, Betts. I... What's the trouble, honey? Oh, I feel terrible. I'm going to my room and lie down. Hey, Barb. Barb will see that you get to your room, honey. I'll tell your mom to take care of your things and I'm going after Miss Kennedy and Dr. Fritchie. Jean. Jean. Oh, where's my Jean? She's in there, Mrs. Doran. Oh, but... But whatever is the matter? Oh, why didn't she wait for me backstage? Oh, I know something is wrong. Oh, what is it, nurse? What is it? Is she sick? Please tell me. The doctor has just left your daughter, Mrs. Doran. Jean is sick. Very sick. She has infantile paralysis. Oh, Jean. Jean. Jean. Please, Mrs. Doran. Please sit down here. Dr. Fritchie is making arrangements now to see that Jean gets the very best of care. Please do everything you can. Yes. Yes, everything. Everything possible will be done for Jean. Dr. Fritchie has recommended that she be taken to the Elizabeth Kenny Polio Institute. Infantile paralysis. Polio. Jean's been taken to the Elizabeth Kenny Polio Institute. Oh, no. Then she has got infantile paralysis? Yes. They couldn't send her to a better place than the Kenny Institute. They'll really do everything for her there. Say, you know, after I get my nursing degree, I'm going to apply for a scholarship from the Sister Kenny Foundation to study at the Institute. I've talked to a lot of people and read quite a bit about the treatment. Tell us about it, Barb. Well, the first thing, when patients get to the Kenny Polio Institute, they're placed in the contagion ward, where they're given a thorough examination by staff physicians to determine the degree of involvement. Mm-hmm. Then the fight starts, not only to save a life, but also to spare the afflicted patient from polio's crippling after effects. But what treatments will Jean get first? Hot packs are applied first. They relax spastic muscles and ease the pain. Then, after a couple of weeks, Jean will be released from the contagion ward and will be transferred to a ward with people near her own age. That's a big help in passing the time. Then the Kenny technician, under medical supervision, begins the job of restoring control of muscles affected by the disease. Passive exercise and active exercise and muscle and tendon stimulation. Each plays a very important part in the full Kenny treatment. The treatment goes on until Jean has gained maximum benefit and is ready to go home and ready to go back to the campus. Back here? Yes, back here, where she'll be able to carry on a normal life without the handicap of heavy casts or braces or crutches. She'll go to the games with us again, and there's every likelihood that she'll dance again. Oh, that's wonderful. But the most important thing now is to help Jean. You and all of us can help Jean and other polio victims by giving to the Sister Elizabeth Kenny Foundation during its campaign for funds this year. Gee, it's getting late. We've got a big day tomorrow. Jean will be depending on us to carry on. Good night, Bat. Good night, Barb, and pray for Jean, won't you? Sure, I'll pray. Pray just like I know her mom is praying for her now. Oh, God, give us light to see, hands to feel, air to breathe, and the courage to do thy will. Help us, Lord. Help us to help our Jean. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. Hush, now, here comes the announcement. And now, according to votes received from the student body, the queen of Pleasant View College is Miss Jean Doran. Oh, Lord, she's queen. She's queen. Oh, dear. And since Jean is unable to be with us today to receive her crown, a crown she deserves so much, it's been deemed fitting that her mother, Mrs. Paul Doran, received the crown in her behalf. And now, it's a pleasure for me to present the mother of our queen Jean, Mrs. Doran. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, girls. Thanks from Jean, too, for the confidence you have placed in her by making her your queen. When I saw Jean last night, she was contorted with pain. Her legs were pulled into a grotesque position. Her arms, well, her arms were limp at her side. But Jean, your Jean and my Jean, was able to talk. I wish all of you could have been there to hear her. Mom. Mom, tell them that I'll be all right. Tell them that I'll be back with them before very long. Yeah. Back raising heck with the best of them. But, but tell them I'll need their help. I, I can't do it alone. Ask them to give to the Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation. Through the work of the Kenney Foundation, they can help me. Help me walk again. Oh, please ask them to give. For me and all the others. And, Mom, say thanks for me, won't you? Just thanks, Mom. Just thanks. For Jean, who can't be here now, but who will be back, I say thanks. And God bless you, all of you. This year, give. Give generously to the Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation. Your contributions will help those like Jean Doran, those stricken by the great crippler, Polio. This has been a transcribed presentation by the Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation in cooperation with this station. The cast was composed of members of the University of Minnesota Radio Guild. Remember, give. Give generously to this year's appeal of the Sister Elizabeth Kenney Foundation. The— The sea爷 feather somewhat and. It's boundless to be a full of their family service that we might not have made. And that's what you want to have made. You see, marriage member Anglo peers and dance together with this, the explosion of the Zionistlei. The horrible сек beingladım or Active Bonnie and Rising or single line Monaten being heard of theERF K. The h kettle of the vessel and the procedependent and the same way may not have made. Get Impossible for the expression and the he real- virtudes as a quê många men or the same leader
