Is that your debut too, Mr. Fitzpatrick? She likes it, she's going ahead. All right, that's done very, very nicely, Mr. Fitzpatrick. The 100 points are yours. Mr. Delman, back to our microphone again. And we'd like you to do Lily Pond's favorite aria from Rigoletto. Kara Nome. With the color of your trills, Mr. Delman. I'm trying to get the right Ava. Mr. Delman took out a tuning instrument from his pocket and sounded the note. I thought it might seem as an inspiration. Let me see that Kara Nome. That's from Rigoletto. I know where it is from, it just won't come, the melody. On the tip of your tongue, is it? That's it. I'm afraid I'll pass up on that. You'll pass up on that. Well, now, we really can pass up on that, so we're going to call on somebody from the radio audience to do that for us. From the studio audience, this gentleman right over here in the front, would you like to jump to the microphone? What is your name, please, for posterity? Jonathan Sternberg. Mr. Sternberg, do you want to get around the microphone? Right. Incidentally, posterity, we understand, is just around the corner. And let's hear how Kara Nome from Rigoletto goes. Da-da-dum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum. Da-da-dum, bum. Very nicely done, Mr. Sternberg. We thank you very much. Of course, we don't think that Lily Ponds will have very much to worry about, not too much. All right, Miss King, how about the first movement from the Fifth Symphony of Beethoven? Da-da-dum, da-da-dum, da-da-dum, da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da. Our contestants are really excellent performers. Very noble artists. All right, Mr. Jarmel, will you come to the microphone? And here's the problem that we have for everybody, our four contestants, and, of course, for the radio audience. Incidentally, how are you doing today, radio audience? Well, here's the problem. A wise man by name William Shakespeare by play Hamlet once said speaking of women which would appear to be about the only safe way to deal with the species God gives them one face and they make for themselves another Well in much the same spirit men are dissatisfied with the given names of things and set about to improve The results being quaint and diverse And so we find people hailing friends in amazing fashions as thusly Hey red are in the manner of a group of school boys who affectionately although secretly referred to a professor as old man adjective Now our music lovers have fallen into the same practice and renamed their symphony And so for this round we play the game of symphonic nicknames I'll give you the baptismal title Mr. Jarmel and you give me the accepted nickname Wouldn't it be funny calling Beethoven butch? Well here is the first one the symphony number nine of Beethoven that's the chorale You sound as though you have great disdain in your voice No I like it I think it's good You like the symphony? Yeah Well it's a very fine symphony the symphony number nine of Beethoven the chorale symphony Now the second Mr. Jarmel is the symphony number four in A major of Mendelssohn That's Italian That's the famous Italian symphony that's correct Now here's the third one that we have for you the third and the last The symphony number 94 in G major of Haydn Sounds like inflation Wait a minute it's not the surprise symphony You might be though Don't tell me it's the surprise symphony That's number six Is that the Oxford symphony? The symphony number 94 in G major Mr. Schiller By Haydn The symphony is by Haydn Well suppose we tell you that is the surprise symphony Mr. Schiller Uh Mr. Jarmel I don't know why I've been calling you Mr. Schiller Are you surprised Mr. Jarmel? I am I think it's number six Well Judge Macaluso Judge Macaluso says number 94 All right I submit You submit All right Miss Fitzpatrick Uh here's the three that we have for you Uh the symphony number eight in B minor of Schubert What's the nickname? Oh the unfinished That's the famous unfinished symphony The second is symphony number three in A minor of Mendelssohn Oh uh Mendelssohn? Mm-hmm Mendelssohn I don't know Well that's the famous Scotch symphony And here is the third one we have for you The symphony number 41 of Mozart In C major please Symphony number 41 of Mozart I know it but I don't know the name You don't know the name Well the nickname for that is the Jupiter symphony The famous Jupiter symphony Should have called on the guards to help for that one Mr. Patrick Uh Mr. Delman I hear the three that we have for you to identify for us Uh number one the symphony number six in F major of Beethoven That's uh Oh Number six of Beethoven Funny I can think of a synonym for it a rural symphony Well your country cousin coming in from the world's fair I know it all right It's the The pastorale symphony That's right the pastorale symphony Tell your country cousin it could help you How about the symphony number five of Dvorak That's the new world That's the new world symphony And third the symphony number one in B flat major of Schumann Number one That's the spring symphony That's right that's the spring symphony When the clouds bloom All right Miss King Miss King here's the last three for you The symphony number three of Beethoven The Eroica That's the famous Eroica symphony The symphony number six in B minor of Tchaikovsky Oh the um Pathetique That's right the famous Pathetique symphony And the last one Miss King The very last one the symphony number 45 of Haydn Oh dear The last one Miss King The farewell symphony The farewell symphony Miss King Now if you go to a concert the next time you You come back You go home and the next morning you read the newspapers And you look at what the critics have to say about the performer and the concert And you see whether you agree or not If you don't why you invariably say he's crazy Now um Mr. Jarmel We have a group of criticisms here Which really are crazy And we'd like you to tell us why This is crazy criticism number one Jascha Heifetz The well-known cellist Collaborated with Kirsten Flogstadt pianist In Tchaikovsky's double concerto They were assisted by the Philadelphia Orchestra Under the direction of Sergei Kusevitsky What's wrong with that Mr. Jarmel? Well let's take it point by point Um Jascha Heifetz That begins the cellist Yeah He's a violinist He's a violinist That's right What comes next? Uh collaborated with Kirsten Flogstadt pianist She is a soprano And a very good one Uh in Tchaikovsky's double concerto Tchaikovsky didn't write a double concerto That's right Tchaikovsky did not write a double concerto They were assisted by the Philadelphia Orchestra Is that all right? Well It could be all right All right it could be all right And under the direction of Sergei Kusevitsky He conducts the Boston Symphony That's right he's the regular conductor of the Boston Symphony He's covered all those for us very nicely Uh Miss Fitzpatrick Here's the second one Crazy criticism number two Gilbert's swingy songs And Sullivan's topsy-turvy trivialities Brought forth much applause At the premiere in 1885 Of their latest opus The Hot Mercado Or The Last Who Loved a Sailor An individual effort by Savoyard Sullivan Produced the famous song Stomping at the Savoy Well uh The Hot Mercado Was just a recent production It's the imitation of Gilbert and Sullivan Swinging it And uh Gilbert wrote the lyrics And uh Sullivan the music To the original And the topsy-turvy part Was particularly Gilbertian That's right Now how about The Hot Mercado Or The Last Who Loved a Sailor Well The Last Who Loved a Sailor Is the alternative title of Pinafore That's right The Town of Titipu Is the alternative title of the Mercado Now how about the last statement here An individual effort by Savoyard Sullivan Produced the famous song Stomping at the Savoy Oh that isn't so That isn't so No that's not so Stomping at the Savoy Is of Cab Calloway's composition Or is it Duke Ellington One of the uh troubadours of modern days Mr. Delman Now here is the third crazy criticism Ludwig von Beethoven One of the three B's of music Along with Bach and Berlioz Was inspired to write his fifth symphony Subtitled The Eroica By the disastrous results of his unhappy marriage Well Beethoven wasn't married to begin with And Berlioz is not one of the three B's who are they Well that's Beethoven, Bach and Brahms That's right Bach, Beethoven and Brahms And what is the other His fifth symphony subtitle The Eroica Well that's the third The fifth has no subtitle Except the faith Their own That's right You've covered them all very nicely Mr. Delman Now the scene The scene here is the last one Let's see what you can find wrong with this Let's see what you can find right with it Crazy criticism number four Grace Moore Made another gratifying appearance At the Met last night And the Canadian contralto's voice Never created a better effect Than in her soaring rendition Of Vestila Juba Well Grace Moore is a soprano And she doesn't sing Vestila Juba I think that's a tenor And what else? That's right That's from Pagliacci Grace Moore made another gratifying appearance At the Met last night The Canadian contralto's voice Oh of course she isn't Canadian That's right She's American And she's not a contralto She's a soprano And she couldn't sing Vestila Juba Otherwise everything is alright Now ladies and gentlemen We're going to draw a mask Over four musical selections And present each of our contestants With the problem of identification Mask music question number one That is Don from Griggs Or rather Morning From Griggs Pier Gintz Suite number one You saw the light very quickly Mr. Jarmel That is Morning From the Pier Gintz Suite That's very well done And I'm Mr. Fitzpatrick Here's the second mask music question For you Composition, Composer But you have that yet Mr. Fitzpatrick Well suppose we take That's the first movement Of the famous piano concerto Of Tchaikovsky And now Mr. Delman Here's the third mask music question A very familiar one Let's see whether you can tell us What it is Number three That is the mezzo from Cavalier of Tricana That's right The intermezzo from Cavalier of Tricana And what is the name of the composer Mr. Delman You've been done Maskagne Maskagne is correct And now the fourth and last mask music question For today How you doing radio audience That's the moonlight sonata by Beethoven That is the moonlight sonata by Beethoven That's correct While we await Judge Macaluso Who is engaged in weighty mathematical problems We have a game for the radio audience We will give you five titles of popular songs And we'd like you to give us the classical equivalent Mr. Ross Will you act as a musical guinea pig for us And show people how it works Here's an old favorite All alone by the telephone Well I'd say None but the lonely heart Yes None but the lonely heart That's a good one How about Jeepers Creepers Well let's see The dance macabre The dance macabre That's a very good one California here I come Well let me take a wild stab Girl of the Golden West The girl of the Golden West The opera of Puccini And the last one We've had a lot of trouble Trying to figure out one for this Hold tight Hold tight Mr. Ross Well that is difficult I think Scott Symphony The Scott Symphony And now Mr. Ross Will you read the titles For our radio audience Name detective In scroll-like tones If you please sir Very well in scroll-like tones First The music goes round and round Two There'll be a hot time In the old town tonight Three Three little fishes You know They swam and they swam All over the dam Four Rockabye Baby Five Where did you get that hat The music goes around and around There'll be a hot time In the old town tonight Three little fishes Rockabye Baby And where did you get that hat And there are five names For our musical Sherlock Holmes The person sending in The best five Classical equivalents Will receive the Columbia's album Of Haydn's Surprise Symphony Played by Howard Barlow And the Columbia Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra Judge Macaluso's decision Will be final The name of the winner Overcoming strenuous opposition To enter our musical hall of fame With the perfect musical IQ Of 700 points Miss Claire King Congratulations to you Miss King The congratulations And ten tickets To the Philharmonic Concert At the Lewiston Stadium And an autographed copy Of Dean's Taylor's Of Men and Music Our other three contestants Will also receive copies Of Mr. Taylor's books So you think you know music Well Well tune in again Next Sunday Same time And same station When Ted Cott Returns to master the ceremonies On Columbia's Hour of Musical Fund With Judge Macaluso And four new Fearless contestants A limited number of tickets Are available To persons in New York City And vicinity Who would like to attend This program Address your application To the Hour of Musical Fund 485 Madison Avenue New York City This is David Ross speaking This is the Columbia Broadcasting System possiamo까 cream To what I saw and jump to What are you doing With the and by the