In this broadcast, we're paying a return visit to Delaware County. If you heard this program about a year and a half ago, you know that at that time we visited some of the folks in the Delaware County Electric Cooperative Incorporated, one of the REA, Rural Electrification Administration, cooperatives across the United States, this one at that time serving a great many farm folks in a part of Delaware County. At that time, we got a pretty good picture of how things stood up here, and they had a lot of real problems ahead of them. Today we've come back. We want to pay a return visit, see how they've made progress towards solving those problems and how things look to them now. And sitting on one side of me here is Ed McLaury, the president of that organization, and on the other side is Bill Winner, who is the manager, that is to say, engaged by the board of directors to take care of the routine business of the organization. And between these gentlemen, we want to find out how things have changed. Ed McLaury, we thank you very much in the first place for letting us originate this part of the broadcast. Ed McLaury, we thank you very much for joining us today. We'll know where we are. Situated in the town of Cortright on top of a nice hill. And that's in Delaware County near what village? Near Bloomville. And you have here a dairy farm, I believe. How many head of cows, and what kind? About 85 purebred Alsteins. Well, we came up mostly to find out how things are going up here in the Delaware County Electric Cooperative Incorporated. What's different now from what it was a year and a half ago? First of all, let's see about the number of members. Have you got any more members than you had then? We've increased several members, probably over 100. Of course, a year and a half ago, you'd come pretty near to reaching all the folks that needed electricity, so it isn't surprising that you haven't grown too much since then. At that time, I don't remember the exact figures, but as I recall it, you were selling each of the members about half as much electricity as you thought he might eventually use. Are you selling any more electricity per person now than you used to? A great deal more. A great deal more? Well, now, could you give us any rough indication of how much that is? As much as twice as much? Well, not quite, but it's pretty near that. In other words, those wires that you put out running over these hills up from the Delaware River have got to carry more juice now than they used to. They carry a lot more juice, and we put up additional wires. Well, now I want to ask Bill Winter a few things, because Bill's the manager, and he's had some of these headaches right around him all the time. When I was up here before, Bill, we found that one of your problems was the peak load. At a certain time of the day, usually about milking time in the afternoon, early evening, the electric power demand was just out of this world, but that was the only time of the day it ran so heavy. And then the rest of the day, it slacked off and was fairly easy again. How is it now? We still have about the same peak demand, but we have found that as more equipment has become available, the peaks, or the valleys, as we call them, have filled up some. The peak has not changed a whole lot, and the new equipment, which has gone on the line with a better load diversity factor, has improved our general operating conditions on the system. So you're selling about as much electricity as ever on the peaks. The peaks are still heavy, but the off times are nearer to catching up, so your balance is better. That is correct. Our system is operating much better than it did when you were here before. What's your trouble about outages? That is, when somebody calls you up in the middle of the night and says our electric power is off and we've got to have power in time for milking in the morning. Well, we're very proud on this co-op of the continuity of service which we are able to maintain. We do everything we can to make sure that power is there, particularly for milking time, every day in the year and every milking time. We do have some outages caused by storms and freak accidents such as airplanes flying into lines and so on, but we're very proud of our service, and we do have people who have had service for nearly four years who have never yet had to melt by hand. Now we want to turn back to you over here, Ed McLaurie, the president of the Delaware County Electric Co-op, and ask you some things about the finances. Do you mind talking about them on the radio, or would you rather keep them private? We don't want to keep anything private. You don't want to keep anything private. All right, here we go. If we get off reservation, you ask us. First of all, we want to know, of all the things that the co-op has to pay money for, of all the expenses you have to meet, what costs you the most? What's the heaviest single expense? Our wholesale power. Now let's get into that. You mean you buy electric power, is that it? That's right, from the associated. And then in turn you transform that to the proper voltages and distribute it, and so the biggest expense is buying power. That's right. Has that power gone up any since the last time I was here? Did it cost you any more to buy? A great deal more. The contract has a coal clause, which makes it cost a lot more. Now what's a coal clause? Well, every time coal increases in price, it affects our rate. It's electricity generated by steam turbines. Oh, I see. So when coal goes up, your electric power goes up. Great deal. Well now, the last time I was here, the rate that you charged your members was, I forget just what it was, but it struck me as being particularly low in view of the fact that you distribute electricity where there may only be two or three consumers in every mile of wire. Have you increased those rates since I was here last? No, we haven't. Not yet, but it may be possible we'll have to in the near future. You haven't increased the rates, although your wholesale power costs and everything else has gone up in all that time. Well, now that would suggest another question. Once again, I say, if we get off reservation, you tell us to haul in and we'll quit asking questions. Are you making enough money in the co-op now to break even, or are you going in the red? We're going in the red just a little. We don't have quite enough to keep up our reserve. Now there's a very candid statement from the president of this co-op. Let's turn over here to Bill Wenner again, the manager, and ask him a few things. You just heard Ed McLaurie say you're going into the red a little bit. What does he mean by that? What's going into the red? We are not meeting our depreciation reserve as in full. Excuse me, but what's a depreciation reserve? That is what we are laying aside in cash to rebuild and maintain our system in good operating condition over the years. We don't want this cooperative to get into the condition that a lot of rural telephone companies did. They used up their system, didn't build any reserve, and when it was all used up, they usually went out of business. We don't intend to do that. Now like, for instance, these telephone, these not telephone, but these electric power poles you put up, I judge they're pretty well creosoted, most of them, at least below ground line, but if they ever start to rot off, this depreciation reserve will have enough money in it that you can buy new poles when you need them. That is the purpose of the reserve, and we already have accumulated about $60,000 in this reserve. You've got $60,000 in it, and yet you say you're going in the red. How about that? Well, according to our estimates, we should have a reserve of probably 15%, 20% more than that. Oh, I see. Well, now let me get this from you again, Ed McClary, the president. He says that you should have 15% or 20% more, but you have only $60,000, so actually, when you say you're going into the red, that means that by one standard, you're $60,000 ahead of the game, but looking at it another way, you ought to be about $75,000 or so ahead, so you need more money coming in. That's right. Now we've got that straight. What are you going to do about it? You said something about increasing rates. Is an REA cooperative in the state of New York limited, as the public utilities are? Do you have to go through a long, tedious process before you can raise rates, or how about that? No, it's up to the members of the cooperative. What do your members think about rates? Well, at our meeting last night, they thought that it was the only thing that hadn't gone up, and they was perfectly willing to pay an increase in rates. Now, most of your members are farmers, isn't that right? That's right. And for most of them, electricity is a hired hand, so to speak, that gets out there and does a job of work. There's a place of several, Howard. And I was talking to one of your folks this morning, we won't say who, and that person said that if electricity costs twice what it did, it would still be the cheapest way of getting a lot of things done. And then some. Well, all right. And that pretty well tells what ought to be the attitude of your members toward any probable rate increase, don't you think? Sure does. Well, now let's turn back to you again, Bill Winner, the manager of the Delaware County Electric Cooperative, and ask you where you're going from here. What's ahead? Well, we're in the same position as we were a year and a half ago. We had a lot of plans made for expanding the system and giving more and better service to the members of the cooperative. We have accomplished many of those aims that we had set up at that time, and we find that we're just as far from reaching our ultimate goal as we were then. In other words, your plans outstrip whatever you can do because you keep getting bigger and better plans. That is absolutely correct, and we have to keep planning, changing our plans, and fitting them into the needs of our people as they find new and more uses for their electric power. And now, Ed McLaury, President, we want to turn back to you for a few closing observations here about what's been happening in Delaware County. When I was up here a while ago, I got the impression that the average age of farmers was getting older and older, that the young people weren't staying in the county very much because, well, there wasn't electricity on the farms, and it was kind of a backwater. It was a place to go from instead of to come to. And all in all, it wasn't the kind of a county in which agriculture is stable over a long period of time. How is it now? Well, this has increased a great deal. For the first time, Delaware County has led milk production during May. We feel that electricity is the main reason for this. Several abandoned farms have been built up since electricity has been available. And what about the businessmen who sell electrical appliances? You represent, or your electric lines represent, a market they never had before, don't they? That's right. Several electric stoves and ranges, refrigerators are going on each month. Yes, including the one on which we had a meal cooked here just a few minutes ago inside the house. That's right. Well, I think that about tells the story. Bill Winters, is there anything else you think of we've missed here? I don't know of anything, Tom. We, as I said before, we can hardly keep up with this business. We're very, I'm personally very happy to see our people making so much use of this, we consider cheap, low-cost power on their farm for better living and easier farming. Well, thank you very much, Bill Winters, and thank you, too, Ed McLaurie. We want to tell you folks who got in late, we've been paying a return visit today. About a year and a half ago on this program, we came up to Delaware County, New York, to see how things were going in the Delaware County Electric Cooperative, sponsored under the guidance of the Rural Electrification Administration. And we found out a lot of things about it at that time, and today we've come back to pay a return visit, and we're mighty happy to find that things have gone so well, and that they're getting better as times go on. We're glad to hear about this kind of thing, because we think in the long run it makes for a stable agriculture, which is the foundation for the America we know.
