We present the UN Album, a program of news, views and interviews edited and compiled by United Nations Radio. The first of our three guests today is a very colorful and distinguished personality. General Carlos P. Romulo, President of the General Assembly, tells you how public opinion influences the men who are trying to build a peaceful world. An American lady tells you how a group of volunteers are giving up their spare time to help the cause of peace. And from Palestine, an account from people actually making peace in the field. And now here's Lyoff Stanley to open your UN Album. At the time I compiled this album, I suddenly realized that the General Assembly had been in session for nine weeks. And as the target date for ending draws closer, it becomes more and more difficult to find delegates and other important UN figures with even five minutes of time which they can call their own. But one distinguished person, in fact the President of the General Assembly, is always ready to say a few words for us into our UN microphone. And so it is a great pleasure for me to tell you that once again we open the album with the voice of General Carlos P. Romulo. General Romulo believes that public opinion, that is the views of the ordinary man in the street, should have a very big say in the molding of UN policy. And I'd like to ask him, in view of his long career here at Lake Success, to say just a few words about this matter. I have only to mention what is said in the preamble of the Charter of the United Nations. You will note there it begins by saying, we the peoples of the United Nations. Well, those are key words. And when you speak of public opinion, you really speak of the people. And so when we start our charter by saying, we the peoples of the United Nations, that is a clear indication that all our actions in the United Nations must be responsive to the wishes and desires of the peoples. And that is why I put a lot of stress in that statement in our charter, because as you will remember formerly, all these treaties and all these Magna Cartas start with such words as we, the high contracting parties, and all that. But in San Francisco, when we wrote the charter, we made it a point to say, we the peoples of the United Nations. That, I think, is an indication that in so far as public opinion is concerned, it has a direct and vital effect on our actions as nations, as peoples, in Lake Success. General Romulo, have you noticed actual instances here in your day-to-day work at Lake Success where an aroused public opinion has made a difference in the success or failure of UN efforts for world peace? For instance, in Indonesia, in which I know you took such a very personal interest. And I travelled all the way from New York to New Delhi, India, to participate in that conference on Indonesia. And there, in India, I felt how strong public opinion was in moulding the decisions of the United Nations in the Philippines, in Burma, in Ceylon, in Thailand, all over Southeast Asia. I could see how public opinion was crystallised strongly on that question. And that naturally had its effect on whatever action the Security Council later took on that question. Well, thank you, General Romulo. Hello, and we're sure that all who've heard your words will wish you success in your untiring efforts to make this session, as you yourself put it, into the Peace Assembly. Now there's another group of people here at headquarters who are also working hard for the UN cause. They are the United Nations Volunteer Service. And this service is run entirely by American women, who come out to Lake Success two or three times a week in their spare time, to organise relaxation and entertainment for the many members of the Secretariat whose homes are in far-off countries. These volunteers are giving up their time so that Frenchmen, Indians, and in fact people of any nationality can meet Americans who have similar interests to themselves. So that those of us in a strange land can be invited into American homes. So that we can be made to feel that we're not without friends in this great and sometimes rather lonely city. The Volunteer Service keeps a large index file of all Secretariat members. And when I went up to the office and took a glance at the cards, I was fascinated to see that such details as to whether a person is married, how many children he has, whether he plays bridge, golf, or chess, all these details were neatly inscribed at the bottom left-hand corner of the card. And so you see, with all this information available, Secretariat members can be put into touch with Americans who have the same taste as theirs. The lady in charge of the UN Volunteer Service is Mrs. Otis. And I'm going to ask her to tell you a little story about one of our Secretariat members who took advantage of an invitation to stay in an American home. A few weeks ago, we sent quite a number of people up to Vermont. Uh-huh. And before they went, of course, we always talked to the organizer there and find out the names of the hostesses and their interests, and then we tried to, let's say, match people with similar interests. Pick a suitable person. Yes, interests. So we had this girl going up, and she had been quite interested in the, well, the equivalent of, I would say, the Girl Scout movement in Egypt. So there was one hostess who owned a cab. So we decided that was just the ideal place to send her. And so the next, well, when she came back, one of the Secretaries in the office went up with that group and he came back, the Secretary was just roaring about the incident because it seems that when this girl from Egypt arrived, the hostess said, oh, and of course the girl from Egypt looked exactly like any English girl or American girl. She was dressed similarly, and she spoke perfect English. And the hostess said, oh, she said, my children are going to be quite disappointed, I'm afraid. Because they've expected someone very exotic. Well, the girl didn't say anything at all. She just said, well, she was sorry. And the next morning, she really played up to it, and she came downstairs, and she had put a sheet around her and put a veil over her face and came down. Maybe she couldn't understand a word of English. So the children, of course, were deeply impressed. And they sat down at the breakfast table, and she had, there was another Secretariat member along, and she was interpreting all the time, you see. And finally... You mean she was really not interpreting, she was in on the game. Oh, yes, yes, of course. And then finally the girl from Egypt just suddenly flung off a veil, and she said, well, she said, I've been trying to eat cereal through my veil, she said, but I'm certainly going to drink my coffee in comfort. And, of course, the children were all taken back, and then they thought it was very amusing, and everyone had a very exceptionally good time during the rest of their stay. Well, that's a charming story. Well, Mrs. Eggers... I was very smart of the girl, I think. It was very smart of her. To fall right into it that way. It certainly was. Well, I want to thank you very much for coming in and talking to us about the volunteer services, and I do hope that you have all the success, and you have big response to your invitations from not only from the Secretariat, but also from the people who are so kind as to give hospitality to the Secretariat of the United Nations. There is one more point that I really haven't covered, which I would like to express, and that is, although the program started with the idea that we were helping the Secretariat members to adjust to their new home and make them feel welcome, we have found to our amazement, and should I say delight, that in sending these people into the homes, they have made the communities into which they go extremely aware of the UN. Well, that is the most important thing. I'm very much interested in what you say, because it's so difficult in a large country like this to disseminate the knowledge of the UN, and if, as you say, that your services, your volunteer services, is achieving that result... It's quite amazing. I think that's one of the most important things that you could want. I suppose just like, let me say, if you read about a flood in China and you know that a thousand drown, you say, isn't it too bad? You know one person in it, and then it becomes real, and so it is with the UN. It's so vast, and so many people don't understand it. Well, let's hope that this is a big beginning to a big venture. Well, I know someone at the UN, you know. Thank you, Mrs. Otis. In our album today, we've heard from people who work at peace headquarters. But in all parts of the world, we find that the work of making and preserving peace goes on. Sometimes the work of the UN's various commissions out in the field hits the headlines. But more often, when things are going smoothly, we don't hear too much about it. We'd like to tell you a little bit about four of these commissions now in operation. They are the Mixed Armistice Commissions of Palestine, nicknamed the MAX. And Hamilton Fisher, who is a UN information officer working with the MAX, wrote the dispatch you're going to hear on the scene in Palestine. The story begins at El-Auger, a lonely outpost in the desert. But El-Auger is the former customs post between Palestine and Egypt. And a year ago, a fierce gun battle was fought there between Israeli and Egyptian troops. Then El-Auger made the headlines, the world over. If there's any fighting there now, it's restricted to Egyptian and Israeli soldiers battling to defeat each other in the art of pitching horseshoes. For this is the only recreation available at the headquarters of the Egyptian-Israeli Mixed Armistice Commission. M-A-C, MAC for short. El-Auger consists of two 2,000-year-old stone-walled wells and two ramshackled stone houses. In any direction from the place, you can drive your car for hours, and you'll see nothing but desert and vultures and hyenas. The only people living there are the members of MAC, army officers of Israel and Egypt and United Nations observers. In a quiet, unobtrusive kind of way, MAC has become the watchword for whatever peace there is in Palestine today. Apart from the one at El-Auger, which looks after the border between Israel and Egypt, there are three other MACs, all of them operating on the frontiers between Israel and her Arab neighbor states. MAC has brought home thousands of Arab and Jewish prisoners, military and civilian. MAC has helped destroy hundreds of dangerous mines, including a three-ton monster landmine in the heart of Jerusalem. MAC makes it possible for Arabs and Jews to plow their land and to raise their cattle in the areas of no man's land. Only yesterday, these districts were out of bounds for Jews and Arabs alike. MAC recovers missing persons and disappeared steamrollers, stolen cows and stray camels. MAC replaces the fighting lines of yesterday with peaceful demarcation lines. In short, MAC tries to clear up the mess of the Palestine war. The four MACs consist each of two or three Israeli and two or three Arab representatives working under a United Nations chairman. This official is appointed by General Riley, chief of UN truth supervision in Palestine. Each chairman is helped by a small staff of officers from America, Belgium and France. All told, the true supervision force now comprises 76 officers and men, including an air crew of 18, to operate the three white UN planes doing duty in Palestine. It's quite true that there isn't much headline news in the quiet, persistent piecework of General Riley and his little MAC corps. But it's quite true that it is good for the crops. Agriculturalists in Palestine have estimated that enough grain to feed 10,000 people is being grown in no man's land and other areas which have been restored to peaceful plowing by the four mixed armistice commissions during the past six months. Of course, things aren't always going well in the four MACs. There are often hard and bitter words and too often violation of agreements. Sometimes it may look as though one or other of the four commissions were deadlocked altogether. But so far, the kinks have always been ironed out and there's no reason why they shouldn't be ironed out in the future as long as the four MACs provide a common meeting ground on which Jews and Arabs can talk peace. And so, as I tried to show you in our album today, the work of peacemaking goes on in more ways than one all over the world. And whenever these peace efforts bring a really constructive result, we here are able to say, once more, the United Nations' way of conciliation and mediation has proved its value to the world. And with that quote of UN Secretary General Trigval Lee, I'm afraid it's time for me to close this edition of the UN album. I hope you'll be with me when I turn over the pages next time. The UN album is edited and produced by United Nations Radio at Lake Success, New York.