Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand presents the truth about hormones. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the nature of hormones, their effect on the human body, how we get them, and medical uses. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Percy Julian, Director of Research in the Soy Products Division of the Gooden Company. What kind of research are you doing, Dr. Julian? Why, our principal efforts are in the field of the synthesis of the sex and adrenal cortical hormones. Now how do soybeans enter into this business? Well, simply because in soybean oil, fortunately for us, there are hidden these beautiful white crystals of compounds we call sterols. Derived, the word is derived from the Greek word stereos meaning space, and the ols on the end of it means that they are alcohols. They are therefore alcohols occupying a great deal of space as molecules. Now actually, in addition to these hormones, you derive other products from these soybeans, don't you, such as paints and plastics? Well, we derive our products such as soy protein, soy phosphatides, and from those we prepare a number of other things. Our second speaker is Dr. Ronald R. Green, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology in the Northwestern University Medical School. Why are you interested in hormones, Dr. Green? Well, hormones are very important in certain functions in the female, and I think that's why I'm interested in them. Actually, I became interested in the research, the physiologic angle, many, many, many years ago, and I've continued that interest both from that angle and from the clinical side or in the practice of my specialty. We're also pleased to present Dr. Emory G. Grimm of the Northwestern University Medical School. Dr. Grimm is an endocrinologist. Now what is that, doctor, and how do hormones enter into your field? Well, an endocrinologist sees patients who either have or do think that they have endocrine diseases. And initially I chose this specialty simply because it interested me and I never thought I would make money with it. But in the last 20 years, endocrinology has become rather important. The newspapers write about it, and so I get in the first place the stout ladies and the stout men, and I get children who are stunted in growth, or people whose thyroids are insufficient, or also sex disturbances like Dr. Green. Now how do hormones enter into this field of endocrinology? Well, the hormones are the secretions of these endocrine glands, or ductless glands as we call them, and when something goes wrong with them, then the endocrinologist is caught. But what is a hormone anyway? How would you define it or describe it, Dr. Green? Well, I said that they were the secretions of the endocrine or ductless glands, and the characteristic part is that these glands secrete minute, or they secrete substances that in very minute amounts will stimulate organs far away from them by being carried around in the bloodstream, lymphstream, and so on. Are the sex hormones the most important, would you say? That would depend entirely on the point of view of the questioner. Well, uh... Actually, the answer would be no, since the individual can survive without his sex hormones, or her sex hormones, but the hormones of other glands, at least some of them, are absolutely essential for life. I think Dr. Green might carry the ball on that, it's more in his field. Well, I would say in a more laymanish way that, let's say, butter, bread, and meat are rather essential, whereas cherry pie is a luxury article, and I would say that sex hormone is a luxury article in as far as we can live without sex function, but we won't like it very much. I don't know whether we should pursue this delightful analogy too far here. May I reject just one second? Maybe I'll have to backtrack a little. Uh, if you want to use the word important in the sense of continuity of the race, well, perhaps the sex hormones are most important, but if you're looking at it from the point of view of the individual, they are not. Are there different kinds of sex hormones, Julian? Yes, there are several different kinds. We have, for simplicity, the pituitary hormones, then we have the, which regulate... I was asking about the sex hormones specifically. Well, yes, we have the male hormones and the female hormones, you might put it that way. The male hormones are called the androgenic hormones very often. The female hormones, there are many of them. The principal one is estrone. Then you have, um, uh, the female hormones among them. You have the so-called feminizing hormone and the pregnancy hormone. Pregnancy hormone being progesterone, the feminizing hormone, the principal one being estrone. Uh, the one that works in one way and one works in another way. Now, you mentioned the, the, uh, pituitary gland. I take it there, there are a great variety of these hormones other than the sex hormones. Am I right in that? Oh, yes. The, uh, the word hormone is a broad term. The, uh, we were just talking about, uh, the effect, uh, there, whether we could do without them. I think, uh, Grimm, if you actually take out a man's adrenal glands, he can't survive, can he? Well, he couldn't before. Today he can, with, uh, the help of men like you. But, uh, formerly such people died. They had Addison's disease. They got bronzed. They became weak. Their blood pressure dropped. Their blood sugar dropped. And they eventually died. Today you can keep them alive. What are some of these other hormones, Dr. Grimm? Well, there are the pituitary hormones, as mentioned before. There's the thyroid hormone. There's the, there's insulin used in diabetes. There are the sex, various sex hormones. So there are quite many of them. Uh, where do, where do we get these, uh, Julian? Well, formerly, of course, we got them by extraction of the glands. It's interesting to note that in the adrenal glands, there are 28 substances, crystalline substances, that have been extracted. Six of these are very definitely active hormones. Among them, of course, cortisone, Reistein substance S, so-called compound F, and so on. Uh, we, uh, get them now. Most of the hormones, except the protein hormones, are synthesized in the laboratory. We actually make them from these sterols, these big alcohols that I talked to you about. From the Mexican sapogenins, as we call them, that is this so-called Mexican yam that we've read a great deal about in the papers. And from the animal sterol cholesterol. And from soyesterols, the soybeans. Are these rather recent developments that you're talking about? These developments go back to around 1930, they really began in 1932, when Windhaus and Wieland in Munich, and the great laboratory at Munich, uh, actually elucidated the structure of cholesterol. And they're followed quite rapidly, uh, upon that, the, uh, connection of these, uh, steroid hormones, if you call those the ones that are derived from sterols, with cholesterol. And then, uh, later came the commercial isolation in this country, uh, in which our laboratories played a part, from soy sterols on a large scale. Then the Mexican sapogenins entered the picture, so that we have a number of sources of these. Now, we hear a lot about, uh, cortisone and this ACTH. They are fairly recent developments. Yes, yes, uh, they, uh, their, their exploitation began, really, the chemistry of it began around 1942 in this country, actively. Uh, and, uh, with, uh, Kendall, and with Reistein, uh, who, uh, both of whom elucidated the structures of many of these adrenal cortical hormones, among which cortisone is today the most exciting one and the most important one. May I just clarify one point, uh, ACTH, unfortunately, still has to be extracted from the pituitary glands of animals. It's a very, it's, uh, one of the more complex hormones, if you want. It's a protein hormone, and even the great Dr. Julian has not been able to make it in a test tube yet. Well, what are the effects of these, uh, hormones, anyway, uh, Dr. Grimm? I'm thinking particularly of the, the effects on the physical characteristics of individuals. Well, they are of very great importance because all these hormones, uh, act on end organs, but they also act on each other, and a certain balance has to be attained between the hormones. So when, uh, uh, the hormonal balance is not, uh, effective, or when the hormones are insufficient in amount, then you have very, you may encounter very grave changes in the, in length growth, the height of a growing child, in the stature of a, of an individual, in the fat deposits, and the like. Also the skin, the nails, the hair, they are all influenced. Well, of course, we all know there are enormous, uh, differences in the physical structures of, of individuals. Uh, I'm thinking of adult individuals. Do you think that, uh, the hormones are, are responsible for those differences to a considerable extent? To a considerable extent, but they are hereditary factors, they are nutritional factors, too. For instance, if you go to Germany, where, uh, people were kept in concentration camps, naturally they couldn't grow as tall as in a country where they were well-fed. But, uh, Graham, wasn't that due, perhaps, to the fact that the inadequate diet caused the endocrine glands to under-function, and in turn growth was then disturbed. Apropos of what you started out to say, don't you think it would be interesting to, uh, get a little more specific, and when the pituitary gland does not function from early infancy, what happens? Or when it functions too much? Well, some of this, uh, some of this, of course, we have duplicated in animals before we used, uh, some of these hormones from human beings. And when the pituitary gland doesn't work properly, there are many other glands that are affected by it. The pituitary gland was called the master gland, which I think is slightly exaggerated. Uh, going back to, to fascistic, uh, countries, uh, to the, to the Russians now, the master there means that there's one person who gives orders, and the rest of them obey. If you don't obey, you die. But it's- You think the pituitary is not that kind of a master? Uh, absolutely not, because the organs that receive commands from the pituitary gland can order the pituitary gland too. And the pituitary gland will have to obey and, and respond. Well, now, can you alter, uh, physical characteristics by, by giving these hormones, uh, to people, uh, green? You certainly can. Uh, if given at the right time in development with some of the hormones, other hormones will act and alter physical characteristics, even though given very late in life. For example, uh, there is a certain type of a very small, stupid individual called a cretin, that results from the lack of thyroid hormone, which starts actually when it is in the mother's womb. Well, if thyroid is given to the mother during pregnancy, see, she is lacking in thyroid herself. It is given to the, if it is given to the mother during pregnancy and during development of that child, it can end up as a fairly normal individual. Can male and female, uh, characteristics be altered by, uh, hormones? They, uh, very easily if these characteristics are underdeveloped due to a deficiency. For example, you're the occasional male that reaches adulthood without any or very low-grade function of his testicles. While you can't change his general body build, you can certainly cause him to grow the normal amount of hair on his face, his voice to change, and his sexual organs to develop to fairly normal size. I was wondering about the, uh, psychological, uh, characteristics of persons deficient in these, in these, uh, hormones. Uh, is that a, a factor, Dr. Grimm, of any importance? It's a, a very important factor. Of course, it's a little hard to evaluate at times, but, uh, taking Dr. Green's example of the, of the cretin, for instance, uh, this cretin, if not given the amount of thyroid that, that needs to be, that needs, will develop into an individual with very low IQ. Whereas, if you give thyroid early enough, then the brain will be affected by it, and the IQ will be a good deal better. And, uh, uh, a way of proving that the glands do have a profound influence on the psyche is, for instance, the, the experience that we had of late with ACTH. Because when, uh, poorly and, uh, hands of males came out and treated... That's the male clinic? Male clinic, yes. And they treated the arthritics for the first time. Long before the joints became better, these people already felt better. They couldn't move their arms, let's say, or their fingers as yet, but they became very lively, they became loquacious, they became boisterous. And when such psychic effects exerted by this ACTH, uh, become very strong, particularly in predisposed individuals, we can even see, uh, psychotic manifestations. People are either manic or they are depressed, they act peculiarly, they have to be, some of them have to be put into the psychopathic wall. This, of course, stops when you stop the ACTH. Well, now, we were, we were talking about these, uh, these, uh, sex forms... May I interrupt there just one moment? Yes, go ahead, Dr. Julian. Uh, it has been said that in all of these cases of, uh, rheumatoid arthritis, the patient did have a sense, uh, of well-being immediately after the menstruation of the hormone. And likewise in the treatment of certain other diseases with hormones. Of course, it's a... Now, this cortisone has been hailed as a, as a treatment of arthritis. That is, you doctors subscribe to that, I take it? Yes. Apparently, apparently they've had some rather dramatic, uh, results. Is that true? I gather that from the literature, at least. Popular literature. Uh, alleviation of arthritis, permanent cure of arthritis, that's still another question. Out of my field, I might add, Dr. Grimm should respond. Well, uh, the unfortunate part is that the great majority of these cases have to be continued. Uh, uh, the treatment has to be continued. There have been cases reported where the arthritis disappeared entirely. Or, for instance, take gout. In gout, uh, the, uh, the, uh, an attack of gout can be shortened considerably by, by ACTH, for instance. Uh, but, uh, today we have some of these very, formally very expensive substances put out in cheaper form, and also in form where it can be taken in tablets, so that the patient does not have to run to the doctor all the time. How costly are these, uh, these, uh, hormones that you're synthesizing, Dr. Julian? Well, still too costly, but, uh, it should be mentioned that the cost is decreasing all the time. For example, back in 1941, uh, a pound of progesterone cost about $70,000. What is progesterone? That's the, uh, this, uh, pregnancy hormone. That, uh, one of the female hormones. That's right, one of the female hormones. But now, today, uh, a pound of progesterone will cost you, uh, somewhere around $200 to $300. How about cortisone? Uh, cortisone is still an expensive hormone. Uh, however, when you think about the fact that a gram of progesterone cost $140 in 1942, and that a gram of, uh, cortisone today can be secured for around $20 by the distributor, you can see that cortisone is still, in terms of what we have known in the past, in reference to cost of hormones, still a reasonably priced substance. May I cut in here and say that it is very reasonably priced, let's say, stitch, and cortisone, when you consider that there are certain deadly diseases. For instance, just to name three skin diseases, there's fancy names, lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis, and, uh, uh, penfiguras. With these diseases, most patients died. And today, with cortisone, or with ACTH, you can, uh, keep them alive in a certain percentage of cases, and you can also, uh, get them over the hump once in a while, so that they become entirely well, they may later on have a recurrence, but they may not, may not at all. So then the price wouldn't be too much. Do these, uh, hormones enter at all into the, uh, the treatment of cancer? Can you stop cancer with hormones, uh, Dr. Green? You'd have to define the term stop, or say what you mean, to answer that very well. They won't cure cancer, at least in our present state of knowledge. But, in certain types of cancer that have already spread into, throughout, the patient's body, they certainly will slow down the progress of this cancer, they will relieve pain, and they will make the patient feel tremendously better. Unfortunately, eventually, the cancer will start growing again, and the patient will die. But, with cancer of the prostate, for example, in which the patients will die in a relatively limited period of time, with treatment with very high doses of female sex hormone, they may live for years in comfort, and carry on their usual activities, their usual business, support their family, and so on. The question is hard for Green to answer, because I don't think we swore here today to tell the whole truth so help us God, because we don't know the whole truth about hormones. I will second that. But we certainly can, um, uh, hold out some hope, it seems to me, at least, uh, that's my hobby, to keep hoping. Uh, that in, uh, some way, we're, we're going to find out what the relationship between cancer and the metabolism, metabolism of these hormones actually is. And that someday, probably, we may find the proper combination that may, uh, halt the thing in its incipiency. Of course, Dr. Grimm, uh, should answer that, uh, rather than a poor chemist, but, uh, that's the hope of the research chemist at any rate. I think you know much more about that than I, that I could never tell. I think you're absolutely right. At any rate, it's a worthwhile hope to, uh, hang on to. Well, now, in the presence of all this, uh, deference here, as a poor, as a poor layman, may I ask a very naive question. Uh, can you use these, uh, hormones to help, uh, restore youth? May I answer that, please? Get right ahead. The answer is no. As a generality, you cannot restore youth. It is not the miraculous fountain of youth. On the other hand, you can restore normal structure, uh, normal function of certain structures with the sex hormones, for example. Dr. Grimm, you mentioned a while ago another example, somewhat along this line. Would you take over? Well, I just would say that, uh, uh, it was thought, uh, naively by Browne Sacard, one of the founders of endocrinology, that he could restore youth. He was a man in the late 70s, and he injected extracts of, uh, the, uh, testes of a bull into himself. And... Now there's the scientific spirit, using himself for his guinea pig. Well, he, uh, he reported that he gained in weight, uh, his skin looked better, wrinkles, he said, disappeared. That's what he said. And, uh, his strengths increased. But a good deal of this was, of course, out of suggestion. And we all feel better when we see the doctor and, uh, when you go to the dentist's office, your tooth doesn't hurt you. So it was something on that score. I will say this much. We, I certainly side with Dr. Green. We cannot restore youth. But if you need, for instance, more thyroid, the thyroid will help you. If you need more sex hormone, the sex hormone will do certain things. And particularly testosterone, the male sex hormone, will also increase muscle volume and causes a certain sense of well-being. I guess, uh, must, uh, thought like, uh, the medical layman, such as I am, must think when he looks at this big bull, you know, with all of his handsome neck and handsome characteristics, and then looks over at the poor old broken-down steer, he must think that something, uh, might come of these, uh, of this experiment, if it's due to the sex hormones at all. The only trouble with his technique is that was a watery extract of the past children. The male sex hormone is so insoluble in water that I doubt that his extracts had any particular amount of it. Quite right. Well, now, I take it that, uh, in your practice, uh, Dr. Green, these, uh, these, uh, sex hormones are, are, are helpful. I gathered that from your, your opening statement. They certainly are. And when used properly are extremely valuable, and I think a good example is in the treatment of some women in the change of life or the climacteric. Probably less than half of women have been in great trouble during that period, but the ones that do have trouble are greatly benefited by the proper administration of female sex hormone. And may I add that it can be given by mouth, and that hypodermic injections are very rarely necessary. Uh, are, are there any, are there any, uh, dangers in the, in the use of these, uh, hormones? Why, I would say probably the greatest danger, uh, might lie, uh, lie in the attempted use of them by the layman without consulting physician. Uh, as I said before, we don't know the whole truth by any means about these hormones. The future, Marion of Edinburgh, uh, wrote recently that the glorious future in the field of hormones lies in a study of the metabolism of the hormones. And, uh, and I think, uh, that is what happens to them in the body. Why nature put them there. I'm a great believer in the natural economy that nature put them there for very definite and beautiful uses. And, uh, I think the danger lies in our lack of understanding of what the purpose is. Well, I may have pitched in here. There are dangers in all sorts of hormones. Hormones that are not, uh, necessarily the most potent ones. But take, for instance, thyroid. A lot of people, uh, who, uh, are stout for no other reason and they eat more than their body can take care of, take thyroid in order to reduce. Some of them will do that without even seeing a doctor. Others will see a doctor but then continue. Now, if you take too much thyroid, you may get certain manifestations such as pounding of the heart, shortness of breath, excessive perspiration, shakiness and the like. Inability to sleep. And if take, very much is taken, these people may become very sick. In cortisone and ACTH, where Dr. Julian knows that very well, uh, certain manifestations are, uh, very well known. Particularly if the patient is treated for a long time. They may, women may become hairy in the face. Of course, a good doctor will watch that. And, uh, they, their faces will become round. They may retain salt and therefore their blood pressure may arise. Or their, their mineral balance may change. So they may run into trouble. Are you suggesting that you can, uh, alter male and female characteristics through the, the administration of these, uh, male and female hormones? Uh, you mean, uh, sec, uh, you mean physical structures? Physical structures. In a sense, yes, you can. Women, uh, women who are deficient and have been deficient in female sex hormone with proper administration of that substance, you can cause them to develop normal breasts and get the normal distribution of fat with rounded hips and so on. However, women who are, whose ovaries have been functioning normally and who have breasts that are too small to suit them, unfortunately, sex hormones can't do them any good. Can you buy these substances, Dr. Julian, in a, in a drug store? How are they, uh, how are they available to people? Through doctors, prescriptions? Well, the Federal Drug Administration is doing a wonderful job in trying to regulate, uh, uh, how they're secured. For example, we, uh, you can't, uh, ship crystalline cortisone out of this country now, export it, because it might be exploited, diluted, and used, uh, the bad advantage. They are pretty well on doctor's prescriptions. And should be, I take it, in your judgment. And should be, for the most part. Now, uh, I, I think, uh, the, a lot of people confuse these, uh, these, uh, hormones with, uh, with, uh, uh, vitamins and other, uh, other substances that are bought in the drug store. You ever run into that? Oh, yes. Uh, uh, in the drug store just, uh, yesterday, uh, drugists were selling, uh, vitamins, Thiaval, and some other things across the counter, as, well, these are hormone substances. That's an ordinary confusion that is sometimes rather dangerous. And don't forget vitamin E that they call the, uh, fertility, a reproductive hormone. Reproductive hormone, yes. Reproductive hormone, yes, which it is not, yes. Well, do you look forward to, uh, to considerable development in this field? I know you do. Oh, naturally, I've got to make a living. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Truth About Hormones. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may wish to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of just $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Percy Julian, Dr. Ronald Green, and Dr. Emery Grimm. Next week, the reviewing stand will examine the Japanese Peace Treaty to find out what it means to America and to the rest of the world. Our guests will be Dr. Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Dr. William McGovern, also Professor of Political Science at Northwestern. And Dr. Earl H. Pritchard, Associate Professor of Far Eastern History at the University of Chicago. All of these men are authorities on Far Eastern affairs. We hope you will join us again next week as we look into this important political question. What does the Japanese Peace Treaty mean? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Jerry Coffer speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.