A Flute with Henry Morgan A Flute with Henry Morgan is an original story written for radio by Warren Barry and a George Edwards production History contains stories of colourful people, rogues, heroes, kings and commoners but there were few who had such a picturesque bloodstained career culminating in honoured glory as a man named Morgan in the 17th century. Henry Morgan, pirate, whose foul deeds earned him the name of Colossus of the Caribbean eventually became Sir Henry Morgan, King's representative, governor of Jamaica. In the Caribbean Sea, the sun at day's end dips like a blazing ball into the ocean throwing over the sea a dancing pink mantle and over the islands a soft pink glow that blends in with the cool white buildings which stand invitingly amidst waving fronds and green foliage. Thus, the spirit of night gives warning of her coming over the British island of Jamaica and the Spanish possession of Cuba. But in Havana, capital of Cuba, inside a large white moorish type of home, the serenity of the evening is gone. Beside a highly polished cedar desk, white and shaking with rage stands Don Pietro Pizarro, Spanish governor of Cuba. Before him, hesitant, full of apologies, stands a seaman of high rank. And after losing a ship, you have the affrontery to return here to Havana and face me. I have tried to explain Don Pietro. It was no fault of mine. No fault of yours that you let a ship laden down with treasure and part of it, my own treasure, be taken by that pirate Henry Morgan. It was the will of heaven. Before I left, Excellency, did I not go on my knees and pray that you would let me put more armor on my ships? I had escorts. They were to protect me. And like the blundering fool you are, you get separated from them and allowed yourself to fall prey, defenseless to Henry Morgan. You failed to understand Don Pietro. You yourself know the nights in the Caribbean are dark when there is no moon. Suddenly, as if from nowhere a storm arises, we hurry to bring in our canvases to make our ship secure. And before we know what has happened, we are scattered to the winds. And then comes the morning. The storm is gone. And in a blaze of glory, the night changes to grey. Then flaming red. And a ship is standing nearby. At first sight, I give thanks to heaven that I still have one of my escorts to protect me. And then breaks the flag. And I know I am victim to Henry Morgan. Henry Morgan, Henry Morgan, Henry Morgan. Is there no one in the world who will read us of him? Must we always fear the man Henry Morgan? And those aboard the ship, what of them? Taken by Henry Morgan to Jamaica to be sold as slaves. Then you are lucky, Cortes. My luck depends on your clemency, Excellency. Perhaps it was partly my fault for not allowing you extra armour to defend yourself. But Cortes witnessed this much. I say to you, I pray to heaven for one grant, one gracious gift. To see Henry Morgan in chains in Havana. To have him in the hands of the Inquisition. To see his broken body hanging by the neck in the slave market. That is what I wish from heaven. And with heaven's aid, I will have my wish. Don Pietro's voice shakes with emotion as he sends his prayers heavenwards. And then with a curt nod, Cortes is dismissed. The governor watches him go and the heavy cedar doors close on him. But already Cortes has gone from Don Pietro's mind. There is something else to be faced. The wrath of someone he fears when she is in anger. The loss of his own personal treasure is cause for grave concern. Yet the thought of the coming meeting gives him far greater worry. Like a man who realises it is no good postponing trouble, he lets himself out through a small door into a cool inviting courtyard. Wisteria vines climb and twist themselves around arches. The mauve blossoms hang in their grape-like bunches. The scent of the flowers mingles with the perfumed waters of the fountain, which plays to cool the hot breath of coming night. The atmosphere of the courtyard is languid peace. But all the beauty and peace is lost on Don Pietro as his steps echo on the marble pavement. His eyes are on the figure sitting on the stone seat looking at the well-fed goldfish in the fountain pond. The closer he gets, the greater his trepidation. How to tell her? Heaven help me. How to tell her? The girl by the fish pond looks up. The falling dusk gives her an added beauty, emphasizing the whiteness of her skin. The softness of her arms and shoulders gives luster to her raven hair. And jet black eyes gives a deeper hue to her passionate red mouth. A frown crosses her forehead. A new light enters her eyes. Something has gone wrong. I know that expression of his. He doesn't know how to tell me. She waits until he comes up close. And as he fidgets with the cravat at his neck, then with the curl of his wig, she sits waiting for him to speak first. Then can bear his agitation no longer. Well, Father, something is worrying you. I know. Tell me what it is. Dolores, I... I do not know how to tell you. But remember, please, do not lose your temper. I have had bad news. I could not stand a seat. What is it? What has gone wrong now? Cortes has just left me. Cortes? How can he be in Cuba? He is captain of the treasure ship on his way to Spain. He was the captain, but he fell into the hands of Henry Morgan. The English pirate. He took the treasure. Our treasure. The Lord is... Please do not lose your temper. I cannot stand it. As a storm scattered the Spanish ships, Morgan took Cote's ship with the greatest of ease. Our treasure gone. That doesn't matter so much. We can get more gold from the mainland. But don't you realize the Aztec necklace was on that ship? My necklace. What more than money can tell? The Lord is... Please. I... I will make it out for you. I... I will obtain for yourself a... a whole shipload of gold. Gold? I don't want the gold. It is the Aztec necklace I want. And I shall have it back. I shall get it. I swear by heaven that no fat English senora will wear the Aztec necklace which belongs to Dolores Pizarro. So two oaths are taken on this balmy tropical night. And because of them, our tale is spun. The spirit of night encloses the Caribbean in a cloak of black spangled with large dancing stars. And as she speeds across the sky, the edge of her cloak lifts in the east, showing a grey promise of a new day which warns the sun at his time for work. Like a man disturbed from a heavy sleep, he climbs into the heavens, angry and red, casting vengeful rays over the ocean, reaching out to alight on the topmost peak of a sail. And down the snow white canvas until they embrace the hull, making the ship as though of gold. Early as it is, the ship is alive with movement, for land is ahead. On the Pope, with one hand resting on the rail, stands Captain Henry Morgan. Thick set, handsome, burly. Beside him, kneeling at an open chest, is a swarthy young man, handsome in a sinister slyway. His dark eyes are alight with greed as he looks into the open chest. His tongue slowly moistens his lips as he looks upon the treasure. Aye, take your fill, dear arts. That's your payment for your treachery to your countrymen. You are generous, Captain Morgan, in giving me this loot as my share. You serve me well, I reward well those who serve me. Diamonds, rubies, gold pieces. It will make my stay in Port Royal a happy one, Captain. You will be a welcome visitor in the Dolphin Tavern. Kitty the Buccaneers, Belle will be glad to see you. Laden down with that loot. There will be necklaces to hang around her nice neck. Ah, Captain Morgan, and look at this one. I shall hang it around her neck. By St. David, hand it to me. No, it's just mine. Aye, it is beautiful. Gold so finely beaten it looks like lace. Emeralds and rubies of the finest quality. It's too fine a thing to have scum like you waste upon a wanton's neck. It will be better in my own pocket, it will. You'll give it back to me. It is mine. You gave me this chest and all that was in it. Give me my necklace back. What's this, you renegade Spanish rat? Insubordination? You're sailing under Henry Morgan, and Henry Morgan takes what he wants. But that necklace, it is mine. Give it to me. I'll give you this, you Spanish dog, in exchange. Now, get ye about your business. The wind is falling. We'll not make Port Royal by tonight. See that every strip of canvas is spread to catch the failing wind. Henry Morgan's fear of the failing wind proves correct. Soon it dies away until it is just a faint whisper. The sun beats down on the boiling sea, and the gallant ship barely moves towards that smudge on the horizon, which is Jamaica. The tantalizing nearness of the land and the baking sun makes tempers edgy and crafty minds treacherous. Listen to me, you two men. Morgan gives us the crumbs and keeps everything for himself. And two pairs of shifty eyes look on Deatz as he talks. Enough loot was taken on the trip to keep us in luxury for the rest of our lives. But Morgan seeks to keep it all. Two heads, not an agreement. And so a plot is born. We won't reach Port Royal until late tonight. Morgan will leave the ship to visit the governor. Why not you two wait for him? A quick dagger thrust in the neck and we all share his shiploid of gold. Greed makes the other two fall in with a plan and blinds their eyes to the fact that they do it while Deatz has no hand in it. Deatz is right. It is late when Port Royal is reached and the town is wrapped in darkness. Before long, Captain Henry Morgan leaves the ship and goes along the dirty laneways near the docks. Figures lurk suspiciously in darkened doorways. Filth lit as the ground at his feet. Two pairs of eyes watch out from under an archway, see him come closer and then spring forward. The suddenness of the attack throws Morgan to the ground. A knife flashes in the light. You're stuck! You seek to take my life, do you? As if from nowhere a third figure lurches into the fray. A second knife flashes once, twice. And two figures lie dead amongst the filth. Morgan has helped to his feet. I thank you. You saved my life. I never did like two against one. Who is it I have to thank? The night is dark. I know you're not. You know me not. It isn't wise in Jamaica to ask questions of a stranger. I have done you a favour this night. Now do me one. Seat not to question who I am. A strange meeting on a dark night. The beginning of an adventure tale. Don't miss the next exciting episode of A Flute with Henry Morgan. A Flute with Henry Morgan. During the 17th century, Henry Morgan struck terror into the hearts of the Spaniards. Not a ship of Spain was safe from Morgan's buccaneers. When our story opens, a Spanish ship had just been taken. Tragic news for Don Pietro Pizarro, Governor of Cuba. Because part of his personal treasure, including the fabulous and priceless Aztec necklet, was amongst the cargo. Pizarro swore that Morgan would be captured. And his daughter Dolores swore to get the necklet back. The renegade Spaniard, Diaz, a member of Morgan's crew, also covered at the necklet. And upon reaching Port Royal, incited two members of the crew to murder Morgan. That night in a dark alley, they sprang upon the unsuspecting man, but Morgan was saved by a stranger, who was unwilling to tell him anything about himself. Come, man. That's a surly answer to give to anyone whose life you've just saved. I have my reasons. Jamaica's a strange place, friend. It's best not to ask too many questions of strangers here. Many are the reasons why men are on this accursed island. I can think of many. But you tell me some. Some are here because they're sent. Bonded servants, I think they're called. The term slave applies better. Sent here to rot in the mud. Or swept their hearts out of the cane fields. Others come to forget. So, friend, I think it's best we part. Look, you, I like the sound of your voice. It's strange to meet a man of education in this part of Port Royal. I'd like to see your face in the light. I'm a man who likes the dark. I'll ask of you one request. Let me see if I can identify my would-be assassins in the dark. Gladly. I'm a man who likes the dark. I'll ask of you one request. Let me see if I can identify my would-be assassins in the dark. Gladly. Hmm. So that's what it is, is it? Two members of my own crew. And why should they seek to kill me? Ah, my friend, the greed of man. It seems there are none about me I can trust. Such is the way of the world. Could I trust you, friend? We have agreed to part. I don't need to look far to know the reason of this attack tonight. And I know who was responsible for it. But I can't prove it. I'm looking for a man I can trust implicitly. Come with me. I'd like to talk with you, friend. No. If it's the light you're frightened of, I'll be taking you to a place in which everyone present fears the light. You'll be quite safe there. Where is this place? Heard ye of the Dolphin Tavern? No. Then you're a stranger in these parts. What manner of place is it? Now, my friend, I'll show you that I will. It's but a short walking distance from here. The Dolphin Tavern. Den of iniquity, sin and vice. Rendezvous and hideout for buccaneer and pirate. And all of it ruled over by Kitty, the buccaneer's bell. Kitty, whose fame had spread into every corner, every lair, every swamp and creek where pirates gathered. From the keys of Florida to the most remote and unknown island of the Caribbean. For a smile from Kitty, men would steal from their shipmates. For a kiss, they would kill. Every night from dusk to dawn, Kitty serves the drinks and gives her favours. Her light Irish brogue and her cascading laughter sounding strange amongst the coarse oaths and harsh voices of the scum gathered from every part of the world. Deftly, she moves amongst them, skilfully eluding the attentions of an unwelcome arm. Sometimes seeing a familiar face, which has been absent for some time. Well, if it's not patch-eyed Pete. So you're back again in Port Royal. And they haven't hanged you yet from the yardarm. Oh, it is right glad I am to see you. There. And a kiss of welcome is planted on a hungry muff. Then, with agility born of practice, Kitty is out of the clutching embrace and laughingly on her way. The air hangs heavy in the dolphin tavern with stale tobacco smoke, smoking lamps and spilled liquor. The faces are vague in the haze and half light. And as Kitty goes towards the room at the back of the tap room, a curtain of an alcove quickly parts and her wrist is caught in the hand of steel. Almost roughly she is pulled into the alcove, the curtains fall into place and Kitty looks into a pair of black burning eyes. So, you didn't expect me back tonight, eh? Why, Diaz, I didn't see you coming to the tavern. No, that is true. But I come here, I watch you. I see you giving your kisses away. Some day I come back and I strangle you. All right, glad I am to see you, Diaz. Do not lie to me. I saw the way you behaved in the tavern. You do not care whether Diaz he come or he does not come back. And tonight I come to tell you that perhaps before long I'll be able to buy your freedom. Oh, you buy my freedom. And since when, as a member of a pirate's crew, I had enough money to be able to pay the sum which would buy Kitty her freedom? You know full well I'm a bonded servant sent from England, practically a slave. And you know the price my master, bow-legged jobson, would ask for my freedom, seeing that I am responsible for the great success of this tavern. And all that. And perhaps tonight I will have the money which he wants. Perhaps tomorrow I hang about your lovely white neck, rubies, emeralds. In your ears I place the finest pearls on your fingers, the heaviest rubies, bracelets of gold around your wrists. And then you'll be my own woman, eh? I give you a big fine house, plenty of servants, carriages, houses, eh? Then you'll be mine, eh? You can do all that for me? Faith man, tell me how. No, no, no. That is my secret. The other men, they would like to do it for you. But me, dears, I am the man with brains. I will do it. Tomorrow morning you'll see I come, I buy your freedom. I take your way and you'll be mine. Pearls in my ears, foreign dresses, a horse, a carriage of my own, rubies and emeralds around my neck. You would do this for me? I will do anything in the world for you. To take you away from here. To know that you are safe from others. Oh, no. No kiss for you until I see your purchase money and the jewels in your hands. Kitty, come back here. Dears, you had best return to the taproom. Your lord and master has come in. It's Captain Henry Morgan himself. Morgan! Here? No. No, it is impossible. Why? Who is it he has with him? He is one I've never seen before. Look at him. Oh, it is so fair he is. He is so fair. His eyes must be blue and tall and broad of shoulder. Who is he? I do not know. I've never seen him before. What is he doing with Captain Henry? Well, perhaps you'd best go and see. Diaz hardly hears what Kitty says. His face has gone sallow. His heart is pounding in his breast. His plot has gone wrong. Nagging fear is at the back of his brain. How monsters Morgan know of my part in the blood against him. What caused it to fail? Through the smoky haze he watches Morgan and his companion weave their way to an empty table. Morgan's companion looks at him closely. His bright, steel blue eyes alight with recognition. And quietly he appraises his new friend with fresh interests. Both sit at the table eyeing each other closely for the first time. I might have been ignorant as to what the dolphin tavern was. But I am not ignorant of the name Morgan. In these parts you'd be a strange man if you were. So you're Henry Morgan. Why did you bring me to this place? I wanted to see if you were the type of man that your voice told me you were. And am I? I have a shipload of cutthroats. Amongst them my word is law. And yet there's not one of them I can trust. Tonight two of them tried to kill me. You know why? How should I know? For the sake of this bauble. Are you mad man showing this priceless necklip in a place such as this? Look how those around you are gazing upon it. Put it away man. There's not a person here man enough to try and take it from me. Yes, they're watching it greedily, covetously. But they haven't got the courage to come and take it. There's only one man on this tavern who's not looking at it with greed and desire. And that's the man I feel I can trust. Who is he? You. That's why I brought the bauble out. I suppose you know what it's worth. Taken from an Aztec temple. Finest bit of goldsmith work I've ever seen. Delicate. Like lace. Set with the purest gems. Yes, I know it's value. You couldn't buy it with money. Then you were the man to be trusted. I care not for your past. I'm only interested in your future. Would you like to sail with me young man? You can't remain hidden on this island you know. My hand on it Captain Morgan. I'll sail under you. Oh, and it's Captain Morgan. It's not often Captain Morgan that you'll honor us with your presence at the Dolphin Tavern. Look you, I'd come more often if I could be sure of getting service from your fair hands. Oh, it's a flattery you be Captain Harry. But your friend is a newcomer. I have not seen you here before sir. What be thee called? Geoffrey Hunter. The unexpected sight of Kitty had momentfully bereft him of his senses. And as he gave his name he could have bitten out his tongue. He had resolved never to use it again. But the damage was done. Amongst this filth and squalor, curses and cutthroat bend, Kitty seemed like an oasis in a dry and thirsty desert. Spellbound he feasted his eyes upon her. Drinking in her coppery hair spun like a golden halo round her head. The grayness of her eyes which gave promise of hidden fires. The warmth of her generous mouth. The whiteness of her skin. And the soft roundness of her shoulder where her blouse pulled down. Oblivious of the stares around them, he let her hold him in her gaze. Let himself read the invitation in her eyes. Why sure Captain Morgan. Your friend has got the bad manners. He stares at a lady. I'm sorry. I didn't expect to see someone like you here. I was showing my friend this pretty bauble Kitty. Do you like it? Oh, it is wonderful. Can I hold it to my neck? Certainly. Maybe I could fasten it round my neck. Or maybe your friend would do it for me. Well, answer man, if you won't do it, there's plenty here who will. No, Kitty. Holding it to your neck is one thing. Fastening it on is another. Oh, I would so like to have it. Oh, it is the loveliest thing I've ever seen. A woman would do anything for a thing like that, Captain Morgan. Mayhap. But this necklace to be put to other purposes. So I'll thank you for it, Kitty. Oh, I hate to give it back. Thank you. Now, Mr. Hunter, I think our business here is complete. Will you come back, Mr. Hunter, and see us some other time? I don't know. That depends. Come, Hunter. It's time I was off. Good night, Kitty. Good night, Captain Morgan. Good night, Mr. Hunter. Good night. So, you think to ensnare another man, do you, you little cheat? Take your hands off me, dears. I've had enough of your pawing for tonight. Did you see the necklace Captain Morgan had? I know it well. I'd do anything to have that necklace for my very own. Dears, do you love me? That you're not too well. Then, get that necklace for me. Let that be the proof of your love. Get that necklace for me, and I'll be yours and yours only. A necklace fashioned centuries before by hands long dead changes the destinies of these people. Listen for the next episode of A Flute with Henry Morgan.
