The Municipal Broadcasting System presents by transcription, The World Stood Still. And for one minute, the world stood still. From the green banks along the Potomac to the hot sands of the African desert, across the mighty Alps, in the dirt-covered foxholes of Iwo Jima, wherever men lived and fought, they were shocked into insensibility by the news that electrified the world. President Roosevelt is dead. The Municipal Broadcasting System Slowly, the world gasped for breath, then started back on its long and tiresome task of living. For this was April 12th, 1945. The Nazis were reeling toward defeat, while standing at the head of freedom's defenders was a man close to the hearts of all men. His name? Franklin Delano Roosevelt. His purpose? That all men should live in a world of freedom. Freedom of speech. Freedom of every person to worship God in his own way. Freedom from want. Freedom from fear. Now, the man is dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. He's dead. Yeah. Just like you wanted him to be. He was like one of the family. Is that why you wished he was dead? Cut it out, will you? Oh, leave the kid alone. Can't you see he's taken hard enough? Leave him alone. Why, only yesterday. He said he wished he had that man in the foxhole with him. He'd show him what the war was all about. Cut it out, will you? Leave me alone. Guy could say anything in his stinking foxhole with the Jerry's taking pot shots. Yeah, anything. Why, only yesterday. You wanted the guy to be... Shut up. That was yesterday, wise guy. Yesterday here. But I can remember back when my mom wouldn't let me go to school because I didn't have no shoes to wear. Yeah. And it was snowing then, too. Snowing something awful. John, we can't let Billy go to school in that snow. He has no shoes to wear. What happened to the ones he was wearing yesterday? The soles are worn right through. Why didn't you have them fixed before they fell apart? There was no money, John. Our rent hasn't been paid now for three months. All right, then let him wear my shoes. John, how can you go out looking for a job in your bare feet? It's all right, honey. It's all right. Let him wear my shoes to school. And I did wear my father's shoes that day. Funny. The kids didn't even laugh. But there was no job and no shoes that winter. And then it happened. I can remember it just like yesterday. The first time I heard his voice. I don't remember everything he said. Only these words still keep ringing inside my mind. Our greatest primary task is to put people to work. So first of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. Nameless, unraisoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed effort to convert retreat into advance. That's it. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. And then things began to change. Something was happening and everybody knew it and felt better. And Pop got a job. Well, sure, it was only raking leaves in the park at first. But we paid our rent. We bought shoes and food. And now my kids got shoes. Because something good happened. He was almost like a father to me. And he's dead. On the home front, people were stunned too. They forgot that only yesterday they were talking about that man in the White House. Everyone, the merchant, the barber, the hack driver, the delivery boy. All feeling the lash of the words. He's dead. He's dead. Here's your groceries, Mom. Thank you. Put them down, Danny. Put down the groceries. Mom, why ain't you laughing like you said you would when that man got out of the White House? Danny, please. Why ain't you dancing in the streets like you said and holding a regular powwow to celebrate his going away? Danny. Why don't you, huh, Mom? Why don't you? Danny, you mustn't. You don't understand, dear. Today we aren't Democrats or Republicans or Catholics or Jews or Negroes. Danny, today we are just people who've lost a great man and the very heart of our way of life. Can you understand, Danny? I remember way back when you were too young to know. Your father was losing his business and his courage, too. Yes, Danny, his courage, too. And that was the most dreadful thing to face. We were never Democrats, Danny. And we were sure if that man ever got into the president's chair, we would lose everything. Even when things got better, I guess we just never quite forgave him for winning that election and helping us out of those hard days in the early 30s. Well, gee, I guess I loved him, too, Mom. Only, only I can't tell him now anymore. But... Because... Because... He's dead. Dead. No. No could Reverend George Washington, Taylor of Austin, Texas, tell him. Though he wanted to very badly. At 75, a man has something to tell because he does it with his heart and soul, especially if his skin is dark. He simply said, He was Moses. He came down here to the forgotten places and let in the forgotten people. He let us halfway across the desert so we could go the rest of the way by ourselves. At 75, there's so little time left. Nor could Mrs. Emma Van Dyke of Sam Houston College tell him either. Though she wanted to say something, too. Something the president could hear. Who would know what Roosevelt meant to a Negro student? So many promises have been broken. But Roosevelt made a college education possible for me. Besides less washing and floor scrubbing for my mother. Roosevelt gave a man a chance to be a man. Excuse my tears. But when will we have another friend like Roosevelt? When? But he knew. He knew it when he said, We are a nation of many nationalities, many races, many religions, bound together by a single unity, the unity of freedom and equality. Whoever seeks to set one nationality against another seeks to degrade all nationalities. Whoever seeks to set one race against another seeks to enslave all races. Whoever seeks to set one religion against another seeks to destroy all religion. I'm fighting for a free America. For a country in which all men and women have equal rights to liberty and justice. I am fighting, as I always have fought, for the rights of the little man as well as the big man, for the weak, as well as the strong, for those who are helpless, as well as for those who can help themselves. The service of democracy must be something much more than mere lip service. It is a living thing, a human thing, compounded of brains and muscles and heart and soul. The service of democracy is the birthright of every citizen, the white and the colored, the Protestant, the Catholic, the Jew, the sons and the daughters of every country in the world who make up the people of this land. Democracy is every man and woman who loves freedom and serves the cause of freedom. While things looked blackest for the people of this nation, one voice was cutting a new path of courage and conviction through the confusion that was ours. And that voice was heard throughout the world. It was July 2nd, 1932. Franklin Delano Roosevelt had just received the Democratic nomination to the presidency of the United States and, as is the custom, was making his acceptance address to the people of the nation. He said, I pledge you, I pledge myself, to a new deal for the American people. let us all here assembled constitute ourselves prophets of a new order of competence and of courage. This is more than a political campaign. It is a call to arms. Give me your help not to win votes alone, but to win in this crusade to restore America to its own people. And the people listened and gave him all he asked for, their help, their votes. And so America started on its long road to recovery. Just like that soldier said, it was raking leaves at first, planting trees, building roads, doing the countless things that seemed so unimportant at that time. But it was rebuilding the courage of America and of free people everywhere. Then came the harrowing years of our time. For while we were building our nation back to health, men in other parts of the world were building their nations to war and were screeching their hatred from balconies and housetops. 60.000, wieder 2,000, 41.000, dann 62.000, dann 78.000, jetzt sind es 30.000, 107.000, 137.000 und heute 240.000! Decisioni irrevocabili! La dichiarazione di guerra è giustata con segnata alli ambassiore Once again, it was the good-natured country squire from along the Hudson who recognized the danger to our own land and told it. We interrupt this program to bring you a special news bulletin. The Japanese have attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii by air President Roosevelt has just announced. And once again, it became his duty to save our country from another kind of disaster. For this, the Commander-in-Chief wore his title with dignity and humility. Under his leadership, the free people of the world united as one to corral the madmen in their own haunts and destroy them there. His job was almost finished. And on a balmy Thursday afternoon at the Little White House in Warm Springs, Georgia, a tired, worn, victorious warrior slipped away at the climax of his career. And for one minute, the world stood still. Then, the tears began to flow. Warm, human tears and tributes from a grateful world to a fallen leader. of her husband's death, Mrs. Roosevelt exclaimed, I'm more sorry for the people of the world and the United States than I am for us. Arriving at the White House, Vice President Truman asked her what he could do. She replied, What can I do for you? Paris, which had been bubbling along and a rather forced and artificial gaiety during those months, just quit cold and called it a night within 30 minutes of the arrival of the news. At Syros, one of the town's finest nightclubs, the French Frank Sinatra, Charles Trenet, had attracted an unusually large number of French patrons in addition to the usual mob of Americans. When the announcement was made that President Roosevelt had died, there was no need to say that the club was closing. The customers just closed it. The French looked stunned, as did the Americans. Prime Minister Churchill was immediately apprised of his great friend's death. He was so shocked that he declined to comment. Unintelligible was the word. Francis Cardinal Spellman added his voice to the bereavement. Our nation, still bleeding from the wounds of war, today suffered its most grievous wound, the death of our President and Commander-in-Chief. His gifted, inspiring leadership brought us to the threshold of victory. But Victor, in his war for peace, he himself became war's victim. My own eyes have seen his struggles to prevent war, his burdens and sorrows in war, his hopes, his prayers, and his works to conquer war. Franklin Roosevelt was a warrior for peace. Our President has taken his place among the gallant dead who have made our nation consecrate, and it falls upon us, the living, to preserve this nation in fulfillment of our sacred debt to all our martyred dead. The tragedy of his passing was the greater because he was a citizen of the world and the whole world mourned its loss. On the following morning, Mr. Churchill was able to compose himself and wired to Mrs. Roosevelt. I send my most profound sympathy in your grievous loss. It is also the loss of the British nation and the cause of freedom in every land. I feel so deeply for you all. As for myself, I have lost a dear and cherished friendship which was forged in the fires of war. I trust you may find consolation in the glory of his name and the magnitude of his work. men and the black-edged red flags of the Soviet Union were slowly hoisted over the Kremlin, over all public buildings and in the city squares. It was a gesture to the head of a foreign government unparalleled in Soviet history. Marshal Joseph Stalin, voicing the nationwide grief of his people, wrote, on behalf of the Soviet government and myself personally, I express our profound condolence to the government of the United States of America on the occasion of the premature death of President Roosevelt. The American people and the United Nations have lost in Franklin Roosevelt. a great politician of world significance and a pioneer in the organization of peace and security after the war. In our own land, the World Herald of Omaha, Nebraska described it this way. There are no Republicans in America today, no Democrats, no New Dealers or anti-New Dealers. There are only Americans united in a sense of national bereavement. And so, while his mortal remains were carried to his beloved home at Hyatt Park, which has become a shrine to people everywhere, but his spirit lives on in his constant leadership for the betterment of the world, expressed so eloquently in the unspoken words of the speech he was to have delivered on the day following his death. He wrote, today, today, we are faced with the preeminent fact that if civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science of human relationships, the ability of all peoples, of all kinds, to live together and work together in the same world, at peace. let me assure you that my hand is the steadier for the work that is to be done, that I move more firmly into the task knowing that you, millions and millions of you, are joined with me in the resolve to make this work endure. The work, my friends, is peace, more than an end of this war, an end to the beginnings of all wars. Yes, an end forever to this impractical, unrealistic settlement of the differences between governments by the mass killings of people. Today, as we move against the terrible scourge of war, as we go forward for the greatest contribution that any generation of human beings can make in this world, the contribution of lasting peace, I ask you to keep up your faith. I measure the sound, solid achievement that can be made at this time by the straight edge of your own confidence and your resolve. And to you, and to all Americans who dedicate themselves with us for the making of an abiding peace, I say the only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. let us move forward with strong and active faith. Today, on the fifth anniversary of the death of our beloved president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, we pause for just one minute to let our world stand still. The world stood still was written and produced by Lion Weir and directed by Jerry Sandler. The sound technician was Frank Norwood. Bert Cowlin was the narrator. Others in the cast were Jack Curtis, Selma San, Jack Toreen, and Philip Wolfe. This was a transcribed feature of the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you.