The September period in Washington, D.C. is the first city leading off to collect these clothes. Now, when we get a cold day like today, and it is a kind of a mean day down here, in view of some of the nice spring weather we've had, why, you get some idea what an awful thing it must be to be without shelter, without clothing, and yet that is the situation that prevails in the devastated areas of Korea. Radio announcements have kept you constantly informed about ARK, American Relief for Korea, and we've been shipping stuff to Maspeth in line with the requested announcements on that occasion, too. Now the drive has become intensive because the winter is here and people are suffering, and it's most important that we do everything possible. Now, Douglas Fairbanks is the national chairman for this drive, and the Honorable Grove Ray Whelan is chairman for New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Vincent are in Pelleteri, the honorary chairmen of the Clothes for Korea, and there'll be an interesting ceremony here today when heads of city departments lead off by loading up the truck with gifts which they have received for this drive. There's a truck here properly indicated as Clothes for Korea, and the mayor of the city of New York, Mr. Whelan, and the people concerned in this program, including five little youngsters from Korea themselves, will participate, and they'll be introduced in the course of the program. The mayor and Mr. Whelan are making an inspection of the plaza now. We're just waiting for the regular ceremony to take place. In spite of the cold, a lot of people are gathering. As soon as they hear a band and they see these flags here on the steps, they know something is happening. Our firemen today are carrying the flags of the United Nations here on the steps of City Hall, and this is a decoration that does a great deal to build up the quality of the ceremonies here on each occasion. On many occasions, it's just the silk flags of our own United States, but today the firemen carry the flags of the United Nations. Mr. Whelan's going around the plaza now checking up, and Mr. Whelan certainly knows how to check up. And I don't think there'll be a thing will escape his observation when the time comes to see that this truck is loaded with the Clothes for Korea. Again, for the benefit of those who tuned in late, you're going to be requested in line with the mayor's proclamation, which will be read in the course of this ceremony. From November 19th to December 3rd will be the two-week period for New York's participation in these clothes collections and this drive for clothes for Korea. And it's most important. If you don't think it's a cold day and you haven't been out yet, just open the window and just sniff a little of the cold, breezy air this morning, and you'll certainly wish you had an overcoat or something to cover you. Out there in those areas, they have nothing whatever in some cases but a mere rag. And now Mr. Whelan has just made the opening remarks. He's addressed the mayor. Mr. Whelan. The Clothes for Korea Drive, which will extend for two weeks. And through your good offices, all the police stations, fire stations, and public schools have been made available as depositories for clothing in the city of New York. The radio, television, and the newspapers have all contributed towards the stimulating the interest on the part of the people of the city of New York to contribute one million pounds of clothing to the Korean men, women, and children. As an example of the seriousness of the situation, you remember when you recently decorated the boys from Korea who were wounded and sent here to New York? They told me that one of the worst things that they had to contend with was stepping over the bodies of the frozen men, women, and children that they saw along the road. Now this drive, we all hope, will assist in some way in presenting to these people clothing that they very badly need. Now today, the department's representatives have brought a token bundle here to indicate their own personal interest in the matter, and they, on their part, will go through their departments as well, the 200,000 employees of the city of New York. We hope that the eight million people will do the same thing. I'm going to call on each department, Mr. Mayor, if you will allow me to have them put their clothing in the wagon outside here so that it will be the first of the series of truckloads that will go to the warehouse in Mathpeth where the clothes will be processed for shipment by United States vessels to Korea. The Department of Welfare. The Department of Welfare. Police Department. Chief Medical Examiner. City Record. City Treasurer's Office. Department of Correction. Board Municipal Reference Library. Board of Water Supply. City Planning Commission. Bureau of Secretary of the Board of Estimates. Purchase Department. Department of Sanitation. Department of Housing and Buildings. Department of Housing and Buildings. Department of Hospitals. Department of Hospitals. Department of Investigation. Department of Engineering of the Board of Estimates. Department of Commerce of the City of New York. Department of Housing and Buildings. Mr. Mayor, those are the departments that have made their token contributions this morning and gives me great pleasure to present you not only to the audience here present at the City Hall, but also to the radio audience that's listening in. Mr. Whalen, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago today, we welcomed here to our city 50 combat veterans of the Corrine Conflict, representing 19 nations joined through the United Nations in beating back communist aggression. We and all the freedom-loving peoples of the world are deeply shocked by the reports that have come to us of the horrible atrocities against captured United Nations troops. As President Truman has said, if these reports are true, this brutal murder of prisoners of war and helpless civilians is the most uncivilized thing that has happened in a century. With the bitter cold of another harsh winter upon Korea, we are met today to launch a campaign to collect articles of clothing for the estimated 10 million men, women, and children in Korea who are homeless and destitute. May I read to you the City's official proclamation designating the Close for Korea Collection Days. Proclamation. Whereas the President of the United States, by proclamation, has called upon the nation to come to the aid of the Korean war victims by responding to the Appeal of American Relief for Korea, Incorporated, for the donation of millions of pounds of clothing, and whereas the people of the United States and the people of many other freedom-loving countries through the United Nations are waging relentless war against lawless and unprovoked aggression in Korea, and whereas through no fault of their own, more than 10 million men, women, and children in Korea have been driven from their homes and left penniless and destitute, and whereas during their recent visit to the City of New York, the American servicemen in Korea said that a major threat to the high morale of the United Nations troops was the sight of mile after mile of roads, besides which lay the frozen, half-clad bodies of Korean men and women, and whereas a quota of one million pounds of clothing for Korea has been assigned to the City of New York to be collected between November 19th and December 3rd, 1951, a small price to pay the peoples whose native land is now the battleground for world freedom and democracy, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby set aside and proclaim the period between November 19th and December 3rd, 1951, as clothes for Korea collection days in the City of New York, and I call upon our people to do their utmost in support of this campaign for clothing, as gratitude to a gallant nation on whose soil our own soldiers and those of other free countries in the world are waging a desperate fight against communist tyranny and aggression. I do further call upon our schools, our churches, our civic, patriotic, and business organizations to give bountifully and willingly to the Close for Korea campaign of the American Relief for Korea, Incorporated. In witness whereof, I have here to set my hand and cause the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 15th day of November 1951, signed, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor. And now, Mr. Whalen, I'm pleased to hand to you this official proclamation dedicating this period of time to the collection of clothes for the destitute people of Korea. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, and it's been a source of great pleasure to all of us who have been serving on your committee to find the quick response that have been made, particularly through all the departments of the city government as well as the churches, which have been very gracious. And in all the churches yesterday, there were sermons given asking the people to contribute clothing. We are going to ask all the radio and television and newspapers to support us in this great drive and so that we shall go over the top with a million pounds of clothing. Please remember that the reason that the dates are fixed from November 19th to December 3rd is due to the fact that that is the last moment upon which vessels of the United States government can reach Korea in time for this clothing to be worthwhile. So therefore, we urge upon you to come to your school, your police station, your firehouses throughout your neighborhood and you will find kindly and willing hands of all the city employees ready to take your contributions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. your commitment is all the time. Now the President of the United States started the drive in Washington in September with the idea of cities taking up this Close for Korea campaign and ARK has been constantly announced and cooperated with in the announcements between programs on your city station. Now it's New York's individual opportunity to sign up from a location standpoint and put over those million pounds of clothing that is desired. 20 million pounds of clothes and all is required. So do your part, November 19th to December 3rd, and make sure when this drive concludes that you can put on your own coat and your own wraps or clothing, whatever they may be, and feel sure that something you have done to comfort a distressed person in Korea will bring about the result of this drive proclaimed by the mayor today for a period of two weeks. Cooperate with the mayor's committee on clothes for Korea. The Honorable Grove Ray Whalen is chairman for New York City, Mr. and Mrs. Impelitari honorary chairman, and Douglas Fairbanks is national chairman. So do your part as good citizens, and do as New York always does. Go over the top with even more than the required amount. Donate any piece of clothing you are not using. Remember, that old coat, that old garment, whatever it may be, may save a life. That's all we can bring you now from City Hall, the Department of Sanitation Band, Meister Celebrate conducting, with the musical background of the program here today at City Hall. And now back to the studios and to the program in progress. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you.