What are the issues of the election campaign? Who stands for what? This is the WNYC campus press conference. Every week, the editors of four college newspapers interview a prominent person in the news. During the month of October, we are interviewing the various candidates for United States Senator from New York. Today's guest is Nathan Karp, candidate of the Socialist Labor Party. And here to interview Mr. Karp are Maureen O'Neill of the Hunter College Arrow, Estelle Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Charles Kramer of the Queens College Rampart, and Erwin Chapkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University. All right, panel members, I see Mr. Chapkin has his hand up. Do you have a question? Yes, Mr. Karp. Your party has been along in this country quite some time, although a few people still know about it and what it stands for. What would you tell us to start with, how long you have been here as a political organization, and who are your candidates in this year's election? Well, the Socialist Labor Party has been in existence in this country on its present scientific basis since 1890, and it has had a national ticket in every election since 1892. Its present candidates are Mr. Eric Hess, the editor of the party's official newspaper, and Mr. Stephen Emery, a subway dispatcher on the 8th Avenue subway system. The Socialist Labor Party appears on the ballot in New York due to certain ballot restrictions under the designation the Industrial Government Party. Mr. Chapkin? Yes, well, now that we've established that, I think you've described your party as a revolutionary organization. Now, what sort of revolution do you advocate? I hope not by force. The Socialist Labor Party is a revolutionary organization, but its program calls for both political and industrial organization on the part of the working people of this nation. The purpose of the political organization is to utilize the free ballot in this country for the purpose of establishing our majority opinion, which would signify that we desire a change from capitalism to socialism. This would be in keeping with American tradition and American law. The second, the industrial organization, would be the organization that would be necessary to enforce that political mandate and to serve as the groundwork for the future society that would have to be established. The Socialist Labor Party accepts the materialist conception of history, which we also call the socialist conception of history. Now, the materialist conception of history teaches us that all the institutions that exist in any given period in history are a direct result of the material basis of society. And the material basis of all our modern societies is economic. And all our institutions, political and otherwise, stem from this economic basis. Well, now, supposing we skip around to some of these other panel members who are eager to ask some questions. Ms. Siegel? Well, I know you've said that your party is the only party in the United States which doesn't want power for itself. And I'm wondering how the transition would take place if you were elected into power, how you would take the power out of your hands and into the people's hands. Very well. Let's take an ideal situation. Supposing on November 4th of this year, all the voters in the United States and the vast majority go to the polls and vote for the candidates of the Socialist Labor Party right down the line. By that action, they would indicate that they have accepted the principle of revolutionary change from capitalism to socialism. At the same time, however, it would be necessary that they organize themselves into a socialist industrial union embracing all the useful producers of the land, those who work with brain as well as brawn, into one socialist industrial union. The elected Socialist Labor Party candidates would then take office and declare the political state adjourned and turn the reins of government over to this socialist industrial union organization. Ms. O'Neill? Mr. Karp, just how long a time will have to pass before your candidates and your program are known to the working people? If you expect them to unite, you have to introduce this program to them. And you are not well known, although you have been in existence for over 60 years. This question of being well known, as you see, has already cropped up in the first three or four minutes of this discussion. The truth of the matter is that the Socialist Labor Party has been advocating this program for over 60 years. And during that time, there are literally millions who, while they have not yet accepted completely the Socialist Labor Party program, are aware of it. Secondly, there are social forces at work on the side of this movement. In addition to the Socialist Labor Party and its agitation and its educational efforts, are the evolutionary processes of society itself, which are tending in the direction of enforcing or impressing on the minds of the people the need for a new form of society, and in many instances they are already aware of the need of an industrial form of society. Now, education plus evolution will and can do the job. Mr. Kramer? I'd like to know, Mr. Karp, who would be the people running this government? The people. How would they be chosen? They would be democratically elected representatives from the industries by the producers in those industries. They would constitute the industrial congress of the nation. They would be subject to immediate recall at any time that they did not conduct themselves in a manner that the people they represented believed to be proper. The people would at all times be in complete control of their representatives. It would be ruled from the bottom up and not from the top down. Ms. O'Neill? Mr. Karp, do you believe that on any policy issue a referendum of all the people in the United States would have to be called before any decision could be made? No, I do not believe that would be a necessary detail that would have to be an everyday occurrence. We have to keep in mind that in a socialist society, the conflicts and the contradictions that are present in today's society would in many instances disappear of their own accord. The many questions which we are confronted with today are all, either war, poverty, unemployment, social security, and all these things which plague us would not exist in a socialist society where the people owned the industries collectively and utilized in a democratic manner the product they produced. The chief function of government in socialist society would be to administer the industries and the distribution of the product. Well, I think what the panel members are trying to get at, Mr. Karp, is whether or not people would have the opportunity to change back again, say, to capitalism or to some other form of society, whether they'd have that right at the ballot box or whether society would so be organized that it was inflexible and unchangeable. On the contrary. Society would become more flexible than it has ever been before because people would have everyday participation in deciding what would be the form of conduct of their government. Anytime they desired, and I cannot conceive that anybody in any society would want to go back to what we've got, but assuming that they did, they would have full democratic right to make any decision they saw fit. Mr. Kramer was driving at the specifics of that. Would there be periodic elections? How would this come about? Anytime a question came up, any given industry could call its workers into session and decide on a vote to determine what they wanted to do and inform their industrial representatives that this was their desire and intent. Ms. Siegel? Who in the industry calls the meeting? You said anybody, the industry can call the meeting. What is the industry? Well, what you're doing now is you're trying to get an exact blueprint, which is an utter impossibility for a new society. In advocating a new society, you can merely lay the broad general principles on which that society will operate. It becomes dictatorial in itself for any political party to say now that under socialism the workers will have to do this. The workers themselves will set up whatever local democratic organizations they find necessary in order to keep their control of their government. The important thing to remember is that the principle that would be established would be that the workers, and by workers I am including the vast majority of the people, whether they be musicians or artists or doctors or nurses or actual men who work with their hands or mines or bookkeepers, whatever their particular social contribution may be, these workers would constitute the government and would solve these minor problems of exact machinery in their own way and in keeping with their own needs. Mr. Chapkin? Well, then, if we want to get away from asking Mr. Carp to give us a constitution of an industrial government, suppose we get off into the foreign policy arena and ask how he interprets the present world struggle between the Soviet government of Russia and the United States. Well, the Soviet government of Russia, we have referred to, and very justifiably, as Stalinist imperialism. It is an imperialist bureaucracy which exercises complete and unequivocal control within its own nation and which is definitely aiming at world domination. And as such, it presents a very definite threat to the capitalist class of every other nation in the world. Well, if the Soviet government is driving toward world domination, do you also see American capitalism as driving toward the same world domination? Very definitely. We have been reduced to two great powers in this world, Soviet imperialism and American capitalism. All other nations are completely insignificant in this game. And you think that either of them, both of them, feel the same way about preservation of the status quo, namely, neither will be satisfied with it? Definitely. Neither can be satisfied with the status quo because both must expand or go into extinction. Mr. Kramer? Mr. Cobb, how would a non-imperialistic socialist state keep it... How would it be safe, in other words, in a world which you say is imperialistic and capitalistic? Well, one thing you have to keep in mind, that this program which we advocate, we advocate for America. We do not advocate a program for Chinese or Russians or Greeks. We do not know what their internal needs are, what their internal situations are, and what program would best suit their internal conditions. We do know this, that American capitalism is the most dominant force in the world today. And as America goes, we might say, so goes the world. We sincerely believe, and we believe if given enough time, we could demonstrate that if America became a socialist society, it would just be a matter of time before the rest of the world went likewise. We also believe that if the rest of the world did not go likewise, no major war could be fought anywhere without American industrial support. And we would support only bona fide working class movements throughout the world. We would not, in any sense of the word, be involved in international competition. I think we all recognize, particularly those of us who have studied history, that people do not very lightly or easily change what they have into something they don't yet understand or know. Secondly, we have to recognize that social forces are not exactly predictable. But history, on the other hand, also demonstrates this. Capitalism is not the first social system we've had. We've had others. We've had feudalism. We've had ancient slavery. And the peoples living under those systems of society, when they became oppressive and no longer served the best needs of the majority, tolerated those evils for a good long period of time. Let me interrupt for a minute. As I understand your question, your first question was, Ms. Siegel, why are there more than one, why is there more than one party pretending or saying that it is the Socialist Party in the United States? Wasn't that your first question? No, that was the second part of the question. I was wondering why the workers didn't back the parties if the parties were so beneficial to the workers. That's as I understood. Why hasn't the working class accepted the Socialist Labor Party's program? Simply because they have not yet accepted it. There is no technical reason that we can give, excepting that the combination of circumstances making for their acceptance of it have not yet been reached. I don't want to get bogged down in a very long question and answer, but it seems to me that we're flinging words around here without defining them. Now, what does this word working class mean? Is a doctor a member of the working class? A grocery man? I'm glad you asked that question. A Ford automobile worker in Detroit who brings his car to work, is he a member of the working class? All right. By working class, we mean all those people who earned their existence by their ability to work, whether it be with brain or brawn. Any member who contributes a useful job or a useful function to society is a member of the working class. Any member who makes his living by his ability to utilize his function is a member of the working class. In other words, you would put in that category most of the people of the United States, is that right? The vast majority. Yes. Would the president of a corporation be a working man? No, he would not. Because he does utilize his brains in directing certain things. No, he would not. In the socialist economics, the man who owns industry, the means of wealth production, and lives off the profits of that industry, is not a member of the working class. And here, if I may be permitted, I'd like to make one point which I think is important. The Socialist Labor Party does not advocate the extermination of capitalists. Let me make that perfectly clear. In a new socialist society, the only thing that would happen to these capitalists is like every other decent human being. We would find a place for them in the productive setup where their abilities or whatever functions they can perform can be utilized and they'll earn their existence just like every other civilized and decent man in society. All right. Now, on the second part of Ms. Siegel's question, why there is more than one party, I suppose the answer is self-evident that different people interpret things in different ways and there are honest differences of opinion. Isn't that correct? I wish that were the sole answer to the thing. I do not believe it is wholly correct. The truth of the matter is that there is a certain appeal in the word socialist. You must keep in mind that even Hitler in his run to power utilized the term socialism because socialism has a universal appeal to the people throughout the world and there are many opportunistic politicians and you'll find most of them, incidentally, in the Socialist Party of America who are merely using the term but want nothing more than to be the directors of the present capitalist political state. Well, we'll have to ask them about that statement, Mr. Karp. We're going to have them later in the week. Now, Mr. Kramer, you had a question. Now, Mr. Karp, could you explain the differences between our state socialist organizations? There is no such thing as state socialism. Now, let me give you a brief definition of socialism from the Marxian standpoint. Socialism means a classless society. It means a society in which there is no political state. It means a society in which there is no wage exploitation. Now, the moment you have a political state, you don't have socialism. Mr. Karp, I happen to mean at that time our local state socialist parties operating within the state. I beg your pardon. I did not understand your question, though I don't think the point was completely lost. You mean, if I understand you correctly, the Socialist Party of New York State, for example? That's correct, and the Socialist Working Party, et cetera. And you want to know what the differences are between them? That's right. Well, I wouldn't want to take the time or trouble to tell you the difference between the Socialist Party and the Socialist Workers Party because I believe that's their job. Let them tell you their differences. I will tell you this. The difference between the Socialist Labor Party and all of them is the difference between revolution and reform. Well, I think we went on the air optimistically today in the hopes that we'd air something on the political campaign, and I think through no fault of anyone in particular we're getting barred down in a theoretical discussion. Supposing in the time remaining, we do get down to cases here on the political campaign. Mr. Chapkin? Yes, I started out by asking a foreign policy question. I want to ask another one. You seem to indicate that whatever the form of organization that America takes, that the Soviet Union will continue to be a force of world expansion. This will be true whether America is capitalist or socialist. Now, if I interpret you correctly, if America remains capitalist, it would have its own expansive forces, whereas if it remains socialist, it would be on the defensive solely, but it's on the defensive in both cases. Now, do you support a rearmament program or what? Where do you stand on that issue? We do not support a rearmament program, and we do not remain on the defensive. Socialism is never on the defensive. It is constantly on the offensive. A socialist America would immediately appeal to the workers of Russia to get rid of their own despotism, to establish their own socialist society. And we believe that once America has done that, its world influence would make itself felt in every nation in the world. Mr. Chapkin, you winced. Yes, certainly. I want to know how you can get through to the workers of Russia under their police state, which you say yourself is the worst bureaucratic police state in the world. You have to recognize that despite the fact that Russia is not a socialist nation, the chief force which it has used to rally the Russian people to support its imperialism is a fight against international capitalism. That force would be completely removed from the Stalinist propaganda machine the moment you had a socialist America established. Well, it certainly hasn't been removed. If I may interpose a statement here, when the British labor government was in power and they said they were a socialist government, certainly the propaganda guns in Moscow didn't let up. They just accused them of being capitalism and in sheep's clothing. Which they were. And unfortunately, there being sufficient truth to the argument, the Russians were able to make the argument hold water. In other words, you believe that the Soviet Union is definitely hindered by truth. In other words, if there were truthfully a socialist society somewhere else, they wouldn't be able to distort it or twist it? No question in the world about it. You think you give the Soviet leaders that much credit that they only make propaganda out of things that have some basis? I give them no credit. They are shrewd politicians who are able to utilize falsehood in order to make their people support them. I see. Well, Mr. Kramer, you've had your hand up. Mr. Cobb, how would a socialist America react should an imperialistic Russia attack? The same way all people react when they're attacked. No country in the world could defend itself with the unanimity of organization that a socialist republic could. And don't get the mistaken idea that socialism means pacifism. It doesn't in any sense of the word. Anybody tried to evade a socialist America would certainly find the most unified army of workers that he has ever come up against in his entire history. Well, in other words, then you wouldn't let up on the armaments program. That was the original question. That is not the original question, sir. I beg to differ with you, Mr. Pressman. The original question was whether we support the present armament program. We do not. We do support socialist society. And if socialist society finds it necessary to arm, the people will so decide and so do. But what do you do in the interim period? Do you scrap your arms until you get a socialist society? That remains entirely with the working class government. They will decide what to do. Mr. Chafkin, you wanted to get in here? Yes. Mr. Carp has said that the socialist state in America will come after a long process of time-consuming education and information work on the basis of the party. Now, all during this period of time, which may be years and years, the Soviet threat will exist. Now, do you think that the United States is just plain lost until such time as it gets a socialist government? Do we just have to wait to be overrun since you're against the armament? What can we do? What you're trying to do is get a man to place himself in a position which he doesn't accept. The Socialist Labor Party is not concerned with the problems of the capitalist class, and as far as our having an opinion on the armament program, it would have no effect if we had one or not. Capitalist America will continue to arm as long as capitalism exists, regardless of whether any of us have any opinion on armaments or not. We're not dealing with that problem. We're dealing with the problem of getting rid of the thing that makes armament necessary to the capitalist class to begin with. Well, the thing that makes armament necessary to any class in America at this moment is an expansionary force abroad. Now, if you disarm today here in America, why, you give a leg up to that expansionary force, don't you? I think you're using words rather loosely because our armament program is not devoted to the protection of America. Our armament program is devoted to the protection of our foreign investments all over the world. And most of the arms that we're producing are not in New York City or in California or in the state of Texas or on the borderlines of Canada. They're in Korea, in the Philippines, in Japan, in Hawaii, and we are told that these are our defense perimeter. They are the defense perimeter of the capitalist investments. Mr. Karp and Mr. Chapkin, I think, Mr. Karp, you could probably solve this question very easily if you answered something which is quite simple and that is, do you think that the Soviet Union is a threat to the American people? I answered that at the very start. I believe that the Soviet Union, that is, the Soviet dictatorship, is a threat not only to the American people but to the entire world. All right, well then, Mr. Chapkin's question and the question of the other panel members follows very logically. Should the American people defend themselves against the Soviet Union's regime? They definitely will, but what you're... Should they? Now. But what you're doing, Mr. Pressman, is that you're identifying the same threat which capitalism exercises on the world, incidentally, American capitalism, is just as great a threat to the American people and to the rest of the world as Soviet imperialism. And what you want me to say is, do I favor the threat of American capitalism in preference to the threat of Soviet socialism? No, sir, I think that the question I ask and the question the panel is asking is a pretty straightforward one. It's simply whether or not you think that the American people should protect themselves against Soviet expansionism. We should and we can and we will in socialist society. We are not defending ourselves against either in the present instance. Miss Siegel, you don't have too much time here. You yourself said that under our system we could change to socialism through the ballot. Now, in Russia that would be pretty impossible. So don't you think it's important even to defend our type of political democracy so we can someday possibly change to another form if that is really desirable? That's exactly what I'm... So therefore, do we not have to defend ourselves against Russia? Hopefully, sorry, I'll have to break in here and we won't permit Mr. Karp to answer that question. There isn't enough time. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but we'll just have to let it go at this until the next election. This has been another edition of the WNYC Campus Press Conference, a new program featuring interviews by college editors with people in the news. Today's guest was Nathan Karp, Socialist Labor Party candidate for United States Senator from New York running on the Industrial Government ticket. Here to interview Mr. Karp, were Maureen O'Neill of the Hunter College Arrow, Estelle Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Charles Kramer of the Queens College Rampart, and Erwin Chapkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University. During the month of October, this program is featuring interviews with all the candidates for United States Senator from New York. This is Gabriel Pressman inviting you to tune in again next week and every week for later issues of the WNYC Campus Press Conference. It was article left in, but here it is the U-N-N-U-S-R, the U-N-U-S-R,