Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, speaking to you from the Great Hall of the Cooper Union, where we are about to continue with our second meeting in our series on the time for decision. The subject, what are we voting for? The speaker, Mr. Norman Thomas. Also, all of these things that we do here are still free. I'm not positive how long they can continue to be free. It's about the first time in the history of the Cooper Union that we have ever asked for help. Anybody who believes in this particular form of education, any small contribution that you would care to make to the Cooper Union Fund would be very kindly received. A battle with inflation not only hurts all of us in the pocketbook, but also hurts in the school systems. All right, then. The subject for discussion tonight, what are we voting for? The speaker, Mr. Norman Thomas, that distinguished American citizen, who knows our government and our political scene as well as anybody in the country. He has had the practical experience of running for office, having been a candidate for the highest office in the United States. He also knows very well the philosophical backgrounds of politics and government, wide background, knowledge in foreign governments and foreign areas, ideally equipped to speak on this subject. What are we voting for? Mr. Norman Thomas, it's a pleasure to welcome back to the Cooper Union, Mr. Norman Thomas. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, Mr. Chairman and my friends, you will have to bear with me somewhat leniently, because I think this is the first time in my life, before any sizable audience in a presidential year, that I have tried to speak objectively about the campaign. On all other occasions since I became actively interested in politics, I have been very much concerned to advance the cause of a particular candidate. Sometimes his name was Norman Thomas, but before that it was Gene Debs or Robert M. La Follette, Sr. So here am I in this very academic atmosphere, supposed to discuss objectively what we are voting for. So here goes. To put the matter in the simplest terms, primarily all over the United States we are voting for the man to lead us. We are voting, in other words, for the President of the United States. We are also voting for the Vice President. That, I think, is unfortunate, but we'll have to pass it up. No, I won't pass it up, because I'm going now to follow a custom which is a very bad custom. I am going to inject footnotes in my orderly discourse. And the first footnote I want to inject is this, that with all my veneration for the fathers of the Constitution, they made a few mistakes, and one of them was in the office of Vice President. We ought not to vote for a Vice President at all. The Vice President, the man who succeeds the President, ought to be, let us say, the Speaker of the House until the next election, much as in New York it is the President of Council. The Vice President occupies the most peculiar position. He is usually nominated because he disagrees with the man who is nominated for President, and thus you represent everybody. He has nothing in particular to do that somebody else couldn't do better, a presiding officer of the Senate, except to sit around and wait for his chief to die. It is to our everlasting credit that no writer of mystery stories in a country drunk with whodunnits ever wrote a story about how the real man who assassinated Garfield was a guy that wanted to succeed him, or something like that. The Vice President, in other words, the Vice Presidency is an unnecessary office, and I assure you that with unwanted fervor, whoever is elected President of the United States, I intend to pray, God save the President. You will observe I do not admire soap opera, but we will now get to the... We will now get back to the main track. We are voting primarily for a man, the President of the United States. It is very unfortunate that we will not be voting directly for the President of the United States. As you all know very well, we shall be voting for electors. In the state of New York, 47 electors. The number of electors in each state is equivalent to the number of congressmen plus the senators. This gives, of course, somewhat disproportionate representation to the smaller states. And when, in addition to smallness in size, relative to New York, for instance, you get discrimination against colored people, you have a situation such as exists in South Carolina, where one vote for a President by a South Carolinian has about the weight of eight votes in New York. I've done the mathematics on it a good many times. One of the things that may conceivably happen in this election is that one or other candidate will have an electoral college majority of great dimensions, almost a landslide, although it may well be that the difference in the popular vote is comparatively small, only a few hundred thousand. In 1948, a shift of 30,000 votes in the right states would have elected Tom Dewey by an electoral college majority. Nevertheless, Mr. Dewey would still have been in a minority as compared with Mr. Truman of over two million votes. This is very regrettable. What is even more serious is the fact that if there is no clear majority in the House, in the so-called electoral Congress, the election goes into the House of Representatives where each state, New York with around 15 million people and Nevada with less than 150,000 people, each of them has one vote. It is wholly undesirable that an election should go into the House of Representatives and I can remember very well back in 1924, toward the end of the campaign that year La Follette was running, a great cry went up over the country, a vote for La Follette is a vote to throw the election into the House of Representatives and it is my sober belief, as it was the belief of many observers and participants in that campaign, that La Follette lost hundreds of thousands of votes in the last few weeks because of fear that the election would be thrown into the House of Representatives. One reason why this is a two-party government is because of the nature of our Constitution which I have rapidly described to you. Let's get back. We are voting then primarily for the President of the United States. He holds the most important elective office in the whole wide world, but he is not a dictator. He must guide us. He must guide us in foreign policy. He must guide us in domestic policy. He is the only one man in all America for whom the people, even if indirectly, have voted. Otherwise, your congressmen and senators are elected by districts. Nevertheless, of course, the President not being a dictator does depend very greatly upon Congress. We are therefore voting not just for a President but for a congressman and we are voting under party labels. But we are voting under party labels for a party under a system in which there is no true party responsibility. In Great Britain, there is a great party responsibility. For instance, when the Labour Party in Britain was returned to power, was put in power immediately after the close of the First World War, of the Second World War, the Labour Party proceeded systematically to carry out its platform. one of the criticisms made of it was that it carried out its platform. No one ever criticized an American party for carrying out its platform because in the first place no one was quite sure what they'd carry out if they carried it out and in the second place they carried it out in a stretcher usually. Now this situation is peculiar to America and I think, by and large, it is a very unfortunate situation. There are differences between the parties. There are differences in attitude. There are differences in the class interests predominantly represented. there are differences in the kinds of groups that usually vote Republican or Democrat. But as you well know when you stop to think, the differences within each one of our major parties are greater than the differences on the average between the parties. If this seems to you strange, just think for a minute. Take the Republican Party. The difference between Wayne Morse, Wayne Morse, Senator from Oregon and Senator McCarthy of Wisconsin. The differences in the Democratic Party between Hubert Humphrey, who in every language except American would be a socialist, Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota or even Herbert Lehman of New York and Senator Smathers, that racist from Florida. or Senator Byrd, that conservative from Virginia are enormous. These differences within each party are several times greater than the average difference between Republicans and Democrats. The result of this is you have no true party responsibility. I was in Chicago as a correspondent, as a writer of a column for certain newspapers at both conventions. I watched long platforms gaveled through both party conventions without a bit of discussion on the floor or without explanation. I watched the Democratic Convention adopt a platform which the Southerners were openly saying that they would not heed in so far as it related to civil rights. Stevenson felt constrained to argue the other night in Nashville, Tennessee, that the Southerners were doing very well under the present system and why should they be excited? He called the role of important Southerners in Congress, the chairman of committees under what I think is a vicious system, namely seniority. He called the role of those chairmen and the point is that the South because year after year they vote Democratic and return these men by seniority have a terrific preponderance in the chairman of committees who are then in a position to throw monkey wrenches into the machinery of their party without losing their standing as members of the party. And that's exactly the situation that you have. Our legislation of any importance that has been passed in my memory is passed by a bipartisan vote since Roosevelt took office in 1933. Usually, the majority of the Democrats have voted along with the administration. not always, but usually. And a minority of the Republicans. Nevertheless, the coalition that has blocked Truman pretty effectually in the last Congress was a bipartisan coalition. It couldn't have been done by Republicans alone. And not all Republicans are members of the coalition. In order to explain a system so fantastic to foreigners or even to Americans, you have to go into history. And briefly, the explanation is this. At the Civil War, at the time of the Civil War, Lincoln, of course, was president. And he was a Republican. And the Republican Party was in charge during the Reconstruction period. Southerners, now that their states had returned to the Union, quite naturally were opposed to the dominant party, the Republican. Republican. Therefore, the South, predominantly Anglo-Saxon, predominantly white supremacy, predominantly Protestant, was Democrat. But the Republican Party was in power, I have said, and that had its effect in the North, in the growing industrial regions. The Republican Party did not remain the kind of party that is to be described as the party of Abraham Lincoln. It was the party of the big capitalists. It was the party of the dominant interests. And quite naturally, masses of workers and masses of the newer immigrants found it easy to protest against very real evils by voting for the party which was, for the most part, out of power. That is to say, in national affairs, out of power. For the Democratic Party. They found it easy to vote for the Democratic Party in New York because until we had some organization of Social Security, your hope of relief in time of trouble was with the district leader. The real reason why the machines in our great cities are weaker than they used to be is because no longer are the political machines the major source of help for those who are poor and in trouble. It was the same LaGuardia who ran for office in 1929. I also ran that year and I know considerable about it. It was the same LaGuardia who ran in 1929 as ran in 1933. He was badly defeated in 1929 and triumphant in 1933. Did that mean that all of us New Yorkers had got religion, we love virtue? No. It meant that the democratic machine had broken down under the stresses and strains of depression. The district leader system couldn't do the job. The Democrats also in New York unlike the Democrats in Jersey City had made the mistake of fighting Roosevelt and LaGuardia won. These are the realities about our politics. I have spoken now several minutes and you will notice I haven't said a thing about an issue. It is because I am trying to be objective, Mr. Chairman. I am telling you what happens not what you think happens. I am telling you that you do all vote for president and it's very important. The personality of the man and the rest of it. I am telling you you do not directly vote for the president. I am telling you that also you have to vote for a party and that the two major parties in America while there are differences in aptitude and in a certain sense in class interest between them when you take the whole nation north and south are one of the most fascinating puzzles in political history. A puzzle to be explained in terms of that history which I have very briefly cited to you. Now that's the situation. Most of my active political life I have been concerned to bring about a realistic political realignment in the United States so that party divisions would mean something. I have believed that the way to do it was to build up a new party. A democratic socialist party. I have believed that we could use the gallant socialist party to do that thing. Frankly I am not any longer of the opinion that we are likely to build to bring about a political realignment through the process of running minor party tickets more or less as a gallant gesture. I'm sorry I'm of that opinion. I used to feel happier when I wasn't of that opinion. But I am now of that opinion. I do want to acknowledge however the excellence of the socialist ticket this year and the excellence of the socialist platform. Nevertheless I am persuaded that we shall have to find a different way to educate people and to bring about a political realignment. What that way is I am not altogether sure and this isn't the time to go into detail because I have another task immediately at hand. there is at present a very interesting theory which is very popular. Somebody wrote it into one of Eisenhower's speeches for him so he read it off. It was very well developed by Samuel Lubell in his study of American politics. It is the theory that each party Republican and Democrat is a coalition and that on the whole it is better to have a coalition before you have an election than to have a coalition of splinter parties in a cabinet after an election as in France as in Greece as in Israel where you have ever so many parties and then they have to get together in a cabinet. Now for a good many years I have been of the opinion that under the American scheme of things you could not expect your major parties to be tightly disciplined. I have been for many years of the opinion that you would have to have parties with a general tendency rather than with a very precise discipline. Nevertheless I protest I protest to high heaven against the notion that it is good to have coalitions with no principle to divide them. Principles do matter and the situation that we have the coalition in the Democratic Party and in the Republican Party the coalition that unites Wayne Morse with McCarthy that unites Willis Smith of North Carolina who won also on a vicious race campaign and Hubert Humphrey is an unsound theory. Sometimes in my more mystical moments I have decided that God for some reason of his own must love us peculiarly because we do as well as we do considering the way we do it. And now now you will say but are there no differences between these parties at all this year? Yes, there are differences. Differences though that it is very hard to put in precise language. I made quite a study of the Republican and Democratic platform and if words meant what words ought to mean there wouldn't be too much difference between those platforms. At least not too much difference in terms of what to do. There are some differences in criticism of what has been done. The Republican Party is composed of Monday morning quarterbacks who know all about what should have been done at Yalta and elsewhere. I can testify that they did not know it at the time. Well, I won't go into that. The system then is this, that the Republicans accept grudgingly what the times have demanded and the Democrats accept it more cheerfully. Almost immediately after the conventions I was walking the streets here in New York and the Republican, the local Republican leader of some prominence greeted me and he said, well, Mr. Thomas, you're quite a conservative now. You notice even our platform put in some of those things that you were the only one that was talking about back in 1928 and 1932. He seemed rather proud and pleased about it. You must learn this. I speak objectively, Mr. Chairman. You must learn this, that anything that has been adopted from a public school system to health department to Social Security, once it's been adopted, it's no longer socialist. But if anybody proposes anything else along that line, it is socialism, creeping socialism, probably it's communism until it's adopted. These are elementary lessons that I want to impress upon you. I'm not sure they're taught in that history class that was being advertised. If not, they should be. These are elementary lessons in American politics. The question, therefore, after the conventions was, given those platforms, what would the candidates do? Well, what the candidates have done in terms of issues is interesting. General Eisenhower, I liked very much as a man, from what I had heard of him. I liked the style of the man. I liked his smile. In short, I liked Ike. I never thought I'd like Ike in the White House. I like lots of people in different places. But it never occurred to me that Ike would turn in quite the kind of performance that he is, turning in, I speak objectively. By the time of the Chicago Convention, I was well aware of the fact that General Eisenhower was blissfully ignorant of almost everything in domestic politics. He was even ignorant which party he belonged to until somebody convinced him that he belonged to the Republican Party all his life. He wasn't sure of it when he's president of Colombia, but you know, the academic world produces uncertainty and doubt. but by the time he got to Chicago, he was a, you know, he'd been a Republican practically all his life. Well, he didn't know much about things, about Thailand's oil, about the way oil men were taxed when he was down in Texas, you know. Someone, some reporter asked him what he thought about the system of oil taxation. That's why if you want to be a millionaire, any of you, be a millionaire in oil. You don't pay nearly as heavy taxes. I can't go into details, but that's just a fact. So General Eisenhower, with his charming smile, told the reporter, well, I don't know, don't know much about that. I guess I'll have to ask an oil man. Doubtless if anybody had asked him about how you got along with Costello, he'd said I'd ask Frank. And his admirer said, what engaging innocence? You see, he really doesn't know anything, so we've got a great deal to hope he might learn the right way. We did think, however, that he knew quite a lot about foreign politics and that we knew that he'd played quite a part in making the present foreign policy. He had learned the hard way by mistake. Well, then he became a candidate. As a candidate, I've been rather sorry for him because here he is, a naive conservative, a well-meaning man, not knowing too much, but desiring to win. Who doesn't? Even I used to think it must be quite interesting. Well, anyway, here's this kind of a, this fellow, he wants to win. And here are all these politicians shoving him and pushing him and so on. Here are all these speechwriters. Now, I have a friend who wrote his speech for the AFFL. That was a good speech, as good as a Republican could make under the circumstances. I sat next to that author during the proceedings and I assure you it's like going to a play on the first night and sitting next to the playwright. He was very nervous. So I had to fight for every word in headquarters. It appears that the general does exercise rather rapid fire critical judgment over the various versions that are brought in. In respect to foreign policy, though, I have been more genuinely astonished because there the general has certainly been anything but consistent and he has been critical of that of which he was a part. I know the Republican defense. It is that he was only a Republican argument for Eisenhower in foreign affairs goes like this. Vote for Eisenhower because he's shown that he understands Europe. Look what he's done in Europe. And then you say, but look what he says on Korea, how contradictory some of this is to what we thought were the facts. And then they say, well, you can't expect a general to have anything to do with politics. If it's good, Eisenhower did it. If it's bad, he was as innocent as your baby of anything to do with it. He was only a general and generals don't, but you understand the principle that you have. This is an objective analysis and if anybody has doubts it, argue with me afterwards about it and see what happens. Now, the thing though that was really the most astonishing was, of course, the McCarthy episode. Eisenhower was a great friend of Marshall. In my judgment, General George Marshall made mistakes. Who didn't? I think he made some fairly bad mistakes. But he also made Eisenhower. Eisenhower would be a colonel or a brigadier general or at most just a major general if he hadn't caught the eye of Marshall. I think it was a good thing for I believe that Eisenhower did a very valuable job. Do not think that I doubt that. Marshall, who I think made mistakes, was also a patriot, unquestionably a patriot. And to my mind, there is something humiliating in the spectacle of Eisenhower having to embrace virtually men like Jenner and men like McCarthy. There is something humiliating and discouraging about the spectacle of a candidate for the high office of president who in Wisconsin is persuaded to cut out of his written speech paragraphs in defense of Marshall. That's the thing that worries me most. It is possible for men to learn. General Eisenhower's reputation would warrant hope that he might learn. Parenthetically, may I say that in my lifetime most men are better presidents than they are candidates. Most congressmen are much better in office than they were when they were running for it. God knows where we'd be if they acted the way they do, most of them when they're speaking. Well, let's get on. What about Stevenson? Stevenson, in my mind, to my mind, writes, and they say he, as far as it's humanly possible, writes his own. Stevenson writes the best speeches from the standpoint of logic, of literary grace and skill in my long experience. Mark you, that it's been my business, has compelled me to read more speeches of presidential candidates probably than any living man, unless possibly some librarian or something of that sort. And I greatly admire Stevenson's approach to problem, his effort to discuss them realistically, his desire to stand out against the pressure of special interests. There's much that's very admirable about it. And by and large, I think he has outlined a pretty satisfactory program. But he is captive of his party. he will be captive in office. He was responsible, very largely, for the choice of John Sparkman for vice president. Sparkman, I know somewhat, and like him. In many ways, he is a genuine liberal. I have been on platforms with him where what he has said would be quite satisfactory. But he comes from Alabama. And he doesn't have a banjo on his knee. He's got a rooster at the head of his column. Which for 70 some years has said white supremacy. That's what he's got. And that's a somewhat serious thing to contemplate. In domestic policies, I do not think that Mr. Stevenson has been particularly aggressive on lines. For instance, there is a, to take a rather simple illustration. The problem of our river valleys is very serious. It is a problem of flood control. The Missouri had two floods within a little over a year, and a little less than a year. It is a problem of reforestation. At the present time, only about half the timber lines that are devastated by lumbering or otherwise are replanted in America. it is a problem of power. It is a problem of irrigation. Now, Mr. Stevenson more or less recognized that. General Eisenhower at first did perhaps one of the worst of Eisenhower's speeches, was delivered to Boise, in which he seemed to mock at all that the government had done for conservation. He said, the government will build you the dams, the government will do everything except wipe the dishes. A very unworthy kind of remark. At Seattle, Stevenson, shortly thereafter, made a much better speech, justifying, as one can, the very sound performance of government in terms of conservation. But at Portland, on the same day in which Mr. Stevenson defended conservation and the rest, he expressly disclaimed support of TVA. He didn't know how that would apply in the Columbia Valley. Now, I have been out there more than once, and when you disclaim TVA out there, it's because you're standing for private interest, pretty much, of one sort or another. It's not because you want to improve this detail or that. I also can think of things that should be done to TVA. I believe in direct representation of consumers and workers on the board. But that was what Stevenson said. I sent him an open letter urging him to clarify his stand because it is a matter of importance, I said. I said it to him through a friend who works in his headquarters. I got back word that Stevenson liked TVA. And when he's been in the South where TVA is popular, even among conservative Democrats, he said good words for TVA. But he has not outlined a program for River Valley development. In the same way, he has outlined several other policies that he's looking toward the future. He has, however, given us a general picture of where he stands. That is about as good as you could expect for a man who is not a democratic socialist. I speak objectively. Ann Stevenson has refrained from the nonsensical line of speech so dear to the heart of Robert A. Taft, you know, about the issue is socialism versus liberty, on which Mr. Taft is ill informed on both scores. Now, in foreign affairs, Mr. Stanton said perhaps it's been under a necessity to mostly to justify the administration. He has not given us a very clear idea of what he would do on foreign affairs except to continue the present policy and to hope for the best. At this point, I confess to you that I am a man obsessed. I believe that unless within the next 20 or 30 years the world in its own self-interest, even including the communist parts of it, realize that we have to carry on conflict on other terms than atomic and hydrogen bomb war, we're lost. war, we're lost. Therefore, I think the one great necessity is to drive for universal control disarmament under a strengthened united nations, not unilateral disarmament. Mind you. furthermore, I speak with some knowledge because I have been, I was twice in Asia in less than 16 months. I speak with some knowledge when I tell you that even although Stalin probably would not agree to the necessary controls for universal disarmament, promptly, if we were crusading dramatically and imaginatively for the imagination of a great many people as the friend of peace and I regret profoundly that neither Stevenson nor Eisenhower has given any indication of a crusade at this point, although both their platforms give kind of lukewarm credit to the idea of disarmament. I have spoken about the presidential candidate. I have also reminded you you are voting for congressman. You will have to take some trouble to find out where the candidates stand. It isn't enough to know that this man is a Republican or this man is a Democrat. In New York, you may get some further light on it by whether or not the liberals have endorsed him, but that isn't even an infallible test. You will have to judge your parties and all your men, not merely by what they say, but by their past records, by their consistency, by their attitude. There is a tendency under the American scheme of things to make words come as near together as possible. There is a tendency to obscure issues rather than the opposite. We want more clarity. I have written only today for some of my papers. The column in which I urge that the one thing that now might give us more light on where the candidates stand would be a series of debate in the great Lincoln Douglas tradition. You can't evade on a dignified debate or series of such debates which could be carried by radio and by television. If we could have that, we know what we will not know because we have come to a time in the campaign when despite the excellence of Stevenson's speeches, despite his straightforwardness as politicians go, despite all that, you are obfuscating issues. You're obscuring them in a fog of words, endlessly repeated. What the campaign has now become is a kind of an endurance race. It is a kind of marathon of miles and words. And at least there's this to be said, whoever can survive it probably will survive four years in the White House. It's not the way for us to get enlightened. And one last remark, when this campaign is over, if only we can bring ourselves to pay attention, we've got to think very soberly about our machinery, our machinery of politics. It's a very serious business that we spend one year out of four politicking so heavily. It's serious in terms of what foreigners think. It's serious in terms of a near paralysis of our policy in Washington on great issues. The election is coming. It's serious because any congressman is likely to say anything anytime. It is serious that this campaign is going to cost $85 million. And while I do not believe that the people who contribute in large sums to the campaign will actually and obviously control, it is an obvious fact that the man who contributes a great deal has a special claim on the party. How are we going to organize that? How are we going to do it? And finally, how are we going to get that realistic but principle of realignment on which the future of democracy depends? Coalitions, that is to say, the coming together of groups who don't quite agree, that is necessary under our scheme of things. That's necessary in a democracy. But even coalitions to have meaning must be held together by principles far simpler and far deeper than hold together the Republican and Democratic parties at this time. government. Never did I think it more necessary to work for this real life. Never did I think it more necessary to educate all of us, the people, on issues. But when all is said and done, I do not hold candidates guilty above all others. Some of the most, some of the least admirable things that campaigners do are done because they believe and their advisors believe that the people like it. I have said a thousand times, I'll say it for the thousandth and first time, when all is said and done, the worst fault of our congressmen is that they're so representative. And that's the case for a job that hasn't been done. Thank you. Thank you very much for that stimulating talk. And as usual, here at the Cooper Union, we have many $64 questions. If you would be so kindly as to take that other microphone over there, we'll get started with these. I see they run every place from how wonderful you are to what is wrong with the Republican Party. Just to get started here, Mr. Thomas, seeing things as they are is fine. But what about ideals? Can we work without them? Would you please discuss the problem of ideals and politics today? Well, there's a very ancient text that without vision, the people perish, and that's perfectly true. You do have to have some kind of ideals. And these dark hours, it ought to be quite possible to have ideals. With all our imperfections, we thank God for democracy. And it's our business to make it better. The great ideal that ought to animate all men socially is to make steady progress toward the only kind of society that will ever be a utopia. And that society can be simply described as a fellowship of free men. A fellowship of free men, not an enforced unity of robbers or slaves. A fellowship, but a fellowship of men who are free. And these free men ought to be able to use the marvelous powers we have and are on the verge of increasing for the everlasting conquest of poverty. It's one of the greatest ideals that could ever be set before us to work for. And that ought to animate it. It's mighty hard sometimes to know how to progress toward these ideals. It's mighty hard to live in a world where order requires at times compromise between conflicting notions. Nevertheless, there is that great ideal to set before us. You can put it this way, the very things that make another war so incredibly, so horribly dangerous would make life in time a much better thing than we have known. And it's up to us to choose. We can't do it all by ourselves. But we can give better leadership to the world than we have given. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Here's Mr. Charles Schaefer. Mr. Charles Schaefer has been here about as long since the first time that you have spoken here, Mr. Thomas. I think he probably asked you a question that time whenever Dean Martin was here. what is your opinion from the news brand? Good times, high-level business that go with war help the party in power. We have 62 million people working. Don't you think it's in the bag for Stevenson with these facts? No, I'm sorry to say I don't. The question, did you all hear it? 62 million people working. Is that in the bag for Stevenson? No. And I'm going to take, with the permission of the chairman, a little more time than I might in answering this question to expand something that I left out at first. And I'll tell you a secret why. From where I stand, I couldn't see that clock. And I thought I'd talk too long, and I looked at my watch, and I saw that wrong. I'm getting old, you know, and I saw it wrong. So I kind of cut out what I was, now I'm going to put it in. We live in a very curious time. We live where we do have prosperity, but we have kind of got used to it in a way. And we aren't as afraid as we used to be that the Republicans would take it from us. I think maybe we're too confident. Did any of you see the United States News and World Report, which had an extraordinary article entitled, How to End Socialism? And how to end socialism, and it said Charles E. Wilson favored it, was to sell all the dams and plants in the post office to private investors. They'd run it for us. I think next they'd sell the army and have that run by DuPonts or General Motors. And it seriously said, this article, that if the Republicans got power, this might be brought up. So I'm not sure that the confidence that, well, the Republicans won't do too much to us is well taken. Nevertheless, we're in this situation. We have got employment, but we're worried about the future. And we are worried, and reasonably worried, in part about the mess of things. I'm using the word that's got bandied about in the campaign, but it's true there's a sort of a mess. We hate that Korean war, even if we think it's necessary. We are afraid of inflation. We don't like the corruption that unquestionably has been uncovered in office. Now, if we disliked those things and had a positive program for changing it, it would be good. But last winter, I was traveling a good deal, as I commonly do, around the Middle West, and I was speaking in many forums. Usually they're the better places. I came back very discouraged. In my rather long experience, I never saw such negativism as I thought I saw in the Middle West. Just a general irritation of, as they say in Spanish, to hell with it, you know, was the kind of the attitude. No real constructive program. They can cut that out of the recording tape. It's a kind of negative attitude that in Europe produced fascism. It's a kind of negative attitude that very largely is responsible for McCarthyism already. in America. Now, I am afraid, especially since the McCarthy victory in Wisconsin, that a great many million people will vote that negativism. Never mind if they've got jobs this year. They're worried about inflation and not too worried about losing the jobs. That's why we got the arms economy. On the other hand, I think there's a good chance that a great many people who now are irritated, when they begin to walk into that booth, will begin to remember, well, can I, after all, take a chance? I would expect a very considerable shift at the last moment. I say that partly because of my own limited experience. You'd be surprised how many people have told me, Mr. Thomas, we thought we'd vote for you, but we got there and we began to think, what if that man would get in? So they voted, you know. Not me. All right. Thank you. You've been a patient, gentlemen. Mr. Thomas, what specific proposals can you make towards a more responsible party government? A more responsible party government would first require you to have responsible parties. It would be a first step to it if the solid South should be broken. If Eisenhower wins, but wins after breaking the solid South, really breaking it, there'll be a big compensation. When Southerners begin to vote like other people and not solidly democratic, we will have taken the first step toward getting a situation in which parties can be realigned. I would like to see the rise of a strong new party. That doesn't seem to be on the immediate horizon. It is possible that one of the old parties will be somewhat transformed, especially if the solid South is broken, as I hope that it may be. Not because I like the Republicans, but because I would rather people voted Republican than voted Democrat when they're really in sympathy with the reactionary Republicans. After that, there are a good many things that could be done about parties to increase party responsibility. You could have chairman of committees chosen not by seniority, but by a party caucus of the party that's in power on the basis of their responsiveness to the party program. You could have a liaison committee which would meet regularly with the president to discuss policies, liaison of his own party. You could have frequent conferences, much as parliamentary parties do in England, on the major issues. It would be possible to work out a better and more responsible system. It isn't possible, though, until the people themselves really desire it. Now we're pretty content most of the time. We kind of like to have something to kick. The politician, you know, it saves us a trouble of thinking. We can blame him. All right. So thank you. Mr. Thomas, how would you go about affecting a realignment of the two major parties? Well, I wouldn't. I'd rather go about building a new party that would force the two parties to get together. And I've tried that for God knows how many years and it hasn't happened. Now I'm an elder statesman, so some of you can do it. An elder statesman, somebody who didn't get elected. All right, sir. What do you think could be done about taxation and inflation? Now, of course, that's a two-minute question. You can't do much about inflation that isn't being done until there's a very different attitude by the people. You could take this audience, a high-class audience, or they wouldn't be here. And you would find that we're all against inflation, but we're all in favor of more wages and more salary where we work and more profits for the little business we run. It's absolutely necessary. Now, that being so, it's a practical impossibility really to control prices and wages. You can do more or less at it. The controls that would be the most satisfactory would be to return to a normal economy. A normal economy, even short of perfection, has some semi-automatic controls of inflation. But when you take 18% of the national product, which is what we're now doing, and divert it into arms, without any economic rules to guide us, just a political decision, you take 18% at least of all men's labor and of all our natural resources, you put them in this sort of thing. You pay people for building these arms. They buy consumers' goods, and of course the buying power is so great that the somewhat limited supply of consumers' goods goes up. Credit policies of the government also help. Under halfway normal times, you could prevent inflation. By fiscal policies, by adequate production, by the lack of the diversion into the uneconomic war measures. Without controls in themselves, these price controls are not good. They are merely better than what you might have otherwise. On taxes, you've got to pay for it. There's no way out. And I am very worried on taxes that what's going to happen is that we'll get that millionaire's amendment. You know the amendment I mean. That puts a 25% limit in peacetime on federal income taxes. According to the Gallup poll, almost 70% of the workers believe that would be a good amendment. And yet, and yet, that amendment would mean that the rest of us who aren't in a category which pays 25% would have to pay more income taxes, or terrifically heavy sales taxes, or else we'd have to go without a great many things we need. Yet so weak is our thinking on this, that almost enough states have endorsed the millionaire's amendment to make it compulsory to call a constitutional convention on the subject. Neither Eisenhower nor Stevenson has mentioned that, by the way. If I had been running, I would have mentioned it. Without running, I've mentioned it. Several times. All right, Mr. Thomas, you have been very fine answering all these questions. I want to thank you again for coming down here. Ladies and gentlemen. A.