Mr. Chairman, Your Excellencies, Mr. Mayor, my Lords, Ladies and Gentlemen. It is with particular pleasure and, as I say, a motion that I speak to you today through such a distinguished and representative gathering in this great city. Here in London, I spent five years at the Cabinet of Norway whose king and government were so hostitably welcomed than our homeland suffered under a brutal occupation. During those years, I was privileged to form warm, enduring friendships with many leaders of government and men and women from all parties and all ranks of life. Here in London, the preparatory labors for the creation of the United Nations organization were undertaken. And here in London, at the first United Nations General Assembly, I assumed my present office of Secretary General. I need hardly recall to you the brave hope for unity and progress with which all of us face the future in those days of war and victory. Nor need I rehearse the decline in mutual confidence, the mounting cycle of suspicion, frustration, and tension which have dominated the successive years. The charter of the United Nations was the embodiment of the hopes of mankind, emerging from bitter struggle, whatever it's called in detail. It represented a qualitative statement of universal aspiration for peace, security, and a better life, and it set up the practical means for their achievement. It has often been said that the charter promised too much. Certainly, it didn't promise an impossible utopia. Its objectives are those which must be at the heart of any attempt to build a world order. Its machinery and mechanisms are adapted to operating in the real world which now exists, not in some idealistic future. The tensions and conflicts of recent years have seriously hampered the operations of the United Nations and frustrated some of its major projects. had there been continued unity among the great powers the fate of such issues as international control of atomic energy, progressive disarmament, and the raising of international economic and social standards would have been vastly different today. The international storm which has prevented the fruition of these endeavors have, however, not damaged the essential fabric of the charter nor blocked the continued efforts of the United Nations to move forward towards its objectives. The United Nations has been involved in most of the international crisis on the globe since the end of the war. Sometimes its influence has been strong, in some cases even decisive. In other cases, it has at least served as a forum in which the parties should state their positions and to which world public opinion could be informed. The issues of the East-West conflict have remained as intractable to settlement to the United Nations procedures as they have to the procedures of traditional diplomatism. Yet no social person can deny that the existence of the United Nations has exercised a moderating influence in these most difficult of all problems. And if our situation would be worse, I may say much worse, had the United Nations not been established. Thank you. The charter brought into being both a system for accepting disputes by peaceful means and a collective security system. Its basic objective is the preservation of peace. By conciliation, if at all possible, by force, if necessary. Today, June the 25th, is the anniversary of the first application of this letter, principle. The attack by the North Koreans two years ago today was as clear a case of aggression as any in history. Let there be no confusion about the record. The United Nations Korean Commission, an impartial body representing seven states, knew defects from first-hand observation and reported them fully. It never glossed over the shortcomings which it found in South Korea, but to suggest, as some have done, that the North Koreans were justified in launching an armed attack across the frontier drawn by international agreement because of the alleged thoughts of their neighbors to the south with the tentament to condoning any aggression and returning us all to the rule of the jungle. The Security Council met its responsibility with extraordinary promptness. With full regard for its primary duty to peace, it called for an immediate ceasefire. The call was completely ignored by the North Koreans. The Council's subsequent finding of aggression and its call to the members of the organization to assist in repelling the attack were based upon the facts of the situation and were fully in accord with the law or the charter. Fifty-three member nations freely offered their moral support to the Council. Sixteen nations have sent armed forces and several others have sent hospital units to join with the forces of the United States of America and the Republic of Korea, which have borne the major share of the fighting. The valor and distinction of the British and Commonwealth forces in Korea have been a particular source of gratification to all believers in peace and freedom. The sacrifices of these men have been great and the proportionate casualties heavy. But at least we can all recognize that these young lives have been lost in a noble cause and that if your soldiers have not been ready with orders to sacrifice themselves, the lives of countless other young men would have been endangered. Every now and then I hear someone say that the Korean War is not popular. The inability of the negotiators to reach agreement in all this time is most disheartening. Yet the negotiations must go on despite all discouragement. No nation associated with the United Nations effort seeks any territorial aggrandizement or special advantage. The aim of the United Nations in these negotiations is an end to hostilities that they breed upon ceasefire lines and an armistice protected by reasonable and decent provisions. The conclusion of an armistice will mean primarily an indication of the principle of collective security to defend aggression. The problem of a free, unified and independent Korea will still be with us. Beyond that loom the larger problems of the Far East. It should be apparent to those governments which have it within their power to influence the course of the armistice negotiations that no real progress can be made on these larger problems and indeed on the issues which divide the world in Europe as well as in Asia until the present hostilities are brought to an end. The continuation of the Korean War is the prime obstacle to a renewed effort towards global settlement. Let that war be brought to an end and the strife-torn world will have a real chance for a fresh start. However, the political issues of our time may be resolved. We shall be faced with a continuing problem of collective security. The charges have fought the universal system under which the Security Council would have available to it armed forces furnished by member states and a supplementary system permitting regional arrangements and the exercise of the right of collective self-defense. The institution of universal or the universal system has been blocked by the failure of agreement among the great powers and we have not unnaturally seen the expansion of the regional and self-defense systems particularly in the North Atlantic area. At the same time, the General Assembly under the Uniting for Peace resolution has laid down the outlines of an approach to a new universal collective security system. With full recognition of the present necessity for strong regional-type organization, I believe firmly that a sound universal security system must be developed. international security is and will remain a global problem. It cannot indefinitely be broken up into geographical fragments. The United Nations Collective Measures Committee has laid down some valuable guiding lines. Those member governments which belong to existing regional bilateral and self-defense arrangements should consider the best means for mutual support between these arrangements and the United Nations system. The salient objective of all of us must be a firm bulwark against aggression wherever it may occur. The magnitude of the East-West conflict must not blind us to other world problems. Foremost among these is the insistent and rising demand for political and economic freedom by the hundreds of millions who live in underdeveloped areas of the earth. The leaders of this country have shown, I think, great wisdom in meeting this demand. India, Pakistan, Burma and Ceylon are now independent nations. Colonial areas in Africa are entering a new era of development. The United Nations is proud to be called upon to play an important role in the economic advancement of underdeveloped countries through its program of technical assistance. The United Kingdom and its associates in the Commonwealth have strongly supported this program as well as the parallel Colombo plan. We are learning more and more that technical assistance is only a beginning and that it will have to be followed by capital investments to develop adequately the great potential of these areas. The requirements of armaments have delayed any large-scale international development program for the time being. At the first favorable opportunity, the developed nations should bend their efforts to help narrow the appalling gap between their standard of living and that of the majority of the human race. The General Assembly, the Prestige of Council and all the United Nations organs are the common meeting ground of the emerging nations of Asia and Africa with a more stable and developed nation. Inevitably, friction and conflict accompany historic movement towards self-government. Impatience and rashness are to be expected. The peoples aspiring to independence in turn to understand the necessity for internal stability and justice and for largely international cooperation under the principles of the Charter. The older nations have before them the opportunity to assist the movement through orderly channels. the United Nations way is the main road to a sound fulfillment of national aspirations without turmoil and bloodshed. The world is now piling up weapons of destruction at a staggering and accelerating rate. Each of the contestants in the race insists that its policy is directed towards maintaining peace. the armament for defense can restore the balance of forces and erect a temporary die against aggressive tendencies. But peace can never be made secure by arms alone. The time will soon be approaching when the armament race must be shaped if it is not to destroy national economies. we cannot rely on sheer exhaustion to bring the race to a halt. It requires a concerted effort at regulation and progressive reduction. At this moment the debate in the disarmament commission of the United Nations seems to hold out little hope of success. But it is the duty of every nation to persevere in this effort and not to permit frustration to end all hope. We have learned in these six years past that the building of peace is a much more obvious task than many had supposed. There is no single formula nor single instrumentality which will assuredly avert the ultimate catastrophe of another war. But in the last analysis it will be impossible to bring about the peaceful and orderly world except through the use of an organization of universal scope competent to deal with a whole range of international problems. I do not believe that the United Nations alone can bring an enduring peace. but I believe most firmly that enduring peace cannot be achieved without the United Nations. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, may I add that I am particularly pleased and happy to be the guest here today of such two distinguished groups. it has been reported to me that the British United Nations Association is the most efficient of its kind in the world. I know from experience that the Foreign Pressure Association in London has a similar standing. Both organizations are helping people to understand that the strong weapons for peace are knowledge and principle bound together and you are serving both. Finally, as Secretary General of the United Nations, on this day, the second anniversary, it's quite met to read of my thoughts and my thanks go to the many hundred thousand young and brave men in Korea. The United Nations forces still defending and still fighting for world peace, the peace with freedom and democracy with it and with it in the United Nations Charter. Thank you. Good before me. Thank you. Good before me. Thank you. Again, after him, I worked and decided I worked in with it and then Jude was I was a king and I could Harvey have all myалось and I saw him and he iets