We're back at the advertising club, and at this moment, Captain William M. McGuire is about to present the scroll for distinguished service to Captain Henry Kirk Cawson. So we turn our microphones over to Captain William M. McGuire. Honored guests, ladies, I know there's ladies listening to this. I got some word about it. And gentlemen, and I want to also say Commissioner Cavanaugh, who is my boss and a grand man. It is a great pleasure for me to be here today. It is my honor to greet Captain Cawson for his wonderful job on behalf of the Council of American Shipmasters, men who have, like Captain Cawson, distinguished themselves. Among his membership is Commodore Manning and Captain George Freed, who is not with us today, as you know. These men have also come up Broadway, and the membership consists of such distinguished men. It is my pleasure there to be here to represent the Council and to also question who that man was that said there that the days of wooden ships and iron men had passed. I think we ought to find out who he was, because that day hasn't passed. Captain Cawson can testify to that, or you people to Captain Cawson. At this time, I want to, I know you're all in a hurry. I'm not going to go into any sort of speeches. I want to present this scroll to Captain Cawson. I'll read it as rapidly as possible. It's a citation for exceptionally meritorious service to Captain Hendrick Curt Carlson. Whereas Captain Carlson displayed a quality of courage of the highest order and degree in saving the lives of his passengers and crewmen when the ill-fated flying enterprise under his command was torn asunder by the tempestuous sea, which has always been one of the symbols of an inexorable fate, and against it has been pitted the will and the ingenuity of a great seaman and shipmate. Whereas Captain Carlson's courageous and heroic deeds in trying to save his vessel from the perils of the sea was in accordance with the highest traditions of the sea. Whereas Captain Hendrick Carlson's saga remains a triumphant one because he continued to do his duty long after the world would have approved his abandoning it and whereby he gained glory in apparent failure. Whereas the Council of American Master Mariners is organized and dedicated to render a patriotic service by voicing as a need arises the opinions of experienced master mariners concerning professional subjects pertaining to the American merchant marine and to enhance the righteous prestige of the American master mariners, be it resolved that the Council of American Master Mariners hereby bestows this citation for exceptionally meritorious service to Captain Carlson for his unflinching devotion to duty in upholding the true tradition of the sea, in standing by his vessel until the bitter end in a self-sacrificing and glorious endeavor to save it from the perils of the sea, and whereby his endeavor to save it from the perils of the sea, and whereby his gallantry reflects great credit in behalf of the American merchant marine and with great honor as master mariner. Captain Carlson, as I said before, it's my honor there to present this to you, and it's my pleasure in giving it to you, knowing full well that you are a seaman, an officer, and a gentleman, and you have brought to the American merchant marine that which it needs. Captain Carlson. Ladies and gentlemen, what you've been listening to is the presentation of the scroll for distinguished service to Captain Henry Kirk Carlson by Captain William M. McGuire here at the Advertising Club of New York. We brought you quickly up to the Advertising Club, and we didn't want you to miss the presentation of the scroll, and so we broke right in without any further introduction. Now, the scroll has been accepted by Captain Carlson, and here is Grover A. Whelan to continue with the balance of the meeting here at the luncheon in honor of Captain Kurt Carlson. And we turn our microphones over to Mr. Whelan. We take out of order the presentations, and I'd like to have the president of the Advertising Club of New York, George S. McMillan, to present the bronze plaque of achievement of the Advertising Club of New York. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Whelan, fellow members and guests of the Advertising Club of New York. The Advertising Club is honored today to add its own tribute to the worldwide acclaim now being extended to this great hero, Captain Henry Kirk Carlson. I'd like to digress just for a moment. It seems to me that this is America. This at the head table. The mayor of New York, who isn't here, ancestors came from Italy. Grover Whelan and some of the others, I'm sure, ancestors came from Ireland. Mine came from Scotland. There are in the audience and at the head table. Men whose ancestors came from Germany, from Poland, from every country of the world, came here to America, and that is what makes America. I think it is a personification of America, and to this, of course, we add Denmark. Since the early dawn of civilization, those first days when men started to go down to the sea in ships, there have been many examples of heroism, of bravery, of unquestioned devotion to duty, devotion to duty which seems to be one of the facets of seafaring men. And I speak as a non-seafaring man, I was never invited even to sit at a captain's table. I sit near the door on all the cruises I've been on. Another great chapter has been added to the stirring saga of the sea, the startling story of Captain Cross. Wherever history is related, wherever stories of one example of heroism are told, the name and the deeds of this great American will always be remembered. Of a special significance today is the lesson behind this bravery. For six days, he's faced these perils alone, alone with his ship, alone with his ideals of duty, alone in the supreme dignity of man, alone with his God. He thus gives this Christian world an extra inspiration in challenging those arrogant barbarian countries that are casting out the idea of God and submerging the ideals and the dignity of man. Therefore, the advertising of Club of New York is proud and happy today to present to Captain Henry Kirk Carlson the highest honor in our power, the bronze plaque of achievement, Captain Carlson Hartley-Lick-Inkling. While the bulbs of the press photographers clash, the presentation is made to Captain Carlson, who is now accepting it. Incidentally, the captain is wearing around his neck a red ribbon, which is attached to the Medal of Honor of the City of New York, which makes him a very colorful figure indeed. For those of you who may not have seen him, and I think there are probably many who haven't met him who were not present, and if television did cover the ceremonies of the arrival, perhaps you missed that too. Captain Carlson is rather a slight man, dark, dark-haired, and certainly not a towering figure, as you might imagine, from his exploits. He is being congratulated by a number of men, and David Terry is gathered at the head table here at the Advertising Club of New York. He's posing, holding the bronze plaque. I can't see it very well from here. If I could, I'd like to describe it to you. The president of the Advertising Club is holding one side of the plaque, Captain Carlson the other, and they're posing, and I hear some photographers making some rather interesting comments in the background. There's a bustle of activity, as you may be able to hear, and now here is Grover Whelan again to continue with the remainder of the luncheon and the ceremonies. Mr. Whelan. I might tell you now, Mr. Whelan has approached our microphone, and he's very slowly opening a box, a very colorful little box, and I can't imagine, but there must be another award within that box, which Mr. Whelan is going to speak about. We're awaiting the signal to give the microphone over to Mr. Whelan, who will explain, we hope, what this box is in his hand. At the moment, there's a great deal of confusion because the intense interest that has been aroused by the exports of Captain Carlson, of course, has brought representatives of all papers and the press to this room at the Advertising Club of New York. A great deal of commotion involving the flashing of bulbs, the directions to pose by the photographers to Mr. Carlson, Captain Carlson, rather. Now the captain has seated himself again. And here is Mr. Whelan. One more interruption. The applause you hear is not for Captain Carlson, but his wife, Mrs. Carlson, who has come forward and has come up to the head table and is now being greeted by Mr. Whelan. Now here again, Mr. Whelan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You know, I told you that we put all the presentations together and here's one that comes from a public-spirited citizen He states, I would like to ask if you, in connection with the reception New York City is giving to Captain Kirk Carlson, would present this solid gold wristwatch which bears the inscription to a great American, Captain Kirk Carlson, for upholding the highest tradition of the sea. The gentleman who presents this comes from Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Not a New Yorker, Captain. And I'm very glad on behalf of John F. Groff to present this... At the moment, Grover Whelan has turned away from the microphone. Captain just tells me that when he was at Lloyd's in England, he was showered with presentations and presents and he asked to be excused from now and he asked also to be excused from accepting this one. So we shall return it to this very fine citizen of Pennsylvania with the feeling that the Captain made a principle or made a statement in connection with accepting gifts. I'm sorry that... Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. an interested and large state in the merchant marine, it becomes a real honor and a pleasure to say a few words on such a significant occasion. The symbol that is personified in the action of Captain Carlson is one that will be written in golden letters in the annals of the sea. But if that symbol just means to us almost two weeks of torture and cruelty and suffering during the long vigil to this valiant man, it is not enough. So necessarily, the symbol means much more than that to us. It means the tradition and all that the merchant marine stands for. Well, I think it was back in about the year 1819, a little vessel called the Savannah sailed out of Savannah, Georgia, to cross the Atlantic. And that date was the first successful crossing of the Atlantic Ocean by a merchant steam vessel. It's now, my mind's working quickly enough, about 135 years, 133 years since that date, and this nation has come a long way. It has seen the destruction and the deterioration of nations and empires all over the face of the earth. Many new forms of transportation have come to us through their handiwork of science and technical achievement. But even as of this date, the ships of our merchant fleet and our merchant marine are the vital bulwarks of the security of this country. It's only several days ago that Captain Carlson was standing on the bridge of the glorious vessel Flying Enterprise. That vessel flew the American flag. It carried a cargo that was both the symbol and some real part of the wealth of this country. We all know from Captain Carlson's lone vigil on that ship as it was being buffeted and tormented by the angry North Atlantic, that certain outstanding characteristics are his. That is known not alone to us, but it is known to all the world at this time. I won't try to kill the lily by embellishing upon the exploit of Captain Carlson or his characteristics, but I think it is pertinent to say that his action has been in the highest tradition of the sea. His extraordinary service and his devotion to duty have been typical of the merchant marine that has been the strength of this country for more than 150 years. It has brought a new emphasis, a new meaning to the sea, to the men who go to sea, to our foreign commerce, and to the merchant marine. And that in itself means a great deal to this nation today. I want to be brief, so in conclusion, I join with the mayor and Admiral Badger and the millions of other New Yorkers who today salute you, Captain Carlson. and I join with all of you in the confident hope that before very long this exploit, this valiant and courageous exploit of Captain Carlson's and all that it stands for will bear fruit and we'll be able to feel a continuing security in the men who go to sea and the ships they sail and that eventually, in the not-too-distant future, those ships and those men will take their rightful place and the influencing factor that's going to bring about world peace. Thank you very much. When I was president of the club, my predecessor always used to speak in the language of the origin of the guest of honor. Today, this same gentleman will speak in Danish as badly as he spoke in all other languages. the Honorable Charles F. Murphy. That's a typical whaling trick, isn't it? He could have told me this last night. Captain Carlson, Mrs. Carlson, the invention in and I'm personally from the club. I dare any of you Scandinavians to match that one. You know, Captain, you and I have a lot in common. Your homecoming today to this great city reminds me of when I returned from winning the First World War in 1918. There's one significant difference, that you got off the ship practically alone. I looked back and there was the whole 42nd Division in back of me. But, as usual, Grover Whalen was there to meet me as he met my father when he returned from the Civil War. Captain, I know how you felt when you said in England that you looked forward with almost terror to this reception which you received. I did, too. In fact, several of our national heroes in the heroine heroines have looked forward with trepidation to the return and meeting Grover Whalen. Gertrude Ederley told me that when she got right in the middle of the channel and she was changing from the Australian crawl to a backstroke as she turned over she thought how am I ever going to greet Grover with a hug or a kiss? And as he has always done with all women Grover tended to that one. Yes, that was close. Even Lindbergh told me that as he approached the coast of France that he looked forward with trepidation to meeting this great reception in Mr. Whalen. Admiral Byrd said when he was in his famous igloo on the South Pole in the Antarctic that he was about to stay another six months but he remembered he had a date with Grover and he closed up the expedition. If I only had time I could have prepared something. But Captain you and your wife and family must be very proud today. And as a captain of the old foot troops from overseas in another war I greet you a solution. Well you see what artists we have on the Supreme Court don't you? He should never have left the advertising club. He should have stayed as the perpetual president of this great institution. The we're going to ask our guest of honor now to respond to the tribute that you have paid him and the presentations that have been made by Captain Carlson. Mr. Raymond Mr. Raymond and all the honored guests that are present here I cannot say what really is going on inside me and I know that all of you will excuse me. It has been a tremendous experience for me and all I can say to you please accept simple Siemens simple thank you for everything. Thank you. an addiction will be pronounced by Rabbi Alexander J. Bernstein Chaplain of the Department of Marine Aviation. Would you all kindly rise let us bow our heads in prayer Almighty Father we invoke thy benediction upon this assemblage of men and women who have come to honor and pay tribute to a man who alone and single handed and heroically with rare patience and devotion wage the stirring battle with the surging sea the perils of the waves and the dangers of the tempest O Lord Eternal whose majesty speaks in the starry heavens above and the moral law within we thank thee for the safe return of thy humble servant Captain Carlson and the good and brave of every age who labor faithfully and continually to serve the common good under the danger of death that others may be protected warmed and comforted we remember those who are ready to lay down their lives on land and in sea and on the sea and in the air in the performance of their tasks and their duties for the preservation of our peace and the provision of our needs O author of all life and all good we thank thee unfailingly for those heroic and dedicated men and women in every age whose courage and chivalry like the streams of water in a dry place and help to keep the spirit of fortitude in heroism a glow in human hearts and in the human imagination make example of dauntless courage and steadfast loyalty to duty manifested by thy servant captain Henry Kirk Carlson awaken us we pray thee our loyalty to our own responsibilities which we face in these difficult days the urgency of our own great responsibilities and inspire us to live more worthily and valiantly give us life that you may see thy will amid all the tangled issues of our times and courage so that having perceived it we may be bold and persevering and fulfilling it suffer us not to forget the discipline of the lives which thou has given to us and which we live one by one deliver us to betray thee from being little men in large places or false men in high places that strengthened by thy spirit we may serve thee in our beloved land the United States of America unselfishly give generously and live nobly that faith loyalty and freedom may not perish from the earth may this be thy will now and evermore amen you have heard the benediction by Rabbi Alexander J. Bernstein which includes the tribute that has been given to Captain Henrik Kurt Carlson we'd like to mention that while Mayor Vincent R. Impeletary was here at the early part of the luncheon it was unfortunate that the mayor had to attend to the press of business and duties since the board of estimate had a scheduled meeting at 2.30 and he offered his apologies to the guests and to Captain Carlson for not being able to remain here any longer the mayor pointed out that yesterday plans had been made and there was going to be a complete day off for all those involved with the greeting to Captain Carlson but since the elements had to revise those plans they could not postpone the meeting of the board of estimate for today which was due to meet at 2.30 and so the president with his apologies took leave of the luncheon gathering some of the other people who spoke in tribute to the guest of honor Captain Carlson were the Captain William M. McGuire who presented the scroll for distinguished service and Captain McGuire is the president of the council of the of American Master Mariners an address was delivered by Edward F. Cavanaugh Jr. the commissioner of the Department of Marine and Aviation of the city of New York and George S. McMillan president of the Advertising Club of New York made the presentation of the bronze plaque for achievement and you also heard from Supreme Court Justice Charles Murphy former president of the Advertising Club who made some very humorous remarks about the traditional welcoming ceremonies of Grover Whelan of course Grover Whelan was the presiding chairman here at the meeting now the meeting is over the congratulations have been made Captain Carson in complete modesty made a very simple response saying to everybody here and to everybody who has participated in the acclaim thank you that is what he said and that concludes our presentation of the luncheon ceremonies at the Advertising Club of New York in honor of Captain Henry Kirk Carson we return you to our studios in the municipal building this is the municipal broadcasting system of the station in front ofazione in france and we are on this one here we are we have to make a large of the unique actually used for his orders to point to the finally we got we got to make a ordained and watch of the we got and go
