of the waterfront of the City of New York. And no doubt the speakers will bring out all the interesting details of this wonderful development and refurbishing of the waterfront, one of the busiest waterfronts anywhere in the world. And now it's our distinct privilege to present your chairman, Mr. Farrell. Thank you very much. I'm very honored on behalf of Farrell Lines to say hello to the radio audience and to welcome aboard SS African Endeavor, a very fine company, on the occasion of the opening of the first pier to be rehabilitated under Mayor O'Dwyer's a very exceptional and praiseworthy scheme to put the waterfront of the greatest port in the world in the condition it ought to be. And we're very happy to have contributed our small part. As an individual born within the borough in which this ship is now at dock, it gives me very great pleasure to introduce the Honorable John Cashmore, President of the Borough of Brooklyn. Mr. Cashmore. Thank you, Jim Farrell, distinguished guests, fellow Brooklynites. Jim Farrell just referred to the fact that he was born in Brooklyn. Today, as we cut the ribbon to open this new pier done by Jim and John Farrell, I can't help but say that's what makes Brooklyn the greatest city's greatest borough. As I came in this morning, I could see from 12 to 1,500 men with their lunch kits under their arms waiting to go to work. Then we walked in, we cut a ribbon. What did we see? We saw the second longest pier, 1,675 feet in length. That pier, just 1946, was sinking into the water. The roof of that pier was no longer there. The side walls were broken down. And here today, as you entered on the left-hand side, you saw a great waiting room done in modernistic style. And you saw the great pier with over 6,000 tons waiting to be shipped to all parts of the world. And I'm told that from this very pier, they can ship at least 600 automobiles a day. How was this brought about? I served in other administrations, and I've served for three and a half years under Mayor O'Dwyer and his administration. When you serve in the Board of Estimates, you have many problems. You need schools. You need housing. You need hospitals. You've got a welfare problem. You've got a housing problem. Everything comes first. And still and all, the piers of the city of New York are the heart and the lifeblood of the people who earn a livelihood. So a man by the name of Joe Manetti, the commissioner of marine and aviation, came into the Board of Estimate one day with Mayor O'Dwyer. They had a new idea. We could rehabilitate piers that hadn't been touched for 15 or 20 years, and the city would not have to invest the dollar. In fact, we didn't have those dollars to invest. So they brought in these two great Booker Knights, the Farrell brothers, as the first experiment. And the Farrell brothers were willing to advance between $750,000 to $1 million to rehabilitate that pier with their own money, providing they could have a lease, and at the same time, they would be willing to have deducted from their rent the money that they had spent and were willing to have all the supervision of that spended money in the controller's office and okayed and approved by him and by the Commissioner of Marine and Aviation. That's why today, as I say to you, fellow Brooklynites, right here, we have five piers right in this locality, the five great piers of the Borough of Brooklyn. This is the first one that's been completed. And right down in Atlantic Avenue, just a mile and a half from here, you're going to see another $6 million pier built in less than two years. And then we'll have a 39th Street pier. I can't give you the exact time, but that will be another great pier. Now, what does this mean? It could have been done in 1939. It could have been done in 1938. But we were interested in something else. Airports. Airports are important. But at the same time, our people have to work. They have to live. Mayor O'Dwyer, and his entire family have had the courage to bring this new idea into being, showing where capital and the city administration can work together. And so I want to say this to you, Jim and John Farrell, on behalf of the 3 million people, and for the people that you're going to give employment to, you've done a great job. I hope God gives you the health to carry on the work that you're doing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Borough President Cashmore. I feel a little bit of loss to reply directly to you because some of the things you said were very dear to our heart. My brother and I appreciate it very deeply. We had hoped that this occasion would be graced by the presence of the great and very honorable mayor of the city of New York, Mr. William O'Dwyer. But force of circumstance, a problem within the Board of Estimate, which at the moment he's working out, has prevented his attendance. But he's very ably and very agreeably represented by the deputy mayor of this great city. I have a distinct honor and pleasure in introducing to you Mr. John Bennett, Deputy Mayor of the City of New York. Mr. Bennett. James Farrell, Mr. John Farrell, Mr. Borough President Cashmore, Commissioner Minetti, distinguished guests, and friends. I'm sure I need not tell you how anxious the mayor was to be with you on this very auspicious occasion today. I'm sure, too, that I need not explain to you that in the busy life of the mayor of the city of New York that matters arise from time to time which require his immediate attention. This is one of those days on which that has happened. A matter arose which required his immediate attention, and therefore he was unable at the last minute to do as he wanted very much to do to attend the opening of this pier, the Farrell Line Pier at the foot of 33rd Street in Brooklyn. He's asked me to come and send you his deepest regrets. At the same time, he's asked me to carry to you the Farrell Brothers his heartiest congratulations on the opening of this great pier. He's also asked me to wish you the greatest success in a very, very great undertaking. As you all know, we here in New York City are proud of our great city. We realize, of course, that its greatest asset is its great port, because through that port flows commerce and trade that makes the Port of New York preeminent in that field. And I'm sure you all know that without docks and piers, the port, while a great natural asset, would not be of great use to the country as well as the city. We must have piers and we must have docks in order to keep New York preeminence in the waterborne commerce of the world. In January 1946, when Mayor O'Dwyer came into office as mayor, the city's waterfront was in a state of shocking neglect and actually decay. Millions had been spent on LaGuardia Field in Idlewild Airport, while the port facilities had been allowed to rot away. The present administration under Mayor O'Dwyer has now planned a broad program of rehabilitation, which is underway, which will cost $58 million. Forty-six city piers have been or will soon be rehabilitated. Fourteen new terminals with the latest equipment to birth ocean liners are in the planning stage. All city-owned piers are being fireproof and equipped with the latest fire protection equipment. This equipment, which will cost about $3.5 million, will encourage shipping companies to come here and operate through reduced insurance rates. Our ferry services are being approved with a new terminal at Staten Island, being erected at the present time and which will be finished shortly. And three new ferry boats will be added to the fleet and all the others reconditioned. Now may I congratulate the Farrell brothers on this very great project, this fine pier at the foot of 33rd Street in Brooklyn, in the port of New York. They are running a line of beautiful steamships, combination passenger and freight, which will carry commerce under the American flag from here to Cape Town, Africa. I need not point out to you the importance of an American merchant marine under our own flag, carrying our own goods to all parts of the world. The Farrell brothers have had the courage to go in to this very, very necessary endeavor if we in America are to keep a preeminent place in the commerce and industry of the world. So today, on behalf of Mayor O'Dwyer and the people of the City of New York, I join in congratulating the Farrell brothers on this great enterprise to tell them that it's a great thing in the economy of the City of New York because not only does it carry American goods, but it gives employment to American seamen and employment to the men who work on the docks loading and unloading the ships. We wish you great success, Mr. Farrell, and we hope God will continue to smile upon you smile on America so that the American flag, which stands for all that is good, for freedom and for democracy, may continue to fly on merchant ships going into foreign ports carrying American goods, and may your success be great and may it be long. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Bennett. Mayor Dwyer certainly is very well and carefully intended when he selects his ordinance on an occasion like this. Thank you very much, Mr. Bennett. We've heard about the present administration's plan to rehabilitate the waterfront of this great city at a cost ultimately to the city of $58 million. This isn't a casual consideration. This isn't a careless judgment. This is a judgment and a decision which affects the livelihood of one out of every eight citizens of this great metropolis. Now in every endeavor of this kind and every enterprise of this nature, there must be a spearhead. That spearhead you're about to hear from. It gives me a distinct pleasure to introduce to you on this happy occasion Mr. Joseph Manetti, the Honorable Commissioner of Marine Aviation, Mr. Monetti. Thank you. Mr. Jim Farrell, John Farrell, Deputy Mayor John Bennett, Vice President Cashmore, Commissioner Murtaugh, members of the maritime industry. Jim and John at the outset, let me congratulate you on the splendid job that you've done here at this pier. I recall about two years ago when I had occasion to inspect the waterfront for the first time. One of the first piers which I inspected was this pier at the foot of 33rd Street in Brooklyn. I had had rumors about this pier. Someone told me that it wasn't in good condition. Others told me that this was the best cargo pier in the city of New York, and I wanted to see that pier for myself. As I went through the door, I was shocked at the conditions that I found. As I walked down the center of this pier, I found huge holes, the length of which would accommodate a modern trailer truck. Now, there just wasn't one hole down the center of this pier, but there were three and four holes. The concrete was gone. The deck itself was falling into the water. The bearing piles which support this pier were rotted. They were broken, and they were missing. As I walked along the outside of this pier, I saw that the fender system was likewise in the same condition, condition which had been brought about by years of neglect. Supporting columns within the pier itself were bent, rotted at the base, some were missing. It was a lucky thing for me that that day wasn't a bleak and a rainy day, because if it was, I would have been drenched. The roof was full of holes. It was more like a sieve than it was a roof. The sheet metal, function of which is a protect valuable cargo on a pier, was actually non-existent. The sheet metal which was on a pier was full of holes, was broken, and was rusted, but lacked paint. In fact, I found out later that this pier hadn't been painted for over a period of ten years. If I had known that this was a shedded pier, I would have thought from the conditions of the pier at that time that it was an unshedded pier. I tried to work some of the cargo doors. Those cargo doors that were on a pier. I found that they weren't working. You just couldn't close them. If they were closed, you couldn't open them. This, ladies and gentlemen, was typical of the condition which I found throughout the waterfront. The piers were in a disgraceful and shocking condition. As previous speakers have told you, the piers had been neglected. Emphasis was placed on the development of our airport. Here we have in this city properties which are worth pier properties which are worth over $200 million. Yet very little was done prior to 1946 to put these piers in the condition that they should have been in, condition which would have made it possible for the industry to use them to their maximum. This pier was built in 1910 at a cost to the city of approximately $970,000. It cost the city, or at least it cost the Farrell Brothers, during the year 1947 and 1948, over $750,000 had put this pier in the condition that it should have been in. To give you an idea of what this pier required, just let me cite some statistics. 400,000 feet of timber went into the rehabilitation of this pier. Over 600 burying piles had to be replaced. 600, those are the piles that support the pier. Over 2,200 piles had to be capped because they were rotten, and of course they couldn't lend very much support to the pier or the pier shed itself. Over 45,000 feet a fen ring had to be replaced. A new roof, new sheathing, and of course tons of concrete to replace the holes that were in the center of the deck, and a new paint job both inside and outside of this pier. Now that gives you an idea of what condition this pier was in and what a job it was to rehabilitate the pier. This pier, as you have heard from the previous speakers, was rehabilitated without any capital outlay on behalf or on the part of the city of New York. It was an idea that we had that perhaps the shipping industry would like to cooperate with the city in carrying out its program of rehabilitation in addition to the $58 million program which the city had adopted. I went to Jim Farrell and I put the proposition to him. Jim had need for this pier, but he certainly couldn't operate the pier in the condition it was in, and he knew too that the city needed funds for other projects like hospitals, schools, playgrounds, and so forth. Jim said to me, I will be willing to spend whatever it costs to rehabilitate this pier if I can get a long-term lease. Well, that was very simple, because the moment Jim said that, I put the proposition before the Board of Estimate, and the Board of Estimate accepted his proposition, with the result that this pier was completely rehabilitated without any capital outlay on behalf of the city of New York. And Jim and John, I want to congratulate you on the splendid job that you've done here. Without your support, I doubt very much whether this pier would be in the condition that it's in today, because probably by the time we reached it, it would have been another year. But with your excellent support, we were able to make progress here and put in the condition one of the most valuable cargo piers that we have in the city of New York. And incidentally, the lease that was signed with the Farrell lines was the first long-term lease that was signed under Mayor O'Dwyer's administration. And I can say to you that, Jim, as a result of your pioneering work in this field, the city has been able to interest other tenants in the rehabilitation of our peers. Today, I think that approximately five tenants have followed in your footsteps with the result that the city has available now through tenant cooperation over three and a half million dollars for peer rehabilitation, not only in Brooklyn, but in New York and Manhattan, on the East River, on the North River. The city has a program for the face lifting of its waterfront. And incidentally, when I went to the Department of Marine and Aviation, I was unable to find any programs that had been prepared by the previous administration for the improvement and rehabilitation of the waterfront. Because, as I said to you before, too much emphasis was placed on the development of the airports and no attention was paid to the development, to the improvement of our waterfront facilities. Today, the city of New York has a program which calls for the expenditure of $58 million within the next ten years. At the end of that period, the city will have 11 new marine terminals. Every peer that requires rehabilitation will be rehabilitated. Every peer that requires fireproofing will be fireproof. In fact, I may say to you that within the next two years, the fire protection program of the city will be completed, as well as the rehabilitation phase of our $58 million program. moreover, under this program, the city or the city peer properties will be self-sustaining. Let me take you back just for a moment to 1934 or 1936, when rentals on our city peers were reduced due to the Depression period. Yet in 1939, when the city was experienced one of its best periods in the shipping industry, nothing was done to put the peers on a self-sustaining basis. Prior to 1946, the peer properties were running at a deficit of over $3.5 million a year. But under this administration's program, I can safely say that the peer properties will be self-sustaining, and so will our Port Improvement Program. It's been a privilege for me, Jim, to come here today to inspect this peer. It was a privilege because I felt that you and I were part of it. And I'm proud of what I've seen today on this particular peer. And I know that this is indicative of what we will see on our peer properties within the next two years under the administration of Mayor O'Dwyer. I want to thank you again, Jim and John Farrell, for your cooperation with the city in the rehabilitation of this excellent peer. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I can't call him Commissioner. I've got to call him Joe. our airtime doesn't permit my adding to this program the many distinguished guests we have here. I would like to say that the rehabilitation of this peer, in which all of us are today so proud, is a cooperative effort. We've heard from the mayor's office, we've heard from the borough president's office, we've heard from the Department of Marine and Aviation. This project could not have completed without the cooperation, goodwill, and fine judgment of the Comptroller's office, the Board of Estimate, the Corporation Council. In particular, it wouldn't have progressed as far as it has if it hadn't been for the very expert technical skill of the engineers who are unsung and unheralded, but which are part of the very fine staff of the Commissioner of Marine and Aviation. I could tell them all by name, but I'd rather, for fear of offending any one of them, only mention the senior engineer, Mr. Rabish. We couldn't have done what we did do without our own engineers, the Knappen Engineering Company, or without the builders, Merrick Chapman Scott. But there are many others, not the least of whom is our own Tom Smith and our own Executive Vice President George Walker. Actually, except for having the germ of an idea, I didn't contribute anything to it. But I do hope this, my brother joins me in this hope, and all of our directors join in this hope, that perhaps this little endeavor of ours, which in some total of dollars, isn't very big, may be a pilot operation for the rest of the port of New York. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The City of New York has brought you the proceedings aboard the steamship African Endeavor of the Farrell Lines, here at 33rd Street and the bulkhead line in New York Harbor. It represents an episode that was an episode that has become an epoch. because the City of New York has epitomized in this situation one of the particular factors of capital, much abused capital, the capital budget that might become a great burden to the people of the City of New York if it wasn't for the foresight of the present administration, Commissioner Manetti and the Farrell brothers, in adapting capital itself to the relief of the capital budget. Because in the development of this pier here today, one million dollars has been involved in the development which has been spent by the Farrell brothers, which will be amortized in the relationship buildup and contracted by the Farrell brothers and the City. And the Mayor of the City of New York and his 58 million dollar program of rehabilitation of the greatest waterfront in the world, the port of New York, has carried through here today the first scene in this great episode of harbor development. Here at 33rd Street and the bulkhead line in New York Harbor, we have this magnificent pier. Most of us dwell within facades of 25 foot fronts. And yet when you enter this pier and look down, it's 1,800 feet. It seems to be the end of the world at the other end of that great pier which can berth six ships and carry out freight facilities for 750,000 tons of freight in the course of a year. That all means employment for the people of the City of Brooklyn, commerce and industry which has built up the great port of New York City. And when Archibald Gracie and his mansion were epitomized by the visit of the President of the United States to Mayor O'Dwyer at the luncheon there last week, well it was Archibald Gracie and the foremost men of commerce and industry who realized that the port of New York was not merely an incidental place because most of the business of the nautical world was going to Philadelphia, Baltimore and other ports. These men came here, developed the port of New York and today Commissioner Minetti of the Department of Marine and Aviation heads one of the greatest activities of the City of New York that despite airlines and all air activity, ships and bottoms are very important in the transportation of freight, passengers, commerce and industry in the exchange between New York City and the rest of the world. And the Farrell Line Pier here today at the foot of 33rd Street in the borough of Brooklyn is the first stage in those meadow green piers which will represent the mayor O'Dwyer's pier program for the development of the port of New York. And so we take leave of you from 33rd Street in Brooklyn, the first stage in the city of New York City. Headline, one of the greatest spots of shipping industry anywhere in the world. Thank you and good afternoon from 33rd Street. This is the municipal broadcasting system. ... food honesty ... ... ...