We're speaking to you from Willard Parker Hospital, where we'll come with our tape recorder and equipment to find out something about the mild poliomyelitis epidemic that's going on in the New York City area. To find out something about this, we have with us Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, who is the commissioner of the Department of Hospitals. Dr. Kogel, I wish you would give us some assurance that everything is being done for these victims of poliomyelitis. We have the best professional staff in the country taking care of the patients, and everything that has been developed by medical science is available to the sick ones in our wards. Well, could you tell us about some of the symptoms that parents might be looking out for among their children? I'd prefer if you asked that question of Dr. Talley, who is with the patients all the time, I think she could answer that question a lot better than I can. Well, you have been doing so much work visiting hospitals and so on. I understand one of your big problems now is to raise a sufficient number of nurses to cope with the situation. Is that true? That's right. We're very badly in need of nurses to take care of these patients. Well, could you tell me what's being done in that direction and how many you need? The Board of Estimates has just approved a higher salary for the nurses doing polio work, and they've also given us more flexibility and latitude in our budget so as to make it possible for us to hire nurses on a per diem basis for a day's work and to hire part-time nurses. With this, I feel we'll be able to tap a reservoir that may be in many of the colleges here, girls who are registered, who are trained nurses, and who might like to earn some money for a day's work or for four hours' work a day. Well, now, you, as Commissioner of the Department of Hospitals, I understand you're visiting the hospitals to find what the situation is. How many cases do you have under treatment now in the hospitals in the municipal area? Well, at midnight, we had 152 patients under treatment. Of this number, 145 are cases that are the result of the current outbreak. The majority of the patients right now are at the Kingston Avenue Hospital in Brooklyn. Next is the Willard Parker Hospital, and then the Queen's General Hospital in Queens. The New York City Hospital had, at midnight, 38 patients. The Willard Parker had 46, and Kingston Avenue 59. Well, do you feel that you've got a pretty good jump on this situation, the foliomyelitis epidemic? Do you feel you've been able to grab it in the bud, as it were? Well, I feel that we're organized to take care of it. And if our appeal for the nurses works, and it seems that it will work, the newspapers and the radio have done a splendid job in helping us out. And if we strike pay dirt there, as it seems that we have, because we already have been able to put on 12 nurses, to hire 12 nurses, as a result of the appeal. If we can get good nursing attention, we already have the finest medical staff to take care of the patients. If we get trained nurses to take care of them, I think we'll be able to do the best we possibly can for these people. Could you tell us something about the figures this year, as compared with past years? Dr. Kogel has a whole series of papers in front of him here, with various figures. I understand that compared to last year, though, there's a great... We didn't consider last year an epidemic year, while this year is considered an epidemic year. Well, we have some figures on... What year would you say would be an epidemic year? Well, in 1944, we had an epidemic year. And in 1944, there were 1,890 cases during the entire year. But the way the cases developed, we didn't have so many cases during the month of July. In fact, we didn't have as many cases as we have now during July. The peak in 1944 was reached during the month of August. And the outbreak extended the way into October. So the way it's developing now, it may be similar to the 1944 outbreak. It may be a little worse. We hope that it won't be as bad. Is there something you have to say to the public about alleviating this situation? Some general rules that they can follow? The rules that have been developed by the Department of Health are excellent rules to follow. I wish we had some immunizing agent that would effectively prevent the patient from developing disease. But in the absence of any vaccine or chemical or anything at all to prevent poliomyelitis. It seems that the next best thing that can be done is to carry out the recommended sanitary measures to prevent children from congregating in crowds, to prevent children and adults from over-fatigue and over-exertion. Those are general things that can be done to avoid the complications of polio and perhaps to prevent the disease itself. Thank you very much, Dr. Kogel. We've been speaking to you from Willard Parker Hospital with Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, the Commissioner of the Department of Hospitals. We're going to interview now the medical superintendent of Willard Parker Hospital, Dr. Dorothea Tolley. Dr. Tolley, I wish you would tell us exactly the procedure when a patient is admitted into your hospital for poliomyelitis. The patient is brought to the admitting ward, is given a general and thorough physical examination, a lumbar puncture is done so that the spinal fluid may be examined, a complete history is taken. The physician then evaluates the history, the physical findings, and the result of the spinal fluid examination, and decides whether or not the patient is suffering from poliomyelitis. Well, is there some... Perhaps we could go even a little earlier than that. Perhaps you could give the parents some idea of what to look for in a way of symptoms. The symptoms that call attention to the onset of this disease are headaches, sore throat, cold, gastrointestinal symptoms, mild stomach upset, fever. Must be a lunch hour out there, would you say? I think we can still hear you all right, though, as far as the whistle blowing in the background. Could you tell us about what expansion has been necessary here in your hospital to meet the present situation? Well, the expansion necessary involved the nursing service. Our difficulty has been not having sufficient nurses to care for the sudden increase in polio patients. the commissioner of hospitals, I believe, has answered that question in that he has obtained permission from the city authorities to increase the salary for nurses who will work on poliomyelitis patients, and we have had many inquiries from nurses and probably will be able to have the number of nurses we need for the patients in the hospital at this time and probably also for the expansion that will be in order. But you are still, in other words, looking for nurses? We are still looking for nurses. Is that just on a full-time basis? On a full-time basis and, uh, no, not only a full-time basis. Part-time or full-time. We prefer full-time and it will be throughout this epidemic season only. I see. Now, uh, it's such a discouraging thing, uh, poliomyelitis to the parent, to the child, to the general public. Are there some encouraging facts that you could give us about, for instance, the recovery rate of, uh, your patients? Yes, certainly. The, uh, overall picture of polio is not as alarming as many people think. At least, uh, 50% and sometimes as high as 60% of the patients do not develop paralysis at all at any time in the illness. Of the 50% or 40% who do develop paralysis, only about 10 and perhaps a little bit more in a high epidemic year develop any serious paralysis requiring long treatment, prolonged treatment, orthopedic care for many months. The others recover somewhere within three to six months. Well, now, you have a series of figures there before you. I wonder if you could tell me a little about those. What do they represent? The series of figures represent the, uh, distribution according to age and sex of the patients in the hospital, in Willard Parker Hospital today. the, uh, patients 16 years of age and over, there are three females, seven males. Those 16 years and under, there are 19 females and 24 male patients. Seems to pretty well establish the fact that it's a young person's disease. I guess that's fairly well accepted. It is fairly well accepted. The age group at the present time in which the, uh, majority of patients fall from five to nine years of age. However, uh, this number of 10 above the total of 53 above 16 is rather interesting in that many people think it is wholly a disease of childhood. And it can strike at any age. It can strike at any age. Well, thank you very much, Dr. Tolley. We've been speaking to Dr. Dorothy Tolley, the medical superintendent of Willard Parker Hospital. Speaking to you, my special tape recording from Willard Parker Hospital. We have, uh, seated opposite us here, Helen Sider, the superintendent of nurses at Willard Parker Hospital. and during this, uh, polio epidemic that's going on in New York City, it turns out that one of the most important things in the treatment and cure of poliomyelitis is, uh, the nurse herself. That's why we're talking to the superintendent of nurses here. Uh, I understand, Ms. Sider, the situation is not all it might be in regard to the ratio of nurses to patients. Isn't that true? That's true. We, at the present time, do need nurses very badly. Uh, the, uh, response from the newspapers and the radio has been most encouraging. We hope that with the number of nurses who are planning to come in to be interviewed in the next day or two, that the total number will increase considerably in the next few days. Well, I think we should go right out and, uh, come right out with the address where any nurse, registered professional nurse who is listening to this broadcast at the moment could apply whom she phones and who she comes down to see here at Willard Park. Well, if there's any nurse who is interested in doing poliomyelitis work, she may either call Gramercy 37900 and ask for the superintendent of nurses or she may come down in person to be interviewed in my own office. Now, it's true, isn't it, that there has been an actual raising salary for nurses dealing in this work because of this emergency? Yes, there has been. At the present time, we are planning to pay nurses who are employed for polio work $250 a month to live out plus two meals and laundry. If there is any nurse who would be interested in living in, she will receive $195 a month with complete maintenance. well, I guess you know, Ms. Sider, that it's difficult to pick up a nurse who is experienced in all the techniques and so on of handling poliomyelitis. Does that mean that nurses who have not had this experience shouldn't apply? Oh, no. We'd be more than glad to have any nurse, regardless of her past experience, apply to us. We are planning an intensive training program during the first week so that by the end of that week she will have had not only classroom demonstrations but actual ward experience under supervision so that when she is more or less on her own than the following week she will feel that she has had a fairly good amount of supervision with these various patients. Well, it certainly is a very worthwhile thing and we would like to make the appeal once again that Willard Parker is the hospital here in Manhattan that is handling the majority of the Manhattan cases and the Bronx of poliomyelitis. I'm correcting that. Am I right? Uh-huh. And they are certainly looking for nurses to treat this dread disease and we just like to say that they're listening why they should certainly contact right here at the hospital. And thank you very much, Ms. Sider, for talking to us about this situation. Well, we got three minutes out of that. Very well. Well done. Okay, now I... That's any little work. nature