In keeping with our policy of presenting factual information on matters of interest to our listeners, your city station now offers a transcribed address by Oscar R. Ewing, the Federal Security Administrator. Mr. Ewing, a resident of this city, has been administrator of the Federal Security Agency since 1947. Included among the organizations under his direction are the United States Public Health Service, the United States Office of Education, the Social Security Administration, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation. Mr. Ewing will speak on the proposal for providing hospitalization insurance as a part of the Federal Social Security Program. Mr. Ewing. Mr. Ewing. As people who have a stake in our own Social Security to decide whether or not it ought to be adopted, for the final decision will rest with the American people as it should. But you can hardly be expected to make up your mind on this important proposal unless you have the facts. I have received so many letters asking me about the hospitalization insurance plan that I have accepted the invitation of the municipal radio station WNYC to give you these facts so that you can judge the idea for yourself. This is the proposal in a nutshell that we should add to the benefits now afforded under federal old age and survivors insurance commonly called social security a new benefit that would provide insurance against hospital costs up to 60 days in a year. This should be done for those people who are entitled to insurance benefits. That is for people who have passed their 65th birthday for wives with dependent children and for widows orphans and dependent parents who are entitled to insurance benefits under social security. This plan would add to the protection which the social security act already provides. It would take care of hospital costs up to 60 days a year for these people. So many of whom are the very ones with greatest need for hospital care and the least ability to pay for it. The plan would require no new taxes. It would not compete seriously with private insurance either commercial or non-profit. On the contrary, it would relieve these private insurance plans of a responsibility that they really find difficult to meet. And the plan would not in any way whatsoever affect either the way hospitals are run or the relationships among doctors, hospitals, and doctors and their patients. Here's the background. Today, the social security insurance system pays cash benefits to insured old people and to widows, orphans, and other survivors, provided that they do not earn more than $50 a month while they receive these benefits. About 5,500,000 people have already qualified for insurance benefits. But only about 4,200,000 people have retired and are actually receiving the benefits. Now, we have this proposal which would provide hospitalization insurance benefits. Not only to those already receiving monthly checks, but to all who are entitled to insurance benefits. If the plan were in effect two years from now, about 7 million people could have this insurance against hospital costs. If one of these people became so ill that he needed to go to the hospital, his doctor would arrange for his admission to the hospital. But his hospital bill for up to 60 days each year would be paid by the government's insurance system out of the money that has come in through the social security taxes. The services covered would be those which a hospital ordinarily provides for its bed patients. A semi-private room would be the standard. Unless, of course, there were medical reasons for using other accommodations. But if the patient wanted to, he could use a private room and pay the extra cost just as he can now under Blue Cross and similar plans. You may ask, why is this plan needed? The answer is that the very people who are entitled to social security insurance payments are the ones who, for the most part, badly need hospitalization insurance. Do not have it and cannot afford to buy it privately. Old people need more hospital care than the rest of the population. Most of them live on fixed incomes. Many have no financial resources beyond their insurance payments. According to a recent survey, one third of the aged couples who receive such payments have no other source of income whatever. Or at most, not more than $25 a month. When they become seriously ill, it is not illness alone that threatens them. It is a financial catastrophe, which is hardly what the doctor ordered. One of the results is that many social security beneficiaries are going without needed hospitalization. Among the aged, only about one person in eight is lucky enough to have any hospitalization insurance today. Some do pay for hospital care out of their own pockets. But in the case of many who do, they or their relatives must usually sacrifice essentials, use up savings that were expected to round out the small social security benefits, and many go in debt. Many of these elderly people cannot pay the cost. And they have no alternative but to pass it on to the hospital or to the welfare agency. Even with last year's increase in the amount of social security payments, people who have to depend only on these payments cannot, at the best, hope to do more than make ends meet. They cannot possibly afford to go out and buy hospitalization insurance on their own. But even if their budgets could be stretched that far, most of these people would find it difficult, if not impossible, to get private insurance. Now, there are at least three reasons for this. First, most hospitalization insurance is on a group basis, usually a group of wage earners working for a particular employer. Old people and widows with young children to care for do not have much chance for this kind of insurance because most of them are not wage earners and are not members of groups eligible for such insurance. Second, many of those who were once insured, who used to work and were carried in group insurance while they were on the job, commonly find that their policies do not allow them to belong to the insured group after they leave their jobs or even while still working after they attain an age like 55, 60 or 65. Third, those who want to buy individual insurance have to pay premiums that are adjusted to their high rates of sickness and hospitalization. That makes individual hospitalization insurance really impracticable for older people or non-employed widows and children. Accepted premiums or with fine print exclusions that just about rule out the whole thing. So these people do not often have a chance to turn to the existing kinds of private insurance against hospital costs. That is why they need some other answer to their problems. An answer that would not significantly compete with private insurance. That would be a boon for millions of American families. That would help to protect the hospitals against deficits and would cut the burden of public assistance and private charity. But you may ask, would it cost too much? If the plan went into effect, say in 1953, it would give insurance protection to about 7 million people. And the cost would come to something around $200 million a year. This amount would be less than two tenths of one percent of the wages covered by Social Security insurance. It would therefore not be necessary to change the whole Social Security tax structure for the millions of workers and employees who are under old age and survivors insurance. Fortunately, the cost can easily be absorbed by the insurance payments already provided in the Social Security law. This is because the original Social Security estimates were on the conservative side. As wages have gone up, the incomes of the insurance trust fund have also gone up. So have benefit liabilities, but not so much. That is why the premium rates already fixed in law would not need to be raised and no general tax money would be needed for this plan. But if the government insurance system has $200 million to put into hospitalization insurance, some people would ask, why not simply increase the monthly cash payments under Social Security? Well, if we were to spend that amount of money in cash among all insurance beneficiaries, it would come to just about $3 a month for each of them. Even a small amount like this would be helpful to many people, but it would certainly be of little help to any family that had to meet hospital bills for a serious illness. Among people 65 and over, for example, the average hospital stay costs about as much as their present Social Security benefits for five or six months, not counting doctor bills and other expenses of illness. Even if cash benefits are increased by $3 a month, they would still not have enough leeway over and above living costs to pay for an expensive illness or to buy private hospital insurance at the rates older people would have to pay if they were generally available. How would the plan work from the patient's point of view? Actually, so simply that I can tell you in a few words. It would be pretty much like the Blue Cross or similar private hospitalization insurance. Suppose you were covered by the plan and you became ill. Your doctor would decide whether you needed hospital care. If you thought you did, you would make the necessary arrangements. Once you were admitted to the hospital, you would stay as long as the doctor and the insurance and the hospital thought necessary with your insurance covering the costs up to 60 days in a year. And your bill would be paid directly to the hospital, out of the insurance fund, just as many hospital bills are now paid for people having Blue Cross insurance. This kind of insurance would be yours as a matter of right because you and your employer would have helped to pay for it during the years you were working and paying for Social Security insurance. That is the plan about which you are going to hear a great deal more during the coming months. It is simple, direct and business-like. It would help some of the very people who now get into serious financial troubles when illness strikes. It would leave your relationship with your own doctor just as it is today. It would be a good thing for hospitals, many of which are having a difficult time financially these days. It would reduce the financial burdens of public welfare agencies and on private charities. Above all, it would be an extension of the self-respecting American way of saving up for a rainy day or providing for future emergencies through insurance. It would lighten the burden of worry and fear for those who are old and weak. It would help people who have worked hard all their lives to face the future with confidence and hope. If they became ill, then they would be more able to concentrate on their one big concern, which is to get well as quickly as possible and live long and happy lives in this wonderful America of ours. You have been listening to a transcribed address by Oscar R. Ewing, the Federal Security Administrator. Copies of Mr. Ewing's remarks may be obtained by writing to Oscar R. Ewing, WNYC, New York 7, New York. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Dotting the.ISix 핵s.I感じDSM Rahm Abraham How's it called?PSR. Ewing ofvakia Apricäte Hello there, I'm missing a couple stories of my wife literally Excel remembers Whoosh讓utan Arondo Mexico Sales Colour communities In芯 Voosh