The hall room of the Commodore Hotel, your city station, brings you the opening session of the 1952 Convention of the American Federation of Labor. Among the prominent speakers to address this first convention session this morning will be Cardinal Spellman, Mayor Vincent Arm-Peletari, Governor Dewey, and William Green. Here now is our chairman, Martin Lacey, who will introduce the speakers at the moment. Mr. Lacey is chasing a few photographers who have crowded around the speaker's dais here. The tickets for the entertainment have all run out. It gives me great pleasure to introduce to you one who doesn't necessarily need an introduction. The invocation by Cardinal Francis Hayes, Archbishop of the New York Diocese. Spellman, my error. It has never been the first, and I don't believe it'll be the last. I'm complimented. God of the worker, thou art known to man as a worker in the shop, as a carpenter by trade, laboring in the sweat of thy brow, living by the toil of thy hands, preaching the gospel of work. Thou didst ennoble work by becoming a laborer, thou who needst not have labored. For thou art the creator, producing without labor, creating by thy word alone. Yet didst thou labor to teach man to labor, to thy holy example, working in accord with thy precepts, living by thy commandments. God of the worker, assist thy sorely troubled worker, that he may know the saving gospel of toil. Teach dignity to the worker, that he may know and act agreeable to thy holy will, for he is thy instrument. Teach duty to the worker, who is able to work through thee. His products are from thee. He is thy dispenser. Teach destiny to the worker, who lives and works for thee, his loved ones and his neighbors. He is thy glory. Teach wisdom to the worker, who wills to follow thee, that thy will may be done on earth. The worker is thy agent. Give him, O God, of thy spirit, to serve thee at all times, giving and forgiving. Bind him to thy very self, with bonds ever enduring, in love, justice, and peace. God of the worker, dark grows this night, in which men wander and transgress thy laws, living in fears and frenzy, in the darkness of tears and terror, in this night of wars and slaughter, scorning thy plans for peace, in a hell-born lust for power, power over men's souls. Hidden is the vision of thy glory, which can bring peace into a world at war, which can calm the tempest of hatreds now raging. which can salvage the hopes of the workers, now hurrying to slay and be slain. God of the worker, bring peace back into the world, lest man perish from the earth. Bring back Christ the worker to walk among men, to show men the truth of his way, his way to brotherly love and to peace. Amen. Thank you, Your Eminency. Thank you. Cardinal Spelman, Governor Dewey, Mayor and Pelletary, distinguished officers and leaders of the American Federation of Labor, fellow delegates and friends. It is a high privilege and a great pleasure for me to welcome you to the 71st Annual Convention of the Great American Federation of Labor. I give you my assurance that the Central Trades and Labor Council of Greater New York and vicinity, of which I have the honor of being president, has spared no effort to make your stay here not only enjoyable, but memorable. It is expected there will be in attendance here some 800 delegates representing more than 8 million members enrolled in 109 national and international unions affiliated with the American Federation of Labor. Ours is the mightiest army of free labor in all the world. It is 57 years since an annual convention of our American Federation of Labor was held in this city. In this time, the labor movement has become a powerful force with great economic, political, and social influence and with still greater potentialities. It is unthinkable that we of this movement should go on being pushed around and betrayed by a lot of political parties and a lot of political parties and a lot of political parties and a lot of political parties and a lot of political parties This convention will serve notice in no uncertain terms that those days are gone forever. It will serve notice that we are determined to match our solidarity on the industrial field with similar solidarity on the political field. and that it must be one for all and all for one politically and it is as it is one for one and all for one industriously. It was to this city that the great immortal Sam Gompers came as a lad in his early teens. It was here he was introduced to trade unionism. Here where he first joined the labor union and here where he first became a union official. It was here that the first headquarters of the new born American Federation of Labor was located. A few minutes by automobile from here where we are meeting. Sam was voted an annual salary of $1,000 and used a family kitchen table for a desk and a box for a chair. It is a far cry from those days of poverty and struggle to our own day when so much has been accomplished for the wage earner and the nation at large through the efforts of organized labor. But it would be folly indeed to conclude that that's all well. Our gains yes are effective survival. These are threatened by well organized heavily financed and astutely led reactionary forces. they constitute a resourceful ruthless enemy reaching out for control of the entire federal government. For dominance of the nation Taft-Hartley is still with us after five years and there is little Taft-Hartleys on the statue books of many states. some of them worse than their evil federal prototype. And we are warned that should an anti-Labor Congress be elected in November industry-wide bargaining may be outlawed and our great and powerful national and international unions reduced to futile fragments that would just about finish what Taft-Hartley started. It was the enactment of the Taft-Hartley which led at the 1947 San Francisco Convention of the American Federation of Labor to the formation of Labor's League for Political Education. This was to put more teeth into the traditional non-partisan political policy of the American Federation of Labor of rewarding friends and punishing enemies regardless I say regardless of party labels or affiliations. we have reached the time when it is beyond question that politics is imperatively number one trade union business and when the ballot has become our most important weapon in the struggle for effective survival I don't have to tell you the role the scab had played in trade union struggles scabbing was bad enough on the industrial field but it is even worse today on the political field if we are to present a united front to our enemies on the political field there must be no political scabbery the trade unionists who vote for a candidate who is not a dependable friend of labor is strike breaking at the ballot box politically speaking he is crossing the picket line socially he is stabbing his fellow workers in the back where in public office there are enemies they must be replaced by friends it's as simple as that the enemy is fully using political power in an all-out campaign to reduce us to impotence the only effective way we can meet this threat is by our own united use of the ballot it was gompus who said the ballot is the one way surely to reach the conscience of the politician there is something seriously wrong with the wage earner who fails to see the vital connection between the ballot box and the bread box you all know that the American Federation of Labor submitted platform proposals to the appropriate committees at the two recent conventions of our major political parties one of these proposals called for the repeal of the chair tockling the Republican Party rejected our proposals and declared flatly for retention of the Taft Hartley the Democratic Party reacted sympathetically to our proposals and even more flatly declared for repeal of the Taft Hartley using almost the identical language of the American Federation of Labor Representatives I do not see how any trade unionist can support a party and candidates who support Taft Hartley it should not be difficult therefore to determine who our friends in the great campaign of 1952 and respect for our policy our political and partisanship requires that we should go all out for those who have gone all out for us that's what Gomper said that's what the Labor's League for political education said this is no time for political fed city the issues are too grave for equivocation of any kind we we meet in a fateful hour in response to which this convention will make historic decisions but I think you will all agree with me when I say that none will be more important to organize labor and the nation yes to the free world than what we shall say and resolve hear about labor and politics necessity has compelled us to enter into the political arena there can be no retreat this much is certain in your deliberations you have the fraternal regard and sincerest best wishes of the central trades and labor council and the approximate million members of organized labor we represent thank you I have enjoyed my relationship with the state federation of labor labor I think I know most of the men who lead it and I don't think there is anyone of them who does not know that he is welcome and with whom I have not worked in one good cause or another I think we have served the people well it is my hope that as you come to this state for this first visit in altogether too many years you will enjoy something more than the good food of the Commodore Hotel and the uninterrupted flow of oratory you will hear from this rostrum I assume that by the end of the third day you will find it almost impossible to sit still I am very glad I got here so early so nobody can have a good excuse to walk out you're going to hear from great men I hope also that while you're here you will take the trouble to look around to visit some of the rest of this city and this state the mayor will speak eloquently on behalf of the city of New York and I am sure he will tell you that you are welcome in every nook and corner of it and I would like to add that I hope that while you're here you will not neglect the opportunity to take a look around this the finest the most highly organized the most beautiful and the greatest city in the world and then that you will look around some more of the state from Jones Beach on Long Island all the way up through the Adirondacks and the Catskills and our mountains and finger lakes of unequaled beauty and on out to Niagara Falls even though you're not on a honeymoon and come back again sooner please don't wait another 57 years thank you your honor honorable governor it is not my intention to enter into any kind of a debate with you politically or otherwise however I wish to thank you for your remarks and recommend to the delegates to abide by a suggestion and look the town over it is now my great pleasure to introduce to you the mayor of the city of New York Mayor Impoletari President Lacey your eminence Cardinal Spellman Your Excellency Governor Dewey President Green Secretary Meany officers and members of the American Federation of Labor this is one of the most privileged moments in my career to appear as mayor of this great city to welcome the representatives in convention of the largest group of organized workers in the entire world the American Federation of Labor with its more than 100 great national and international unions and its numerous affiliated state and local councils to me it represents the opportunity to greet in a body one of the sturdiest forces upholding our democracy and among the staunchest defenders of a free society in extending these greetings to all of you it is equally an honor for me as mayor of the city of New York to join with the host of this convention the Central Trades and Labor Council of Greater New York and its president one of the most robust forceful colorful and beloved citizens of our entire city my good friend Marty Lacey I might point out in line with those remarks that it was Marty Lacey in the political campaign of 1950 who was one of the few labor leaders who supported me as candidate of the experience party for mayor of the city of New York I would like to now give you some tangible evidence of my feelings which I think very appropriately should be announced first to the representatives of labor this is distinctly a labor matter and it affects thousands upon thousands of our city employees this morning I received the report and recommendations of a fact finding committee I appointed just a few weeks ago to ascertain whether in the planned transition to a 40 hour week for all city employees which I have directed the step calling for a 42 hour week could be advanced and instituted before June 30th of 1953 originally when I sent out the directive I pointed out that it should be accomplished not later than June 30th of 1953 the committee recommended at least for the department most seriously affected and presently on a six day 48 hour week the department of sanitation that the institution of the 42 hour week be advanced by six months to January 1st 1953 I am pleased to announce that I shall adopt this recommendation forthwith moreover I shall direct that the 42 hour week be installed for all city employees beginning the new year January 1 1953 of course this leaves one more step to my cherished goal of a 40 hour week for all municipal employees it is my ardent hope that the city finances will permit this step to be completed in the course of the next fiscal year beginning on July 1 1953 I want to make it clear that at all times I recognized and stated publicly that city employees were entitled to a five day 40 hour week at all times I said publicly that the only thing that stood in the way was the question of the money with which to finance it so it's a great pleasure for me on this occasion to tell you now that the fact finding committee has made its recommendation that the city will be in a position to put the 42 hour week in not later than January 1st of 53 and we hope we sincerely hope that our finances will justify putting in the final step the 40 hour week which is the step that will cost the most money as soon thereafter as is humanly possible the governor has pointed out the great charms of the entire state of New York I fully subscribe to everything he had to say about it New York City which is a part of the state of New York has a great many attractions I know that although you haven't been in convention here in the city of New York in 57 years I know that most if not all of you have had occasion to visit this city time and time again I know that from your past experiences you know that New York City is a very hospitable town you know in addition to that that New York City is a great labor town you know that during your entire stay here in the city of New York everything humanly possible will be done to make your stay a most pleasant one there's very few pleasant parts of this city that I know you will omit and most of them are that way in spite of what you might read in your local press because sometimes unfortunately it's the one or two little bad spots either in a labor organization or in the municipal or state government or otherwise that attracts newspaper headlines don't pay too much attention to them because in spite of one or two of those spots you will find New York City a clean decent town one of the cleanest towns in the entire country here in the city of New York you'll find churches where you can worship your God in the way you choose just as nice churches if not better churches than many other communities in our country you will find wonderful places of entertainment you'll find one of the nice parts of my job and there's not too many of them that are nice as you cruise around the water line of the city of New York today somebody will point out Gracie Mansion that's the mayor's official residence and I'm sure that one of your brother delegates coming from New York City will nudge you and say look at where the mayor lives what a wonderful job he's got so don't be misled by it it's a very comfortable a very pleasant place to live but I don't get a chance to enjoy it very much so please bear that in mind as you cruise around New York City I hope that you have a wonderful time here in the city New York I hope that your convention and its deliberations will be very fruitful not only for the American Federation of Labor but also for your cities for your states and for the United States of America thank you very much thank you Mr. Mayor I want to take this opportunity on behalf of the Central Trades and Labor Council and the civil service employees of the city of New York of accomplishing a job well done thanks for not only the council but for the employees of the city at this time it gives me great pleasure it gives me great pleasure to present to the president of the American Federation of Labor the union made gavel given to me by the chairman of the Carpenter's Joint Council of the city of New York I wish to present it to the president of the American Federation of Labor Brother William Green after this presentation of which I wish him many, many years in handling the gavel and conducting the meetings of the American Federation of Labor, it gives me great pleasure to have him address you now, the President of the American Federation of Labor, Bill Green. Thank you. Now, Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency the Governor of the great state of New York, the Honor of the Mayor of this great city, beloved Cardinal Spellman, other distinguished guests, representatives of our great organized labor movement in the city of New York. I know I express the personal feeling of every officer and delegate and visitors in attendance at this meeting this morning, their feeling of deep appreciation because of the warm welcome you have extended us to this 71st Annual Convention. We are deeply touched by a feeling of emotion because those who came from remote sections of our great country, as well as those who come from nearby cities, expected that they would be extended a very warm and cordial welcome. But the sincere words of all the speakers this morning has exceeded our fondest expectation. Therefore, we are moved by a feeling of emotion, of deep appreciation. And I cannot command language that will extend to you thanks in a proper way for the cordial, warm welcome you have extended us to this convention. We hope that in the transaction of our business, we will find it possible to measure up to a high standard of excellency. And when we complete our work, go to our homes, to our cities, to our states and our communities, feeling assured that we have built up in estimation the standing and the strength of this great American organized labor movement, the American Federation of Labor. We have just passed through a great year since we held the 50th Annual Convention of the American Federation of Labor at the extreme end of our nation, the Pacific Coast, in San Francisco. Now we're here at the eastern limitations of our great country. We realize that we have passed through a tremendously important year. It is different, has been different in some respects. I think in many respects to other years to which we have passed since the American Federation of Labor was formed. The economic conditions have been different. There has, of course, been variations. Wages have gone up. Very few times wages have come down. Economic conditions have improved. Some of them have not been so good. We have succeeded in bringing about the passage of some desirous legislation. We have failed in others. But the one keen, bitter disappointment that touches and moves the heart and the soul of every worker in America has been our failure to bring about the repeal of the obnoxious, dirty, town-heartly law. shall we whisper from the bullpen in the numerous to this to this mall? Was that like a particulars? Well done, böyle crazy and use the