Hello there, welcome to the Record Hobbyist Club. This is an exclusive WNYC society for those of you who appreciate the finer and more unusual recordings of serious music. Each week we bring you a different guest to play some of the rare and unusual items from his personal collection. And now to introduce this evening's distinguished guest, here is Herman Newman, Musical Director of the Municipal Broadcasting System. Mr. Newman. Good evening, Record Hobbyist, and welcome to another Tuesday evening session. Our guest and your guest this evening is Manuel Tarsish, a new member of the Record Hobbyist, who has been collecting records for the past 15 years. He specializes in rare and unusual recordings. I think you'll hear some of them this evening. Incidentally, he runs a records department in the Mount Vernon, New York store, so we have now a visitor from Westchester. He lives in White Plains. Also, Mr. Tarsish has one of the largest collections of speech recordings. I don't know whether you plan to do any of them this evening, but the program is entirely in your hands, Mr. Tarsish. Thank you, Mr. Newman. Before we go any further into the program tonight, I'd like to say a few words about the records I'm going to play. You will find that each of my selections has one thing in common. They are all unusual examples of recorded voice and music. In fact, I dare say that most of you collectors don't even know that such things exist. For the first number, I have picked out an imported record manufactured by the English Gramophone Company. The label of this 10-inch disc reads, A Tanganyika and Zanzibar Recording, and has the head of a giraffe superimposed upon the tangerine-colored label. As for the title of the number, it is Kalili Manga, whatever that means. It seems to be some sort of African chant with instrumental accompaniment, and with a more up-to-date set of words, could easily oust the Pussycat song from the hit parade. One word of advice, though. Don't tune out if this doesn't strike your fancy. There is more conventional music to come. The thing is, is BATTLE A villa Oh, my God. We'll be right back. Hammonds со marriage Said cautious And that was Khalili Manga. Did you notice that graphic imitation of a horse's whinny in the record? Incidentally, I know of only one other copy of this disc in the country. And now, as I promised you, we will hear a beautiful composition by a French composer by the name of Joseph Lefevre. This is another imported disc bearing the label of the disc gramophone, Victor's French affiliate. Entitled, Sue Lefevre, the hauntingly poignant work is played by an orchestra conducted by Georges Bries with choral background. I have seldom heard a more lovely composition. I have seldom heard a more lovely composition. cocktail dinals And if presque, without longing, can be made from Current strongwriting, they must be placed in chapter the rooftops that were almost insane. I couldn't be absent. Half the time is a serious cranium. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. thanks. Thank you. Thank you. He has gone not a little visit, but how did you know? How did I... Well, I like that. How did I know? How do I know anything? How do I know that you opened an office and resumed the practice of medicine without telling me a word about it? How do I know you've been getting yourself very wet lately? That you have an extremely careless servant girl and that you've moved your dressing table to the other side of your room? Oh, if you'd lived a few centuries, it'd all day have burned you alive. Such a conflagration would have saved me a great deal of trouble and expense. Tell me now, how could you know all that? Well, too simple to talk about. Scratches and slumsy cuts, my dear fellow. On the inner side of your shoe there, just where the thialite cracks it. Scratches, cuts. Somebody scraped away crusted mud and did it badly, badly. Scrape the shoe along with it. There's your wet feet and your careless servant all on one shoe. Face badly shaved on the right side. All it used to be on left. Light must come from the other side. Couldn't ever remove your window, must remove your dressing table. Yes, but my medical practice, I don't see how you... Now, Watson, Watson, how perfectly absurd of you. Absurd to come standing in here, fairly reeking with the odor of the audiform, and with a black mark of nitrate of silver on the fourth angle of your right hand, and ask me how I know. Of course, but how the deuce did you know? My wife was away. Well, where the deuce is your second waistcoat button, and what the deuce is yesterday's book on your head doing in today's lapel, and why the deuce you wear the expression of a boy's alligator? Yes, marvelous, marvelous. Ellen Multer, my dear fellow. Ellen Multer. In honor of WNYC's forthcoming American Music Festival, I would like to play next a strange composition by a contemporary American musician, Claude Lapham. Mr. Lapham, a graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and an authority on Oriental Music, has written a Japanese tone poem with the enigmatic title of Mihara Yama. This particular record, played by the Victor Symphony Orchestra and released briefly around 1936, is conducted by the composer himself. entrenched in theicks andLIE DANIELLE WNYC's Québec Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.