The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Should America develop the world's resources? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes President Truman's Point Four program. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around technical and financial assistance for the underdeveloped areas of the world. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. In cooperation with the Post-War World Council, we present from New York, Dewey Anderson, Director of the Public Affairs Institute, Harold Isaacs, author of No Peace for Asia and other books on the Far East, and A. Wilford May, Executive Editor of the Commercial and Financial Chronicle and member of the faculty of the new School for Social Research in New York. In his inaugural address in January 1949, President Truman outlined four major courses of action for the future. The fourth of these is the now famous Point Four program, a program of technical and financial assistance to the underdeveloped areas of the world. The President had this to say, I believe that we should make available to peace-loving peoples the benefits of our store of technical knowledge in order to help them realize their aspirations for a better life. And in cooperation with other nations, we should foster capital investment in areas needing development. And may I add that it is contemplated that these investments will be made largely by private enterprise. Now, gentlemen, what are these undeveloped areas to which the President refers? How do you see this, Isaacs? The underdeveloped areas of the world constitute the bulk of the continents of Asia, Africa, and South America. They comprise about two-thirds of the world's population, a billion and a half people. The great bulk of these people live on a bare subsistence level. They are predominantly dependent upon agriculture. They have suffered from an unbalanced economic, political, and social development in the last 300 years, which has left them in a state of complete poverty as compared to the more developed sections of the world. And this poverty of this great bulk of the world's population is the source of much of the crisis through which we're passing now. Would you care to spell that out a little more specifically, Anderson? Well, I'd like to add what Isaacs has said just this, that the big thing that characterizes the underdeveloped areas is their lack of industrialization. There are some 33 countries in the world lagging industrially. The heavily industrialized countries, some 12 to 16 countries, with high living standards, have been draining these areas for years of their precious raw materials, thereby keeping low their standard of living. Well, in what sense are these countries underdeveloped? Economically, politically, socially? How about that, May? Well, I was going to say that what troubles me is who is going to make the lending decisions as this program goes along as to which countries are undeveloped and entitled to the help for the billions that we're going to expend? And are these decisions going to be made on political or economic grounds by us as lenders? Well, those decisions will arise out of the whole cooperative effort, the conception of our need to go to work with these people to help develop them and raise them from this low standard of living, is a cooperative business that's going to involve all the nations of the world. And the decisions that will be made on that score will be cooperative decisions on an international basis, obviously. Now, are these countries underdeveloped economically, or politically, or socially, or all three? Well, in the sense that we're discussing it, they're underdeveloped in every respect, because the bulk of them have been subjected to political regimes over the last two or three centuries, where they have been under the direct domination of Western countries, and those that have not been under direct domination have been under the indirect domination, with the result that their development has been neutralized, it has been frustrated in so many different directions that they have to start practically from the beginning. Well, whether their development politically, culturally, and socially is adequate to their needs, surely to their past needs it may have been, but in this kind of a Western world that they're all joining, through UN and through international relationships with adjacent countries and others, the economic fact that we've presented of underdevelopment is sufficient. Well, now, are these, the peoples of these underdeveloped areas seeking our help? Are they aware of their, the kind of plight that you gentlemen described, Isaacs? Well, that is precisely the heart of the world crisis today. Hundreds of millions of people in many of these countries are in revolutionary upheavals now, precisely because the old system under which they live no longer worked, and they have to find their way to some new kind of system which will give them a better chance to thrive than they've had in the past. What's your view on that? Well, when you ask whether they're aware or not, I think they are and they are not. I've found in a recent trip to Europe that all over Europe, everyone is aware of the need for going to the trough of the United States Treasury for a new subsidy to take the place of the Marshall Plan, which they're all worried about, is going to end in 1952, but they are not aware of their responsibility as would-be borrowers to put their houses in order first and to assume the responsibilities. Let me answer. by saying as a point of awareness the recent activity of the Indonesian Republic. Almost as soon as the Republic was declared, the Indonesian mission to this country, examining its problems, came up with a proposal to hire Bob Nathan, an eminent American economist, to come out as chief economist of the new Indonesian Republic, and evidence of the awareness of that country, of the necessity of getting on the boat with all the other Western nations. And they are paying... They're paying... They're paying Mr. Nathan directly. That's right. Fine. So they are aware. Very much aware. And here is one of the countries... But that is not the purpose of the program. The program presumes that we are going to pay for the technical help. Mr. Isaacs wants to work here. Well, this awareness is a relative thing. Here you have a political crisis taking place and a whole social crisis taking place over all of these countries. That crisis in itself is a form of awareness of need for change. Now, to place the question of awareness on the level of whether or not they know precisely the form in which they want to operate or the amount of money they're going to need or where they're going to get it is another matter again. And I don't think that many of us know that too well for ourselves. But that they are forced by great pressures to bring about change is a major political fact in the world today. And that our problem is to see how vital their change is to our future and our economy. Not only in terms of our power struggle with Russia, but in terms of the future of the whole world. And to go in and help them. Now, well, Mr. Isaacs, if they are aware, really aware, of their desperate plight, don't you think that a borrower should be willing to put up a guarantee just as much as they want the lender to guarantee at least against expropriation and against confiscation, which they've been unwilling to do and which our State Department has not secured in the two treaties that have been made to date? I'm afraid, Mr. Mays... We seem to be more worried about them than they are themselves, evidenced by their unwillingness to assume the responsibility. I'm afraid that you see this too much entirely on the basis of old-style 19th century relationships. I'm afraid that isn't the case. Here we are in a mortal crisis that involves wars, revolutions, and a changing face of the world. We've already gone through two world wars over some of these issues and several major depressions. So we can't speak of it in those terms. Sure, those people are ready and willing to assume their responsibilities, and they are showing their readiness to do so by bringing about these political changes that they so badly need. Which suggests the question I wanted to ask. How important are these countries that you're talking about, these backward countries, to America and to the rest of the world? Well, I want to speak to that question because we in America desperately need a solid and secure base of raw materials. We're right now at the scarcity and high cost levels. We are running out of a number of raw materials. These areas furnish those raw materials. The peace and tranquility in those areas, which will make production on an even basis possible, is awfully important to us. Another point that should be mentioned in connection... Now, first there, are you saying this, our interest is primarily an economic interest? I say that's one of our two major interests. Our first interest should be that of preserving and make possible the preservation of the peace of the world. Point four, in my way of thinking, gives us that hope and that prospect. Well, Mr. Anderson doesn't agree with the two administration bills, the preambles to which say that the policy, the purpose of point four and the president's program is to promote our foreign policy, whatever that may be. The quote, our... The comment, whatever that may be, is my comment, not the president's. Well, you suggest the possibility that our primary purpose is political rather than economical. Those are the purposes that are stated by the... by President Truman and his bill. I surely do agree with the purpose with the preamble of the bill, and my interpretation of it is that we are now talking about the foreign policy of the United States, and if its goal is not peace, I don't know what it is. Well, what would you do about... what would you have done about Yugoslavia? I mean, what is our foreign policy there? With respect to point four? Yes. Well, I... I... I just don't know. Well, I think... I think that introduces a rather important aspect of this thing, and that's the question of the relationship of this program to the Cold War. Our foreign policy today consists primarily of the Cold War in different shapes and forms, and I think the point that has to be made about this... the possibilities of the point four program is that it takes us out of the whole realm of negative, sterile, containment, defensism that our foreign policy has consisted of for the last several years, and will launch us on a positive, dynamic, bold program that will neutralize the threat of Russian totalitarianism over large areas of the world instead of desperately trying to contain it by purely military means. That is the significance of this policy, of this program, in terms of the... the real foreign policy of this country and the need to... to maintain world peace. Well, now, on this containing communists... communism business, the program, as promulgated in the Mr. Warburg's pamphlet, which was signed by Mr. Anderson of our program here, envisages the spending of billions over a number of years on such projects as the TVA over the Rhone River and the Jordan and so on. Now, it seems to me that we have an immediate problem more than ever to contain communism today and not to wait for the TVA-ism of the world. And aren't we better off if this... if it is possible to contain communism through the expenditure of money to do it through the Marshall Plan? What do you say to that, Anderson? My answer is that the Marshall Plan doesn't go nearly far enough in developing underdeveloped areas of the world and partially developed areas in the world. The .4 program of technical and capital aid to these areas is the only program I have seen yet that are heard proposed that would reach behind the Iron Curtain into the very hearts and lives of the people. Well, now, let's talk specifically about the technical aid that's involved in this program. What do you mean by technical aid, Isaacs? Well, the technical aid portions of the program presumably would mean supplying technicians from various countries who would be able to go to the underdeveloped areas and assist, number one, in making surveys as to what has to be done and what can practically be done, to cooperate with the population locally in carrying out various projects, agricultural improvement, health improvement, education improvement, and in general, laying the basis for development on a broader scale. Well, now, who's going to do this and how much is it going to cost, Anderson? Well, I, from my way of seeing the thing, the whole world would participate, not only the United States and American technicians, for a good many of the technicians needed with the best skills available are in other countries so that we would all have a share in it, not the least of which would be the effort initiated by the people themselves in the underdeveloped countries. Well, now, May, do you object to this kind of a technical assistance? Well, I'd like to ask in the first place, if they can't pay for the technical assistance, whether it's $35 million or some such reasonable pin money sum, how are they going to pay for the whole program which is going to follow this technical assistance? Well, the, the, I mean, maybe they can pay for Bob Nathan, but, the cost of the technical assistance plan is, is not only an American cost, but will be an international cost. The United Nations has drawn up a program which proposes an expenditure of some $85 million for these preliminary activities, and that will be prorated like all other such international programs over all the various nations. Secondly, these countries don't have so much a problem of being able to pay immediately as they do have a hard currency problem. In other words, when the United States or some international agency sends technicians into a given country, they can provide facilities, housing, and so on, but they don't have at this moment the dollars with which to actually defray their travel expenses, their salaries. Now, you will agree, Mr. Isaacs, that channeling this thing through the U.N. is merely a device for calling it something other than American dollars, and I give you the setup of the World Bank where perhaps 70 or 80 percent of the financing and the bill is being paid for by the United States. Now, whether you call it the United Nations or the United States Treasury doesn't mean a darn thing, and you've heard of the dollar shortage, certainly. Well, my answer to that is that when you take the wealth of the world and total it and divide it among the countries, the plan used by the U.N. is one that prorates it according to wealth, costs of any projects, and it's reasonable to expect us to bear most of the cost because we're the wealthiest nation in the world. Well, now, we've been talking about the technical assistance program. Mr. May refers to the costs of this program. I think some 30, 40 million, am I right in that, as pin money. Now, let's talk about the real money. Oh, pin money in quotes. Let's talk about the real money. Let's move on to the second aspect of this .4 program, which calls for capital investments in these countries. Now, what kind of money is involved there, Mr. Anderson? Big money. If our goal is to shift, say, a fourth of the population that's now engaged in agriculture and very primitive agriculture in these underdeveloped areas into higher income producing occupations of industry within some reasonable period of time, say 50 years, a program of that size will cost big money. It will be an investment program and not a grant in aid program, however. And what do you mean by big money? When I'm talking big money, to do that kind of a job in 50 years' time will cost about $500 billion of investment. Now, I understood that correctly, $500 billion over 50 years. Yes. May, what do you say to that? Well, I'm hanging on to my chair. I think I understood the word billions. That's right. Well, I'm awfully glad that Mr. Anderson's on the program because that just underlines what a great many of us have been afraid of. Mr. First, this thing was discussed in terms of $35 million. The other day, Mr. McMahon, Senator McMahon, comes along with $50 billion. Now, Mr. Anderson lets the cat out of the bag that a lot of his colleagues and he is talking about $500 billion. Now, I guess it's very unfashionable now to talk about cost, where we're going to get the money. I'd like to ask him where we are going to get the money and how we could possibly get it other than running the printing press here. And in that regard, if it's not too old-fashioned or too reactionary, I'd like to say affirmatively that it seems to me the best way of promoting world stability or the indispensable element in world stability is a good, sound American dollar, which we're not going to have if we run off $500 billion or any such fantastic amount to give away. All right. My answer goes like this. At the present time, the gap between our exports and our imports in the year 1949 were $5,243,000,000. They were grants of this government of ours, taxpayers' grants, to other countries. What I'm proposing in a $500 billion 50-year investment program in underdeveloped areas is one in which the American contribution, not as grants out of taxpayers' pockets, but very largely, almost wholly, private investments of private investors would be in the neighborhood of $250 billion or about that $5 billion gap which will fill the gap. Now, before you speak, May, I want to know whether Isaac goes along with this. I think that we've got to add one rather important point. This is not strictly, again, an American affair. Each one of the countries that's involved in this development program will be forming capital of its own, will make very sizable contributions in many different forms to the development that has to take place, and it's by no means suggesting that this will be an ultra-American program. And one other thing, if the figure $500 billion in itself over 50 years is so frightening, what are we to think of the prospect that we might have ourselves a trillion-dollar economy in time? Why the fetish of the so-called sound American dollar when the possibilities of expansion on a world scale are so limitless? Please don't say fetish, Mr. Isaacs, but in the first place, you say that, the first, in one minute, you say that foreign countries can't afford $35 million for technical assistance. The next minute, you say, by using fancy terms like capital formation, that they can share in a $500 billion program. All I said, Mr. Mayor, is that right now is they have a hard currency problem. All right. Now, I'd like to say, reply to Mr. Anderson, maybe I'm an old-fashioned economist, but I still think that when he uses the term investment, that implies still paying the money back. Now, I wanted to ask about that, Anderson. Not only paying it back, but it'll be paid back at a profit. $500 billion. Yes, $500 billion will be paid back at a profit. Well, I'd like to... Half of that sum will be American investments abroad. The other half will be capital formed in the savings process the same way we formed it in this country from the Civil War on through the increased industrialization of the country. Investments in what? Investments in a variety of things, in businesses running the range from utilities on through to the characteristic private endeavors of private business. In education? The type of investment that will surely not be a payback investment in terms of profit dollars will be education, health, hygiene, things of that kind. How much of the program does that non-payback investment represent, do you think? Proportionately a very small amount. Now, Mr. Isaacs, who is going to make this kind of investment? Do you expect it to come primarily from private capital, private enterprise? I don't. I think that in the nature of things in the middle of the 20th century, we've learned enough even in our own country of what social development involves by way of public control, conscious social control, intelligent and rational planning. I don't think we can conceive of the development of these underdeveloped countries on the basis of the way the West developed in the early 19th century. I don't think they have to go through the what were called the hungry 40s in which huge masses of people were subjected to virtual slavery in order to develop the beginnings of industrialization. I think in the middle of the 20th century, we know enough now to help them start that on an entirely new basis. And on that, in those terms, it is obvious to me that it's going to have to be done on the basis of public planning, social control, responsible public participation. That's right. Well, those are very nice terms. I would like to get back to my first question, and that is specifically who in the United States government is going to make the decisions if it's not going to be by private investment, then it's going to be made by whom? By Secretary Snyder of the Treasury? By Mr. Acheson? Or by people like Mr. Anderson and yourself? And according to what motivations? Well, I think, obviously, such decisions, like the decisions that have been made in the past on big international programs, are a cooperative product of the best kind of intelligent planning and brains that we can produce in our country, both in government and in business and amongst the public. And what's more, we will have to do this not by ourselves but cooperatively with our opposite numbers in a great many other countries. It does mean a brand new kind of international effort on a vast scale to change the face of the world. It's precisely that. And my point is that unless we embark upon such a thing and achieve a degree of success in it, the only other alternative is a catastrophic world war. Well, I maintain, I'm sorry, I must maintain that Mr. Secretary of the Treasury Snyder does have an interest in this thing because the funds are coming out of the United States Treasury, whether the plans are worthy from a humanitarian element or not. I do maintain that the State Department either has or has not a vital interest in this thing because it is bound up with foreign policy. And you can't forget about those two elements in wrapping it up in a concept of humanitarian ideals of promoting good and uplift throughout the world. Well, two points. I don't think either that we're ignoring the State and Treasury departments, which will obviously have to have a major part in this planning. And secondly, while there is a tremendous humanitarian element involved in this thing, this is not a philanthropic humanitarian enterprise. It's a matter of real necessity for our future. Sounds like it. I want to add one other note, namely that a good bit of this has got to, by the very nature of the thing, be done by and through the United Nations. As a matter of fact, this is one of the most promising ways of shifting the United Nations from a debating society to an operating organization, a very important thing to have done soon. Well, now, Mr. Anderson, you have gone way beyond President Truman's Point Four program, I take it. You're familiar, I know, with the Spence Bill, which is now in Congress, a proposal to interest private capital in these investments and a proposal further to guarantee these investments. Do you support the Spence Bill? I take it you're not too optimistic about that. I think the Spence Bill is one of the most loosely drawn and ambiguous bills I've ever seen. You just can't guarantee private capital in any one of these underdeveloped countries. Surely the United States can't. And if the United States should try to do so, it would require an army that we're not going to put to that use. I think we left off that kind of colonization as a principle and practice of American government many years ago. Well, I agree for the first time in this program, I guess, with Mr. Anderson that there should not be a guarantee of private capital. And I also agree that it should not or cannot be collected. But I want to ask him how we are going to collect on money that is advanced by the government. You're going to have a worse problem because at least the private investor has the safeguard of refusing to make more loans if expropriation happens. But we can't. But the United States government is not going to send an army in and shouldn't send an army in. I think the fundamental answer to that is whatever technical arrangements are made for repayment is that in the long run we're going to be repaid with a different world in which there will be a higher standard of living and an avoidance of war. I think that that is the main issue on which we have to understand any such program. The immediate answer is that in my concept of point four, the management and policing of a great deal of point four loans and grants would be through the UN and the UN agencies where the onus for forcing payment from any country which failed to do so would be on the international organization and not upon us and our foreign policy. My last word is that we're not going to repay us $500 billion and to rely on the fact or kid them along to thinking that we're going to give it to them or that they're going to be able to pay it is only going to promote the bad condition in the world today and keep them from getting their houses in order to do the things that have to be done today. Let me clear up that $500 billion. I said it would require a $500 billion investment in 50 years. I said about half of that could come from the United States and about half of it will be either from other countries or capital formed by the countries themselves. I think our major concern should be not so much how this capital is going to be protected but how the welfare of the people is going to be protected. That's the issue. Then don't call it an investment program, please. Well, thank you, gentlemen. It is clear that Mr. Anderson and Mr. Isaacs believe President Truman's Point Four program is in the right direction but hardly goes far enough. Mr. May questions the analysis which gives rise to Point Four and seriously questions the wisdom of this kind of a program. I wish again to thank the post-war council in New York for their interest in this program and their help with it. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion Should America Develop the World's Resources? You may secure a copy of this broadcast by simply sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. That address again the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. You can subscribe to the reviewing stand for $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dewey Anderson Director of the Public Affairs Institute Washington, D.C. Harold Isaacs Author of No Peace for Asia and other books on the Far East and A. Wilfred May Executive Editor of the Commercial and Financial Chronicle. Now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand considers the obligations which business has to the community to workers to investors and to consumers. Three of America's leading businessmen will discuss the social responsibilities of business. Harry A. Bullis Chairman of the Board of General Mills John L. McCaffrey President of the International Harvester Company and Clifton W. Phelan Vice President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. We invite you to listen next week when we discuss the social responsibilities of business. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. what's the趣 of69 Ann and Telegraph Company into the heart and now we find theervice
