From the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor, your city station brings you transcribed another book and author luncheon. These luncheons are given under the auspices of the New York Herald Tribune and the American Booksellers Association. And today we'll hear from the following authors. Sir Arthur Grimble, Marjorie Kinnan-Rawlings, and Cleveland Amory. Residing, as usual, is Irita Van Doren, literary editor of the Herald Tribune. And here she is now. Our first speaker today is Sir Arthur Grimble, a visitor to us. If you were to draw a rectangle, as he explains, on the map of the Pacific, to frame every scattered speck of colony where brown men live and have the right to seek justice and law brought to them, it would contain a million and a half square miles of ocean and less than 250 square miles of land. Most of this area is a British protectorate. In 1913, with his bride, Arthur Grimble, a very young man, went as a cadet, a specially trained but inexperienced colonial official, to the Gilbert Islands. One of them we came to know during the war, you remember, Tarawa. He was on probation for three years, during which time he had to learn the language, the expertise, the law, British colonial office regulations, and even more important, the customs, superstitions, and legends of the people among whom he lived. You may think that a life lived on palm-covered atolls by moonlit lagoons among low-voiced, gentle, brown-skinned people who would be a fairly soft existence. It's true that the people were unfailingly kind and courteous. Only his fellow Britishers, senior officials, made of his life something of a protracted hazing. But a variety of duties filled his days. He found himself playing the roles of judge, umpire, doctor, a one-man legislature, storekeeper, and, though he would not call himself so, a hero. Sir Arthur spent 25 years altogether in the colonial service, the final period as governor of the Wynwood Islands. Full of honors, among them knighthood in 1938, he retired about four years ago to write and broadcast for the BBC. His present book, We Chose the Islands, is an account of those first six years in the Gilbert. Written with great charm and humor, full of fascinating anecdotes, it exemplifies an approach important to dealing with men everywhere. What I believe, or you believe, is of no account. They believe. Only that matters. I'm happy to present to you Sir Arthur Brimbley. I'm grateful to you, Mrs. Hedower, and the book, The Dwarf Alunton, both for the wonderful words you have spoken about this very simple book, and for giving me this chance of talking to this brilliant, handsome girl. I wish my wife, Olivia, who was the other half of the we, in the writing of We Chose the Island, could be here with me in New York today. But she can't. And in her absence, I'd like to be allowed to associate her name with mine, and to say, we thank you sincerely for choosing us. A United States cemetery, so the story runs, in the Pacific, was being shown round Suva, the capital town of the beautiful islands of Fiji, when he was asked for the 20th time to tell a group of local citizens what he thought of the little place. You want an honest answer to my question, he said. Well, what I really think of Suva is it's just about half as big as Arlington Cemetery, and twice as dead. But let me go back to the beginning. Olivia and I decided to get married when I was appointed to a Colonial Service cadetship in the Gilbert Islands, Central Pacific, way back in 1913. A cadet in the Colonial Service is a learner appointed on probation for three years. They told me in the Colonial Office that my job, while learning, would be in general to wash bottles for officers who were themselves merely junior bottle washers. That suited my docile temperament perfectly. And doing menial chores for everyone kept me very happy for the first two years of my service in the Gilbert. But things didn't always rattle along as merrily as that for Olivia. One of the chores I had to learn outside officers was how to build concrete systems. Water supply was always a problem in those riverless islands. I rather fenced myself at concrete work and designed a fine thousand-gallon tent to stand on high lanes just outside Olivia's kitchen window. It resisted all strains until the rainy season filled it, literally speaking, to bursting point. Then it exploded inwards through the window. Four tons of water went charging in one piece across the kitchen. Olivia was unwisely making tea cakes at the time. The roaring torrent swept her with table and all doings complete through the kitchen door onto the back door end. I rushed to her lying there, half stunned. Oh, blast, she said as she picked herself up. My tea cakes are ruined. I must hurry up and make you some more. And she did. A housewife and mother of children needed all the cheerful pluck she had to help her through life in the Gilbert Islands of those days. Admittedly, we found there all the glamour of emerald lagoons and starry nights and furnished silver beaches overleamed by murmurous coconut groves and golden-brown villages of patch nestling by the waterside that our reading of Robert Louis Stevenson had promised. But even romantics have appetites that aren't always satisfied by thin food. We did sometimes notice the lack of fresh milk, fresh butter, fresh meat. These were never attainable because the coral soil grew no grass fit for grazing. There were no luscious tropical fruits of the sort you read about. It was normal to get no home ewes and incidentally no potatoes or onions either for six or eight or ten months together because of the lack of ship. And there was no doctor who was in call for 48 weeks out of 52 because the one medical officer in the 16-year valley had to be continually on the move. But there are ways of looking at things. Though the mosquitoes were awful, malaria was unknown. There were no headhunters as in Melanesia, no secret or open racial hates as in Africa. A white man started out among the Joe Defeas of those days as an honoured chief. and his wife as a beloved goddess. However far from home or ill or forgotten by the colonial office they might feel, they knew themselves surrounded by friends wherever they went. The islandry had chosen blindly for the only reason that they were romantically remote. Were peopled by a brown race who, despite the old savagery of their wars and the grimness of their endless battles for food with the sea, were nevertheless princes in laughter and friendship, poetry and storytelling, courtesy, kindness, hospitality. We both spoke Gilbertese respectively well by the time I was stationed as a full-blown district officer on Tarawa, that same Tarawa, whose name is now immortally joined with the name of the United States Marines. The busy native village of Bejo was only half a mile away from where we lived. It was pleasant to pay visits to friends there at the happy sunset hour. The polite approach was to walk up to the side of a house and wait until someone inside said the right welcoming word. Sir and woman at Neustral de Ves whence come you at the set of sun? We come from our house there over in the west. And what will you do in this place? We will visit you. Aia. It is well. You wish to gossip with us? We wish to gossip a little. Aia. It is well. Blessings and peace. Mount, mount. At these words the young woman of the house would spread fine mats on the edge of a raised floor. We mount there with legs dangling over the side saying we pray this house may be blessed with all within. You shall be blessed answered everyone together and after that the gossip was free for all. There was a very special reason for the kindness of the Goberties towards white men. Their chief ancestral hero had been according to tradition not brown but fair-skinned like ourselves. The land of Matan where those bright demons dwelt eternally was the original fatherland of the race the lost paradise never to be found again by the children of men. Yet though there could be no return to Matan a cherished tradition said that Aou of the rising sun the greatest of all those hero gods had promised to rejoin his children one day wherever they might be with all the shining company of Matan around them. So when white men were first seen in the world nearly two hundred years ago the people cried Behold the breed of Matan has returned to them. Let us receive them as chiefs and brothers lest the ancestors be shared. Europeans have been called Imatan inhabitants of Matan ever since and treated with a proud brotherliness due to kinsmen. I think that one of the main reasons for the continuity of mutual respect and the absolute absence of race jealousies between brown and white in those islands was that from the beginning of British rule a large measure of local autonomy was given to the people. A native court consisting of elected village headmen presided over by a native magistrate was instituted on every island in the early 1890s with powers not only to administer a comprehensive code of native law but also to assess taxes hear petitions arbitrating disputes and make regulations for the good order of their own village. The district officer of my day reviewed all judgments of the court but had no initial voice in its proceedings. The effect of the truly remarkable initiative wielded by these local governments and the representative nature of their constitution was to keep alive in them quite independently of European supervision a high sense of responsibility for their decisions and to maintain among the people at large a happy sense of being enlisted on a big scale in the vital business of self-rule. Pex Britannica was a phrase too often used by imperialists to cover a multitude of citizens but it really did mean the dawn of a newer richer life for the Gilbertese. I'd like to end on a talk I had about it with an old lady of perhaps 95 years on Tarawa. She was telling me how the arrival of a British warship HMS Royalist to establish the protectorate in 1892 had stopped a local war just in time to save her husband's faction from extermination. We were in her village house sitting around on their floor mats were her son active still in his late 70s a grandson of 55 or so a great grandson and several great great grandchildren. She quick fingered still for all her years was plaiting a new sleeping mat across her knees as she talked one of her great granddaughters arrived home from another village. She broke off her tale of fighting to cry see that see that this girl arrives from walking in the north yet no man has molested her for the days of anger are done. In those days she went on death was on the right hand and the left if we wandered north we were killed or raped if we wandered south we were killed or raped how beautiful is life in our villages now that war is no more and it was on a note of triumphant serenity that she finished behold my son and my grandson these would have died with me that day if the warship had not arrived and these she pointed to the others would never have been born and here I sit today plaiting this map because of the kindness of that woman Queenie Capitoria Queen Victoria with all my generations around me to wrap me when I die alas war did return to the Gilberts a quarter of a century after she died and hers was the first village to be wiped out by the Japanese but I haven't a doubt that many of my descendants still live who bless the United States as she blessed for their new ability tisn't in the Gilberts to forget their friends hall Tower Whoo People hurting Thank you, sir. That's a lovely picture you gave us of those islands and your stewardship. You will find even more and utterly fascinating accounts of his life there in his book, We Chose the Islands. And I advise you, if you haven't already read it, to do so. Our next speaker is Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings. For people who read, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings' work needs no introduction. Three of her books, South Moon Under, The Yearling, and Cross Creek, were Book of the Month Club choices. And the present one, The Sojourner, is a literary guild selection. The Yearling won a Pulitzer Prize and one of her long, short stories, an O'Henry Award. The Yearling II, as you remember, was an exceedingly popular movie. But perhaps you would like to know something of the background from which she writes. She spent her childhood on her father's farm in Maryland. And though interesting and busy years followed, in busy and interesting cities, she was never really at home again until, in 1928, she went to Florida. There, she lived alone for 13 years on an orange grove at Cross Creek. Mrs. Rawlings has two other work and living places. One, a beach cottage on a high dune above the Atlantic Ocean near St. Augustine. The other, a small house near Van Hornsville, New York, on Pumpkin Hook Road, halfway up Mount Tom. This she bought and restored. And it was here, in long summers and at Cross Creek in the winters, that she wrote her new novel, The Sojourner, on which she began work nine years ago. The locale this time was a farm in a northern climate. And she soaked herself in the conditions of its life by revisiting her grandfather's farm in southern Michigan, by long talks with an aunt who gave her family records and memoirs, and by observing the seasonal life of farmers in upper New York State. Her northern setting is as authentic and as important as her southern one. In it, she has placed a story full of meaning and drama. A difficult birth, the death of a child in the snow, the havoc a storm can wreak on a farm, holiday separations, gypsies who camped each year on the farm, an old Indian who has seen his way of life destroyed, the thrill and beauty of the changing seasons. And always food, tantalizing food. Ace Linden, her leading character, like all of us, a sojourner on the earth, inarticulate, well-meaning, becomes a fable of man's search for understanding and brotherhood, presented with compassion and great beauty. I'm happy to introduce to you the author of The Sojourner, a distinguished novelist, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings. I was so fascinated listening to Mrs. Van Doren, I forgot she was talking about me. You know, I think the question that is most often asked of novelists is, how much of such and such a book of yours is fact, and how much is fiction? And is this or that character of whom you've written true, or did you make him up? It's very difficult for the writer himself to know where fact ends and fiction begins. He may think he begins with a true prototype and intends to draw quite a faithful picture, but if he does a remotely artistic job, he has to adapt that character to the story as it develops and to the fictional characters who appear. Again, he may think that he is creating a totally imaginary character and little traits of someone he's known perhaps long ago come in so that someone says to his amazement, why, that is somebody that I know. What seems to happen is that the writer uses everything he knows, reads, every person he's ever met in some way or another to filtrate through his consciousness and his subconsciousness, ending with something that is certainly new to him. It's almost like a process of osmosis. I've forgotten the exact chemistry of that, but I know that what goes through the film isn't the same thing that comes out. And when I told Mrs. Van Doren what I'd like to talk about, she thought that you might be interested in my giving you some concrete examples from my own books of the relation of fact to fiction instead of just generalizing. my first published stuff was a set of sketches or vignettes within a year or so after I'd moved to Florida. One or two were made up out of whole cloth but had the local background. Others derived from actual incidents and true people. There was a lapse in time before the old Scribner's magazine who had accepted them finally published them and I returned from an operation in the hospital to Cross Creek to find that the little sketches were out and there was a tempest in a teapot going on in the Florida papers. And the newspaper in the town nearest me had an enraged, an outraged editorial on the subject. This intruder had come into their beautiful country and had written of totally non-existent people. The editor said that undoubtedly this woman had met perhaps the Appalachian Highlanders and was writing about them and had the audacity to place them in a Florida setting. All while this was going on I was lying convalescent on a couch on my veranda and a non-existent mother of a non-existent character was riding up and down the country road all day and putting notes in my mailbox to the effect that she was going to come in and horsewit me to death for writing about her Harry. In my first novel, South Foot Under, I was head over heels in trouble because of fact. I was so enamored of the backwoods Florida country and of really marvelous people with a pithy and picturesque speech that was really Chaucerian times that I put too much of it in. I told them episodes that I thought were fascinating. It was only when that superb editor, Maxwell Perkins, read and criticized my first draft that I found out what I'd done. He said, he wrote me, we hadn't met in person at that time, you will either have to do a lot of thinking and go very hard at work again and write a real novel. If you don't do that, just sit down and do some articles for the National Geographic. Well, I saw the point and I threw out episode after episode. It was very dear to my heart because I had no artistic place in the book at all. And I think that was one of the most vital lessons I ever learned from Mr. Perkins was to subordinate your fact of fiction when it isn't suitable or artistic. My second novel, Golden Apples, as far as I know, was made of entirely imaginary characters. I wanted to give the opposite side of the South Moon under picture where all the characters were in harmony with their environment. I knew that from about 1870 until the Big Freeze from 1894 to 95, there had been a great many so-called remittance men, particularly from England. You have probably heard of them, Sir Arthur, who were sent to Florida with money to keep them going. Of course, there were a great many Englishmen who came who had capital and who were not in disgrace in any way. But I conceived of such a young remittance man coming from England and seeing the Florida beauty as a thing of horror because it was so different and so strange and because he was so unhappy. I had never known any English people in Florida, certainly not such a young Englishman. I did go to England to meet as many young Englishmen as possible and to compare the southern part of England with Florida for climate so that I could see through such a character's eyes how Florida might look to him. When the book was published, I had three letters from different people saying, this is outrageous, I don't know where you got your facts, but it was cruel to tell the story of grandfather or uncle Harry or whoever it was. My book, Cross Creek, was, aside from random philosophizing, you might say, was almost entirely factual. It was a story of my own life in that small community and the story of the neighbors and the animals and the seasons. And here, I got myself in trouble with fiction. I had known very casually a catch dog, as they call him, a work dog in Florida. And, um, I really didn't know him very well, but my imagination carried me away and I decided to make an awfully good story of it. So it had a most tragic ending whereby I, in order to train a valuable young dog through gravel at this dog who had accompanied me on these more or less mythical walks and had become my buddy. Well, I was newly married to my husband, Norton Baskin, when the book came out. And, uh, he's usually the, uh, most pleasant soul in the world and he was very sulky for days, hardly spoke. Finally, he burst out, you threw rocks at that poor dog. and I hadn't and, uh, I decided that if I were going to tell a story on myself, I'd be a little more cautious next time. In the yearling, the question I, I was asked most often was, was there a real Jody? No, there was not. Uh, the book derived from an experience that I had as a girl of about his age or perhaps younger when I experienced just such an April day and was overwhelmed with the beauty of it. I, I think as we grow older we don't realize how sensitive children can be to beauty. And even as I luxuriated in the day, uh, a cloud came over me, a little sadness and I had a prescience that someday I would be older, I would be grown up and things might not be quite so beautiful again. And I knew that sooner or later I should write that story in some way or other. And as I continued to live in Florida it was natural to tell it against the scrub country backwards setting. And the boy Jody himself, I might say, was made from the memories of two very old men. I lived over in the scrub country and hunted and fished and trapped and did some quite illicit things such as helping run moonshine. It's all over now. And as the two old hunters and fishermen told me of their boyhood, I could, I could see the, the young boy come to life in that country. again, in beginning to write my present book, The Sojourner, I was in trouble because of fact. And I think that writers must often feel an impulsion, a compulsion to write of something that they don't know because they don't know it or of a character that they don't know because they don't know him. Coming up on the train from Florida the other day, I was reading the New Atlantic Monthly. There's an essay by Thomas Mann there, written by request, as to how and why he came to write The Magic Mountain, which I suppose is his acknowledged masterpiece. And he had just such an experience as Hans Ascorp, wasn't that his name? Thomas Mann's wife was sent to a Swiss sanatorium for tuberculosis. And he visited her for three weeks. And he had bronchitis before he left. The doctors examined him and said, oh yes, he had a soft spot on one line and he must become a patient. He didn't believe them. He didn't do it. He went away. And he wrote, if I had followed their advice, perhaps like Hans Ascorp, if I had that name correctly, I should still be there today. Instead, I wrote The Magic Mountain. The situation, the people of the sadness, the sadness, and challenged him. He didn't know it, so he made the story to satisfy himself. And my story, The Sojourner, derives from a grandfather whom I didn't know. I saw him last, shortly before his death, in 1925, when he was about 84 years old. I realized I'd never known him. I hadn't seen much of him. Some little thing that he said made me feel that there was quite a person behind this very silent, stern, old man. something sensitive. Something sensitive. It haunted me. Let's see, 1925, I forget how many years ago that was. But in 1943, suddenly, the picture of the young man came to life, and I realized I hadn't been able to begin the book before, because the old man, as I had seen him, stood in my way. I had to forget him entirely and adjust myself to a totally different young man. I don't know whether this is a sad ending or not. There is a daughter living of that grandfather to whom I sent the book. She wrote back, well, you certainly put a halo around poor old dad's head. She said, you couldn't be more mistaken about his character. She said, he was the passionate and impatient one. She said, I won't put it in the letter, but if I see you again, the things I could tell you about that old man. At first, I was really staggered, and then I decided, no, this is wonderful. In one instance, at least, I've been successful in translating fact into fiction. Thank you. You are listening to the New York Herald Tribune Book and Author Luncheon on WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM. Now, Irita Van Doren. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rawlings. I don't think it's really important to your readers whether it's fact or fiction. They just enjoy it. Thank you. Cleveland Amory, our last speaker today, set the pace for himself, as you remember, in that amusing, gossipy, highly irreverent history proper Bostonians. A novel followed, Hometown, a satire on the publishing world, and now he has returned to social satire on the grand scale. For the last resort is a blow-by-blow account of the great social playgrounds of the past century. Names are named and indexed, over 3,000 of them. The gathering places of the nearly rich, of the intellectual elite, they were pretty rich, too. Of the sporting rich, of the social climbing rich, the common denominator is always and everywhere wealth. At the turn of the century, when automobiles came to Newport, one of the sights was to watch John Jacob Astor, Harry Payne, Whitney, Mrs. Stavis and Fish, and others attired in dusters, veils, goggles, gonfitted gloves, and long-visored cats, racing madly at about 10 miles an hour. You will find here Mrs. Belmont in her ardent suffrage days, advising a discouraged young suffragette, brace up, my dear, just pray to God, she will help you. And you will come across Wilson Meisner at Palm Beach with the aphorism that has always pleased me, if you copy from one author, it's plagiarism, if you copy from two, it's research. You will learn the origin of Saratoga chips and the tuxedo dinner jacket of the word millionia and of the term the 400. And lest you think only madness and frivolity went on at the resorts, you will discover how the Federal Reserve System was drawn up with great secrecy in 10 days, only one out for hunting, at Jekyll Island. Palm Springs, Southampton, Saratoga, Palm Beach, Tuxedo, Bar Harbor, Newport, Hot Springs, Warm Springs, and more, you will find in the last results with their fashions and fumes, their skeletons, their scandals, all told with a combination, as his publishers say, of disarming impudence and lively good humor. And now I have the pleasure of introducing to you the author of this vastly entertaining piece of social history, Peter and Amy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Van Dorn, Serafa Grimble, Marjorie Kinnon-Rawlings, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow Stevensonians. I met my friend Cecil Beaton shortly, who was about to go off on a lecture tour, and I said that I had a talk of my own today, and I thought I'd get a helpful hint from him, and I said, Cecil, what do you talk about when you lecture? And he said, they really don't care, you know, so long as I'm snobbish. It wasn't a great deal of help for me, but I do think you would like to know a few questions that I ask everybody at these resorts. I tried to choose a relatively important group of dowagers, grand dames as I call them in the resort, and at these various places, and ask them the same questions. I said in each case that I was doing a book called The Last Resort, and that it was on the subject of these old places, and I wondered what to them was the biggest change from the old days. What was the largest difference in their way of life, and the new way of life? It was always a discouraging picture from their point of view, but I want to give you a few of the answers I received. Miss Mabel Choke of Norm Kegg in the Berkshue taught the greatest differences between the old days and nowadays with the automobile and the telephone. But also, she said, they've taken down all those lovely old picket fences and hedges, and everybody has those awful new chairs with no hind legs. Mrs. Post McMurtry of Narragansett believed that the world had passed into a kind of sewer-saworum age. Why, she said, you don't even dare open your mouth in your own house. Mrs. Herbert Pell of Pellbridge and Newport mourned the passing of the tea table. Among other things, she judged her daughters bold by this medium. Gentlemen of good manners, she said, took two lumps. They craved sugar. The others, of course, got it from alcohol. Mrs. Charles Mitchell of Tuxedo, now of Southampton, believed that the trouble was with the younger generation, and that the trouble here was that the young girls have such cross-expression. It's because they don't wear hats, she said. We had lovely expressions under our hats. Mrs. Henry Bidleston of Narragansett and Newport mourned particularly the passing of the chaperone. The mothers themselves have abdicated, she said. They're just jeunes fillies. What little chaperonage is left, for mercy's sake, is left to the poor fathers. Miss Alice Van Rensselaer at Bar Harbor believed that the trouble was primarily one of morals. The granddaughter of the girl who wouldn't show her instep, she said, now shows her step-ins. Mrs. Carmen Messmore of East Hampton concluded the discussion. Why, even I, she said, can remember when it was considered fast to play net at tennis. I was not entirely satisfied with these answers, and I felt that a certain amount of research was necessary. I went at least three times to Newport, to Bar Harbor, to Tuxedo Park, to Southampton, to White Sulphur Springs, to Saratoga, to Palm Beach, and to many more, as far as Palm Springs and California. The stories that appealed to me most were perhaps those stories that had to do with art. I found that society had taken on a sort of new defensiveness, and that now society was primarily a matter of doing things for charity or doing things for culture. But in the old days, there was a refreshing lack of this new defensiveness, and I found it sort of fun to write about. Perhaps the most extraordinary social development in this line was the Building of Arts, which Bar Harbor promoted in 1906. This was an extraordinary undertaking. They built a Greek temple out in the woods, and all the Damraj, the Pulitzers, and very many other distinguished Bar Harborites were very active in this undertaking. The New York Philharmonic went up on occasion. The Boston Symphony went up on occasion. And this was attended with much fanfare, the opening of this. Now, in the unfortunate Bar Harbor fire, the Building of Arts was destroyed. But it occurred to me to ask several of these old timers, what was the net result of the Building of Arts from the period of 1906 to 1947, which is quite a long time. And I asked one of these fellows. And he said, well, I'll tell you. He said, the Building of Arts was meant to be for the benefit of writers and painters and musicians. And he said, now he said, I can't think of very many writers in hell, and I can't think of very many painters. But he said, we did have one musician up here. Whenever he heard a piece of music he liked, he went home and wrote it. There's another music story that appealed to me, perhaps the most of any. In the days of Mrs. Seward Webb's famous string quartet, I'm sure many of you remember this wonderful organization. This used to play in Palm Beach every year, and Mrs. Seward Webb was responsible for this concert. But unfortunately, one year she was unable to undertake this concert. And the honor of promoting the event fell to Mr. James P. Donahue, husband of Jesse Woolworth. Mr. Donahue is not ideally equipped in the realm of music for this undertaking, but his enthusiasm made up for his lack of equipment. He had already distinguished himself, as a matter of fact, at Southampton, where he had a large house. And he was one day taking a great many people through this house, as was his custom. And he took them through the various rooms, but they became a little tired of hearing the various advantages of this house. And after a certain length in the tour, they wanted to go play golf. This was very disappointing to him, because he wanted to show them the rest of the house. And as they started out the door, he said, But you've got to see the dining room. All the silver is gold. To this man was entrusted Mrs. Seward Webb's Forteck, and no one could have shown greater enthusiasm. He decked his, not only his ballroom where the concert was to take place, but the entire house in white orchids. And he was personally making a last minute inspection tour when he was informed that the musicians, of whom he expected so much, had arrived and were assembling the piano. He rushed downstairs and came into the grand ball. He stopped short in his tracks. What he exclaimed, in a voice no member of that quartet ever forgot, Are there only four of you? A parallel of that story is perhaps one of my personal favorites in The Last Resorts, which is the story of Mrs. Stoatsbury in those sad days of Palm Beach, when the Stoatsbury fortunes were not at their previous high. It was estimated at a hundred million dollars at one time. And during the sad days of the Depression, things were very hard. And she wrote a letter to her friend Mrs. Kent, who was visiting in Kennebunkport, was visiting the author Booth Tarkington up there. Mrs. Stoatsbury complained at length of the change in time, that she was having to sell some of her paintings, and things were not what they were. Down at the bottom, she put a memorable post-script. Tell dear Mr. Tarkington, she wrote, I am re-reading all his old books. I can't afford any new ones. Of all the individual portraits in The Last Resorts, probably my favorite was Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish. Her quickness of wit and her repartee are still remembered by all resorts. There is only one reference to her today in the public library, and that is to her picture. But I believe that I've tried to do in this book a fairly complete biography of her. My own favorite story is a very simple one, which occurred outside of crossways in Newport, that remarkable house that she built there. When she was standing on the windy portcourt chair, and a gust of wind came by, and she coughed like. And her husband, with true courtesy, said, may I get you something for your throat, my dear? Yes, you can, replied Mrs. Fish, that diamond and pearl necklace I saw yesterday at Tiffany's. All stories are not so touching, but there are some in this book that I think that you would find so. The late Joseph Choate of the Berkshires, perhaps the most remarkable and unknown wit that this country has had, was asked in his late years after he had been ambassador to England and had had all kinds of worldwide honors, he was asked at a small dinner of his Berkshire friends, who of all the people he could be in the world, of anybody, if he could not be himself, would he most like to be? He thought a moment and then said, Mrs. Choate's second husband. The reactions of a book of this sort are varied in nature. When you write about real people, and there are a great many of them in this book, and they are named and indexed, you expect a certain amount of trouble. Trouble came first to me in the last resorts in the form of the report from the Harper and Brother lawyers. The Harper lawyers are very good, and they've had long experience with this sort of work, and this book did not discourage them unduly. However, their report discouraged me to a great deal, to a great extent. They questioned, for example, my use of the word siren, which appeared several times in the book, for various social charmers varying from Mrs. T. Markle Robertson in Southampton, to Countess Durellis at Palm Beach. Reference is made, they said, to your use of the word siren for these ladies. Siren means enticing to disaster, and is hence to be regarded as disparaging. I looked up my reference to Countess Durellis, and I found the following sentence. When John S. Phipps, recently trapped right on the manicured lawn of his Casa Bendita at Palm Beach, a huge bobcat, the event was celebrated in much the same manner as the landing of a new husband on the part of the resort's ever-popular social siren, Countess Dolly, Harlan, Hemingway, Fleischman, O'Brien, Durellis. I felt that in deference to the lawyer's report, I should remove the word siren, and I removed the word. Not always, though, was I so gentle with the lawyers, and in another case, I decided that the last resort had better get along with the way I had put it rather than the lawyers wanted it. This was a case of the reference to Frank Costello. I received this report on Mr. Costello. Percement to your reference on page 47 to Frank Costello as a noted resort gambler, i.e., Costello's confiding to intimates that he wished to set up a research foundation to inquire into the family founding forebears of the Astors, Vanderbilt, Whitney's, etc., with intent to prove that such forebears were as partial to financial legend of man and social skullduggery as he was, and hence, conversely, that he should be entitled to as high a position in society as they. It didn't quite say this court finds, but it didn't find it a good reference. But I decided that Mr. Costello was pretty well occupied, and I think he's going to let this book go. Among other things, he's in jail. References made for the third report, to the repeated references, actually, to the coming to Narragansett Pier of the Wideners and Wanamakers and other iniquities. This is considered dangerous, and any Widener, apparently, may sue me for being called an iniquity. But I don't think they're going to, because I think it's hard to prove in court that you're an iniquity. The final one that interested me quite a lot was the story. References made to your story of Palm Beach, this report continues, in which, in the last resort, you say that Alexander Phillips once admitted that though in the manner of lifelong resort bachelors he had experienced a good deal of success in the societies of Newport and Bar Harbor, he had never been as fortunate at Palm Beach. I did not drink, he explained briefly, and I had no wife to exchange. Your attention is called to the fact that here is clearly implication that success in the society of Palm Beach required drinking and exchanging wives. Hence, conceivably, you have opened yourself to legal action on the part of all definite and published members of Palm Beach society. Well, by this time, I guess I had taken on all of Palm Beach. But I decided that the lawyers weren't going to change this one on me either, because I checked further on this matter of marital happiness. And there is a lady sitting in this room today who gave me one answer. She is a distinguished member, albeit an ex-member of the Society of Tuxedo Park, Southampton, and various other resorts. She is a young, charming lady. And I asked her, as a sort of a question when we were talking about difficulties one day, I said if she knew any happy marriages among her friends. No, she said, but I do know a few armed truces. This is quite a commentary, but a very charming cousin of my own, who has married early and often. And it's been a distinguished resorter, probably put it better, when at a recent Hobsand wedding, she was chosen to be a bridesmaid. And at the wedding breakfast, she gave her toast. Well, she said, with a sort of devil-may-care attitude, often a bride, but never a bridesmaid. I decided that I would gladly defend marital irresponsibility at the resort. Finally, however, the lawyers' last item in connection with their report on the last resorts was really disturbing. On page 29, Mr. Amory, they said, you make reference to a statement purported to be quoted from Charles May Oler, alleged father of the late Michael Strange, alleged first wife of the late John Barrymore. The quotation reads as follows, no man, said the late Charles May Oler, ever made over a million dollars honestly. Warning is hereby given, and you're advised, that since almost everyone referred to in your book made over a million dollars, there is a conceivable, if remote possibility, that everybody could sue you. That was the final straw, 3,000 of them. But seriously, I think that those reports gave me some idea of the various ways that a book in which you do mention names and place places is taken on the part. I think one of the most discouraging things is the reaction closest to home. Bar Harbor was perhaps the closest resort to me. My grandfather was there in the early days, and it meant the most to me. For one thing, there was a man there whom nobody remembers anymore, whose name was Chet Sprague. He ran a paint shop there, and I knew him as a child, and he was without question the most engaging fellow I ever knew. One summer, he had a little mongrel dog, a male. The leading Bar Harbor Dowager of that era had a small Pekingese, a female. During the course of the summer, the unfortunate happened, and the Pekingese was compromised. To the Bar Harbor Dowager, in these declining years, this represented the last straw. She summoned Mr. Chet Sprague from the paint shop, and he came into this place, and he came into this elaborate marble hallway, and he stood there with his cap in his hands, very politely, and the lady swept down the stairs, and from the landing, she started. She said that this trouble represented to her the final straw in every way. She said that it symbolized not only the degeneracy of dogs, but of humans as well, of society, of America, even on an international scale. She was going full tilt on this subject when Chet Sprague just turned slightly like I'm doing now. And this was too much for her. I'm not through with you yet, she said. Where are you going? Chet politely turned back. I'm going home, he said, to ask my dog if he'll marry your dog. The reaction, actually, of this book, I will close with just one letter that I received that, to me, seemed the most interesting of them all. This is perhaps a typical resort reaction of the people actually mentioned in the last resort. On page 34, this lady wrote me on the date of November 20th, you said that my father, the late Thomas Lawson, had a baronial cottage on Cape Cod, in which he endeavored to carry on, as you put it, the old way of life. I quote you further. Thereby, he had a little housekeeping cottage, in which, under professional instruction, his four daughters were taught cottage-keeping. When each of these daughters could cook a large, formal dinner for the entire family, even including making the bread and butter, she received $100,000. Where on earth did you ever get such a story? Actually, there is some truth in it, but it's exaggerated since Fanny Farmer taught me to cook, and I personally paid for the lesson. Please answer this immediately. My righteous indignation may have helped the sale of the last resort, but I assure you I am, to put it mildly, extremely annoyed with you. I wrote her back on the date of November 30th. Thank you very much for your letter. Welcome to any author as a reader who takes time out to comment, even if unfavorably. I am sorry there is some inaccuracy in connection with my report that you received $100,000 for baking a loaf of bread, but I still cannot understand where the inaccuracy was. Could you let me know as soon as possible as I may correct it for the next edition? A long time went by, however, and then just a few days ago I received this letter. Dear Mr. Amos, since your letter of November 30th, a great deal has happened. Two articles have been written in the Oregonian about me. I have been asked to speak at our local literary club, and then just this last week radio station KEX interviewed me. They asked me about the story, and I found myself telling all about it. Evidently the interview was quite successful, and now I have been asked to do a whole program. I shall be on the air every Monday. I guess in your next edition of The Last Resort, you had better not bother about changing the story after all. Thank you very much. Your city station has just brought you, transcribed, the book and author luncheon from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor. These luncheons are given under the auspices of the New York Herald Tribune and the American Booksellers Association. Today you heard Sir Arthur Grimble, author of We Chose the Islands, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, author of The Sojourner, and Cleveland Amory, author of The Last Resorts. Irita Van Doren, literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune, presided. Audience member, director of the Purdue National Museum, served in New York, which Columbia,etiapic foremosts to redund descent by the university in area, although we appreciate that you vaccination boards andジャ administration to run as well. año Gay partners are tuned for questions of the form Quando Libertarian�, sama Center of at Wayne City Hall, which are the two degrees the현ated légers, here you will be used for performance and is outlined as well. Thank youolie, I do believe it.