Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild speaking to you from the Great Hall of the Cooper Union, where we are about to continue with our program on fear and anxiety. The subject for discussion tonight is fear of criticism and rejection. Fear of criticism and rejection. And our speaker is that famous psychiatrist, William G. Niederland. Dr. Niederland comes to us by way of a very broad background in Germany, Philippines, Florida. And I'd just like to state that in Brooklyn, he has the finest reputation of any of the speakers appearing at the Brooklyn Academy, where he has conducted for a very, quite a long period of time, a very well-known series of lectures in psychiatry and psychology. Just incidentally, he has also given some awfully nice lectures right here in the Great Hall of the Cooper Union. I'd also like to mention that Dr. Niederland, in addition to being a practicing psychiatrist, is also the author of Man Made Plague, a primer of neurosis. And he is also going to appear in a book, Women, Sex and Society. That book is the Cooper Union Forum series of lectures on the program of women. That appeared, I guess, last year here in the Great Hall. And we certainly hope to have that book out early next year. And I just wanted to mention that that is also one of his accomplishments, that he is going to be appearing in that book. All right, then. The Fear of Criticism and Rejection. Dr. William Niederland. Dr. Niederland. Professor Fairchild, ladies and gentlemen, those among you who have attended my lectures and addresses at this venerable institution for a number of years, remember, or at least may remember, that at times I spoke to you about a particular interesting patient by the name of Tom, whom I presented to you as an Irishman called Tom. A patient, you may remember, who was about 50, 55 years old, and about 10 years ago, when he had reached that age, walked into the outpatient department of a New York hospital with some vague, indistinct complaints for which he wanted to check up. He got this check up by the doctors there at the outpatient department of the hospital. And while they were examining him, they found an extremely interesting thing about him, which he had kept secret, or almost secret, at least he had not talked about. Namely, they found in him an individual who, for some unfortunate circumstances in his early life, could not feed himself in the same way as you and I feed ourselves, namely through the mouth. Namely, you may remember, or at least those who attended those previous lectures, that I told you that this patient Tom had swallowed very hot clam chowder as a boy of nine, had burned his esophagus, and the tube which connects the mouth, the oral cavity with the stomach, had burned it so completely, that in order to keep him alive and to feed him at all, he had to be operated in a way that his abdominal wall was opened, a so-called gastric fistula, his stomach fistula, was established there by the surgeons. And a rubber tube, and a rubber tube, instead of the destroyed esophagus, was used by him, which led right immediately into the stomach opening, done by, established there by surgical intervention. And he had adjusted himself, and he had adjusted himself quite well, on the whole fairly well, to this deplorable situation. He used to eat and drink in the way that he masticated, he chewed the food in his mouth, and since he couldn't bring it down into his stomach directly, he brought it into a little funnel, and connected with a rubber tube, which then brought the food right down to his stomach. He had adjusted himself, indeed, so well to this sad condition, that he even didn't speak any more about it, and occasionally he enjoyed also a glass beer or two, by taking the glass into his mouth, the beer, and then letting it in that way pass into his stomach. This man, when he came to that hospital, proved to be a treasure house of medical psychiatric information, so much indeed, that immediately on the spot, he was made a member of the staff, was given a little job in the laboratory there, in the research laboratory as a helper, and while he was doing there the cleaning and helping and weighing and the other duties of his job in the laboratories, the doctors examined his reactions, especially his emotional reactions to various events in his life, by peering through the opening of his abdominal wall right into the stomach, and discovering there the emotional clashes, or the results of the emotional conflagrations which were going on there, when Tom was, for instance, excited, or worried, or felt miserable, or felt very happy, and by peering through a sort of miniature telescope right into that opening and into Tom's stomach, they could see how the effects, the emotional effects of those events in his life reflected themselves in the stomach behavior. And what they found was of extreme interest to them and to Tom himself. I cannot go into all the details about these findings. A whole book has been written about Tom's stomach and the findings in that interesting stomach. But coming now to our present topic, fear of criticism and rejection, while observing Tom and the behavior of his stomach under criticism, when he felt rejected, when he felt criticized, they found that the stomach reflected this criticism in a very serious and very intense and violent way. You know that, among other things, the human stomach produces a so-called gastric juice, a very necessary ingredient in the digestion of food and for the healthy functioning of the whole gastrointestinal apparatus. Well, while Tom was working there in the laboratory and, for instance, just cleaning the glasses which had been used for laboratory purposes, some of the researchers came in and one said to the other, these glasses are very poorly cleaned. They said so very loudly so that Tom, standing next by, would hear it without knowing that this was done for scientific purposes. The glasses were perhaps well cleaned. And he felt unjustly accused. He felt badly criticized that someone should criticize his work and say they are poorly cleaned. And a few minutes after this had been said, again, through that lighted telescope-like instrument, the behavior of his stomach was observed. And it was found that the production of gastric juice had stopped. That because of the anger, the resentment, the feeling Tom had had about being unjustly accused, being criticized, being subjected to unjust criticism, not only he himself felt angry, but his stomach too, and reacted in this way by striking, so to speak, by stopping its movement, its functioning, and in this way impairing the process of digestion. Well, many such experiments were done, and many such findings were elicited, of course. What does it all mean? What does it all mean? It means, first of all, that the fear of criticism and rejection, if aroused at a specific moment in a specific individual, does not only affect his mind, does not only bring about an emotional reaction, for instance, of anger, of resentment, of feeling of upset, but at the same time, simultaneously, a physical reaction occurs in the body. And here, for instance, as could be observed, the stomach reacts to such a personal injury, or something which is perceived as an injury, as a personal insult, also the physical part of the human being, namely, his organism, and one of the most important parts of his organism, namely, the digestive system, replies to it, rebels against this criticism in the described way. Well, after these theoretical, somewhat academic, explanations, you will also understand what a tremendous practical significance such findings have. for instance, when little Paul, or little Charlie, at the breakfast table, or lunch, and supper, and so forth, doesn't eat, and his mother, or his father, gets after him, and says, you have to eat, you must eat, criticizes him, what will it do to him? He may perhaps obey the order given by father and mother. He will, in many cases, obey. He may also rebel. But anyway, if the meal to him is administered, is given in an atmosphere of nagging, of criticizing, of rejecting, of domineering his actions, even the food he will take in order to please them, or because he is afraid of punishment, will not help him so much. The process of digestion, the process of food absorption, will be interfered with, in many cases, very intensely, as in the case of, the described case of Tom, and the effect will not only be emotionally, but also physically, ultimately, deleterious. However, a still more important question is, of course, how does this particular sensitivity to fear and criticism, this particular type of anxiety, which expresses itself so violently, mentally, and physically, in these ways, how does that develop? how does it come about that some individuals can take any sort of criticism, can just shrug it off, or accept it very well, and use it for constructive purposes, namely, for self-improvement, and self-education, where so many other persons almost go to pieces, when it comes to criticism, or counterattack violently, or feel tremendously disturbed, upset, and for hours, sometimes for days, and weeks, unhappy, and miserable about it. As I said before, how does this particular type of anxiety develop? It is well to remember in this connection that, generally speaking, all anxiety springs from the feeling of lack of power, from a feeling of helplessness, from a feeling of being lost, being helpless, weaponless, and almost done for. You can beautifully see this relationship, this feeling of helplessness, this complete lack of power, which is the bottom from which anxiety springs. You can beautifully understand that when you think back of your own early days, and all those magnificent fairy tales we used to read and love when we were children about dwarves and giants. You remember the fascination we all experienced when we read those things about the little dwarves, whatever the dwarves were, how they had an eternal struggle to conduct against the giants, who usually are described as monsters without brains, stupid, clumsy, whereas the little helpless, weak dwarves by pure intelligence and brain power in those fairy tales usually succeed in coming out the victors in the struggle between those monsters and them. Well, those who are psychoanalytically trained to some extent will not be too much surprised if I tell you, if I tell them that these fairy tales really reflect nothing but the eternal struggle between children and parents, between the little ones and the grown-ups. And some of you parents may feel not so happy to hear that at times when your child feels hostile and angry and unjustly criticized by you, this child looks at you as one of those giants, those dangerous, attacking, clumsy monsters, and seeing himself as one of the little dwarves, helpless, suppressed, downtrodden, weak, and only being unable to survive by sheer cunning, by intelligence, by using all sorts of slyness and clever approaches in order to ward off the grim of the attacking adults, of the grown-ups, by whom he sees himself so often threatened and endangered. This age-old picture mankind has laid down in those fairy tales which exist more or less in the same form among all nations at all periods and ages. This specific fear and anxiety of being attacked, being accused, being trodden, trampled upon, being criticized and rejected by the grown-ups, develops on the basis, as we know today, of three or four psychological factors which constitute the breeding ground, a sort of hotbed, in which this particular type of fear strives and develops. the first of these factors is the one I already tried to portray in this pictural way using the fairy tale approach. The first factor is the early feeling of living in a dangerous, hostile, callous world dominated by unjust and unrighteous people. This is perhaps the basic factor which produces anxiety, namely the early established feeling of living in such a hostile, callous and dangerous cold world in which no warmth or very little warmth, very little kindliness, very little understanding, but only domination, callousness and rejection prevail. Well, this feeling at times assails all of us, grown-ups and youngsters alike, but if we as parents unwittingly but still very strongly contribute to increase that feeling by not establishing a warm, kindly, friendly, love-filled atmosphere in our home, but an atmosphere of hatred, of anger, of tension, well, then you understand how this early feeling of finding oneself in a hostile and rejecting world, which anyway is unfortunately rather close to present-day reality with all our materialism and the overvaluation of material values, if it is still increased by irrational, cold colors, rejecting and criticizing, nagging behavior on the part of the parents, then this feeling becomes deeply ingrained in the child and forms the first seed, so to speak, out of which the anxiety, the later anxiety, the fear of criticism and rejection develops. The second factor is given by frequent experiences of early rejection in life anyway, realistic experiences where we were rejected, where we were maltreated physically or mentally, where we had hard and miserable times at home, in school, on the courtyard, and were exposed to the attacks of the bullies surrounding the little child, and these early experiences when they become ingrained in the emotional apparatus of the human being form a second seed for the later formation of fear of rejection and criticism. Allied to the factor I just mentioned about these early experiences is what we call in psychology the feeling of difference as a third factor. This feeling of difference requires perhaps a minute or two or two of elaboration because although well-known and often experienced, it is not always so readily understood in its implications. A feeling of difference arises when the child feels himself to be in some way different from others almost of a different species as it were. This may be produced by physical deformities, intellectual inferiorities, or superiorities, or by a difference in social and economic background, a difference in race, color, creed, religion, or nationality. When such a feeling of difference is where one child, let us say, in a school group, feels himself completely or almost completely isolated because he belongs to a different race, color, nationality, or speaks a different accent, or something like that, and all the others form a more or less uniform group, he himself, or perhaps with one or two others in the same position, forming a minority group, or being completely isolated, then this feeling of difference can become extremely powerful, very disconcerting, and deeply disturbing, and can become a factor in the later development of such anxiety about being rejected, and being not accepted. The next factor is the psychological factor, of course, is the establishment in the human mind of a peculiar oversensitivity, or perhaps better expressed, of an oversensitive mentality, which quite appropriately has been called the mentality of the chronic injustice collector. this is an extremely widespread and not always conscious mental mechanism, where the person goes around, so to speak, collecting injustices done to him, or not even done to him, but he feels, he perceives them as done to him. Generally speaking, these are the people who so easily take offense when non-was meant, who do not tolerate any fault finding with them, who never or very rarely admit a fault, and usually are over critical of others, but at the same time craving affection and love of these very others by whom they feel criticized or whom they attack. And when this love and affection is not forthcoming from these others, they very often become aggressive against the others and attack them. You see how very involved this can become such a mental mechanism and its entanglement in the psychoanalytic work is very often an extremely laborious and prolonged procedure. Now, such chronic injustice collectors use often typical linguistic expressions and from these they can be easily recognized. they say, for instance, I am always ill at ease in the presence of others or I will not speak for fear of saying the wrong thing or it is hard for me to make friends or just a simple statement as this I am always self conscious. or I am conscious of every movement I make or I always anticipate the worst. In this way, the chronic injustice collectors also adding to themselves the title of chronic warriors. They always anticipate the worst like chronic warriors do. well, how have they become such specifically organized human beings that they react in this particular way to environmental events, for instance, taking offense when no offense is meant. exhibiting in this way a strong oversensitivity and an exaggerated vulnerability, as we call it, being extremely vulnerable to all outward influences, good as bad ones, as they occur in this world. And in order to get you more familiar with the setting in which such disturbances, emotional disturbances, develop among human beings, let me present to you now, after Tom's case, with which you have been familiar now, those who come here regularly for years, let me present to you another case, which gives portraits a rather classic setting, in which such disturbances develop. Mrs. IQ, aged 40, was referred by her brother, who said he was driven to desperation by her constant criticism and general nastiness, as he expressed it. He said that his sister always had a sharp tongue and that she was irritably depressed and very emotional. She had been this way for many years. The patient was seen by the psychiatrist and it turned out to be that the patient was a fairly intelligent woman who not only admitted her brother's accusations, but complained of being aware of and yet unable to prevent her actions. She was conscious of the irritability of others and the displeasure of those whom she visited. And though wanting to be liked, she could not forbear from making cutting remarks and insisting upon her own opinions. She had one younger brother. Her father was a rather wealthy and prominent man who could afford the number of luxuries, while her mother was called by her stingy to the point of returning for cash the gifts given her by her husband. The patient loved but envied her brother who, though younger, quickly drew ahead of her in school. Both by implication and directly, she had been told that she was dumb and ugly. She wanted to be admired and respected and having set her goal as brilliance and beauty was attempting to achieve an impossibility. Her feelings of inferiority were accentuated by her mother's constant urgings and criticism. The mother also was embarrassed at the backwardness and awkwardness of her offspring, as mother always said. She was constantly correcting and nagging the patient. The patient, whose ego was being constantly attacked in this way by her mother, sought to solve her pride by finding fault with others. Eliano, for instance, received good grades in school because she was teacher's pet. Florence had boyfriends because obviously she was a hussy, et cetera. So uneasy and unhappy was the patient that the feeling of inferiority manifested itself constantly. She not only became irritable and hypercritical, attacking and counterattacking her mother, her mother-in-law, her sister-in-laws and everybody else, but she began also to boast what she could do and how good she was in an effort to defend herself against the constant criticisms which in early adult life had begun to emanate mainly from her own conscience. An arid blow which she had never forgotten was the marriage arranged by her family who, despairing of her ever finding her husband, enticed a young salesman in the father's store to marry her. The marriage resulted in two children, was unhappy and was a constant reminder to the patient that she had married beneath what she considered her station in life. she began to grieve over her lot and spoke constantly of her disappointments. As a result of this reaction pattern, she became emotional, developed trembling of the hands, poor sleep, and violent temper outbursts. Ironically enough, her elder daughter was a mirror image of the patient in looks as well as in thought. And to the observer, it was evident the daughter was subjected by the patient to the same merciless criticism she had been exposed to as a child herself. Now, this is such an unfortunate but extremely frequent situation as we find it with variations, of course, with great variations in so many of our unhappy patients that they have been criticized, they have been neglected, they have been rejected, they have been nagged, and now, when they are grown up and have children themselves, they start rejecting, they start nagging, they start criticizing their own children, and then they call it heredity. It is a wonderful alibi done by the gods. They themselves transmitted from one generation to the other, the grandmother criticized already the daughter, and the granddaughter, and so it goes to the generation, and then a label heredity is put on in reality. This is a way how our parents and grandparents made us neurotic, and how we instill our neuroticism into our children and grandchildren. this was an example of the breeding ground in which such sad disturbances, emotional disorders, flourish, and strive. now let us go once a step further and explore how the person who suffers from such fears and criticisms, who suffers from anxiety and always feels rejected and always behaves oversensitively towards his friends and so forth, how do these people cope with these very fears of which they are victims, and then we come perhaps to the most interesting and most fascinating psychological mechanism. I mentioned right away the first, a great many of these persons are not even aware that they fear criticism and rejection. They succeed by the use of certain unconscious psychological mechanism to keep themselves out of contact with their own problems, their own anxieties, and their own misgivings in life, and attribute very often these anxieties which come from within to without. The neighbor is the bad fellow. The mother-in-law, she always does the terrible thing. My sister or my brother misbehaved here and there, or, as we see it so often in analysis, of course, the psychiatrist is the bad and evil-minded and rejecting an awful person who does all these bad things to the patients. Now, let us have a look in a bit greater detail at the ways and means such disturbed, unhappy individuals unconsciously, unwittingly use in order to cope with their underlying fears and anxieties. Well, of course, it is all familiar to you that various individuals behave in various ways and various persons use various ways of communicating and of behaving in real life. However, psychiatrically speaking, we can distinguish seven or eight typical, rather typical modes of behavior which are employed against the fears of criticism and rejection and the underlying feeling of helplessness, of being dwarfed by the dangerous big ones, important ones in life. Modes of behavior which, as is well known to many of you, are called in modern psychiatry defense mechanisms against this particular type of fear. the first such psychological mechanism is the one of repression. Repression with P, not with G, that is something else, regression. Repression, namely pushing all the unpleasant, irritating, disturbing memories of early life away, not wanting to get in contact with them, and finally succeeding in blotting them out. And one of the best evidences such that such a mechanism of repression is at work in so many human beings is, for instance, a little experience, experiment, if you wish, which you all can employ tonight when you go home or tomorrow or the next weekend. We have only to take a white sheet of paper and to ask yourself which experiences in childhood you really remember. And even you can go to adolescence. Or you can think it out without a sheet of paper. Well, I am always, I cannot help saying dismayed when I ask my patients to tell me something usually in the first or second interview to tell me something about their early life. They can describe their whole early life, let us say, childhood and the good part of adolescence in four or eight sentences. If it comes to 12 or 14 sentences, it is usually a very, very good memory. It is remarkable how people can blot out 10, 12, 14 years of their life with all the individual events which happen there, school days and teachers and the schoolmates and playgrounds and all the things, how they can blot out the essential data of their own life and just make them disappear as it were. Forget, as the term usually goes, but when one analyzes this forgetting, not always, but very often, it turns out that it is a so-called dynamic forgetting, namely, a repression that the early, disturbing, irritating, depressing events of life are blotted out, are pushed out of the mind, are removed from consciousness, and when whole areas of inner life are blotted out, then rather unpleasant effects can later on grow out of them, as I'll present to you presently. The psychological formula of this psychological defense mechanism called repression is, of course, I'll forget about all these unpleasant events and memories, and then I'll feel safe, I'll feel not rejected, I'll feel happy. That is the underlying unconscious formula, it never works. They all feel unsafe and unhappy and very insecure. the second psychological defense mechanism here at work is the one of avoidance. The psychological underlying formula here being, I'll avoid all situations which are disturbing and anxiety producing, and so I'll feel undisturbed, I'll feel safe again. And on the second avoidance mechanism, of course, as you all understand, are based, for instance, the 700 to 800 phobias which exist. That people cannot go to bridges and cannot cross streets and cannot ride in the subway and cannot ride by bus and cannot be in small places and cannot be in large places and cannot be in dark places, cannot be in bright places, and so forth. It is very serious indeed, there is, I believe, very little to laugh about. These are severe emotional disturbances which outwardly appear as phobias, which cause tremendous suffering to the patients who really suffer severely, but still unconsciously, underneath, is the mechanism of avoidance, withdrawing from anxiety producing situations and ways of life. For instance, a somewhat milder form of this mechanism is what in common life is called, in routine life, procrastinating. For instance, procrastinating to go to a doctor, let us say, or to go to do one's work. There is also such a mechanism of avoiding, putting it off, not facing the facts squarely and fully, but putting it off and putting it off, and of course we psychiatrists see that so often, that our patients run around with their phobias for years and years and cannot bring themselves to see a psychiatrist, because unconsciously or even consciously, they know the psychiatrist will bring them in contact with the factors and the causes which produce the phobia. the psychiatrist will tell them at some time or other, you hated your mother or you loved your brother or you hated your father and wanted him removed from life and such things. The patient who cannot stand that, since he knows that the psychiatrist perhaps sometimes only after a year or two will do that to them, will tell them that, or they will come themselves to that, they try to avoid it. They cannot permit themselves to be brought in direct contact with their own underlying anxieties and fears, always attributing it to the mother-in-law or the father-in-law or other unfortunate members of the family circle. A third and equally important defense mechanism at work is called conversion, not in the religious sense, but converting one's own inner tensions and one's own inner unhappiness into physical symptoms, as for instance we saw it before in the case of Tom, and of course in thousands and thousands of other cases. The mechanism of conversion, of psychological conversion here, serving the purpose again of denying the anxiety, of denying to oneself how afraid, how unhappy, how downtrodden one feels. Denying one's over, one's own oversensitivity and neurotic vulnerability and converting the tension still existing in one's own system into physical symptoms, choking, palpitation, perspiration, painting, stomach ache, headache, belly ache, any ache is good for that from the, literally speaking, from the head right down to the little toe. Anything is good for that and in severe situations these conversion symptoms go on and on and can produce almost on the spot and none of us is immune against that. None of us, we all are familiar with the fact that unquiet meals cause poor digestion as in Tom's case, or that in times of anxiety and inner distress, we easily develop headache, high blood pressure, perspiration, trembling, choking, and other physical symptoms. Only the emotionally disturbed person, of course, produces that almost constantly, daily, hourly, if necessary, without wanting to produce it, these are severe, unconscious, emotional mechanisms at work. Another mode of behavior, how people try to cope with the fear of criticism and the fear of being attacked and being nagged at and so forth, being rejected, is a mechanism of emotional detachment. Not so very frequent as the three mentioned before, but still very frequent that, too, emotional detachment, namely, a way, a certain way of keeping oneself aloof from all that bothers the poor mortals. We poor mortals are bothered by dozens or even hundreds of anxieties and fears. The emotionally detached individual is beyond that. He keeps himself aloof, he doesn't participate in the affairs of other people, he is the lonely wolf who walks through life self-styled and self-contented and having developed this emotional detachment, he believes he feels safe, he is protected against his inner fears. The next one is again a more serious one, the fifth, the mechanism of self-debasement. Hurting oneself, turning one's criticism originally directed against one inside, namely based on the psychological unconscious formula, I'll make myself little and insignificant, I'll think of myself as a base and rotten and evil person, so nobody will touch me, nobody will harm me, I admit it, I debase myself, I say everybody to everybody and to anybody that I'm little insignificant and base. And this psychological mechanism stands at the bottom of many such strange, apparently strange behaviorisms, like where a person behaves always in a weak, an apparently weak, overly shy, overly restrained and timid way, never being able to say a loud word, always whispering, always going through life very often also in a certain posture, in a certain Mickey mouse like posture, being afraid of being attacked and behaving that way, making himself or herself little and insignificant as a protection against being hurt. and then the next, the sixth mode of behavior here at work is again the opposite. If the one uses self debasement and self belittlement as a psychological defense mechanism, the opposite type uses self aggrandizement, self elevation as a psychological mechanism here, and thinks of himself as unique, as powerful, extremely superior, all the others are nothing. I am unique, I am powerful, I am superior, I am great, I can do what others can't. I even can drink ten bottles, others can only drink eight. I can eat six pounds of chocolate, others only three. Coming out in this field, but in the mental field, of course, coming then out in these feelings of grandeur, of self elevation and self aggrandizement, which is very often an extremely unhealthy thing, because it gives the additional satisfaction of power power. It is not only a defense against criticism and nagging, but it gives the additional feeling, at least, of being extremely powerful and being able to dominate and to boss around the whole world, or at least the little world the person lives in. This neurotic striving for power indeed serves as a protection against the danger of feeling or being regarded as insignificant, of being attacked, of being humiliated. The anxious person then develops a rigid and exaggerated ideal of his own strength. awareness. That is, now you remember that strange thing that I told you a number of minutes ago, that so many people are not aware that underneath they are really anxiety ridden, that they are anxious and fearful and gripped with despair and fear because they turn it unconsciously around, they are not aware of it, and develop this rigid and exaggerated ideal of strength which makes them believe they should be able to master any situation, no matter how difficult, and should master the situation right away. This false ideal of false strength becomes then linked up with pride and as a result, the emotionally disturbed individual considers weakness not only as a danger but also as a disgrace. They classify people as either strong or weak themselves, admiring the strong ones and despising the weak ones. They have contempt for people who have inhibitions or live by certain rules and despise the same qualities in themselves too. they feel humiliated if they have to recognize the existence of an underlying anxiety, for instance, of a neurosis. Hardly practically every patient who comes for the first time to the psychiatrist or to any doctor for that matter and is told that he has his headaches or his belly ache or his ear ache or his nose ache or his back ache and so forth is not, X-rays have been done and blood chemistry and all the checkups and nothing physical has been found basically wrong and they are finally told that must be psychological caused, this is a neurotic condition and the patient becomes mad and leaves that doctor and goes to another one. The other one, if he is, he goes again through the X-rays and through the blood chemistry and through all the other tests and again if he is honest, he tells the patient there is no physical cause for your choking or your ear ache or your back ache and so forth. It is again neurotic then he goes again to the other doctor and so it goes on for five, ten years until they finally come to the psychiatrist and when psychiatrists tell them that, then they get mad at him of course because they cannot accept the diagnosis. They feel humiliated if they have to recognize and to accept that there exists in them a state of emotional trouble, emotional disorder, neurosis and there is anxiety in them because if they would accept it, something terrible is going to happen to them, they despise themselves. They begin to despise themselves for having a neurosis and so they are anxious to keep it a secret, not only from the world but even from themselves. And they also despise themselves for another reason, for not being able to cope with these troubles, with these anxiety, with these fears, with these emotional conditions themselves. As I just said, their anger, their resentment and their contempt for themselves as well as for the psychiatrist at the same time and for all the others who tell them the same thing, comes also from the fact that they feel they should be strong enough to cope with these conditions, with these anxieties, with these misgivings, with these feelings of fear and unhappiness themselves. But they cannot cope with them alone because if they are left alone, they again develop belly ache or a headache or backache or they don't go in subways and don't go in buses and don't go to crowded places and don't go to lonely places and all the other phobias and severe emotional disturbances about which I say again there is nothing to laugh because with all their emotional origin, they are real, they are extremely tormenting and they are true. It is wrong to tell such patients that they produce those things, that they can do it in another way. They cannot. They are compelled by inner emotional forces, by these unconscious mechanisms to have symptoms until they are cured by a psychoanalysis. well, I gave you a very short overall survey on these conditions, on the development of fears of rejection and criticism, on the breeding ground on which they strive, and on the outward mode of behavior, how they present themselves and what they do to our patients, and we can consider ourselves, as I said before, in this sense, all patients. That means even if we don't suffer actually from such conditions, we are not immune against them. Nobody is. Everybody has a breaking point. you have only to think, and let me conclude, with this little memory, not out of the gloomy psychiatric, rather gloomy psychiatric and clinical approach to these conditions, but with an approach out of literature. Many of you saw last year a show on Broadway, a play entitled Death of a Salesman. And if you recall, or those among you who have seen that show, what really drove this man into his tragic end, into the catastrophe, which stands at the end of the play, it is basically nothing but his fear of being rejected, criticized, sent back, turned back by the world, by his own family, and if those who have seen the show still remember how it is shown almost in all scenes, more and more, and stronger, and stronger, and in a more tragic and more pathetic fashion, from scene to scene, how the man is first rejected by his own children, his two sons, in whom he trusts, and for whom he does or tries to do so much, about whose success he fantasies all the time. and then how he is after 30 or 35 years of service as a salesman in some company, how he is sent away, rejected by the new boss, fired, and put out of action. And gradually he rejects himself. The criticism directed in the beginning outwardly against him turns more and more inwardly and he feels rotten and base and evil and a nobody. And this increases and this becomes then the light motif in his feelings and in his sufferings in his life. The end then is very close by. There is only one I would say spark of light, one element of warmth and sunshine in this altogether stark tragedy which is shown to us or was shown to us in a stark setting of fear, misery and unhappiness. And this one spark of sunlight and warmth comes from the mother, from the wife of this man in whom he sees for a mother, perhaps you remember her name in the play, Linda. And how he always comes back to Linda to find comfort and solace and strength and consolation for his sufferings. And as great poets from time immemorial on always knew and portrayed for us, they knew much more than all scientists, including psychiatrists, together will ever know because they understood their unconscious. This poet Miller, Arthur Miller I believe, who wrote this play, he shows us in his play also the great healing power for such tragedies, for such neurotic and sick developments as I presented them to you. The healing power, the basic healing power comes from the mother, who should provide tenderness and warmth and understanding and love and affection and kindness and should give an atmosphere in the house of such warmth and feeling and kindness and sunshine. And if the mothers, I am at the same time sorry as well as happy to say, if the mothers did their job well, we psychiatrists would go out of bread. Unfortunately, since so many mothers, I am sorry to add, don't seem to understand this task so very well and fail in providing a warm, emotional, healthy, understanding, forgiving, genuinely humane atmosphere and climate in the family, perhaps because there are so many mothers who fail in that, there are today so many psychiatrists who succeed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, ladies and gentlemen. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your very kind attention tonight. We have so many questions here, we can't possibly get over them all, but we will try like mad to get a few of them in. Doctor, I have a very bad sore throat tonight. I wonder whether you feel that there's anything about your coming here that might possibly have made me pick this up. I mean, I just got it this afternoon. I mean, in any event, how do intoxicants or tobacco and liquor play a part in the struggle with fears and anxieties? A great number of people have that trouble. We have a cigar, sir, later. The question was on how does tobacco, alcohol, various forms of intoxicants play a part in the problem of fear and anxiety? I was still thinking about Dr. Fairchild's problem, and so I had to hear it twice. You can't possibly think about that in a few minutes. There's such a greater problem as mine. Well, I'm glad that this question was asked about alcohol, tobacco, liquor, and I would like to add still this modern plague of drug addiction, which you read about in your papers every day. They play a tremendous role in this anxiety because all these substances, generally speaking, serve only one purpose, namely to drown the fears, to drown, to blood out the anxieties either in liquor or in drugs or in other abuses. I wouldn't say too many of these patients become addicts, but a good number have all the propensities to become addicts. And if one analyzes alcoholics, for instance, one finds always a deeply disturbed, basically tremendously insecure person underneath the sometimes rough exterior, so-called rugged individualist inwardly hides all these fears. And when they try to come or threaten to come to the surface, they are drowned out, they are blotted out, with the help of such narcotics. All right, thank you. Doctor, I agree with you about the mother situation. But what about fathers? Take the cigar back. Very good. Very good. Very good. I'm so glad this question was put forward because I realized immediately at the very last second of my lecture, which I had to cut short due to the broadcasting people here, that I had no time to speak about the fathers. They are other, in this general way, supporters of us psychiatrists. They add to this general neuroticism in that same nagging or rejecting way. And let me perhaps say here a word about the passive father, whom we so often see in our consultation hours. The passive father who seems meek, not criticizing, not nagging, not aggressive. He leaves all the aggression and all the nagging to the wife. And he hides behind the newspaper. Or in his books. Or in his business. This apparently so meek and passive father instills quite a bit of neuroticism also into the minds of the innocent children, quite unwittingly. By his very passivity, he keeps out of everything. The education of the children, he leaves only to the feminine part. He is no part in it. He only is the provider and very often a good provider. But this very passivity, this very keeping out, is very often nothing but a relinquishing, a getting away, a keeping aloof from the very important problems of child education, upbringing, and the other emotional problems going on in the bosom of the family. In the middle of the family. He just keeps out because he uses a bit this fourth defense mechanism I presented tonight, namely what we call the emotional detachment. He keeps aloof. He hides behind the New York Times and lets the mother do her own or hides behind his office desk. He should come more into the center of the family happenings and not keep out of them if he wants to be a really good father. All right, Doctor. Thank you. Is there a difference between the chronic injustice collector that you mentioned and the paranoid state or paranoid condition? Could you enlarge on these two conditions a little bit, please? Oh, fortunately there is a difference. The chronic injustice collector, as I presented him, belongs to the great many of multiple neurotic types as neurotic personalities. And his neurosis works out in that field. The paranoia, the paranoid state, of course, refers to a psychotic condition, not any more neurotic, and is considerably more serious, and is something else. Doctor, thank you. There's a question here on how can a loving parent cope with adolescent children. Now, whoever asks that question will get in touch with me. We're going to have a whole course on that in our extension courses during the second semester. If any of you have that problem, let's skip it for tonight because we are going to have quite a series on it, Doctor. Here is your answer. I'm not answering. No, no. I'm just a... Your prospective answer. Yes. How can one help himself to overcome fear and criticism? Now, I've seen at least eight of those through here. How can I help myself to overcome fear of criticism? So, at least eight answers are embodied in that one, eight questions in that one. Eight questions and eight answers. Well, I'll pick out one of them, or try to. Well, the first factor here in this self-help, I suppose in the person the questioner asks of self-help, how can one help himself to overcome fear of criticism? The first is to become aware of this very fear in all details, not just fear of criticism of this person, in all details, in all various ramifications of life. For instance, let us say, if it is a fear of being criticized by the mother-in-law. Then really go into it instead of counter-attacking the mother-in-law, she is rotten, she is a louse, or attacking oneself, I am rotten, I am a louse. Well, it's basically that. What makes a question, what makes me so intolerant of the other persons of this mother-in-law's behavior and shenanigans? I submit that the other person also has, certainly disturbances and emotionalism, certainly. What makes me so disturbed and so reacting in this over-emotional way to these things? What makes me feel that she is such a bad person as I just expressed in these unparliamentary expressions? Then the person that is the beginner of self-analysis will be able gradually to trace it back more and more. How was it ten years ago, or even one year ago, ten years ago before I married? Well, then she will find there was not that mother-in-law before I married there was a girl called Evelyn. And when she, or a neighbor, or when she, or the mother, or a sister, or a sister-in-law, or where the same behavior pattern already prevailed in the patient. And then further and further back, tracing it back to the very roots and origins, which is not at all an easy undertaking. And why? I said it already tonight. I said it already tonight. Because of the first defense mechanism I mentioned, the repression. The repression, the forgetting, the blotting out whole areas of inner emotional life, what happened at the age of ten and eleven or earlier still, at six, at seven. Which is all gone, or there are only fragments still, and therefore the very tracing backward is very difficult. However, all this is not enough, even if it is successful. Then comes the will to change, as I entitled a chapter in my book about these conditions. The will to change. So many people, basically, deep down, unconsciously don't want to change. They don't want to give up their fantasies that they are powerful and all superior, and that they don't consider barriers as valid barriers and rules only are for us poor mortals. But for them, no barriers. No limits, no rules. They are extraordinary. They are unique. So they don't want to give it up, even if they suffer. And that is called in psychiatry, especially in analysis, the inner resistance. The resistance against change. And when these two factors, the exploring of the early life and of the whole mental development, and the overcoming of the inner resistance against the change, are put together in a mental system, which takes years. But which can be done in self-analysis. Which can be done, but nobody has that heroism. It's really a heroic feat of courage, which, for instance, Freud, the creator of psychoanalysis achieved, that he could analyze himself. Nobody had analyzed him. There was no analysis. It's heroic to analyze one's own dreams and see, for instance, that one wants to kill one's father or one's brother or one's sister and so forth in certain moments in life. And when they tell the children, they make no secrets about it, they say, I'll kill you. They say it quite frequently. We only don't dare to admit it to ourselves. Anyway, when we succeed in overcoming this, then something can be done. Very much so. All right, Dr. Niederum, thank you. Regardless of how much we want a child to build a child's ego in the classroom, how can we avoid hurting them if we do not call his wrongdoings to his attention? Does not the child himself recognize these differences when he compares himself to the rest of the group? Excellent question. It gives me a wonderful opportunity to say once more something about the emotional climate parents, fathers and mothers alike, and all grownups, are supposed to provide for the offspring. To wit, you can discipline and you ought to discipline children when they deserve such action. Certainly, they cannot be brought up without any such barriers of which I spoke with her before, without some rules of behavior and civilized conduct. The child can take all your attacks and all your accusations and all your disciplining if you succeed in wrapping him in, as it were, in an atmosphere of warmth and kindness and good feeling and true understanding. If you can bring him up there, that this emotional climate remains warm, then within that framework you can and should use disciplinary action if such action is indicated. Thank you, Doctor. You know, Dr. Niederlander mother often needs some help and some solace. To whom should she turn? Good question. To whom should she turn the mother who needs some solace? Well, I wouldn't say somebody said the psychiatrist. The psychiatrist doesn't provide solace, I'm sorry, and therefore our patients very often hate us. They resent us. They don't want to be treated. Oh, most of our patients don't come for treatment. They want to be loved. Certainly. Certainly. Most certainly they have to learn it the hard way that the psychiatrist doesn't give solace. He gives understanding. So this mother, if she needs solace, not necessarily has to turn to the psychiatrist. Well, the question I believe is very indicative of so much going on today. If this question were asked in the old days, they would stand up some mother and would say, she would find the solace within. Within herself, in her own resources, in her own maternal feelings, she would and should find, and perhaps in the old days did find. Well, today, they don't. A little deviation here, if you allow me. Just the other day, in another group, in a seminar I give, I made a little experiment with the consent of all the participants there and asked about the feminine qualities, what they consider feminine, what they consider masculine qualities. And among feminine qualities, they said all sorts of qualities, including meal tickets. But none of about the 50 females, young and old present there, said the word tender. That one of the qualities, a real, true mother and good wife should have is tenderness. They didn't say it, these 50 females. It must be absent. It must have gotten lost somewhere. Buried, but perhaps we'll try to unbury it again and to dig it out again. Very essential qualities. Thank you, Doctor. You've mentioned fear and aggression now in a rather personal way, individuals. Do you think it's possible that a whole nation can become obsessed by a feeling of wrongs and fear and have these feelings of fear, and so that a whole nation can feel this way, such as Germany, World War II, Japan, whatnot? Is there such a thing as international? Well, this question leads us straight into group and mob psychology, of course, which is a tremendous field in itself. And just let me say here one word in answer to this. Indeed, the group, the mob, the mass of people very often becomes the hotbed, the breeding ground of a dangerous situation of a strong over-emotional neurotic development. And why? Because in a mob, in a group, and perhaps even in a whole group of groups, namely in a nation, all the nobler emotions like tenderness, gentleness, understanding, warmth, humaneness, and so forth, of which I spoke before, and therefore, they are then reduced more and more and more and go to one common denominator. The lowest common denominator in every group is what? The lowest, strongest emotion in every group is hate. And that is a great danger of unbridled and barrierless destructive mass movements or mob actions. Because underneath it's like a pyramid. Because underneath it's like a pyramid. These nobler qualities are rather scanty. There are not so many. But underneath there is a broad, tremendous quality, destructive in its nature in all of us. The lowest common denominator of a group, namely, of a mob, namely hate, destruction, sadism. And that is a danger here. Doctor, thank you very much. And good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Let's go right out.