Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am very happy to welcome you here tonight on behalf of the Office of Civil Defense. I say the Office of Civil Defense, the official greeting will come from his Honorable Mayor just a little later. We've gathered you here together tonight to tell you about some of the planning and what we hope to do with this great big body of air raid wardens who will be asked to take up the burden of protecting our people, guiding them, and advising them in times of great stress. Of course, to do all that, there must be a lot of training. Without any great amount of talk from me, I think that I ought to tell the General Mayor that this represents the leading citizens of their communities, both men and women, that they are motivated by service to the city only. They recognize the seriousness of the today's problems. Many of these people were with us during the last war and they performed with credit to themselves and to the city. Their job will be to coach and guide and command and train the people that serve under them. We have a large-scale training program to get underway very shortly. As a matter of fact, it's being activated now by the Police Department under Commissioner Murphy. I commend them to you, Mr. Mayor, as A1 citizens of this great city, prepared to serve under your leadership. And now I am very happy to present, Ms. Honorable Mayor. Commissioner Wallander, Commissioner Murphy, ladies and gentlemen, my function tonight is to thank you on behalf of all the people of the city for your attendance here at City Hall this evening. We realize that all of you have jobs to do during the day, that it calls upon a tremendous sacrifice on your part to come up here after a very busy day. And in addition to your routine day and night schedule, to fit in to that very busy schedule, an attendance here at City Hall tonight when, in a preliminary way, the people in city government, starting with Arthur Wallander, who's the head of our civil defense, who's the head of our civil defense program, with Commissioner Murphy, to whom you ladies and gentlemen will be directly responsible, makes me want to thank you for your attendance here tonight, and to express to you the, not only my own appreciation, but the appreciation of Commissioner Wallander and of Commissioner Murphy. Those of us who have been alive to the needs of civilian defense, or civil defense, as it's properly called, have for many months been working day in, day out on a proper civil defense program for the city of New York. At times, our work lagged because of the real need for volunteer workers like yourselves. When we first got started, the recruitment drive sort of lagged. I'm happy to tell you tonight that it's picking up, but it hasn't picked up as yet to the extent that we need and that with your help, I know we will achieve. Commissioner Wallander tells me that as of tonight, we have approximately 47,000 men and women already volunteering for service in this very important part of our civil defense program. But to merely point out to you the great need, the overall need, we've only gone 25% of the way, even in this department, because to do the right kind of a job in this particular service, Commissioner Wallander and Commissioner Murphy estimate that we will need closer to 200,000. And in the overall picture, covering all the needs of civil defense, we figure that we will need approximately 500,000 volunteers. And that merely supplements what all the various other city agencies will provide. So tonight, you will be briefed by Commissioner Wallander. You will be sworn in and addressed by Commissioner Murphy. And they will tell you what the immediate and the future program will be. And that may I, as the mayor of your city, thank you for your cooperation. To tell you that we appreciate it greatly. And that with your help, I am positive that the City of New York will receive the kind of protection that might be needed in the event of an emergency. and may I ask you, who've already demonstrated your civic-mindedness by your voluntary enlistment in this cause, to keep on with it, to follow the plans suggested by Commissioner Wellander and by Commissioner Murphy, and after you have demonstrated your willingness to go ahead to try to get some of your friends, some of your neighbors, some of your co-workers to do exactly the kind of job you have volunteered to do, and I know that if we all put our shoulders to the wheel, I believe that everything that Commissioner Wellander expects from the people of the City of New York will be fully achieved, and to that end, I know that we will give him our continued cooperation and support. Thank you very much. I should point out, Mr. Mayor, before you leave, that the Zone Commanders are the top level of command in the Air Warden Service. They operate directly under the Police Commissioner and his aides. They're responsible for an area within a precinct consisting of 50,000 people. And below them, divided into sectors, that is the zones divided into sectors, each sector is responsible for about 5,000 people. And then below that we have the posts, and the post usually consists of a population of 500 people. And the command runs in just that way. Our next speaker is a man whom you well know by reputation and the fine job he's doing. I'm very happy to have him with us tonight, and happy to know that he's going to head up this great big service known as the Air Warden Service. Of course, he will have his aides, to whom he will delegate the jobs to. But it's my great privilege now to present his honor, Commissioner Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Wilder. I am delighted and honored to be here tonight to administer the oath of allegiance to such a public-spirited group of citizens, who, without compensation or reward, have unselfishly devoted and subordinated your personal obligations and interests to the convenience and welfare and security of the people of our city. And now, if you will all rise and repeat after me. Oath of allegiance, I do solemnly swear. I do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States of America and the State of New York. Against all enemies, foreign and domestic. Against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And that I will bear true faith and allegiance thereto. And I will bear true faith and allegiance thereto. That I do not advocate the overthrow of our constitutional form of government. That I do not advocate the overthrow of our constitutional form of government. By force, violence, or other unlawful means. By force, violence, or other unlawful means. That I make this oath freely. That I make this oath freely. Without mental reservation or purpose of evasion. Without mental reservation or purpose of evasion. And that I will faithfully discharge my duties. And that I will faithfully discharge my duties. As a volunteer civilian member. As a volunteer civilian member. Of the Civil Defense Organization of the City of New York. Of the Civil Defense Organization of the City of New York. To the best of my ability. To the best of my ability. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. Would you be seated? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It gives me great pleasure to welcome you. Into the ranks of the police emergency division. And I mean this literally. The knowledge that I have. of people of your caliber, ready and willing and capable to assume the duties of zone and deputy zone commanders is a very comforting thought. You people will function under the immediate direction of the commanding officer of the precinct. You are the top civilian field commanders, the captains in the army of air raid wardens. The responsibility of decision is yours and it will be the glory of successful accomplishment. You people are the leaders. We on the top executive and administrative levels will help all that we can, but you people are the doers. Upon your shoulders rests the burden of accomplishment. The police emergency division is divided into three components. The regular police force, the auxiliary police, and the air warden service. The regular police force has a worldwide reputation of being the finest. This reputation was earned and is predicated on ability and performance. As director of the police emergency division, it is my intention and fond hope to have the name finest also apply to the air warden service and the auxiliary police. The police force, your first consideration should be to fill your ranks with well-informed, well-trained, and efficient personnel. If this can be accomplished, the problems of readying your zone for a possible enemy attack will be simplified. Our most important problem is the prevention of hysteria and panic. And since panic is essentially related to ignorance and indecision, our efforts will be aimed toward neutralizing indecision and ignorance with a program of education and nullifying it by a program of nullifying the indecision. When our program reaches the stage where everybody in this city knows the capabilities and limitations of atomic warfare and what to do during an emergency, the problem of panic will have been greatly minimized. Minimized. The path to our objective is a hard and long one. There are many obstacles in the way. There are many obstacles in the way. Public apathy being the most serious. The foibles of human nature and the tendency to become impatient and lose interest. However, we know where we are going and what we have to do. As leaders, it is up to you to lead and inspire your wardens along the arduous path to our objective. I have no reason to doubt that with hard work and perseverance, we shall obtain our goal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Murphy, for those very kind words and reassuring words. I know that these people will serve unto you well. They will really do a job. I recall during the last war, I see many familiar faces here that I saw at that time. And they did an outstanding job then and I'm sure they will repeat. I think we should know the Chief Inspector and perhaps he might want to say a word, Chief Inspector August Flass. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Wallander, I do recognize the terrific responsibility that's been placed on our department. And I am quite sure that we will assume all our responsibilities and obligations. At the direction of and with the orders of Commissioner Murphy, we have placed at the disposal of civilian defense, one of our youngest and outstanding members of our department, Chief Travers, whom I am sure has had previous experiences with civilian defense in World War Number Two. And I'm quite sure that he'll do a terrific job in our present anticipated emergency. We have also placed at the disposal of Chief Travers a number of outstanding young and enthusiastic members of our department of superior rank, who I am quite sure will assist and lead all these zone and deputy zone commanders in the fulfillments of their duties. We know that without the help and cooperation of the public, we can never get too far. Might I add this, that a well and disciplined civilian defense certainly will keep us to the minimum of casualties in the event of any emergency. And I'm quite sure that all of you people, and I also recognize a good number of people here who I had the privilege and the honor to be associated with some five, six or seven years ago, are here and are ready to do a job for us now. And with that, I might say to his honor, the mayor and Commissioner Waller and Commissioner Murphy, thank you for introducing me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sure you appreciate the sincerity of which the speakers have reassured you of their willingness to be of service to you. And they certainly do seek your wholehearted cooperation, and I know that you will give it. We have, as Chief Flath pointed out, Chief Travers with us tonight. And I know that you, most of you know Chief Travers, and you should hear from him. So I want you to say a few words, John, so that they'll know you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Murphy, Commissioner Waller, Chief Flath, ladies and gentlemen, I'll take this moment to extend to you my sincerest congratulations on your appointment as zone or deputy zone commander here this evening. We have a big job ahead of us, a long road, a road that will require leadership and hard work. And I'm sure that with your cooperation, each zone will function efficiently and effectively. There is one or two points that I would like to leave with you tonight. And the first is the training program. When you get an opportunity, you can glance through the booklet that was given to you here this evening, and you will see that a training program has been provided for. It will start very soon. You will get more information on it later. My purpose, mentioning the training program, is to ask you to make every effort to attend these sessions on the night syndicated. It's important that you receive the training in each of the subjects that will be presented to you. And the other thought is on recruiting. As Honor, the mayor referred to the number of wardens that we are seeking, referred to the fact that we had about 25% of them. We depend an awful lot on you people to go out into your neighborhood and get others like yourselves to come in and enroll. And I'd like to leave this thought with you. We have designated what we believe to be the minimum requirements of wardens on each post. You will get all of this information later. But we ask you that when you go out, and I might say that we have decided that there is a requirement of at least 12, including the squad leader and his deputies, on each and every post. The post comprising the population of 500 people. And we ask you that when you go out, when you assume your leadership, that you keep this thought in mind, that every post is important. That every post, every post that has been established in the city, must have a minimum of 12 wardens. So with those few words, again, I want to express my congratulations to you. And I know that with your cooperation, we'll have an effective, and as the chief said, a terrific air warden service. Thank you very much. Thank you, John. There has been a sign and detailed to the duty of heading up the air warden service. A man who is also a member of the police department. He's been assigned by Commissioner Murphy, and I think you should know him. A good many of you remember him from the last war. And that's Tom McVey. Won't you come up, Tom? And be here. Thank you, Commissioner, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Wallander, Commissioner Murphy, Chief Flath and Chief Travis. I want to thank each and every one of you gentlemen for the confidence you have placed in me. I know the magnitude of the job. I was through it before. A lot of you men sitting out there were through it with me. The road is not easy, and I have no illusions of any good time out of it. It means work and more work. However, I have fond memories of the last time. And deep in my mind, I remember the men that were out working day and night with us. The same volunteers that are here tonight. And the same volunteers that we will have out, those of them that are still alive. But we're proceeding on one premise. We know that we're going to have an Air Warden Service in the City of New York. And we do know that when we have anything in the City of New York, we want the best. And we want to be able to look back on this in years to come when historians will write and tell us what we've done. And what kind of an Air Warden Service we had. We want them to write and say that the City of New York had an Air Warden Service, which was the best in this little world of ours, and the best that they may ever get. Thank you. I say to ladies and gentlemen, his honor of the mayor must leave. He has an appointment uptown. I know that he's delighted to join you here today. And Mr. Mayor, we appreciate your busy day. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you for coming. Good morning, Tom. Good morning. Mr. Murphy is also involved, so we will certainly be glad to excuse him. Next on our program is an address by Mr. Morris H. Seamus. Mr. Morris H. Seamus is well known for his ability to educate people. He's been serving with the Board of Education for a number of years. And I think at this time we ought to hear from Dr. Seamus on the training and the syllabus that will be prepared for the Air Warden Service. Dr. Seamus. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Walder, ladies and gentlemen, I think now we can get down to business. Dr. Seamus. This is the start of a rather intensive course of instruction designed to introduce you to the weapons and techniques of modern warfare. warfare. The concept of civil defense has changed considerably since the development of the atom bomb. This is a weapon of incredible destructive power. It's a weapon which brings terror to the hearts of man. There is no denying the enormous potential of this bomb in modern warfare, and it's important to recognize the atmosphere of anxiety and fear which surrounds us. But it's equally important to remember that much of this fear is unfounded, that the atom bomb is not the absolute weapon which many people think it is. I want to point out to you, to refresh your memories, first the results of the two atom bombings in Japan, Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Remember that these bombs were set to be the equivalent in energy content of about 20,000 tons of TNT. Hiroshima was a city with a population density of about 35,000 persons per square mile. Almost five square miles of the city were destroyed. 70,000 people were killed and another 70,000 injured. In Nagasaki, with a population density of about 65,000 of about 65,000 persons per square mile, the effects of the bomb were diminished by the nature of the terrain. Here, almost two square miles were destroyed, about 36,000 persons killed and 42,000 injured. Now compare those figures with the results of a conventional one-day bombing raid upon Tokyo in March of 1945. This was a raid in which there were delivered about 1,600 tons of conventional high explosive and incendiary. Remember, a one-day raid. Tokyo had a population density at that time of 130,000 persons per square mile. Almost 16 square miles of the city were destroyed in that raid. About 83,000 persons were killed and 102,000 injured. In other words, with regard both to destruction of property and casualties, this conventional raid upon Tokyo was far more destructive than either of the two atom bomb raids. Now, admittedly, it's far easier to deliver one or two atom bombs than to mount a huge raid such as was mounted against Tokyo. But the fact remains that it is possible and has been done. That is, as much destruction and more the war was caused in both in the city of Tokyo than in either of these two cities.