Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Since the dawn of man's history, fire has been an instrument which he has utilized in his endeavor to climb the ladder of civilized progress. The flickering flames that rimmed the outside of his rude cave dwelling held at bay the hungry enemy that lurked in the primitive forests of bygone eras. As he developed, man continued to utilize fire as a means of defense, and its use as a major weapon has been recorded in all the wars which blight the pages of his history. In World War II, the destructive use of fire as an instrument of war reached new and terrible proportions. Enemy air raids brought the hazards of the battleground into the civilian centers of life and property. The smoky wreckage of Warsaw, the smoldering embers strewn across the villages of France, Belgium, and Holland, the raging flames of London and Coventry, the burned out cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, all bear gaunt and gruesome testimony to the ingenious application of fire in modern all-out warfare. In the light of past events, it should be clear to everyone that civil defense in time of war is practically synonymous with fire defense. The possible use of the atomic bomb has not changed the essential problem. Rather, it has increased the basic problem of firefighting a thousand-fold. The New York Fire Department fully appreciates the tremendous task that will face it in the wake of an atomic attack, and has made detailed and all-inclusive plans for combating the disastrous spread of hundreds and hundreds of fires. Following atomic bursts, the devastation and loss of life will be far greater than those scenes that were created by the incendiary and blockbuster raids of World War II. This city, if attacked, will suffer the destructive effect caused by the terrific explosive power of the atom and an extreme fire hazard due both to the heat flash and to disrupted facilities. This aerial burst we consider to be the type of bombing we would be faced with because it causes the widest amount of destruction. Civil defense is not new to the New York Fire Department. Since the outbreak of World War II, we have been constantly revising old and preparing new plans necessary to meet ever-changing situations. We have long since prepared a base defense plan covering all fire contingencies, and from this we have recently developed the operating plan that affords this city the best protection possible at this time. Under this plan, not only the fire services of your city will be mobilized, but also that of the neighboring counties of Nassau and Westchester. Firefighting contingents from all three areas can be quickly assembled at any point or points within the boundaries of the three political entities. This assistance will be specific and effective because completely equipped apparatus manned by well-trained personnel will respond upon call to any emergency area. If the firefighting forces in these counties should not prove sufficient to the task, similar units, at least 200 in number, can be dispatched from counties further upstate within the first and most important hours of the emergency. Another important phase is the enrollment and training of an auxiliary force of 20,000 men to augment our present manpower strength. This auxiliary corps will be of invaluable aid in fighting the numerous fires that would be beyond the capabilities of our peacetime setup. Still another phase of our program concerns itself with the specialized personnel in all large buildings. These crews will be trained in the proper methods of fire brigade organizations, how to fight small fires, and in the conservation and judicious use of that tremendous store of static water supply, which are stored in the service tanks of all tall buildings. The estimate of how much water is available in these devices runs into the millions of gallons. We have endeavored to include in our plans the small homeowner and the man in the street. Miles of damage and thousands of casualties are the terms used to depict atomic destruction. What chance do you have as an individual, alone and untrained, against these massive odds? In this regard, the New York Fire Department has prepared a short training and information course for the individual, whereby he will be taught procedures and methods of self and home protection. The little but important things he can do without expense to lessen the impact of atomic bombing. The fire department is seeking volunteers for the Auxiliary Fire Corps and Communication Corps. This is active participation in the front lines of civil defense. Join now. Apply at any fire station. Your services are urgently needed. In conclusion, the task of holding the fire lines in the wake of atomic attack will be a tremendous one. But if that dread alarm ever rings in, the New York Fire Department will respond in accordance with a complete plan of defensive action. So alright, let's go, bye guys. W Shorty and.. I have now! Watch this. How are you thinking. Bring us through to make the element of the Wandair Fire mirrors. There is no power to help bring this. If you are thinking degli in-topping of active movement here, do not have an effective environment. Can we drop these seductive energy and make some konst? You'll agree? You'll get anant too. One power to create anissance of easy. indemnity work to do theoration and remove the Bradley's Op?azi, it will be плат though. Whatever spe 않고 to write. That means that's so a democratic magic investigator. The Additional Tool L-A dot forms are worth theくらい houses in the puntos d لا butfficiency and you'll be better.