Station WNYC. The WNYC Forum of the Air. In this year, 1938, world conflict is widespread and devastating, more so than it has been ever before. In many countries, dictatorships have been set up. In a few countries, democracy still remains. The use of propaganda and the establishment of a dictatorship is a mythical part of the conflict which results in dictatorships. For that reason, the Special Features Bureau of Station WNYC has chosen as a topic for discussion on the Forum Hour this morning, propaganda and democracy. In the belief that the residents of New York City are interested in this discussion, we offer you this important question of vital problems of the day, because it is important to members of a democracy to retain that democracy. Dr. Clyde Miller of the Institute for Propaganda Analysis will act as chairman of the panel. It is our pleasure to introduce now Dr. Clyde Miller. Mr. Announcer, I think we should say to our radio audience that this is an informal discussion. No script is prepared. I don't know exactly what's going to be said, but for a period of about 50 minutes here, we're going to discuss this question of propaganda, dictatorship, and democracy. And the best thing we can do, it seems to me, is to start with a definition of propaganda. And I offer you this one. Propaganda is opinion or action, which influences the opinions or actions of other people. Let's repeat that. Propaganda is opinion or action, which influences the opinions or actions of other people. Now, that may be unconscious, directed opinion, or it may be consciously directed. That is to say, we are for or against certain things. We don't have opinions in a vacuum. Our announcer here has mentioned that we are in a period of tremendous conflict. Folks take sides on those conflicts. We read in the papers that this person hopes very much that Franco will win, or this one hopes very much that the loyalists will win. Some folks think it's terrible that Japan is in China. Some folks think that it's a good thing, maybe, for China to have Japan there. There are many opponents of the New Deal who criticize it vigorously, adversely. Others are just as wholeheartedly for us. That goes, of course, for the CIO and the AFL. All of these propagandas or opinions or actions, which tend to indicate our opinions, flow out, as our announcer has indicated, of some conflict. We can see it in a small scale in the lives of all of us. I recall a small church out in the Middle West where there was a quarrel. It was over whether this church would have a new organ, and somebody said to an elderly deacon, Deacon, what stand are you going to take in this controversy? And the old gentleman drew himself up, and he said, I have not yet made up my mind, but when I do, I shall be very bitter. Well, now the great danger illustrated by that story is that all of us are likely to be very bitter when we express ourselves about serious conflicts. Progress does not come through bitterness. Progress comes through using our reason. And there's grave danger that emotion will run away with our reason. Now there are several folk here this morning of different opinions who are going to discuss this whole matter of propaganda with reference to dictatorship and democracy. And let me introduce them. At my right here is Ferdinand Lundberg, formerly financial writer for the New York Herald Tribune. Later he wrote that story of the Hearst Press, Imperial Hearst, and more recently the bestseller, The Sixty Families. Then next to me on the left is Dr. Claude Robinson, one of the staff, one of the executives of the American Institute of Public Opinion. You will recall in the last presidential election when most of the newspapers indicated that Roosevelt surely was going to win when the Literary Digest, rather, excuse me, that Landon was going to win and the Literary Digest indicated that Landon was going to win, the American Institute of Public Opinion predicted on the basis of its scientific examination of the trends of public opinion that it would be an overwhelming victory for Roosevelt, and it was. So Dr. Robinson represents that scientific technique, if you please, of dealing with these trends of opinion. And down here next to Dr. Robinson is another former newspaper man, Clyde Beals. He was a Pulitzer scholar, graduate of the Columbia University School of Journalism, spent much time overseas, later joined the staff of the New York Times, and now is editor of the Guild Reporter, official organ of the American Newspaper Guild, affiliated with the CIO. Then swinging around the table is Professor Robert K. Spear of New York University. He will represent, shall we say, American education in this forum. And before I close this introduction, may I say that all of us on this forum are greatly obliged to Miss Nancy Davids, the forum director of WNYC, who has arranged this meeting. We all regret, and as chairman I particularly regret, the absence here of someone who can speak for the newspaper publishers of America. I know that the most vigorous efforts were made to obtain some representatives, but none was able, apparently, to come. Now let me very briefly set the pattern, so to speak, for this discussion. You might say that this is, this is like, in a sense, playing pool. I don't know very much about it, but there's one shot I can make. I can always make that first shot, where you take a sort of a triangle arrangement, you know, and put the balls in it, and then you take that wooden thing off, and you have a triangle of pool balls there, and then you take the cue, and you let go at it with this white ball, and they fly in all directions. Well, that's what I'm going to try now, in about three or four minutes. I want to talk briefly about two thoughts, which we must keep in mind in the unemotional analysis of this whole problem of propaganda with reference to dictatorship and democracy. One thought is this. There are two great warring concepts. in this world. We can represent one by calling it the authoritarian concept of human association, and we can find it in business, we can find it in labor groups, we can find it in school groups, church groups, and governmental groups. By the authoritarian concept of human organization, authority flows from the top down. You can represent all the people in any one of these groups. Say, take Germany. Represent all the people of Germany, now Austria, by a great triangle. Authority flows from the top down, and blind, unquestioning, instant obedience must flow from the bottom up. That's one concept. Opposed to that is what we, in America, know as the demographic concept. Here, too, authority flows from the top down, and obedience flows from the bottom up. But, and this is important, authority and obedience flow in the other directions, too. That is to say, authority flows from the people up to the top, and obedience flows from the top down. Now, what does this mean for us in any examination of propaganda with reference to dictatorship and democracy? Well, now, let's take that first concept, authoritarian, which we see possibly most spectacularly illustrated in the Nazi government today, and its rapid expansion. There, we see one whale. Hence, we have, in that authoritarian type of government, because we have one will, we have one propaganda. That means one opinion. There are no other opinions. Press, radio, newsreel, even the church must echo, mirror, reflect that one will, that one opinion. Hence, there is just one propaganda. The New York Times remarked recently that what is truly vicious about propaganda is not propaganda, but a monopoly of it. In the authoritarian system, we have a monopoly of propaganda. Now, look at our democratic system. There are many wills, hence, many opinions, which is to say, many propagandas. They are in conflict one with another. The democratic system, therefore, imposes upon us the obligation to make a choice amongst various alternatives which are offered us, economic, political, religious, so many others. Now, let's not worry, therefore, about a multiplicity of propagandas. The fact that there are many is a sure sign that democracy is still with us. Now, briefly, the other talk. There are three aspects of propaganda. All of it, as I said, flows from some conflicts. That's the reality. Now, few of us can see at first hand these conflicts. We have to depend upon news broadcasters and newsreels and, to a large extent, and most importantly for most of us now, I think, the newspaper. These are channels or avenues, if you please, or better still, shall we say, lenses, through which these conflicts, these pictures of conflicts and realities are focused upon our mind. Sometimes, these lenses have certain factors of distortion. They can twist and distort the pictures of reality by omitting, by overemphasizing, by putting in things that are not true. On the whole, I should say that the press is the most important channel. And let me register here my own judgment of the American press. I think that the American press is by all odds the best in the world because, in America, we still have the freest press in the world. It's free to be honest. It's free to be truthful. That means it's also free to be sensational and to be dishonest. And so, while we have the best press in the world, we also have some of the worst newspapers. And I think most honest newspaper men know that and they want to constantly improve the press. Now, finally, these pictures which the press brings to us are focused upon a sort of a camera film which is our own mind. Now, what we see depends not only upon the real thing and upon the lens but upon the film upon which it's recorded, namely, our minds. Suppose you have a camera and you want to take a picture of your backyard to send Aunt Sally out in Keokuk, Iowa. You say, my, I'd love to see Aunt Sally when she sees this picture. She just loves yellow roses and the roses are out now and I'd like to see, I'd like to have her see old Shep, our dog, lying asleep there on the lawn. He's a nice black and white dog and there's, there's Bob's Robin, a blue roadster by the garage and that's so pretty. So I think I'll take a picture. You point your camera out into that backyard and the lens is perfect. All the factors of distortion are corrected but do you get a true picture? No, you don't see the green of the grass in that picture. You don't see the Robin's egg blue of that roadster. You don't see the lovely yellow of the roses. You get a fairly good picture but all in tones of white and black. To have a true picture on that film, now, perhaps I've scattered these balls or ideas in enough directions for Lundberg here and Robinson and Beals and Speer to pick up and if I think the audience need some introduction as to who's speaking, I may cut in and say, this is Lundberg and this is Robinson and so on. Lundberg, suppose you take the cue and take a shot at this yourself now. Well, Mr. Miller, analysis shows, I think, that propaganda are two broad classes. Those that serve arbitrary social power, more or less frankly, and those that serve ideal proof. In the latter class, we have in general philosophers, scientists, educators, and such people. In the former, we have and have had politicians, business leaders, military leaders, and the like. The demarcation is not always clear to be sure. The person being propagandized is always important, of course. Power groups, especially, defer to him much more than do the groups concerned, more or less carefully, with ideal truth. Well, excuse me, what do you mean with power groups? Groups that may be intent upon exercising power on their own interests or on behalf of an alleged general interest. I think this is one of the dangers of power propaganda that it caters too much to prejudices and superstitions of people. We, in its fullest form, as in Germany and Italy today, it is destructive of all that is best in the rich variety of human cultural experience. Commercial propaganda, however, in its simplest forms, with which most of us are familiar, is perhaps the least important propaganda. There is so much of it that it tends to nullify itself. The really dangerous propaganda is the uncritically received power propaganda emanating from all variety of pressure groups, whatever their description. in the course of history, however, some of these pressure groups unquestionably represent social truth more than do others. It remains for public opinion in each epoch to decide which group subscribes to social truth more than do others. Well, that rather brings us right here now to Dr. Robinson in the matter of appraising these trends. I think I ought to say at this point, though, that there's one thing that I think all the folks at this table are agreed upon. All of us, naturally, believe in this democratic concept. We believe in talking about these things perfectly freely and frankly, although all of us have our own biases. I don't know what the biases of you people are. I know that my own bias is that of just being brought up as a sort of a Lincoln Republican and out of ancestry that was in the American Revolution and I feel pretty strongly in behalf of preserving our democracy. I presume that's true of you, Mr. Robinson, but excuse the interruption. Go ahead, sir. Well, I'm glad, Professor Miller, that this panel has defined propaganda as realistically as it has. A number of students of propaganda take the attitude that it is all essentially bad and that somehow we must get rid of it in modern society. That has always struck me as being a very unrealistic point of view because everyone, whether he realizes it or not, is a propagandist to a certain extent. I've never been disturbed so much, therefore, about the existence of propaganda as I have about keeping the channels of propaganda open so that one propaganda can combat the other. possibly truth in democracy is found by that very process. In the American Institute of Public Opinion Studies, we find that democracy is very much alive in this country. I should like to cite some of the results to demonstrate this point. The Institute, as you know, conducts sampling referenda each week on the current vital issues confronting the people of the country. In its organization, it has about 600 interviewers scattered all over the land who interview citizens in every walk of life, farmers, and city people, young and old, rich and poor, Republicans and Democrats, seeking their views on how the government should be run. We always, the reporters always indicate whether or not the person had an opinion. Interestingly enough, we find that on any given issue, eight to nine people out of every ten interviewed have an opinion. It strikes me, therefore, that this high incidence of opinion is directly indicative of the fact that democracy in this country is very much alive. Dictatorships exist where there is anemia of opinion, but according to the American Institute of Public Opinion studies, we find that the red corpuscle count of American democracy is very high. I should like to make another point. The American Institute of Public Opinion reports its findings in 61 of the leading newspapers over the country. Frequently, its findings run counter to the editorial slant of its subscribing newspaper. And yet, we have found throughout every section of the country that editors are willing to report the facts about public opinion as we have found them by these systematic sampling studies. It seems to me that that speaks well for the newspapers and also indicates that the channels of discussion and a formulation of opinion are certainly open. Would you give us an instance, Dr. Robinson, of how newspapers disagree editorially even in spite of your findings, say the child labor amendment law? What were your findings on that? Well, we have found, Professor Miller, that the public is very much in favor of a constitutional amendment which would give Congress the power to limit and regulate the labor of persons under 18. And while some papers over the country have been opposed to that, they have printed the report practically without fail. The reason I asked was I heard your associate, Dr. George Gallup, mentioning that point yesterday. I think he said that in New York State alone, 75% of the people really were for this child labor legislation. He pointed out that the newspapers didn't represent that popular opinion in respect to that issue and that the legislature itself of New York State didn't represent it. And from that he went on to indicate that frequently on great national issues, Congress itself lags very much in catching up with the opinion of the folk. Well, of course, Professor Miller, that is why Dr. Gallup and others of us associated with him are so enthusiastic about the idea of providing a sampling machine whereby the mass can be made articulate. That is inspiration for our work. Well, I'll say this, and possibly I have no business saying this to radio audience at all. It's almost totally personal, and yet it concerns your institute, and it concerns George Gallup, whom I admire greatly. He talked to my class in public opinion and education and teachers college, Columbia, in the winter preceding the Roosevelt campaign, and as I recall it, he indicated that Roosevelt, that was his personal opinion then, that Roosevelt was likely to take twice a trimming in the forthcoming election. Well, he and I made a little innocent wager. I sang that, although I happen to be a Republican, that I thought Roosevelt would be elected, and he being very dubious. Well, when you made your examination, scientifically, unemotionally, saw the trance, I had one or two later meetings with Gallup, no bitterness, no emotion, because the facts disproved. He was the scientist, as I saw him, looking at the findings, saying, okay, I was wrong. Well, that brings us here to these channels of communication that you mentioned, the necessity of keeping them open, they're closed in these authoritarian countries. What would you say, Mr. Beals, of the state of the health of the press and American democracies, a channel to get us clear pictures of reality? Well, Professor Miller, I think that if we stop for a moment and look over the channels of communications that exist, we'll probably get a picture of the answer your questions. We have, as we all know, the newspapers. We have the radio, which being a relatively new device, and fortunately, somewhat under the influence of a national administration, but at least the national administration has some strings whereby it could seriously interfere with people who interrupted a free play of discussion. then we have the moving pictures. Today, we're seeing the rise of something that is practically a new device in the way it's being used, and that is the picture magazine, which is having a tremendous spread with the greatest rapidity over the country. And nowadays, we're witnessing still another growth in the labor press. We have hundreds of these labor papers over the country, which are commenting on national affairs and bringing a fresh viewpoint to their readers, and a viewpoint that is not prevented from free expression by the commercial interest that sometimes affects the other channels. Now the question is, to what extent do these other channels promote full free presentation of all views? Well, it would be utterly unscientific of me or I believe as anyone else to pretend to give an estimate on such a question. And we're unfortunately without the presence of a direct representative of the publishers here today, I'm going to lean over backwards and being objective on this thing and not give any personal opinion. But I think I could at least give a few tests by which the public can make up its own mind about these things. Now, before you give those, Mr. Beals, let's review briefly that you are a member of the American Newspaper Guild. That is, that's a union, isn't it? Correct, yes. That's a union of newspaper reporters and editors and who else? Commercial department people. A fairly general industrial union in the newspaper industry, except that it does not take in the older organized craft in the industry. By that you mean the printers and the stereotypers. That's right. Now, you are in more or less conflict over matters of, say, wages and hours and possibly what you'll write with the publishers who own the papers. Is that correct? We're in conflict over wages and hours. We're not so much the question of what we write. It isn't exactly correct to say that we're in conflict because we wish the public to know that the publishers are responsible for what goes into the papers. You're reading, say, editor and publisher, which is not officially a journal of the American Newspaper Publishers Association. I have occasionally seen statements from publishers indicating that your group would destroy freedom of the press. you would insist that just news favorable to labor might be printed or that there might be a tendency, perhaps, to rather color the news to favor the labor side. And I've noticed that your own journal, the Guild Reporter, vigorously opposes that. That's why I thought this issue better be clarified. Well, excuse me. Go ahead. We have a general belief that the fullest possible freedom should exist for all sorts of publishers or whoever to get their ideas before the public. And we would do nothing to interfere with a publisher expressing his views. We think that would be destructive of democracy if we set up ourselves as a judge of what any particular publisher might publish. We would not do that. On the other hand, where we come into the picture is that we are more or less the eyes and ears of newspapers. And we would insist that the material that we hand in ourselves should be accurate and fair as much as we could possibly make it. And it's from that point of view that we function, and I can give you an example of the way in which we do it, in this, that our contracts, which we are writing today with newspaper publishers in various parts of the country, contain such clauses as the one saying that no reporter needs write under his own name anything with which he disagrees. That is a very small step toward the full integrity of the reporter, so to speak. But it does mean that he has the position that he wishes to maintain before the public, and that he is no longer bound merely to go out and write anything, and that the publisher sees fit to have him write and stand for it as his own. Does that apply to cartoonists, too? It doesn't yet, no. Unfortunately, the cartoonists, very few of them, are under the protection of the guild. Well, excuse me. I probably got you off the track. You were going to set forth, I think, some tests whereby the public might judge something or other. Refresh us on that, will you? I want to show the ways in which these various agencies of communication, the newspapers, the radios, the moving pictures, the picture magazines, and so on, can operate to influence public opinion in channels desirable to their owners. And they can do this in two ways. First of all, they can keep aloft through playing up in headlines or in selection of pictures and so on. They can keep aloft certain ideas that are preferable to them. In the second place, they can do it by giving prominence to people in the community who represent ideas favorable to them. And similarly, by playing down people who represent ideas unfavorable to them. That is a very common practice, and the newspapers almost have the power of life or death, political, I mean public life or death, over individuals who represent various ideas. If they don't represent the right ideas, the newspapers play them down or give them very little space. And that has a tremendous influence on people who are seeking public favor, as most people are. Now I want to, I can make this, the newspaper technique, clear by citing a recent example, and in doing so, I can, for all purposes, bring the publisher's point of view into this forum because I can quote an editorial that appeared last week in the New York Post. There we have one publisher speaking about the techniques of newspapers generally. The Post had a moment of great frankness in discussing newspaper techniques and admitted that all papers do, whether consciously or not, play up ideas which are favorable to their interests. And they cited the recent performance of the Times, the New York Times, in connection with the special session of Congress which began last November 15th. And I'd like to read these two paragraphs from that editorial, if that's all right. Yeah, go ahead. I'm quoting, the President called a special session of Congress for last November 15th, the purposes, to pass a wages and hours bill and a crop control bill. But on November 9th, the Times, in a top story, page one, brought in the need for revising the capital gains tax. On November 10th, top story, page one, on general conditions, again, the capital gains tax was mentioned as likely to be revised. On November 11th, top story, page one, the same tax was attacked in an account of an economist's dinner. On November 12th, top story, page one, Senator Harrison attacked this tax. On November 13th, top story, page one, Representative O'Connor attacked this tax. On November 14th, top story, page one, a dope story. It was said that there existed a, quote, a strong sentiment among arriving members of Congress, unquote, for this kind of tax revision. On November 15th, top story, page one, the Times headline, quote, Congress convenes today with its course uncertain, revoke on taxes possible, end quote. Then followed much matter about revision of these same taxes. The capital gains tax was pictured as a burning issue, yet it affects not five percent of the population. The other 95 percent couldn't even define it. One might have thought that the Times was from the Times that on every street corner citizens were discussing this tax. We assure you they weren't, yet capital gains became an issue of the session. That is to say, Mr. Beals, you have there really now one newspaper taking sharp issue with another newspaper. Isn't that just what Robinson indicated is of vital importance in keeping all these channels of communication and opinion open? And so don't we have it? Isn't that an illustration that we have a very large degree of that in America? We do, fortunately, have a considerable degree, but I generally agree with Dr. Robinson, but I would like to make this a little descending point. We recently had a study from Professor Alfred Lee of Yale University on this question of newspaper ownership. Now, before you give that statement of Lee, the announcement tells me that he's got to give a station announcement, then we'll cut right back on Lee's statement. All right. Thank you, Dr. Miller. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask your indulgence for a few moments as we present a few highlighted features of this station. The programs of the Municipal Station are an integrated effort by the directors to present educational and entertaining programs of lasting and literate qualities. And so in this brief intermission of the WNYC Forum, we should like to utilize the time and a description of certain of the highlighted features during the coming week. This evening at 6 p.m., we offer a panel discussion on the work of the legislature. The representatives of the three major parties will be represented. The outstanding programs for next Sunday, next Sunday morning as a service to a great many of our listeners, the Forum Hour will be turned over to a broadcasting of the Communion Breakfast of the Holy Name Society of the Police Department. The speakers will be headed by the Reverend Francis Walsh of Denver, Colorado and the Governor Charles Hurley of Massachusetts. Next Sunday at 1.30 marks the inauguration of a new symphonic series to be presented each week from the Federal Music Theater. The initial concert will be conducted by the distinguished musician Van Hoekstraaten and the guest commentator will be Hendrik Willem Van Loon. Each week during these programs, another distinguished conductor and a guest critic will be a guest commentator. Following the concert at 3 p.m., the Federal Radio Theater will be heard in the first of the Gilbert and Sullivan series. The first program features the first act of the Pirates of Tencent. At 4 p.m., the concert of the Manhattan Concert Band will be offered from the Brooklyn Museum and at 5.30 p.m. the WNYC Concert Orchestra is heard in a program of Scandinavian music. These are only a few of the programs arranged for the entertainment and enlightenment of the citizens of New York. Cultivate the WNYC habit. Keep your dial tuned to A10. We return you now to Dr. Miller. All right. After this announcement intermission, let's see. builds on this program of propaganda, dictatorship, and democracy. You were discussing the channels of communication to the public mind, and you were just going to quote a statement to Professor Alfred M. Lee of Yale University on the press. You're going to take two minutes to it, about, then I'll shoot over here to stare. Thank you, Dr. Miller. I want to take one minute on that and one minute on another point. Professor Lee has been studying the ownership of newspapers, and he finds that there is a very clear-cut trend toward the elimination of competition between newspapers, and that this is apparently going on all over the country, so much so that in the last about 20 years, the number of cities which have only one paper has risen about 50%, and at the present time, there are only about 280 communities in the United States which still have competing papers. Now, I want to show by one more example what this condition can mean if it continues. There recently developed in this city an organization called the Consumer's Union. The Consumer's Union undertakes to make studies of goods that are put up for sale and to give an expert opinion to their subscribers of the value, the relative values of these various goods. Now, as I was saying before, and I think we all agree that as long as we can have competing propaganda, as long as everybody has a chance to have their say, the country is safe. And certainly in the case of the buyers of commodities, that is the most they can expect, and certainly the full information on which to make up their minds. the consumer's union, which has the backing of a great many labor organizations, and in my own opinion it's a very fine organization, finds that it is not able to advertise its own services in the big standard papers in New York City. Particularly the New York Times, the Tribune, and the Post are stalling on accepting its advertisers. Now, I believe that that is a very serious condition when the channels of communication around the country, I'm leaving for a moment to be right in New York City, channels of communication around the country are getting into fewer hands, and yet they do exercise this detailed power, and are using their detailed power on the full free flow of information which the public needs. I think that winds up what I have to say, Mr. Miller, and Mr. Miller, which do. And I come back to that statement of the New York Times that what is truly vicious is not propaganda but a monopoly of it. and I suspect the Times, judging from its editorial on the McNabo bill last Monday, would oppose a monopoly of propaganda. Any newspaper would, I suspect, wouldn't, to Dr. Robinson as vigorously as it would oppose anything. All right, well, now here's Dr. Speer. We haven't heard from him yet. Here's Professor Speer of New York University and it's often been said, and the Springfield Republicans said it beautifully, that this multiplicity of propagandas, these competing propagandas that you've mentioned, Beals, impose upon us the obligation to analyze, to evaluate, and that's an educational task and I'm going to suggest to Professor Speer that he talk to that point for a few minutes. It is apparently the united opinion of this group that the presence of conflicting propagandas in a democracy make it safe. That's right. I'm not at all certain of that. I think it makes it safer. But most people, I believe, when they grow up, are inclined to read and believe, to expose themselves mainly to those things they already believe. Mr. Robinson has indicated that practically all people have an opinion on questions of moment as presented by the Institute. It is my belief that probably those who do have such opinion are inclined to expose themselves to the propagandas which are for their own personally preconceived opinion. As a matter of fact, I think that education has a tremendous task in this respect because in our schools we do get people younger and before their minds are completely made up. I think that in our schools we must develop a toxin-antitoxin to propaganda. Children, I think, must learn what you people have been talking about. They must learn how to detect propaganda. They should know the avenues of propaganda. They should be stimulated to investigate and discuss the motives of the specific propagandas to which they are exposed. Each child should attempt to discover why he thinks as he does and how and why groups attempt to make him come to think otherwise. I think that good education will help by giving young people a better sense of evidence and of authority. Young people in our schools I think should develop a pattern, the pattern of asking for more facts, of questioning the reliability of sources, of asking is there more to be said on the other side. The materials of your own institute, Mr. Miller, the Institute for Propaganda Analysis suggest a specific approach for use in the high schools and the colleges and I wish before this session is over that you would present some of those materials indicating what might be done in the schools and in the colleges. There, as I recall in brief outline, we present an approach for children examining the propagandas of the commercial advertiser and in addition, of course, you would have them exposed to and study the propagandas of the political, the economic and the social propaganda. The propagandas in the newspapers, the propagandas in the newsreels, the propagandas on the radio. Now, personally, we have, maybe it will be interpreted that I am against propaganda. I am not. And inasmuch as the topic of this session is propaganda and democracy. Personally, I would use the schools to propagandize for democracy. And when I say democracy, I mean not only political democracy, but economic and social democracy, too. Well, now, if I could take that point up just for one moment about the institute, I can say what you suggest that I do, Professor Speer. And then I think we better throw this meeting open. There are some visitors here. I don't know who they are that may want to participate in this discussion. How long can we run here? About 10, 15 minutes yet? Okay, about 10 or 15 minutes. Well, let's get this item about the institute for propaganda analysis checked off. The institute does attempt to provide for the intelligent citizen a monthly letter which will enable him more easily to detect current propagandas and to analyze them. In short, it puts up to him, Professor Speer, pretty much the questions that you suggest ought to be put up to youngsters in schools. And as a matter of fact, I suspect that about half of our subscribers are teachers. And the institute has recently issued some experimental study unit materials for use in adult groups, for use in colleges, and junior and senior high schools. Now, frankly, our whole approach is experimental. We're not infallible. We haven't got all the answers. We are certainly not omniscient. We don't know all the current propagandas nor what is back of them. We are putting our chief emphasis upon the scientific method, which I think is represented very ably in another field by Dr. Robinson. Does that answer your question? Yes, rather generally, I should like to see the materials. That would be my answer. Well, if you want to see the materials, or if you want others to see the materials, which is what I suspect you're getting at, simply send to the institute for propaganda analysis and all that sort of thing. 132 Morningside Drive, is that what you mean? Yes, that's right. That's New York City. But if that answers your question, I suggest we have a sort of give-and-take discussion here for about 10 minutes. Somebody had a question here. As a matter of fact, we can continue, I'm told now, until 12, 13 and a half. I'm not so good on these halves, but we'll try to make it. All right. Who had a question back here in the audience? Dr. Robinson, the possession of opinion by people doesn't necessarily indicate a very high degree of democracy, but rather that the people have been very highly propagandized. I'm sure that the most totalitarian countries have the highest incidence of opinions, where people have opinions on all sorts of things in which they are technically unqualified for, on everything from opinions to races. But among scientists, on the contrary, you would find a much higher incidence of lack of opinion the I don't know attitude is much more democratic, I think, in its essence. Unfortunately, there is no German institute of public opinion or Italian institute of public opinion whereby we can determine the real incidence of opinion in a totalitarian state. of public opinion of public opinion of public opinion of public opinion of public opinion. I must say, however, that in my conception at least, a democracy begins with opinion. Now, I wouldn't attempt to go up on Mount Olympus and determine whether the opinions which citizens of this country have are either right or wrong. Perhaps the folk ways are always right. all I'm getting at is that in America people do have opinions. We are impressed constantly by the fact that these opinions are unusually well-informed for the great mass and also that people are willing to express them. That, in our opinion, probably indicates a very fundamental healthiness of democracy at this time. Does that answer your question, sir? Quite satisfactorily. And I should like to ask Dr. Robinson a second question in terms of behavior. How much money would be needed by a sufficiently strong organization to significantly upset the opinion of prevailing in America to such an extent that action would be possible towards the preservation of an existing institution or towards its change or overthrow? Well, that's a very interesting problem which we have observed to the extent which our materials allow. We have found so far that the major opinion changes in this country are usually traceable to events. Let me give you an illustration. Not the money. Not the big sums of money. I mean, the major changes where they're quite noticeable on our trend tests. I wouldn't undertake to say to what extent systematic propaganda changes opinions. What I am saying is that at this stage of our analytical work we have observed that the major opinion changes, the precipitate ones, are usually associated with events. Now, let us take an example. A year ago, when we asked the people whether or not they would favor reducing our expenditures for armament, if other nations also agreed to reduce their expenditures, the majority said yes. But during the past year, there's been a series of treaties and breaking episodes throughout the world, Japanese invasion of China, and various warlike gestures on the part of the fascist powers in Europe. That opinion has undergone tremendous change. Now the American public is doubtful about the desirability of trying to maintain peace through disarmament treaties. And you have, on the contrary, determined opinion that America shall build a navy and increase its air force to the point where it can protect itself. Another interesting example was during the Supreme Court file. For a while, previous to the Wagner Labor decision, President Roosevelt appeared to be gradually winning supporters for his court plan. But, at no time, we found, did he have a majority. After the Wagner Labor Act was validated and it appeared to the public that the Supreme Court might be liberal after all, sentiment for the change dropped very sharply. And after Van de Vandter resigned, giving Mr. Roosevelt a chance to appoint a man to the court, sentiment declined very rapidly again. In other words, these precipitate changes in opinion, which we have observed, are pretty largely associated with events. But I'd like to know what the causes. You say events. There must be something behind some of these events. There were events abroad, but there was a transfer of the information here. But isn't there a buildup in propagandas in order to get this changed? Don't you associate propagandas with events by exploiting events? Yes, but I imagine that the prime mover of opinion on the question of armament, for example, was not the propaganda that either the Japanese or the Chinese put out, but the fact that Japan invaded China in violation of treaties. Along that same line, the Institute for Propaganda Analysis has underway a letter on the techniques of German propaganda. That is, we hope to get out letters if funds permit on propagandas in the various totalitarian states. And I think that in that letter we deal with the question you asked. Of course, events have a tremendous amount to do with propaganda, and propaganda does take advantage of events and conditions. Now look at Germany after the World War. Germany conquered, defeated, humiliated, the victim of what most scholars would call a very unjust treaty, the perfectly logical Anschluss with Austria, utterly prohibited by France and, I guess, England, an Anschluss or union which could have taken place when Germany and Austria were democracies. The German people, humiliated by that by the whole pressure of events, deceit and economic depression, no work for the young people, no hope of marriage, no hope of normal lives, and so on. Anybody who came along as a savior could appeal to those folk. And of course, Hitler came along, and let's not forget it, we may dislike him as members of a democracy, but Hitler was and is a master propagandist. He knew how to coordinate those life conditions and the events and meld events and conditions to get a result. Now it's a result which we don't like, and it's a result perhaps which wouldn't have happened if all the processes of democracy had remained open in Britain and France so that that picture could have been revealed. And we'll have a look at that we can tell you ahead and see you on couple of things as well.
