The Jolson Song Cavalcade Presenting the Jolson Song Cavalcade, a special program from the Columbia Picture Studio in Hollywood, with songs from the Technicolor Motion Picture, The Jolson Story. In connection with the release of the Jolson Story, the entire entertainment world is paying tribute to Al Jolson and the authors, composers and producers whose combined talents made the Jolson era one of the most colorful in American entertainment. The selections you'll hear on this program were chosen by famous artists of the musical and theatrical world as their favorite Jolson song. We start with the favorite Jolson song of Larry Parks, the dynamic young star who plays the title role in the Jolson Story. It's Swanee. I've been away from you a long time. I never thought I'd miss you so. Somehow I feel your love is real. Near you I want to be. The birds are singing it is song time. The band goes drumming soft and low. I know that you can't call me too. Swanee, you're calling me Swanee. How I love you, how I love you, my dear old Swanee. I give a world to be among the folks here. I even know my family's waiting for me, praying for me down by the Swanee. The folks up door will see me no more when I get to that Swanee door. Swanee door. I love you, my dear old Swanee. The folks up door will see me no more when I get to that Swanee door. Swanee door. Swanee, how I love you, how I love you, my dear old Swanee. The folks up door will see me no more when I get to that Swanee door. Now let's listen to the number that Frank Sinatra has selected as his number one Jolson song. They sing along the theme song,idosponties andießen. In this song, let's go over here. Every time weio it fits, loving sun, and thisがあまり出 topics. The λ are on the bathe, fifty-なんての華acan SOITUSの運動 The April showers May come your way Yes, for you, yes, for you They bring the flowers That bloom in May So if it's raining Have no regrets Because it is raining, raining, no It's raining violets And where you see clouds Upon the hills You soon will see crowds Of daffodis So keep on looking for a bluebird And listening for its song Whenever April showers Come along Oh, April showers May come your way May bring the flowers That bloom in May So if it's raining Have no regrets Because it isn't raining Rain, you know It's raining violets And where you see clouds Where you see clouds on the hills Look, look, they're not clouds No, no, no The crowds of daffodils So keep on looking For a bluebird And listening For its song Come along Whenever April showers Come along Whenever April showers Come along Here's the Jolson song Donna Shore picks As her favorite number Let's listen California Here I come Right back where I started from Where flowers Are flowers Bloomed in the spring Each morning That dawning pretty thing And everything The sun Is missed Don't be late That's why I Can hardly wait Open up That golden gate California Here I come California Here I come Yeah Right back where I started from Where flowers Are flowers Bloomed in the spring Each morning That dawning Birdies sing And everything The sun Is missed And Don't be late Oh That's why I Can hardly wait Come on Open up Open up Open up That golden gate California Here I Come Russ Morgan Russ Morgan Russ Morgan made an unusual selection of a famous Jolson song as his favorite. We hear it now as featured in the Jolson story by Evelyn Keyes. She's a Latin from Manhattan You can tell by Hermann Yana She's a Latin from Manhattan And not Savannah Though she does the room before us And she owns up the Lawrence She was in a Broadway chorus Known as Susie Donahue Do do do I can take a Tambourine and Whacken But for me It's just a racket She's a Whopper From Dance Avenue Do do do do I'm a Latin from Manhattan Do do do do I'm a Forty-second Feeder Do do do do She's a Latin from Manhattan Sayorina Donahue Would you like to know Perry Como's ten favorite Jolson songs? Well, there's April showers California, here I come Rainbow round my shoulder Rock-a-bye your baby Carolina in the morning By the light of the silvery moon Toot-toot-tootsie Liza, I want a girl And at the head of the list You made me love you So let's listen to You made me love you The Jolson song That's Perry's number one choice You made me love you I didn't want to do it I didn't want to do it You made me want to And all the time you knew it I guess you always knew it You made me happy sometimes Oh, you made me glad But there were times, baby You dog You made me cry for I didn't want to tell you I didn't want to tell you I want some love That's true You know I do Indeed I do Yes I do Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme What I cry for You know you got the kind of kisses That I die for You know you made me love you When it comes to Jolson's songs Al Jolson himself should be the leading authority And when it comes to Jolson Sidney Skulsky is the authority For years, Sidney Skulsky has been one of Hollywood's favorite newspaper and magazine columnists He's an intimate friend of Jolson's And recently made his debut as a motion picture producer By producing The Jolson Story Sidney says that Jolson likes all his songs for different reasons And it's hard to pin him down to any one favorite But he tells us confidentially That Jolson would really like waiting for the Robert E. Lee on this program So here it is Watch them shuffling along See them shuffling along Go take your best self Your real pal Go down to the levee I said to levee Darn that shuffling's wrong Hear that music and song It's simply great, mate Waiting on the levee Waiting for the Robert E. Lee Watch them shuffling along See them shuffling along Go take your best self Your real pal Go down to the levee I said levee Join that shuffling's wrong Hear that music and song It's simply great, mate Waiting on the levee Waiting for the Robert E. Lee You've been listening to the Jolson Song Cavalcade A special program from the Columbia Pictures Studio in Hollywood Featuring songs from the Technicolor Columbia Picture, The Jolson Story We'll be seeing you soon at the movies All right, man. Have a great work done When I was an Esperanto We see the 78thwed Look in your eyes Three, four, four... You'll see it Good night Pretty fast Good night And youFL Wha... повvered Little nightinations Tune of robots Oh my god And Lone I'll see it No, no, no, no, no.... It's extraordinary Let's see it I've been away from you a long time I never thought I'd miss you so Somehow I feel your love is real Near you I want to be The birds are singing it is song time The band goes drumming soft and low I know that you can't call me too Swanee, you're calling me Swanee, how I love you, how I love you My dear old Swanee I'd give the world to be Among the folks here in D.I.X. I even know my mammy's Waiting for me, praying for me down By the Swanee The folks up door will see me no more When I get to that Swanee shore I love the old folks at home more Swanee, how I love you, how I love you My dear old Swanee The folks up door will see me no more When I get to that Swanee shore Go April showers They come your way Yes, for you Yes, for you They bring the flowers That bloom in a may So if it's raining Have no regrets Because It is raining, rain, you know It's raining violets And where you see clouds And where you see clouds Upon the hills You soon will see crowds Of gaffodils So keep on looking For a bluebird And listening For its song Whenever April showers Come along Whenever April showers Come along Oh, April showers May come your way May come your way May bring the flowers May bring the flowers That bloom in may So if it's raining Have no regrets Because It isn't raining Rain, you know It's raining violets And where you see clouds When you see clouds Are the hills Look, look They're not clouds No, no They're crowds Of daffodils And where you see clouds When you see clouds Are the hills Look, look They're not clouds No, no They're crowds Of daffodils So keep on looking For a bluebird And listening For its song Whenever April showers Come along When every April shower Come along When every April shower Come along When every April shower Come along I'll see clouds Alone California, here I come Right back where I started from Where flowers Are flowers bloom in the spring Each morning That dawning birdie sing And everything A sun is misted Don't be late That's why I Can hardly wait Open up That gold advocate California, here I come California, here I come Come along Yeah Right back where I started from Where flowers Are flowers bloom in the spring Each morning That dawning birdie sing And everything A sun is misted Don't be late That's why I Can hardly wait Come on Open up, open up, open up That gold and a gate Calabar That's why I Can hardly wait Come on Open up, open up, open up That gold and a gate Calabar That gold and a gate California, here I come She's a Latin from Manhattan You can tell by her manana She's a Latin from Manhattan And not Havana Though she does the room before us And she goes up the laurel She was in a Broadway chorus Known as Susie Donahue Do, do, do, do I can take a submarine and whack it But with me, it's just a racket She's a hooker from 10th Avenue Do, do, do, do I'm a Latin from Manhattan Do, do, do, do I'm a 42nd streeter Do, do, do, do She's a Latin from Manhattan Senorina Donahue You made me love you I didn't wanna do it I didn't wanna do it You made me love you I didn't wanna do it I didn't wanna do it You made me want to And all the time you knew it I guess you always knew it You made me happy sometimes Oh, you made me glad But there were times, baby I didn't You made me happy sometimes Ha ha ha, you dog You made me cry deep You made me cry deep oxy donahue I didn't wanna tell you I didn't wanna tell you I didn't wanna tell you I want some love That's true You know I do I do I do Yes I do Give me, give me, give me, give me what I cry for. You know you got the kind of kisses that I die for. You know you made me love you. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Yeah, that music and song, it's simply great, mate. Waiting on the levee, waiting for the robbery leave. Watch them shuffling along. See them shuffling along. Go take your best gal, your real pal. Go down to the levee, watch the levee. Join that shuffling drum. Yeah, that music and song, it's simply great. Waitin' on the levee, waitin' for the robbery leave. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm.