Mr. Chairman, and my friends in educational broadcasting, I want to congratulate Keith Tyler on the steady growth of this institute which is almost as old as radio, and yet as young as television. I'm grateful to Keith for letting me talk to you out of a loud speaker, though possibly you won't be, instead of face-to-face. I would be in Columbus with you tonight, were it not that tomorrow is the annual day of visitation, when I must represent the United States Senate at the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut. I interrupted my journey from Washington to New London to tell you that today you can be one of the most important groups in the United States. Except for those who are responsible for the formulation of our foreign policy, I don't know any group which could have a greater impact on our country's future. You are tonight poised on the threshold of a great new mansion for the human mind. I want to encourage you to cross it, and to cross it boldly. I don't need to tell this institute about the power of television or about its potentialities for education. That would be carrying coals to Columbus, or perhaps I should say carrying coaxial cables. I wish Congress understood this as well as you do. The figures are sparkling, indeed terrifying. TV receivers up from 7,000 on VJ day to over 11 million today. That total likely to be doubled in the next five years. The number of stations potentially multiplying tenfold by 1956. One hundred million man hours a day and women hours and boy and girl hours already devoted to the TV screen. Reading slumping in TV homes. A survey in Stamford, Connecticut, showing that children spend as much time watching television as they spend in school. For most of us, a single revealing experience often gives us greater insight than a deluge of figures and syllogism. I had such an experience with radio in the spring of 1929 in Chicago as a young man. I had thought I knew something about radio. I had used it in behalf of Palmolive and other advertising clients with whom I was working. Then one warm spring evening, as I walked home from work, I heard the full Amos and Andy program through open windows as I paced block after block through the near north side. It was before the Hooper rating, so I made my own rating. Thirteen homes out of seventeen tuned to Amos and Andy. That was a revelation. I spent the next eight years doing something about it, starting with my clients, and doing something about it for my own profit and the profit of my clients. My television revelation didn't come until March of this year until Senator Keefover's committee hearings were televised. As chairman of an educational film company, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, I had of course been keeping a watchful eye on television's rise. I left the advertising business sixteen years ago and hadn't kept an intimate touch. But the full revelation of what television might do as a servant of society came only with Keefover. For me, and indeed for most Americans, the television age can henceforward be divided into two eras, BK and AK, before and after Keefover. Not long after those hearings closed, I was dining in Washington with Paul Hoffman and Robert Hutchins of the Ford Foundation. We three agreed that the greatest finding of the Keefover committee was not that they exposed crime, but that they revealed television. Out of that discussion came my decision to call for an immediate Senate study of the role the federal government ought to play in developing what Professor Seatman calls this explosive new instrument. This instrument which can transform and uplift human relations. Technically, the problem is a single problem. It is the theme of your institute this year. How can the public interest best be served? I shall discuss this in two major parts. Let me first discuss education's own TV station. In March, the Federal Communications Commission made tentative channel allocations for 209 educational stations. These allocations represented about 17% of the hitherto unassigned very high-frequency channels and somewhat less than 10% of the more speculative ultra-channels. It took both enlightenment and courage on the part of the FCC to make these educational assignments. The pressures on that agency are immense. But I want particularly to congratulate those of you in Columbus tonight who, with no prospect of reward other than the satisfaction of doing an important job, banded together to make education's case before the FCC. Those of you who took part in Operation Education. Many educators feel they didn't get all the channels they will need, and I'm not at all sure they asked for enough. In my state, for example, there is only one educational reservation. That one, in the ultra-high frequency range, assigned to stores the seat of the University of Connecticut. I'm told that five of the eight counties in Connecticut will be unable to get the signal from that station, if the station materializes. And that not all parts of the other three counties will get it either. Similarly, our neighbor Massachusetts, Massachusetts, which is nearly as famous as Connecticut for its educational achievements, has only one educational reservation. We in Connecticut won't be able to elevate the level of Massachusetts, and they can't try to elevate us. New Jersey, the home of Princeton and Rutgers, has no educational reservation. There isn't going to be much ivy on those new educational transmitters. Now, of course, as we all know, education is slow to accept innovation. There's no profit prod toward moving fast. Professor Thorndike once showed the 20 to 30 years elapsed between the introduction of a new idea in education and its widespread adoption. Indeed, it has taken us 100 years to reach our present percentage of secondary school enrollment. This time, we aren't going to have 100 years or even 30 years. We must start now, this year, this month. Two taunts are hurled today at the hopeful television educators. One taunt is, look what happened to education's AM radio frequencies. Most of them were abandoned. The other taunt is, where's the money coming from? I do not accept the analogy between radio and TV. Television isn't just a cousin of radio. It's a new species. And it is uniquely adapted to education. It adds sight and motion to sound. But it does more than that. As John Crosby points out, television has five times the impact of radio. I believe he used the word wallop. But it also requires five times the attention. Attention is indispensable to education. Television can demand it and grip it, as radio never could. Now, where's the money coming from? Here I must declare my faith in the American people. They believe in education. They have fought for it. They spend perhaps $5 billion a year for it today. Once they have shown the power of educational television, I cannot believe they will deny it to themselves or to their children. We can all of us be heartened by the fact that in the past several months, three foundations have made grants for educational radio and television, totaling over a million dollars. This, of course, is seed money. Several state legislatures already have before them appropriation requests in support of educational TV stations. There will be more as you here make your voices heard, and should not Congress now consider the idea of providing matching grants in aid for educational stations, since the national interest is so deeply involved? I have myself been deeply interested in the idea of subscription radio and subscription television. This idea has tremendous promise across the whole range of broadcasting. It could provide, within the American concept of broadcasting, an alternative to and a competitor with the system of exclusive reliance on advertising revenue. Whether the subscription technique could be developed as one means of financing educational stations, I do not know, but it's a possibility eminently worth exploring. One of my former associates at the University of Chicago has advanced the novel idea that colleges and universities might finance their TV stations by telewizing their football games on a subscription basis. Now that's a remarkable suggestion, to emerge from Chicago, where the football stadium has been converted into an atom laboratory, and imagine football profits being used to finance education rather than to finance baseball, swimming, or tracks. Let me turn now from education's own efforts in television to the second major issue, the educational and public service programming done by commercial stations. We don't have to dwell on the depressing history of radio. Outside the entertainment field, let us look not at radio's past, but at television's present. One of the most telling exhibits the educators presented to the FCC in January in making their case for educational stations was the monitoring study on New York's seven TV stations covering one week earlier that month made by Professors Horton and Smythe. They found that only 4% of the week's programs were what they called informational. Of these, only one was identified as a genuinely instructional program. As for the evening hours between 7 and 11, they found, and I like this language, that a clear majority of the time was devoted to entertainment programs with relatively low or perhaps negative survival value for the individual viewer or for society. 55% of this evening's time was devoted to Wild West drama, crime, drama, sports, quizzes, stunts, and contests. Professor Siekman has written forebodingly, we may now be witnessing a peak in television service to a variety of tastes. I suggest that he get together and compare notes with Professors Smythe and Horton. I have great admiration for the creative talent of commercial broadcasters, but I fear that this talent may be channeled in television, as in radio, into a limited number of stereotyped but failable program formats. And I ask, are there any steps which the people of the United States acting through the Congress might now take to divert at least a fraction of that talent into the development of genuinely educational programs carried by the commercial system? Should the Congress now lay out clearer guidelines for the Federal Communications Commission? Can we afford to waste as much time and talent on trivia in television as we have in radio? Can we lay down new guidelines without limiting essential freedom? I pose these questions as worthy of the highest consideration by Congress in terms of the great challenge of the new age, the television age. I have framed my Senate resolution so that it invites study by the Senate at such specific issues as the following, among others. One, should the Communications Act of 1934, which was drawn for radio and not for television, now be amended to spell out the meaning of the phrase public interest, convenience, and necessity, particularly with respect to education? Two, under such a clarification, should the Act require licensees to devote a portion of their best hours to education and to public service? Three, three, should the Act require, rather than merely authorize, the FCC not to renew the licenses of those who fail to live up to the promises in their application? Four, should Congress create an educational division within the FCC or perhaps a national commission advisory to the FCC to strengthen the hand of that agency and help it gauge the educational promises and performance of licensees? Now, the FCC already has broad powers, but in view of the pressures it must cope with daily, it cannot be expected to exercise those powers vigorously in behalf of education without renewed support and guidance by the Congress, whose instrumentality, after all, the FCC is. The issues seem to me too big, too important to be left wholly in the hands of a single agency, no matter how competent it may be, and I have the highest regard for the competence of the FCC commissioners. My message to this institute tonight, therefore, is this. You, here in Columbus, have taken the first step, the first of many steps, toward the realization of television's great educational mission. The leadership in the next step and the next step after that must continue to come from you. There is no one else who can give it in the country today. Only you, as you are inspired by what you are already doing, only you can give this leadership. That means that you must learn to be publicists and promoters and politicians as well as educators. It means you must go to work on your trustees and your school board, on your state legislatures, and your Congress. I and many others can and will do what we can to help. I wish you would write me your views. I need your letters. Also, and perhaps better yet, write to your own senators or to the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce. It is you who must leave. It is through these letters that you can begin to show this leadership. I developed yesterday, which made it necessary for me to join Senator Benton in talking to you by closed circuit, and I regret my absence from your gathering very much, particularly since this is, I understand, the first year that a discussion of television has played a major part in your Institute's meetings. How can the public interest best be served through television? Three weeks ago tomorrow, Senator Benton arose from a seat and told the Senate that in the previous month in the United States...