Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In 15 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, can we get people to work together? Our unrehearsed, give-and-take discussion will center around an analysis of group procedures, why people have trouble working together, and the means for improvement. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Leland P. Bradford, Director of the Division of Adult Education Services with the National Education Association, and Director of the National Training Library and Group Development. Malcolm S. Knowles, President of the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago, and Executive Secretary of the Central YMCA in Chicago. Paul Sheets, Associate Director, the University of California Extension and Professor of Education in the University of California at Los Angeles. Herbert A. Thielen, Associate Professor of Educational Psychology and Director of the Human Dynamics Laboratory at the University of Chicago. Dr. McBurney, Director of Education of the National Education Association. Now, gentlemen, to open this discussion, tell us what kinds of situations you have in mind when you talk about people working together. How would you answer that, Bradford? Well, people work together or meet in groups in all kinds of situations in all kinds of groups. To be specific, we have committees and community councils. We have staff meetings in business or industry or social work or education or family councils. There are certainly industrial relations, management, labor meetings. There's international meetings. Certainly, Lake Success has its share of them. Wherever people, in a day such as this, where we are facing the need for people to solve problems together because problems are still too complex for the individual to handle entirely alone, we have group situations which need study. Do you have anything to add to that, Thielen? Yeah, I like this notion of putting it in terms of social problem solving. I'd like to extend it to personal problem solving with the notion that every individual is a group too and that many of the things that go on among several people also go on within one person. Thus, a person can be a father, a Protestant, a professor, a consumer. He has to somehow make a group of all these people and he has to remember which particular member of this group is the one who should be leader at any given time. So why are you men concerned about the way people work together? Does it make any difference, Chiefs? This seems to be pretty fundamental in maintaining the vitality of the democratic system because so much social action these days depends upon the effectiveness with which groups can work together in solving their common problems. I'd like to add to that that I'm concerned too about the effect of the group experiences that people have on the kind of people we have, the kind of individuals we have in our democracy. In other words, I think that one of the important objectives of group experience to anyone is in terms of helping him to grow into a more mature person. I think there's another factor too that enters in. This day of tension where we're all vitally concerned with the development of democracy is bulwark against other philosophies. We need to realize we have to do a lot more than talk about it. The thing that disturbs me is that we, if we want to bring someone in to fix our kitchen sink, we call for a licensed plumber. But we, the process of democracy, the process of people working together in groups is a terrifically complex thing, and yet we assume that anybody without thinking about can be a member of a group, lead a group, do anything he wants with other people. Whereas that's something that necessitates clear thinking, study, analysis, research, so that we can improve our basic methods of being democratic. Would you men agree that the problems of working together in groups are much more difficult these days than they were, for example, in the pioneering period? That is, that in those days you had the concrete problems which a group could get together and solve in a town meeting pattern, for example. Today it's much more difficult to see the relationship between a neighborhood PTA meeting, for example, and the great social issues of our time. Yes. And yet fundamentally what goes on in that small face-to-face group may have a great deal to do with the operation of the democratic system on these worldwide issues. I think it's very important to recognize that, Sheetz, that groups exist and go on and that's a fact. We don't have any choice whether we're going to work with groups. Our only choice is whether we're going to work with groups better or help them to be more efficient. Right. I think the other point that impresses me here is that when you think of the size and complexity of the problems to be solved in our world today, and then ask what is the power that can solve it, you get down to one, so far, almost untapped source, a sort of atomic social power, and that's the behavior and acts of each individual. But individuals don't act alone, and the group participation, the kind of experience they have in groups, determines whether this power is going to add up and be enough to solve racial problems, for example, and peace problems, or not. Now, is this atomic social power to which you refer, Thielen, primarily a matter of communication? Is it primarily a verbal process you're talking about? Well, the control system for the release of this power is through the communication process in which many other people are involved. The source of the power itself, I suppose, goes down to the individual psychology of growth, and the needs that individuals have to be mature and be humans. I'd like to suggest, go ahead, Knowles. I'd like to suggest, too, that it seems to me that what we're talking about here is releasing people to be productive, to be themselves, to be free from self-defensiveness and so on. That's one of the reasons why groups are not working well together, people are not working well together now, is that the air is so full of tension, and each person feels so impelled to defend his point of view, rather than to share with someone else, you see, in producing. Now, releasing themselves, you say, releasing themselves, working together effectively, with what ends in view, Bradford? What are you after here, anyway? Or after, essentially, helping people to solve the problems they're facing. And when you're looking at the releasing of people, I think we can see this, and it's always an interesting analogy, that a group of, or a collection of mature people, doesn't necessarily form a mature group. Very adult people can form a very infantile kind of group, which means that we have to look very squarely at how you can help groups grow, just as we have always helped individuals grow. And by helping groups grow, we also help individuals grow, because the individual becomes much more of an individual, and flowers much more as an individual, when he has security in belonging, and working with other people, in a warm group situation. Aren't you implying, Bradford, that having a bunch of people together, who are really eager to solve a particular problem, does not, of and by itself, ensure that the problem will be solved? Certainly. Certainly. That we are really here to raise the question of what are the other things they have to take into account, besides that one common interest enabled to be able to solve the problem. And that spells out this point of communication, which is certainly a much more complex thing than the verbal interchange of words. It's a matter of understanding the motives of other people, understanding their needs, what they're trying to do, helping people to play a part in a group. On the other hand, I don't think we ought to try to cover the whole waterfront here this morning, in a half an hour. It seems to me that taking Bradford's original lead on this, we ought to begin to define the specific kinds of group situations, which we're concerned with here primarily. Let me give you an example. It seems to me that the competency of the group to handle certain problem situations has a lot to do with the effectiveness with which it can work. You wouldn't expect a group of citizens in the Tennessee Valley, for example, to decide what kind of construction ought to go into the next dam that's built down there, but you might very well expect that group of citizens to have intelligent, informed opinions on whether this is the kind of direction we want our policy to take in that area. You're suggesting, Chief, that there are some situations in which group discussion, for example, just doesn't apply. Primarily, yes, where your need may be entirely for information. Yes. What are the situations in which it does apply? What are the areas which you're most concerned here? Well, certainly where a group faces a problem that is common to the group that can't be solved alone because it demands the interdependency of the members as a place where you have to have group decision. Also, we found that, as we well know, that groups sometimes are a place where people learn best in terms of just learning or learning information. All groups, too, are the place where you solve conflicts, this matter of mediation or conciliation. We're now finding in this new area of human relations training that groups provide one of the best ways of training people and the skills of behaving adequately as human beings. I would like to go on with that point a little bit, too, to extend the influence of group on the individual. For example, in the Hyde Park Kenwood Community Conference on the south side that's concerned with racial problems, there had been a woman who had gone to many tea parties and social gatherings. In many of them, she would hear prejudiced remarks, remarks that she thought were antisocial, that should be caught, shouldn't be allowed to go by. She had done nothing about it except sit there feeling flushed and guilty for some time. Then she got in with a group of her neighbors in this conference program, found that many of them were indignant, felt the same way, but also didn't know what to do, and just that amount of information was enough to strengthen her hand. And the next time she heard a prejudiced remark, she said something about it. She said it rather tactfully, too, because she was backed by a whole group and could feel secure in doing it. McBurney, there's been quite a lot of research going on in this matter of what causes groups to work well together or not to work well together, and I know that Bradford has been right at the center of a good deal of that research. I wonder if he could illustrate, perhaps from Gert Lewin's early experiments on food habits, how exactly this sort of thing works. Well, the one study I think of Lewin's doesn't do that exactly, knows it merely shows the effectiveness of groups in certain situations. In this study of food habits, two kinds of methods were used to get housewives during the war to change their food habits from buying meat that couldn't be bought to buying meat they didn't think they wanted, which meant, of course, changing the habits of their whole families. In one situation, they were given pamphlets to read and given lectures and asked to change. In the other situation, women came together who knew they would not see each other again. They discussed the desirability of changing, the adequacy of the food, and came to a decision to do it, and committed themselves in front of each other, even though they never saw each other again. I don't remember the exact figures, but as I recall, the first situation, there was about a 2% change after reading the usual mass media efforts of reading, of lecturing, and so on. There was about a 33% change in the case where people discussed together and decided together and committed themselves. I wonder at this point if we wouldn't want to move, though, to looking at, not groups globally now, but some of the characteristics that you see in groups, because I'm a little concerned that we might give the impression that there is a set pattern or magic answer that if you once know it, you can buy it at the local drugstore, then you become a good group leader. I'd like to stress that groups are complex, that we're, the best thing that can be said is that more scientific methods of inquiry are being applied to finding out what happens in groups. We know very little, but we're beginning to find a few things. We might look at some of those things. Well, I wonder, I wonder if we can't get relatively specific on two things. First, why some of these group processes break down, why groups fail, and then go on from that to take a look at the same time. Why do groups fail, Chief? Well, I'd like to take a shot at that just by listing what seems to be one important explanation. I have a hunch that we have placed entirely too much reliance on information-giving techniques. Take our national organizations, for example, in the field of international relations. I talked with a man just recently from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who says frankly that over a period of years now, this organization has been producing materials rather widely circulated. It has absolutely no evidence as to just what has happened in terms of the effect of these materials on behavior, on attitudes, on opinions of the people whom they've reached. The tendency to rely upon information-giving as the primary answer to our problem tends to take away from the importance of group process and group work, cooperative group work, it seems to me. I think moving from that, uh, sheets, we could say that one of the factors beyond that certainly is our ideas or concepts of leadership. Right. I think primarily we think that leadership is something that one person does to the group, rather than leadership is something the group has to do with itself, and that leadership is very complex and calls for a lot of different behaviors, so many in fact that no one person could do it anyway. You might want to look at some of those, Thaylon, how it would are, some you'd point out. I would think of leadership as making sure, as a kind of insurance policy, that the things that have to go on for a group to be effective do go on. Uh, Sheets has talked about the need for information. Uh, I'd raise the question of what kind of information does the group need? Uh, the leadership is there to make sure that it gets that information, but the group has to participate in giving it. For example, the one kind of information that the group needs is as to what the problem is it's really working on, what its hidden agenda is, you might say. A group will be, if you get a lot of people together, something will happen, that's for sure. But the question is, what is it they're really trying to do, not what do they call it? Or what are they allowed to say, but what are they really trying to do? And one of the interesting problems, of course, is that so often they're working on the problem of what to do with their leader. Yes. Well now, to focus this a bit, I suggest the possibility that groups fail sometimes, because they don't know what they're talking about, because they don't have adequate information, and they fail, secondly, because they're in the hands of an incompetent leader. Now, what do you say to that? Well, I would like to suggest, McBurney, that the incompetence of the leader needs a lot of definition. I think that in our society today, we've tended to put a premium on what might be called an autocratic, or an authoritarian leader, a leader who has the point of view that it's his responsibility to see that the group follows the answers that he himself has arrived at, rather than having the point of view that he wants to facilitate the group in thinking through what its problem is, what the possible solutions are, and then the group itself arriving at the kinds of decisions that it wants. I certainly agree with you, and I agree with McBurney there. I'd say, though, that moving from the autocratic leader doesn't mean moving from a strong leader. Right. I think that frequently we think it means that the leader sits back and says, what do you want to do now, boys and girls, and no one knows what to do. Literally, it seems to me that the leader's major functions are in part management, but not the policeman kind of management we've assumed too much in the past, but largely the role of being a consultant to the group in terms of what are the problems we're having in working together. We've had studies that show in many instances that putting the attention on the part of the leader only on the problem being discussed, and having information about it may not really help the group because he becomes only another group member, but also putting attention on where are the rough spots in our working together, why are so-and-so not talking, what's happened to cause tension. A very good example of that seems to me, Bradford, again from this community conference I referred to, has to do with getting together a bunch of neighbors, some of whom are strongly prejudiced against Negroes, some of whom are strongly prejudiced for Negroes. Under these conditions, it's very easy for the group to go off into an ideological kind of argument with a lot of tension and name-calling, you so-and-so, you feel this way, and so forth and so on. But the leadership skill here, and this is really an insight for a leader, would be to see that the real problem is not to settle whether prejudice is good or bad, but to solve a particular problem. So the leader, for example, could say, let us all accept as a fact, simply the fact that we all have different degrees of prejudice. That isn't our fault. And there isn't perhaps too much we can do about that immediately, but the real problem is here are these Negroes who moved in across the street. What are we going to do about them? Are we going to be friendly? Are we going to be friendly? Are we going to try to talk with them? Or are we going to try to ignore them? That would seem to me to be taking this concept of leadership almost to the point of considering it a function and responsibility of the whole group, rather than a combination of personality attributes that rest in one person who is capital L, the leader. McBurney, you know from your own field of speech here that we've had a tendency to list a long list of requirements or technical skills or qualifications which the discussion leader in a group should have without recognizing that it's almost impossible for one person to do all of the things we've said it's important to do. Why not look at it as a function and divide it up among the members of the group? I think that's very accurate, Paul. For example, the behavior I just spoke of which helped the group so much could have come from anybody at all in the group. Right. And the person who does it, people try different things, this particular thing happened to work and it was done with the group's approval. If it hadn't happened to work and the group had ignored it, somebody else would have tried something and he might have, in a sense, taken over for a short period of time as he had something to contribute that would help the group. Now, are you men talking here about a relatively specific method of group behavior? No, I think not. We're talking about the things that we're finding as we look critically and as scientifically as we can at what happens in groups and from the results we're getting, as small as they are, we're beginning to say these things do happen in groups, now what can be done? Just to give an example of the way in which methods, if we're looking for the magic method, doesn't work. We always say that summarizing in a group is a very fine thing to do, as it is, but we've all watched situations where the person who got up to summarize, usually the leader, blocked off some very wonderful thinking which he didn't want to have happen. And after the summary was through, no one had courage enough to start again. For example, as you look at groups, you're seeing many things that are present that we don't think about in almost any group there could be called two agendas. The surface or sophisticated agenda that we're dealing with on the table and the variety of hidden agendas. Maybe our hidden agendas are such as how can I gain status in this group? Or how can I get my side over? Or how can I beat someone else down? Or maybe the group has the agenda of sure we'll agree with the leader in words, but we're certainly not going to carry out his policies. And they must be looked at. Or you can also have another example of the group hidden agenda, is their real agenda is to get out of frustration no matter what. When a group gets sufficiently baffled, any idea that's halfway reasonable and looks plausible will be voted for. But you can interview the people afterwards and find out that nobody really wants that decision. Which is one reason why the communists have the reputation of keeping the meeting going until 3 in the morning. Uh, McBurney, I'm a little worried at this point in terms of whether we shouldn't now begin to deal rather specifically with some recommendations or suggestions that can be made for improving group process. We've tended to pick rather negative illustrations occasionally. Let's look at the converse of it. Specifically what can we suggest to our listening audience here? I'd like to suggest one thing which has to do with the climate under which the group works. That typically in our PTAs, our luncheon clubs, our boards of directors and so on, we set up a very formal rigid kind of climate. In which, uh, there's, uh, formal language, you address the chair, you follow, uh, rules of procedure that are extremely formal and so on. And, um, it's my observation that this inhibits, uh, and cuts off creative thinking. That the best kind of thinking is done in groups that, uh, in which there's a warm, friendly, informal kind of, uh, of atmosphere. Well now, as I follow you gentlemen, you seem not to be speaking in behalf of eloquent oratory. Am I right in that, uh, Thielen? Yes, we're trying to get at effective communication which has to do with the readiness of the listener to accept the communication, as well as the, uh, floweriness of the speaker who is initiating the communication. We asked for some examples, and I think one is, uh, something we've been studying for five years, as how can conferences be made more effective? And our conference this week will stress part of that. Instead of the usual conference where the planners are afraid that there will be, uh, poor thinking or nothing thought about all, and where they therefore plan, uh, a plan panel where everybody is told what to say beforehand or a speech, we found that you can bring groups of people together on problems, you can encourage them to think critically, and they come out with far more than they've ever come out before, and they are highly involved and enthusiastic. Uh, one thing, of course, to do, perhaps, is to start a group meeting with a little problem census. What are the problems that we are facing? So from that, we draw a common problem. The group then, is able to make a decision, let's explore this. The leader constantly tossing in methods of exploration, or suggestions as to how we might possibly work along. But the decisions of basic content decisions become the group decisions. As a corollary to that, we also suggest another condition. Namely, that a group, to work most productively and effectively, ought to have some kind of action outlet or action orientation. And that its procedures should be directed not to having talk for talk's sake, but to working on a problem with a view to things which that group has power to do concerning that problem. Let me say a word here. All right. Because it's in line with some things I've been thinking about. There are all kinds of groups in which you don't have to be concerned at all about having an action outlet. Uh, they're constituted for the precise purpose of determining action. They, uh, they don't have to decide what they're going to talk about. What they're going to talk about is dictated by the problem and the situation in which they find themselves. Which they're trying to sell. I'm talking about industrial relations groups. All kinds of, of community, uh, conflict. You don't have to worry about an agenda in there. You don't have to worry about finding some course of action. That's their job is to find action. Now, will this, uh, this cooperative procedure that you men are talking about function in that kind of a, of a hard situation where real conflict exists? Where, where your salary is involved? Mm-hmm. I think so. I think the usual charge that, uh, discussion processes are inefficient, uh, doesn't take the full picture into account. If you take, if you think of how much action follows and include the time spent in reaching a decision and also the time in taking action, you will find that there is more action for the same amount of time and energy than if somebody comes in and says, look, boys, here's what we have to do. Now, you do this, you do this, you do this, and you do this. Because, although that is making a decision very quickly, you then have to set up a very elaborate machinery to continually needle people to make them carry through. I would say a fundamental factor of all groups is this, that all of them can get better. To get better, they have to know where they're bad, which means that they have to keep on looking at how we are working as well as what we are doing. Now, usually that's done by the leader, but he keeps the knowledge to himself. If a group can learn and be helped to see that they can spend a little time in looking back, how did we do what we did? Perhaps observing what they are doing from time to time and then talking about and saying, these were mistakes we've made today, we blocked him off, we created tension on his part, tomorrow or the next time we meet. Let's be conscious of those factors so we can improve. I can say that groups can grow, but they can only grow systematically on the basis of collecting knowledge about where they're at fault or where they're not growing. What are you going to do in these conflict situations where these cooperative procedures break down for one reason or another? Heavens knows they're breaking down all around us. Look at the international scene. Look at the industrial scene. I take it that strikes and clubs and guns are evidences of failures of these processes. But, Bernie, aren't they breaking down largely because they're not using processes that are designed to help them in the job that they're to do? They're using borrowed techniques for the most part from other situations that don't apply to this. They're also, and this I think is a long answer, I don't know the answer to those questions at all. I doubt if anybody here does. But it means that these are areas where we must put more and more intensive study. This year for the first time, I think, a team went to Paris to study how one of the international conferences worked. Many, many studies like that will help us to get at all of the dynamic forces which are affecting any group situation. From that, we will ultimately find our answers. I know they're not easy, but this is a path of method of scientific inquiry which will lead us there. I think you're right, Lee. I think that we have to recognize we're talking about a kind of tool which will be developed only from experience and from thinking on experience. And any experience is a failure experience if you expect too much from it right at the beginning. So all I say is we should have confidence that there is something here. We should try to think of everything we do as experimental, as a learning experience, and in the meanwhile, be continually alert to where it's right to use groups, where it doesn't work, and so on and so on. Do you think you men give enough attention to the role of authority and the role of the expert in this group process? It's certainly necessary to be in there. It's how you use it. I've watched many an expert ruin a group by insisting on giving the wrong information at the wrong time or the right information at the wrong time. It's a matter of always having authority but using it correctly, and that's a matter of study too. Or by his attitude of needing to impose his own opinions on the people. It's also the problem of deciding what authority to use. So under some conditions, the group may be under the authority of a method of solution of problems. Under other conditions, it's under the authority of a wiser person who has some experience. Under other conditions, it's under the authority of a person who can feel the pulse of the public. Well, I think it's fair to say that the methods we employ in working together, probably as much as anything else, determine the kind of people we are and the kind of society in which we live. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Can We Get People to Work Together? Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. At address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Leland P. Bradford, Malcolm S. Knowles, Herbert Thelen, and Paul Sheets. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand begins a series of three programs about American foreign policy. When we discuss the question, Korea, test case for American foreign policy. Our guests will be Kenneth Colgrove, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, James Avery Joyce, British author, barrister, and lecturer on international problems, and Quincy Wright, Professor of International Law at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the subject, Korea, test case for American foreign policy. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Frank Babcock. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
