Four years ago, a gentleman with a very high degree of personal integrity, courage, energy, and intelligence offered himself to the people of the city of New York to serve as their chief magistrates. By an overwhelming vote, they accepted his office. Four years later, in recognition of his splendid record of accomplishments, the people of the city of New York first drafted and then re-elected him to office. In so doing, they said, in effect, we approve of your work as far as it has progressed, but you are only halfway through, and we need, want, and demand that you come back to finish the job. His charm has captured the hearts of New Yorkers for many years, and therefore, it was no surprise to us that recently, the heart of a very gracious, beautiful, and charming lady yielded to this charm and thus gave to the city of New York our first lady. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to present the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer. The honorable William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, is receiving an ovation here in the council chamber, where it does seem that every atom of space is taken up by people and faces. In this historic room, we see a most interesting scene as the mayor addresses the assembly. Bishop Gilbert, Dr. Poole, and Senior Weldon, my colleagues, the Board of Estimates, the Council, the appointments that are going to be made, the appointees that are going to be sworn in, the ladies and gentlemen who have paid us the compliment of being a part of these proceedings, and those who are listening in. I know that we begin the proceedings today, we begin the four years administration to come, as closely as we can get to the inspired sentiments in the two beautiful prayers that we heard this morning from Bishop Gilbert and Dr. Poole. Bishop Gilbert pointed out again that we are a city made up of the peoples of many kindreds, if I quote correctly what the bishop said. that in the eyes of one who sent us here and who will take us away, we stand equally before him. And Dr. Poole continued the thought when he said that perfection would be if we could walk humbly with God. Eight million people in a city makes an important unit, not only in the state of New York or in the nation, but in the world. It's important because here in this city made up of all these kindreds and all these religious traditions, we first of all exist as a unit by virtue of the powers given to us by the state of New York in the form of a charter. And we exist as individuals in our everyday relations with our fellow man and our common obligations to our creator because of a constitution that gives us the guarantees that are based on God's law. And consequently, as we start again a new four years, we must keep before our minds a sense of what is most valuable. And I have, of course, only one thought on that. And just as soon as we lose respect for the rights of our neighbors and we don't have to be able to do our own. And we don't have to be able to do our own. And we don't have to be able to do our own. Everything else that we do, no matter how well-intentioned or how well-completed, has lost a basic strength because we have abandoned a basic fundamental idea. When we go into four years, before we begin to talk about anything else, we must talk about respect for our neighbors. We must talk about respect for the democratic institutions under which we're privileged to live as individuals. And our city must take its place because of its size and its importance. As a leader in the thinking that will bring some contribution to the chaotic conditions of the world. And we in our city, as we are in our state and in our nation, have full confidence in when we follow the precepts of divine teaching. When we follow those delightful principles of government based on divine thinking, which is, in effect, our beautiful Constitution, the closer we follow it, the more we take it to our hearts, the more that we who have been elected to responsible positions, dedicate ourselves to promoting its interests, the greater is the contribution that we make, individually and as a city, to the peace and contentment of the world and to the guarantees of future peace to children unborn. After that, we go into the simple proposal of how to get the best results in the complicated job of keeping house in this city. we have today the job of reappointing many of those who have justified these appointments because of the excellence of their work as the head of the pocket. We, too, will not have all of those who have come down through the troublesome past with us today. And one word of praise, of great praise, to Commissioner Powell of the Department of Sanitation who was 40 years with us had done a splendid job but had finally come to the time when he thought that he was entitled to arrest. Thank you. And I say a sad farewell except that it isn't as drastic as that will still happen. To the deputy mayor of this city, John J. Bennett, John J. Bennett, a soldier of two wars, John J. Bennett with a long life of public service, John J. Bennett upon whom I leaned so heavily for the past three years, John is, at his own choice, going to take another very important post. John, I say goodbye to you only in the limited sense of goodbye. It's a farewell, it's a no revoir. I hope to see you over and over again and to still lean on you for your advice and your kindliness and your encouragement. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to miss Jim Burke as borough president from Queens. Jim is within listening to my voice. Jim, I give you personally every good wish for you and your family, for your health, for your happiness, your choice too. It was one of your making. May God bless you and give you and your family the happiness and the years that we wish you. You'll have a lot of it. On the Board of Estimate to Wilmiss Hugo Rogers. There was one man who actually served our Board of Estimate with a tenacity, with a faithfulness and an energy that the public does not thoroughly understand. He brought to his work on the Board of Estimate the training of an engineer and the training of a lawyer. We're fortunate to have Hugo in another capacity helping in that highly complicated and important work of solving our traffic problems as counsel to the Traffic Commission. But, Hugo, you did a beautiful job on the Board of Estimate. You worked three and four hundred items on every calendar of the Board of Estimate. No one was more familiar with each item. Not only the ones that affected your borough of Manhattan, but those that affected the general interest of the city. And we say again a limited farewell to you. And I'm very happy that I can lean on you for what you can give and what I know you will bring to the work of the Traffic Commission. Now, the Board of Estimate, the Board of Estimate has two new men taking the place of Jim Burke and Hugo Rogers. Neither one is a stranger to us. in the case of Maurice Fitzgerald from Queens as Commissioner of Public Works in Queens and in his legislative work in Albany. The whole city, not Queens alone, the whole city knows, Murray Fitzgerald knows his interest and knows what he can do based upon what he has done. Murray, we welcome you as Borough President of Queens to the Board of Estimate. Thank you. Thank you. We're also going to have a new member from Manhattan, a gifted son of one of the great men whose name has been great and will be great forever in the political history of this state, and that's Bob Wagner, Jr. not only has young Bob been through the mill at Albany in legislative work, but he has given in the four years that have now come to a close as a part of this administration every part of that fine talent which he has to give. I know that in the Board of Estimate he's going to be not only outstanding help to the Borough of Manhattan, but the whole city will benefit by this coming of Bob Wagner to the Board of Estimate. Now there's one man that we're going to, two men we're going to swear in today that I would like to mention especially. I don't know if we had Sidney Bingham over here have we is here good ladies and gentlemen I know that those who are listening in to me as well as those in this room understand that a very important service in this city to its welfare to its health to its business to its general welfare is transportation. Now it is important isn't it? Well it's so important that when there is an opportunity to appoint a chairman I appointed a man that I thought was the best man in the city for that job and I was Bill Reed. Those who screamed that we were running this city for the benefit of political machine a few months ago tried to say that Mr. Bill Reed had been a terrific independent career man all his life up to the time that I appointed him to chairman of the Board of Transportation. The indication was that he changed at that point and he became just as bad as I am. I say that was a general thought. Well the truth is that while it sounds something for campaign purposes the campaign is over. I forgive everybody. Now I'm thinking of eight million people and I'm thinking in terms of those services that make this city a great city when they're well done. I of course will ask the whole city to understand that we did not take over a perfect machine and transportation but we did everything we could to make it as close to perfect as we could make it. And my first thought in that was when I appointed a man who had spent 35 to 40 years of his life giving service to this city as a career man as the chairman of transportation. That's what happened at the time that I appointed Bill Reid chairman. I am now taking today Bill Reid from that post and I'm going to appoint him as deputy mayor to fill the place made vacant by the promotion of John Bennett. Again, I would like to call attention of the people to this fact that if anyone can show me a better man, one who will be more dedicated to the interests of the city as a whole without any contact with partisan politics, one who has developed a keen mind in the business of the city to a point where he has no fear, if I'll call attention to the people now to the fact that the deputy mayor of this city was going to shoulder many of the burdens that have almost wrecked me in four years and John Bennett too, and actually asking the man to come in and take a part in one of the toughest administrative jobs that I have ever come in contact with. He has willingly and gladly accepted that. I'm very proud to announce that the deputy mayor, after the next half hour, Mr. William Reed, career man extraordinary and one of our greatest public service, candidates, and I'll take advantage of this moment to present them to you. Bill, will you stand up? Now, I must mention again who will take Bill's place as chairman of the Board of Transportation. Ladies and gentlemen, a little boy, born in New York City, raised in it, educated in it, started to work many years ago in our subway system, graduated from one school after another in engineering, was kept very quietly on the cover in our system, between wars, and the war came. The federal government, the army, the army engineers, the experts in railroading, did not forget nor ignore his presence. And in the war of the recent past, when it came to that day for which the world waited at B.J. Day, that landing on the Normandy beach, all the problems of two and a half to three years planning for that landing, had been worked out from many angles. But ladies and gentlemen, one man more than anyone else designed the plans of approach, designed the very engines that hauled of the munitions, designed the methods by land and sea of making that contact, food, supplies, and all the problems of logistics. One outstanding contribution to that was made by that little boy who was born in New York City. Learned his railroading right here in our own transportation system and that Sidney Bingham, Colonel Sidney Bingham today carries something that he will carry to his race, and that is a vicious wound that he received in that work that normally beached. in Rome in 1944. I had the privilege of meeting and knowing and working under a man who was his superior officer, General Gray. General Gray said to me when I was leaving Rome and coming back to Washington, if you ever run across Sidney Bingham, there is one of the greatest railroad engineers in the country. London has consulted him on its problems, Sweden, San Francisco, and there are now all kinds of invitations to ask me to permit him to consult with other communities in their railroad problems. I will have the privilege of administering the oath as chairman of the Board of Transportation to Colonel Sidney Bingham, and if he's here I'll ask them to stand up and take a bow. Now ladies and gentlemen, one last word. A little later on in a message to the council which incidentally in our past administration we have made formally every year. A message outlining the conditions of the city, outlining what we have done, outlining the program, what must be done, year by year we have made that report to the city council, not as customary in scraps of paper in the backs of envelopes, but a formally printed document so that year by year we ourselves can be called to account by the people of this city if we have not carried out the programs that we planned and announced. In the course of the month of January I shall again, as the law requires, make another report, this 1950 report to the council. And in that there will be detailed the various problems of running the city connected with its departments and all its administrative headaches, also its plans for capital improvements. Consequently today I'll ask your forgiveness if I do not go into those questions I've taught. I have a thought that I would love to express to the people of this city. Believe me in the springs I had believed that I too should pass up the great honors of being mayor and hand over this burden to other hands. That was my proposal God disposed that in his own way. I find myself this morning before you and the people of this city charged again for another four years or as many of them as God will spare me to administer with everything I have the affairs that affect eight million people within the city and the relationships of the city to the other agencies of government. This morning I beg for my creator the grace to in every instance to be able to see what the right thing to do is. And I beg from him in my interest and the interest of my city strength and the courage once I have seen it to remain on the highway and never deviate. One Iola in fact or in spirit from the dictates of his holy will. God bless you all of you. We have just heard the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable William O'Dwyer address the huge audience and I say huge because every available molecular space has been taken up in the city council chamber here in City Hall in New York. Now the Honorable Vincent Pelletieri is back as chairman and we'll hear from him in just a moment. Thank you very much Mr. Mayor for those very inspiring remarks but I don't want you for a minute to think that your job is anywhere near finished this morning. There's a lot of people here interested in the next part of the program. Mayor O'Dwyer will have to go to work again because he delivers the orders but the men that you're about to meet are the gentlemen who will be asked by him to carry out his orders. So now Mayor O'Dwyer I will ask you to swear in your new appointees. The mayor of the city of New York is now taking his place before the roster and you'll possibly hear yes over the microphone he's close to the microphone Mr. Reed and the mayor. Do you William Reed solemnly swear that you'll support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state of New York and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of deputy mayor of the city of New York toward the best of your ability? I do so. Congratulate New York. The mayor is now about to swear in his executive assistant Honorable William Donahoe. General Tom Farrell Chairman of the New York City Housing Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, during the past four years, I was not quite satisfied with the speed with which our low-cost housing programs and unsubstidized programs were growing. Neither was Bob Moses, the coordinator, neither were the members of the Board of Estates. Finally, I asked for permission from the legislature to change the setup in the housing authority which would permit us to have our own chairman. And that was granted. Then I looked around for a chairman who really knew construction, who had a long history of the administration and construction work. We found a man who had been the employee of the state, and had the reputation of a truly great engineer and a great construction man, one upon whom the United States government and the entire Allied command depended upon for the building of the Burma Road, one who had been the United States engineer close to the development of atomic energy, one who as much as any one person in the entire world actually produced the atomic bomb, one who has been requested by the United Nations, a request that I was only too happy to grant, that he still be used as a consultant on a worldwide basis in the development of atomic energy. This one man made himself available to us in an hour of our crisis in housing. The fact that you will have 193,000 people taken from slums and put into good housing within the next few months, the fact that there is a program for 500,000 persons to be removed from slums, due to many people, many thoughts, many planning, but the man who actually has delivered that program was not appointed on a basis of politics. He was appointed by me, and I must assure you, I was never more happy over the privilege of any appointment than I was the day that I was notified the General Tom Ferrell, fresh from the Army accomplishments of worldwide importance, was willing to come and do this job for us. And it is with that sense of gratitude to him that I now administer the oath as Chairman of the Housing Authority. Andrew W. Mulrane, Commissioner of Sanitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to reappoint and I'm going to administer the oath again to Mr. Andrew W. Mulrane as Commissioner of Sanitation. And I want you to know that he's a career man, that he's just completed his 28th year as a member of the Department of Sanitation of the City of New York. John M. Murtaugh, Commissioner of Investigation. I don't know that this appointment should be charged as a personal one to me because it isn't. It's based upon its public service. But I knew his father and his mother before they ever saw America. His father is a distinguished member of the Fire Department of the City of New York, injured in the performance of duties so seriously that it was only his spirit and his fate that kept him alive to see Jack and his brother graduate from law school at the head of their class, both twins by the way. I served with Jack Murtaugh overseas and here in the air corridor in the war and he's turned in. An unpleasant assignment but he's turned in. As Commissioner of Investigations of the City, one of the finest, most satisfactory jobs I've ever seen done in that office. Of course I'm proud, doubly, tribly proud to administer this so. Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of Housing and Building. Thank you. In the question of housing and building, ladies and gentlemen, in this city, due to the shortage, due to the inheritance of slums that we have, this city's been very lucky to have a career man who's been 24 years with the city, 12 years with the department guests of building and housing. And I'm going to administer this oath again to a man who knows more about this department than anyone that I know, upon whom not only do I lean heavily, but the people of this city who need him, Bernard J. Gilroy. Thank you. Thank you. Nathaniel Kaplan, Justice of the Court of Domestic Relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kaplan and myself started in together in Brooklyn over 27 years ago. I have so many things to thank him personally for in the course of these 27 years. So much of kindness, so much of understanding, so much of help. As secretary to the Board of Education, you'll all agree that the board never had a better secretary. As chairman of the Youth Commission, a position that he will continue to hold, it has been agreed throughout the whole state of New York, that no one has brought more understanding, more scope, more graciousness to this important work than that capital. And now, after all these years, you'll understand the sense of pride I take in appointing him to the court of domestic relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of a lifetime, every one of us, from time to time, but not too frequently, meet an outstanding figure, an artist, artist, in the field of art, a voice in the field of vocal music, in engineering, in construction, in the various lines of endeavor that men follow. in the field of public health. Dr. Harry Mustard came all the way from a small village near Charleston, South Carolina, crisscrossed back and forth through the country in his relatively short life, ended up, as he thought, at Columbia, where I had the honor and the good fortune to find him two years ago. He consented to be our health commissioner. And we all blithely go along our daily chores, doing our daily chores, little thinking of what a problem health is in a city such as ours. The Department of Health had always been some kind of a football until Harry Mustard took it over. And with the touch of the expert, he brought order, ease, and harmony to the machinery of that department. He has initiated outstanding programs in the interest of the health of our people. He has brought the Department of Health in this city in a short time to where it has now and does enjoy preeminence in health institutions throughout the country. I would be most regretful if Dr. Mustard, who is leaving us as health commissioner, would be a total loss to us. But he, luckily, and thank God for that, he is going to remain as a member of the Board of Health as a part of his contribution to this godlike work in our city. It is that over that I'm going to administer now to him. And for what he has done for the city and for me personally, this is an opportunity for you and to those who are listening in to express to him my deep gratitude. Thank you. Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, commissioner of hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you agree with me. There isn't any department in the entire city that has more importance than our hospital department. I want you to be thoroughly familiar, if you can be, with the dilapidated condition under which we found our municipal plant and now with the program of $150 million worth of improvement that we're going into. Naturally enough, when Dr. Ed Berniger, whom we hated to see go, but again, there were reasons why Dr. Berniger should leave, good ones. And I looked around. I searched the country for an administrator of hospitals that would measure up to the challenge that's presented by our present-day hospitals in the municipal plant and the new program into which we're going. The best minds in the medical world, hospital administration world, helped me. They gave me lists of names. Every single one that sent me in a list of their proposals on a nationwide study, every one of them mentioned high on the list the name of a man who grew up in our hospital system, who never left our hospital system except when he was taken by the army, sent overseas where he was in charge of not only hospitalization but health, where he came out after a distinguished service during the war, came back to his civil service job in our hospital department. And I was very proud when I was able to find the man that I'm now going to again appoint as commissioner of hospitals. Believe me, the city, his city, yours and mine, ought to feel very happy that in charge of an institution devoted entirely to the care of our needy sick, that we have an administrator like Marxist. I'm going to now administer the oath to him, but I want you to get these facts about yourself. Raymond Hilliard, commissioner of welfare. Commissioner Hilliard is not a New Yorker. He comes from Illinois. No one can ever charge his appointment to politics because one of his weaknesses is he's a Republican. However, I'm working on him, ladies and gentlemen. I have great pleasure in the privilege of administering this oath. Stephen J. Conney, commissioner of water supply, gas and electricity. The mayor is having a good laugh, so we'd better listen to this. Ladies and gentlemen, there comes a time in the history of every man when he finds himself in a position, every man of consequence, when he finds himself in a position that might make him or break him. The man who finds himself today the commissioner of the Department of Water Supply is in such a spot. Seriously, this is a young man of great talent, civility, outstanding character. This commissioner of the Department of Water, Gas and McChrystal. Nothing that has happened could possibly be charged to him in any way. Even the political opposition wouldn't say that. Well, what we all do say is that when the crisis came, he knew his facts. He understood its importance to the people of the city. He gave off everything he had in energy and intelligence to bring the message home, to take such steps as would alleviate the crisis. And he's still working to further bring order out of this troublesome situation. I certainly must say to him now, in the presence of his lovely wife and children, that this city is deeply indebted to Steve Carney for the way in which he has handled this dangerous situation to the life and health of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1921, I was assigned to a job that I wasn't very well equipped to do. And that was the secretary to the late commissioner, John Daley, who was rather hard on stenographers. I was not a good stenographer. And John Daley would have thrown me out the window if it wasn't for his secretary then, who was very kind to me and solved many of my problems with his graceful approach and his kindliness. And he's here today. And then the youngster that I'm going to swear in as commissioner of marine and aviation, his son, I met in the Air Corps during the war. We served very closely together. I'm going to ask Ed Cavanaugh Senior to come up and stand by young Ed when I swear I'm in. Will you come at it, please? Thank you. I'm your host. I'd give a skim output to some of our extras today. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen . I approach this one, the administration of this oath, with a great sense of gratitude. In 1932, the then-acting mayor, Joseph B. McKee, had enough confidence, more confidence in me than I had in myself. He appointed me a city magistrate, and now I have not only the honor of administering the oath to him, but I have a still greater privilege that he has consented in the past and still consents to serve the city without salary in a department of commerce that's devoted to the best interests of our town. His willingness to serve in this capacity is a part of the life of Judge McKee. Thank you. Thank you.