At this time, I'd like to introduce to you a very great lady, a lady of the stage who has been doing a great deal towards the winning of this war. I want to introduce this time Miss Connie Boswell, who will sing, who will sing, This Is Worth Fighting For. I saw a peaceful valley with a carpet of corn for a floor. And I heard a voice within me whisper, This is worth fighting for. I saw a little old cabin And the river that flowed by the door. Then I heard a voice within me whisper, This is worth fighting for. Didn't I build that cabin? Didn't I plant that pond? Didn't my folks before me? I thought I was born I gathered my loved ones around me And I gazed at each face I adore. Then I heard a voice within me whisper, This is worth fighting for. Listen, can't you hear the song of the hammer? And can't you see all those tireless hands? Thousands and thousands of tireless hands on the plow. Friends, we've got to be part of that great army For if our country ever needed us, It needs us now. No, no, we can't be soldiers or yeomen. But we must pay our debt By doing our bit. So when we're called on, let us all be yes men Instead of no men And keep the home fires. That's so important. Keep the home fires lit. Keep the home fires lit. Liberties bell keeps ringing Inside of you and me Don't let your hearts Stop singing My country Tis of thee Sweet land of liberty America America We've got to hold on To this freedom we love Can't you hear that noise Within you And then This is worth living by Mr. Mayor, General Terry, Distinguished guests, Members of the Armed Forces, Organized Labor and Friends. It is most appropriate That we, on this Labor Day, Demonstrate in dedication To our armed forces. And I'm sure That we are all very happy That we can give our salute To the representatives Of our fighting allies Who are here with us today. Representatives of Russia Representatives of Britain Of the fighting French Of heroic China Of heroic China And of the representatives of that great fighting force, the Red Army of Russia. We are involved in a great struggle. It is known as the People's War. The cause, the fight we are engaged in has as its objective a defense of the most cherished interest of the whole people. Nothing less than the preservation of our existence as a nation of free men and women. And just as this is a People's War, so it is being fought in the field by a People's Army, an army selected from among the whole people, an army which is imbued with the same aims and aspirations, the same spirit of freedom which animates all of us. The facts which Labour will today present to the several branches of the service will be received by men who have come from Labour's own ranks to distinguish themselves by conspicuous heroism on the far-flung battlefields of the world. This ceremony here is deeply symbolic of the strong bounds of solidarity which binds us to our armed forces and them to us. This unity is our greatest source of strength. It is the strength of an aroused people united in the defense of our way of life. But we cannot say that this source of strength has yet been fully exploited. That we have as yet fully mobilized our vast resources or called upon our people for the utmost that they are prepared to do and give in the great all-out effort that alone can guarantee the final victory to our cause. For some of our armed forces war is no longer something remote something happening on the other side of the world to be read and talked about in newspapers or at mass meetings. Our Marines are on the offensive in the Solomon. Our Rangers have joined in the attack of that. our airmen are over Western Europe and the Libyan desert and they are right now blasting the road for our heroic Chinese allies. Our sailors are engaged in the Far East and in convoying supplies to the fighting Red Army across the perilous waters of the North Atlantic. For them war has become a daily and deadly experience and because they know what is at stake in this war they have not shrunk from their pasts and have acquitted themselves in the finest traditions of true Americans. a number of American civilians too have experienced the full meaning of this war. Our seamen returning again and again to face death on the seas have written a glorious chapter in the history of American heroism. Other civilians have met the enemy by unlucky chance. Ambassador Drew has told us of the bestial Japanese treatment of prisoners whose only crime was loyalty to their country. They have seen the face of the enemy. They have felt the lash of the Axis slave masters on their death bodies. the rest of us however vast majority of Americans have as yet been touched very little by this war. We have willingly accepted the inconvenience of rationing but otherwise our daily lives have been very little affected. true we have made tremendous strides in war production. The output of our industry exceeds not only the expectations of our enemies but even of our best friends. But much more is possible. We have not yet fully harnessed our entire national economy for all out war effort. We have not yet eliminated all non-essential civilian production. Our industrial plant has not yet been entirely converted to war production. Our stack of raw materials has not yet been wholly channelized for its most essential uses. our reserves of manpower have not yet been fully mobilized. On too many sectors of our economic front, the responsibilities of labor labor of our labor and solidarity to the armed forces of our country, Mr. Hillman, great American labor leader, spoke frankly about it. let the word go from this great labor meeting in the most patriotic city in the entire world that labor is in this for the duration and will stand there of the armed forces. major general Terry pointed out that war today is no longer just a conflict between armies. no more hand-to-hand combat where the strength of a country could be measured and the number of men in the army are the courage and dollar of its soldiers. The strength of a nation today is measured by the amount of the implements of war that a country can turn out. The army, the Navy, and the air forces are factors in this gigantic struggle. Motors, planes, tanks, ammunition, material, uniform, ships, submarines, torpedoes, cruisers, those are the implements of war. They're the part of labor. All the training and all the courage of the American forces are lost if we do not provide them with the weapons, materials to fight with. And I say, my friends, with all the sincerity of my soul, that any interruption of work war in a war production factory is not only detrimental to the safety of our country, it's a sin against humanity itself. declarations of purposes not to strike are of no avail unless that policy is carried out in every defense factory and plant in the entire country. war. The honor of American labor is at stake. It is just as wrong to retire production of war as it would be for the boys on a destroyer to refuse to shoot because the water was rough. It is just as wrong to retire production as it would be for an army to refuse to advance because the beams were stable. And we've been in this just long enough to know that it's going to be tough. That our enemies are well equipped. That that swine Hitler has Europe under control. Slave labor in the occupied country. we've been in several engagements to repay the price. Joe Curringer has told me of a ship that was destroyed in the Mediterranean that took the whole crew down to the sea with it. our loss of life has already been great. You and I know that we're only stuck. You and I know that we still need ships. You and I know these forces we have all over the world must be armed, must be fed, must have weapons. You and I know that we have to build more planes. And yet there is the reassuring side of this struggle. We are joined with nations who like ourselves are fighting for their existence. We are fighting alongside of nations who refuse to be beaten. We are fighting with nations who are determined as we are to bring this to such a conclusive end that our children's children's children's children will never face another world war. Here on this program you will soon greet a noble son of an ancient people, the people of China. He's here representing his army. you will meet boys of our own army who face the hell of Bataan as a symbol that our country will stand by its friends. And when you see these boys maimed wounded as it been, you know that that is our promise to the Philippines that they again will be free and independent someday. You will soon greet young Paul Richard representing a people whose country may be occupied but whose people are not conquered. Poor Richard of the Free French. And we have representatives of the army of Great Britain, that nation that showed the world that they could take it. And they did. And we have yet another symbol, a symbol not only of a courageous army, a symbol not only of a brave people, a symbol not only of a people who recognize that they have come into their own way according to their own choosing. But this symbol is a protest of the womanhood of the world against the slaughter of innocent children and undefended women. Ludmilla Pavlichenko is the answer is the answer to Hitler's wholesale murder of undefended children and women. She today represents that throat. ladies and gentlemen we are met here to celebrate labor day. It is not a day of celebration today. It's a day of consecration. Hardly of family in this audience and soon in the entire city but what will have a son a brother or a relative the armed forces. We are ready for this long struggle ahead. Let the word go out today through General Harry representing the army. The armed forces American labor is fighting for its load it's fighting for its country it's fighting for the happiness and peace of the people of the world. the band of the 372nd infantry will now play for you. Marines are stopping every struggle over the Pacific center of the army are 17 airmen dropping bombs on the enemy society comes up and protecting our shore and the military in the fighting and the suffering deliver the goods to the fighting forces these men are on force of fighting tonight they come from all wars and from the manila fell on january 2nd 1942 then on the peninsula of bataan under the great general dr. macafer the united states army and the philippine army rode a glorious pain of american history until april 9th in the form of the stubborn resistance and privation the heroes of batman held the peninsula against overwhelming odds against an enemy who struck six years before they were fortified to be heroes of batan heroes of the united states and philippine armies here they are six of them corporal u.g.r.b. driver first class narcito rober low class glaring 위 Douglas E. Brown. Sergeant Technician, Frank C. Nieto. From the Philippine Army, Sir Buchanan, Elmino Mone. The honor of the Union of the United States Army for these brave men goes to the transport worker children. For the children, Mr. Douglas McMillan. The American Army can take it. At Bataan and Corregidor, our Army fought as long as they had anything left to fight with. When there wasn't any more ammunition, there couldn't be any more shooting. But until that time came last April, these men stood their ground. That glorious stand is a high mark in American history and will be forever an example of America's ability to fight furiously for a just cause. To you, Lieutenant Monez, I should like to hand this plaque, which is token of the love and confidence we of the CIO bear for the Army. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.