We'll bring you now to San Juan, Puerto Rico. Hello, New York. This is San Juan, Puerto Rico, where WNYC is about to bring you the ceremonies attending the dedication of three planes by the Korean veteran now in Puerto Rico Hospital, Corporal Ango Jormez, of the Fighting 65th Regiment. The occasion is the inauguration of nonstop plane service from New York to Puerto Rico. We are awaiting the arrival of the Puerto Rican from New York City, which has just come in. On that plane is the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletari, the Mayor of New York City. He will be greeted officially by Sol Descartes, the Treasurer of Puerto Rico, Lieutenant Colonel Alberto Arriaga of the United States Army, Police-Hurring-Corn de Gauthier, who is the Mayor of San Juan, and who is about to present the Mayor of New York City with the keys to the city of San Juan. Along with them will be Stanton Robinson, the Director of the Office of Tourism. The Mayor has just descended from the Puerto Rican, the plane that will be dedicated this afternoon, along with Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, the President of Eastern Airlines. He currently is talking with Felisa Rincon de Gauthier, who is, as we said, the Mayor of San Juan. They are, of course, besieged by newsreel photographers and representatives of all the major press services in this continent. You can hear in the background the press asking Mayor Impeletari to pose for them, and he is here as usual, applicable self, currently following the Latin custom of kissing the hand of the Mayorist of San Juan, Puerto Rico. In a moment or so, we're going to try and get over to the Mayor to see if we can get a few words from him, although we are deceived somewhat here by all personnel who have come out to greet this plane. Later on, we will be hearing the actual ceremonies of dedication, which will be participated in by three veterans, all of the 16th regiment, which represents the country of Puerto Rico. The main dedicatory message will be delivered directly from Washington, D.C. by Jorge Lando Gomez, who, as you may know, is the triple amputee veteran of Korea, currently at, as we say, Walter Reed Hospital. We are going to try to pick him up directly by direct line. And now, ladies and gentlemen, you are about to hear Captain Eddie Rickenbacker of Eastern Airlines introduced to you by Mr. Harwood Hall. Mr. Hall is the general manager of radio station WAPA in San Juan, Puerto Rico. What you are hearing in the background is the Spanish introduction to Captain Eddie Rickenbacker that, I believe, will be followed by Mr. Harwood Hall speaking in English. We are working to provide Puerto Rico the same air service that the Eastern Airlines offers in other parts of the continental United States. The inauguration of these flights between San Juan and New York on the domestic route of the Eastern Airlines, passing by San Juan a country, and the country's main destination. The United States is the result of the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States and the United States. The United States is the result of the efforts of the government and the people of Puerto Rico to provide the island with high service rates available in all the other states of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to introduce Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, President and General Manager of Eastern Airlines. And I will now be the first to meet the American Airlines Airlines. Many of you know Captain Eddie as the ace of aces in World War I. You are familiar with his record in World War II. Many of you know he is the leading figure in aviation today, heading one of the world's largest airlines. This is a great day for Captain Eddie as well as for Puerto Rico because for many years he has worked toward giving Puerto Rico the same kind of airline service offered other parts of the United States. The inauguration today of flights between San Juan and New York on Eastern's domestic grout making San Juan a key city system on the mainland is the result of his efforts and the efforts of the government and people of Puerto Rico to bring to the island the high standard of service and low passenger fares available elsewhere in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, damas y caballeros, Captain Eddie Rickenbacker. Thank you very much. Naturally, all of us are very happy to be here. But before getting into the program, we'd like to hear from the governor's representative, the honorable Saul Descartes. Thank you. Twenty years ago, scarcely 50,000 people travelled between Puerto Rico and Continental United States. Ten years ago, that figure was slightly 60,000 people. Last year, 300,000 people travelled between the island and the island of South Carolina. 300,000 people traveled between the island and the mainland. The development of aviation is responsible for this tremendous growth in travel. And it is this growth that is making us more and more every year become a part, in fact, of that great federation of free people, the United States of America. To inaugurate one more link with the continent, one more means through which the citizens of this great federation will be brought together more closely. It is indeed with great satisfaction that we see this new link established by Eastern Airlines, a truly great company, ably-headed by a remarkable American, Captain Eddie Rickenbacker. I wish to say that in Spanish. I wish to say that in Spanish. A few years ago, it was only 50.000 people traveled between the United States and Puerto Rico. 10 years ago, that number only reached 60.000 people. Last year, the number of people viajated between Puerto Rico and the continent, 300.000 people. The development of aviation has been responsible for this big increase in the number of people who viajate between the island and the continent. And it's a través of this growth that every year, more and more, we're going to form part of that great federally of free people that is called the United States of America. We're here today to inaugurate a more connection with the continent. It's a way to join us even more to the other citizens of that great federally. And it's for us a great satisfaction that this union union is the Eastern Airlines, a great company directed with great success by a notable man of this century, Captain Eddie Rickenbacker. Thank you very much, Mr. DeCartes. Thank you very much, Mr. DeCartes. The order of the President of the United States and the Civil Aeronautics Board authorizing the establishment of this service we are inaugurating today is high recognition of the ever-increasing importance of Puerto Rico to the economy of the mainland and to the security of these United States. Eastern Airlines is more than pleased to have been selected by the President of the United States and the Civil Aeronautics Board to provide this urgently needed service. We consider it both a privilege and an obligation to offer Puerto Rico the kind of transport service upon which the continuing progress and prosperity of this island depends. To provide that service adequate to your needs at a price, the people of Puerto Rico can afford to pay. Our initial schedules, which are faster and our initial rates, which are lower, is an earnest effort of our determination in this direction. As a result of this new service, Puerto Rico will have two main trunk line airways direct nonstop to the mainland gateways, New York and Miami, respectfully by Eastern Airlines. Through these gateways over the network of Eastern Airlines, your capital of San Juan will have better, faster and cheaper service than the 90 odd key cities of industry and population in the eastern half of the United States. From these areas, we hope to attract the Puerto Rico, the industrial activity and thousands upon thousands of tourist travelers who should have and know more about and enjoy the advantages of the unrivaled opportunities of this friendly, most colorful and oldest land under the American flag. In the establishment of this service, we have not asked our government or the taxpayers for one cent of subsidy of any kind. We ask only the privilege and the opportunity to provide this urgently needed service, confident in our ability to share profitably in the development of this great area. Just as Eastern has contributed to and shared in the tremendous progress of the South and the Gulf States and the Southwest and the Northeastern United States. And in two of the three fastest growing areas of the mainland. We are hopeful, too, that with this recognition of Puerto Rico's importance in our national pattern of domestic airways, that the Civil Aeronautics Board will properly recognize these facts and reverse its recent decision so as to provide for the establishment of a southern transcontinental service with San Juan as its most southern terminal. Through Florida, through Florida, through Florida, through Florida, through Florida, through Florida, the Gulf States and southwest to the Pacific coast, the people of these important areas have for more than 20 years sought such assistance from our federal government. The requirements of our national emergency program now and in the interest of our national defense make such a transcontinental route of first importance to the security as well as the welfare of these important areas. Finally, may I express appreciation for the support we have received from the people of Puerto Rico, from one end of the island to the other, in our struggle for the right to establish this new air service, which we are inaugurating today. The leadership of your great governor and the tireless efforts of your government officials and the leaders of your industry and commerce alone made this achievement possible. On behalf of the state of the state of the state of the United States, on behalf of the United States, on behalf of Eastern Airlines and its entire organization, I pledge you in return that we shall devote every effort, every facility at our command that this air service shall contribute its full share to the progress and prosperity of Puerto Rico. Thank you. Thank you. Now I'd like to have our great mayor of New York City say a word, if you will, Mayor Vincent Pelleter. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Captain Rickenbacker, distinguished representatives of the government of Puerto Rico, distinguished representatives, represent several states of the United States. All of the newspapers in the city of New York and throughout the country that Eastern Airlines services, the representatives of all of our radio and television studios in the city of New York, representatives of our great national magazines in the city of New York, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy to join with Captain Rickenbacker in saying just a brief word of greeting to our Puerto Rican fellow citizens. Last year, when I was president of the council of the city of New York, I had the great pleasure of coming to Puerto Rico and to have received the very warm, genuine hospitality of all the people of Puerto Rico. On that visit last year, I had the opportunity of going from San Juan all the way around the island to Ponce, to Mayagueres, and then back to San Juan. Ever since that time, I've yearned to come back to San Juan and to Puerto Rico to relive the very fine time, the very interesting time, the very instructive time I had last year. So that today, I'm very happy and privileged to come here as the mayor of the city of New York, as the guest of Eastern Airlines, as the guest of the great governor of Puerto Rico, and as the guest of my friend, the Alcaldesa. I'm positive that this time, just as I experienced before, I will receive a great deal of information that will be happy to all the people of the city of New York, whom I'm very happy to represent on this occasion. At the same time, I know that today, all the people of the city of New York would want me to say to you that we're proud and happy to be your neighbors, because Eastern Airlines today has really made us neighbors. Just imagine, this morning we had breakfast in New York City, we had lunch on board the plane. And if I'm correctly informed, we'll have a chance for a little swim, and then we'll have dinner in San Juan. That demonstrates that we're really neighbors. Thank you very much for your kind invitation. I want you to know what the whole person on this trip clearly appreciates your cordial invitation. We know we'll have a wonderful time, and we know when we get back to our own United States that we will be bringing back the good wishes of our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mayor Pellet-Terry. And now it's my great privilege and honor to mention one of your great sons. I understand that it's unfortunate that he can't be with us today and for a great reason. A young man who has been a member of that fighting 65th regiment or division of Puerto Rico with its outstanding fighting qualities. A young man who's given a great deal, a great deal of life. Unfortunately, he can't be with us. He's a tri-amputee. In other words, the loss of a hand and two feet, both feet. And I'm going to ask him to christen this great airplane he will now curtain the super-constellation and it'll be done by Corporal Angel Gomez recuperating for a moment in Walter Reed Hospital in Washington. The honor that I have made for me to inaugurate this new service in the name of my people of Puerto Rico in tribute to our regiment the 65th in the service of the freedom and glory of the United States. In the name of God says that you and happy satanizajes with this name of the the the The G-Phot American The Puerto American Remember The Of Leão The The Nile Now that the planes have been christened, the Boy Scouts of America in Puerto Rico wish to award a medal to another proud of Puerto Rico, Captain Eddie Rickenbacker. Introducing our Scout Commissioner, the Director of Puerto Rico's Transportation Authority, the Honorable Salvador Caro. Thank you. It is a pleasure for me to introduce to you the Chairman of the Puerto Rico Council of the Boy Scouts of America, Mr. Borges, who is going to present Captain Rickenbacker, the Guajapaca Award. In the name of all the Boy Scouts of Puerto Rico, I present you with our first Guajapaca Award for service to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for coming. May I say in response that I hope that I may continue to live the life that will justify the confidence of these young men who are the leaders of tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now, may I have your attention? It is my great privilege to introduce Bishop Davis, who will pronounce the benediction. for your information, Captain Rickenbacker, distinguished guests and friends. The official ritual of the church is a little behind time. And the best thing I could find for a blessing was the blessing of the ship. So we will take the proper liberties with the ritual and bring it up to date. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. O Lord God, give heed kindly to our prayers, and do thou bless bountifully this ship and all who will board it, even as thou didst deign to bless Noah's ark. Extend to them, O Lord, thy right hand, as thou didst to Peter when he walked upon the sea. And send thy holy angel from heaven to protect this ship from all danger, to guard it and oil on board. And when these thy servants have completed their earthly journey and finished this life's business in accord with thy holy will and thy law, do thou deign to lead them safely into the port of life everlasting through Christ our Lord. Amen. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, the Lord of God, and of the Son. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. refer to close the sword of psi of origin of his, The End And that, ladies and gentlemen, concludes the ceremonies attending the inauguration of nonstop flight service from New York to Puerto Rico. You heard Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, President of Eastern Airlines, the Honorable Vincenor Impoletary, the Mayor of New York City, Sal Descartes, the Treasurer of Puerto Rico. From Washington, D.C., you heard the voice of Corporal Angel Gomez of the Fighting 65th Regiment. Corporal Gomez is a triple amputee and had the honor to christen the three planes here in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the Puerto Rican, the Puerto de Leon, and the Baricra. That is all from San Juan, Puerto Rico. We return you now to New York City and our studios in the municipal building. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.