Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses private or public ownership of electric power. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the roles of private enterprise and government in the production and transmission of electric power. Our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Richard Searles, Undersecretary of the Department of the Interior, Edwin Bernard, Vice President of the Middle West Service Company, and Richard Heffelbauer, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. As you know, our question today is private or public ownership of electric power. What should it be, Bernard? Well, first of all, I think that these terms give an erroneous impression on the issue. That is, public or private ownership? Private ownership. Private ownership would seem to indicate ownership of the industry by a few people, whereas there are approximately 400 electric power companies and owned by literally millions of people, directly as stockholders or indirectly through the insurance companies or banks. In my opinion, both types of operation are publicly owned. And the main difference is, should the power business be run by men in government, or should it be run by men in business, with men in government limiting themselves to regulation? And how do you answer that question? I think under the American principles, we ought to have public owning the principal industries, that is, the machinery of production, and men in government diligently regulating in the public interest. How do you see our question, Searles, private or public ownership of electric power? Well, Mr. Van Heard said the power business being run by the government. The power business has not been run by the government. The biggest issue, at least the advertisements which appear in the press by the private utilities, must be talking about the generation of power by the federal government, which is a building of hydroelectric dams on the large rivers in America. The federal government has, at no time, tried to get into the private utility business or into the distribution of power, which is the primary function, together with generation of the private utilities. I don't want, when we speak of businessmen running it, I don't want to lose sight of the fact that a private utility is a private monopoly and cannot be compared with the same thing as a steel business or the aluminum business or the butcher shop or the drugstore. How would you answer the question, Huffalo? Well, taking off from Searles' last point, I would say that while they are private monopolies, they are monopolies subject to public regulation. And the question, then, would really be whether privately owned, publicly regulated, is better than publicly owned and publicly operated. My preference, generally, is for private ownership. But I think there are occasions when public ownership is preferable or necessary. And sometimes, perhaps as a discipline to private ownership, which is not properly disciplined by the regulatory agency. But I'm thinking more particularly of some of the large projects involving not merely power production, but often flood control and so on, which in the financing and in their size are such as to discourage private operation. Many of these have appeared in the Pacific Northwest. Well, let's see if we can get some of the facts out here a bit. May I just finish two others here? I'm sorry, I'm sorry if I interrupted you. Go ahead. Then there are the cases where power is a byproduct of other operations, such as reclamation. And finally, in the distribution of power, there may be some real case that can be made for rural electrification with federal aid. Well, you're saying then that there are three areas, in your judgment, in which public ownership of electric power can serve a real function. That's right. These large projects such as TVA, rural electrification, and in those instances in which the generation of power is incidental to reclamation or irrigation. Well, I would say this, Mr. McBurnie, that I would agree with a large part of what Mr. Heffel-Vos has to say. I think our principal problem today, as it relates to government operation of power, is not with the municipal plants or not with the local rural cooperatives, which we think have done a fine job in extending service to farmers. They serve about half now, and the companies serve about half the farmers. The problem develops today with the river development plan of the federal government. Now, first of all, I think that we should develop our rivers. And that includes the production of electric power? I think the development of rivers, wherever economically feasible, of course, control of floods, letting local people do as much as they can, but the federal government must take some part. And the development of these rivers may entail building of dams, not always. We should have some soil conservation, more emphasis there. And when dams are built, there may be some electric power. I think that the electric power should be secondary to the primary function, the primary function being flood control or irrigation. That incidental power raises the problem as to how we shall distribute that to the public. I agree. My opinion is that in the public interest, that should be largely distributed through the companies under a plan that works out to be favorable to the government and to the public. I don't object to that. Well, now, that begins to get the issues out here. Before we discuss those issues, may I ask a factual question or two? To what extent, Searles, is the government in the power business today? Well, the federal government is in the power business today on a generating capacity of about 8 million kilowatts against 68 and a half million of total capacity in the country. Actually, they're in the power business in generation, not distribution or transmission, to about 11% of the capacity in the country. But almost all of that power is generated, comes out of vast multiple-purpose projects, such as the one in Bonneville, the one in TVA, the one in the Colorado River. And those are projects which no private finance would ever think of taking over or would never think of having built in the first place. And there isn't any private company that would want to go into building the dam in which they were perhaps at one-half of the cost of it was going to be allocated to flood control and navigation or reclamation and recreation and one-half of it or one-third of it to the development of the power. And it's a project, the type of a project, which, if it's going to be developed and if that resource in the river is going to be captured, the only party that has been able to do it in the past, in a large sense, I'm speaking of the larger projects, and to get all the benefits out of the river has been the federal government. That's quite correct, Charles. But I think we want to make clear that the costs of generation such circumstances with a large part of the initial cost assigned to other operations is not a guide as to the costs of generating power. Well... As such. And second, that that does not necessarily involve the federal government engaging in distribution, as you say they do not to a large degree, nor favoring any particular means of distribution of power, whether it be local cooperatives, local public utility districts, or private companies. Well, let me... The federal government does not distribute power. Outside of the some 45 million customers in the United States, there are about 500 customers that get their power directly from the substation of the federal government. In that case, they are very large customers like Aluminum Company of America, Reynolds Metals Company. But the transmission of the power, the federal government does transmit the power to municipal agencies and to private utilities. And the fact that the private power companies have tried to monopolize public power at the dam site surely proves that they believe in the development of the resources by the government, because they are most anxious to come up the bus bar and take the power. But the federal government has desired to take the power away from the bus bar or from the dam site to give both municipalities, REAs, and private utilities the opportunity to share in the power and the benefits therefrom. May I state briefly how this policy that Mr. Searles has outlined results in a terrible disadvantage to the power companies and ultimately would put the power companies out of business, as the plan has done in the state of Tennessee, where there are no power companies left, and in Nebraska, where there are no power companies left. The government generates this power from these dams and then gives preference in the sale of that power to municipal plants, cooperatives, and public utilities of the districts. The reason that works against the companies and against the method of free enterprise distribution is that the government power is subsidized to a large extent. That is to say, the government, by reason of its power to tax, can borrow money at a lower price than the people want for their money when used in a business enterprise. They charge themselves that below cost of money price at these dams. Then the government does not charge itself the same taxes that the power companies must pay, and those taxes right now amount to about 23% of gross income. Those two subsidies alone enable the government to sell power for about 30% less than a company can sell operating under our free enterprise system. Now, when preference is given to that subsidized power to public bodies and cooperatives, that encourages public ownership, municipal, state, cooperative development, and public utility districts. That also enables those local public bodies to sell power at a lower price than a company can sell and break even. That, in effect, puts the companies out of business. And who pays that subsidy? The taxpayers of America pay that subsidy. Now, it works out at the present that about 20% of all customers in America receive their electricity from the federal government, from municipal plants, or public utility districts, or cooperatives. Let's keep a differentiation between municipalities and the federal government, because when you get down to it, the federal government generates 11% of the power. And also, that 11% of the power, let's realize that about half of it goes to private utilities, such as the ones that you discussed. And they get just as much benefit out of it as a municipality does. Except, Mr. Sayles, as I've said, that these 20% of all kinds of government operations get first called on this federal government power, and that enables, by reason of subsidy, that enables these municipal plants and cooperatives to sell their power at a lower price than the companies can sell. That means that the 80% of the customers in America getting their power from companies are subsidizing the 20% getting their power from the government by reason of the preference clause. And I think in America, there shouldn't be any preference. What do you think about it? I agree with you on the preference clause, but I'm wondering if it's as damaging as you think it is. And I want to make two points in answer to your comments. The first one is, in a state like Nebraska, why couldn't the private power companies, who already had their facilities, have distributed that power as cheaply as could the cooperatives and the municipalities, and therefore have afforded to buy the government power along with what they already had and distribute it? The second point I want to make is, this word subsidy is a very tricky one, because you made the assumption that the national income was not increased by the development of Bonneville power and the development of TVA, and that's a very hard assumption to make. And if we say that the national income was increased, I would say that there was no tax burden on the American people as a whole as a result of what you call subsidy. Now, are you directing those questions to Mr. Bernard? That's right. Well, I would say this, Mr. Kepter-Bauer, that certainly when the federal government spends a billion dollars in Tennessee, the people of Tennessee benefit. That's right. And I, for one, would like to give the public all the benefits we can give them. But if the national income rises five billion as a result of that, I don't think the national people... As an economist, I would debate that separately, but I question, first of all, whether as a nation we can afford that kind of luxury with the present price of government, when inflation is rampant, when taxes are right now about 30% of national income, when we are finding a war to save ourselves against these inroads of socialism, and when we all know that many people lose their freedom by reason of excessive government spending and putting more power in the hands of government. Well, let's just take your point. You recognize in the Springfield, Illinois, there's been a municipal ownership of power system for 50 years. The city of Los Angeles is a municipal operation. Now, you're confusing government generation of power with municipal operation and also with the TVA and the cities down in Tennessee Valley and Georgia that have municipal power operation. Now, each and every city has a right to their own municipal operation that they want it or a private operation. That's a matter of city rights or state rights, and it has nothing to do with the federal government. If the city of Chicago wanted to go in the power business, they'd have the perfect right to do it at the time the franchise expires of the present company that operates here. Now, we should keep that particular thing separated. But the point Mr. Bernard is trying to make is whether the federal government, when it generates power, should favor the city of Springfield or a private company to service the city of Springfield. Well, now, let's go to that. The preference clause first came into effect in 1906, a passage by Congress. That clause has been reaffirmed by Congress, and it is Congress itself and incorrect every time they reaffirmed it, though. I doubt that very much because the people sent men back or the same men back or other men back that reaffirmed the clause. They didn't elect them on that issue. Well, in many cases, they did. I could, I'm not going to get into names, but I could name several senators that didn't go back to Congress this last time just because of their position on private power. And several that kept going back on the other side. Well, that preference clause, Mr. Searles, is really a vicious thing, and the congressman to whom I have talked and others that I've talked about have realized that and realized when we explain to them the preference it gives in promoting the kind of business in America that Americans really don't want. if that policy is carried to its final conclusion, it means that these cancer spots throughout the country where the federal government sells this subsidized power or low-cost power to municipal plants or districts or directly, it means that companies in those areas can't compete under those conditions. They'll go out of business, as they have in Tennessee and Nebraska, and the ultimate effect of that policy is complete nationalization of the power business. And that is the thing we don't want in America. That's the principle we're fighting against in America. I was just going to turn around and ask Mr. Bernard a question or two. Why is it the public has so generally supported public power in certain directions? And I have a question. My question is whether certain deficiencies in the conduct of the private power companies doesn't go a long ways to explain this. Mr. Heffelbauer, I think the power company is composed of people no better, no worse than the average of all people. I think government should be the regulator, the policeman. I don't think the policeman should get in the game to play the game. But there's a fundamental difficulty with our regulatory theory which says that in general you get your cost plus. And therefore, there isn't the drive for efficiency. There isn't the drive for lowering costs and lowering prices that you have in an open competitive market. There is a protection as Mr. Searles pointed out and that a management of a utility has to be an unusually socially minded and foresighted citizen to be forward looking. The whole circumstance of regulation turns his attention in other directions. And I have a feeling that private power companies have not been as active in anticipating what they could do in terms of lowering prices, particularly before the war. They waited until they had the threat of public ownership to drive down the rates. Well, now, of course, that threat is bound to have some effect. You want to save your business from being socialized and you will do a lot of things to save that business from being socialized. But my point is they made more money after they lowered the rates. I would question that, being an economist and having to do with the rates of electric companies. And in defense of state regulation, may I say this, that the present price of residential electric service is now only 35% of what it was in 1913. It's 10% under what it was in 1940, although everything else is up about 85%. Oh, I think the price of tires has shown about the same kind of a record. And I think if it were an unregulated monopoly, the price of power would have shown a record almost as good as that. Well, along that point, what you've said, Mr. Bernard, somewhat helps prove that the generation by the federal government has helped bring down rates. In 1933, the rate in TVA was $5 worth of private utilities. Minimum was $7.80 and $9.80. Now, in 1951, the TVA rate is still $5 and the private utilities are down to $5.60 and $6.13. Now, there's one thing that doesn't come out here when we speak about the amount of public power. There are many cases where there are public power systems, and by that I mean municipalities, that have no federal generated power at all in cases where the city has decided that they would go into power business because they were dissatisfied with the private ownership. Now, you'll find the same situation, possibly, where you'll find some municipal plants are finally going into private ownership because of the same reason. But now, I don't believe that you can use Nebraska as an example as federal power generation putting it out of business because there's been very little federal power generated in a Nebraska area up to date. There will be in the future, but that change came after 1930. And I think if you look back, you'll find the private utilities own responsibility that that change occurred and it wasn't anything to do with federal generated power. Well, Mr. Sayle, from the standpoint of using, I still call it subsidized federal government power as a means of regulating a company's rates, I can't help but think that's an unfair way to regulate rates. Now, as to the price going down more rapidly after TVA, I'm looking now at a curve on the average price of household electricity from 1913 down to date. and the curve is a pretty uniform curve downward showing it was a downward trend through the whole time. My main point is this. Let the government tend to its business of developing rivers where need be. If it has to generate power, or can generate power economically at these dam sites, let it generate the power economically. That power should be incidental. In most dams, the power can't be used around the clock because that isn't the best way to use it. it can be only used a few hours a day. Tie in that government power with the existing steam plants and transmission lines of the electric companies. Well, that has been done a great deal, Mr. Venard. Our problem at times has been to get the right value out of peaking power that private utilities wanted to furnish. Now, as the question of economic operation of plants, we can take the figures of Edison Electrical Institute or the figures from the Federal Power Commission and we'll find that plants like Grand Coulee Dam and Bonneville Dam and Federal Operated Hydroelectric Dams that our cost of operation, our number of man hours per kilowatt is as low or lower than it is in many privately owned operations. Well, I don't believe, Mr. Sale, there's anything that gets into a man when it gets into government that enables him to operate more efficiently than a man in business. I would concede that men have equal efficiency all around. I merely plea for... But you made the point a minute ago that the government should stay out of business and kind of they couldn't operate as economically. I think it's... I think it's an overdone question as to whether a municipal operation can be done as economically as a private operation. I don't think it's worthwhile arguing that particular point. My point is that the American system does not contemplate government operating a business, whether the steel business or the oil business or telephone or the power business. I quite agree with you, but you must remember this. We have a certain element of service to the public, which is water. I don't hear you or any of your people hollering about socialism because the city of Chicago delivers the water to the main in this building or because of the fact that they may run the streetcars. But you, as an industry, talk about creeping socialism and the power business. And there was public operated power business before I was born and before you were born. And there have been successful power businesses. Let Mr. Heflebauer come into this. It seems to me that in terms of what these men are saying, there isn't really very much difference between them. But it's in part the difference in what they're meaning. I gather that Mr. Searles would include as developmental and appropriate activities of government the generation of power on many sites that Mr. Bernard would say would be taking over a business operation that properly belonged. And it seems to me that we're in a ground here of opinion. Now, we were talking about the proposed development in Niagara where there isn't anything in the way of flood control and so on which there'd been an offer by private business to take the development. That would seem to me to be clearly a case in which, from my viewpoint, it should be private. And perhaps Mr. Searles would agree. On the other hand, there are the cases in which you can debate as to whether you need to develop, need to produce power in controlling the wild Missouri River. From my viewpoint, if you have a dam there, you ought to produce power. And if a dam is part of the control program, you ought to produce power. If it is proper to put an irrigation project in, many of them are improper, and I grew up on an irrigated farm, I might say, then I think power should be generated there. We shouldn't lose those resources. I do not believe that it's going to be possible to get everybody to agree because we're dealing with things that are not measurable exactly. The benefits of flood control, the benefits of navigation are not exactly measurable by the accounting system by which we have to measure the record of a private power company. But it does seem to me that if men of goodwill and integrity got together, the area of difference could be substantially reduced and we could work toward a constructive policy. Well, I quite agree with you. I think that public and private power should go down the street arm and arm and developing the resources of America. But certain confliction of opinions come up, such as in the Hells Canyon Dam. Idaho Power Company has indicated that they would like to build a dam on the river and later three dams. The Bureau of Reclamation has proposed a dam called Hells Canyon which will develop 400,000 kilowatts of power, one dam, and give 800,000 kilowatts of downstream benefits. The dams which the Idaho Power Company desires to build will put up the first dam some 100,000 kilowatts of capacity and all four dams are about 400,000. But if those are dams are built forever, we'll lose 800,000 kilowatts of downstream benefit that the Hells Canyon Dam by itself would give from its reservoir. And 10 or 20 years from now, this country will sorely need those 800,000 kilowatts of power and those are natural resources that will be wasted which we could never recover unless one type of dam is built. Would you accept that? No, I certainly won't accept that, Mr. Searles. Remember now, even during the 30s, the federal government claimed its authority and right to build dams, regulate streams, and that the power had to be kept incidental. Even the arguments before the Supreme Court by the TVA indicated that the federal government couldn't build steam plants, for example, and couldn't make a power dam because that wouldn't be incidental, a flood control. Well, now, let me prove my point. You're talking about a legalistic matter when I was talking about a benefit and are we going to keep the resources of the country? I'll get back to the benefits of the country. The legal question could be settled by the courts. My point was that in those days the power was supposed to be incidental. Now, the federal government is proposing to build straight power dams without any regard to irrigation or navigation or flood control. and one is Hell's Canyon where the electric company in the area says we'll build it and we'll be a big taxpayer and we'll save the federal government and therefore all taxpayers many, many millions of dollars. There's a Niagara project where five power companies said we'll develop that site, we'll develop the site, we'll save the federal government many, many millions of dollars. Those two projects alone amount to $700 million and we'll be big taxpayers but you generalize on this matter, Mr. Bernard, when you speak about the Hell's Canyon Dam because we would forever lose that 800,000 kilowatts downstream and that power is needed not only in Idaho, it's needed in Oregon and Washington and if you build 100,000 kilowatts now in Idaho, that's not going to help Oregon or Washington. And on top of that, there would be 400,000 kilowatts of power, all that the auto power company could build available for the state of Idaho. The power business has been economically built by reason of the fact that the power companies have built ahead of demand. No, that I won't agree with. Yes, they've built ahead of the demand because there has been no power shortage and second, I claim it's against public interest to build so far ahead of demand but have excess capacity. That is the greatest mistake we've made and I have an article here by one of your, by Mr. C. Purcell Smith who is your high-paid lobbyist in Washington which they claim that they have built enough power. But that isn't so. We had a power shortage right after Korea and we've had power shortages before. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, private or public ownership of electric power. We want to thank our guests for today, Richard B. Heffelbauer, chairman of the Department of Economics at Northwestern University, Richard Searles, undersecretary of the Department of the Interior in Washington, and Edwin W. Venard, vice president of Middle West Service Corporation, Chicago. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, The Reviewing Stand asks, What makes a good boss? Our guests will be Mac T. Henderson, consulting psychologist for Rohir, Hibler, and Replogle, Chicago, A.C. Van Dusen, associate professor of psychology and director of the summer session, Northwestern University, and James C. Worthy, member of the National Personnel Department, Sears, Roebuck, and Company. We hope you'll join us next week as we ask, What makes a good boss? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Anyway, here in all of the the