As part of its observance of Fire Prevention Week, WNYC, in cooperation with the National Board of Fire Underwriters, presents Never Take a Fire Lightly, a radio drama by Harold Callum. Funny thing about being a reporter, you sit down at a typewriter convinced you've got the greatest story in the world to tell. Then you put your fingers to the keys and the words don't come. You hit a blank wall. Then there are times when you start to work and before you know it, the story is pouring itself out. That's the kind of story you want, the kind that writes itself. Let me tell you about the one I'm doing now. Kate Swift is my name. I'm with the Daily Chronicle. No point telling you what city. It's a typical American, one with a population of 100,000, more or less. About a month ago, I was sitting at my desk trying to work out a feature article, when Mr. Finley, my boss, stopped by. That was a great piece you did yesterday, Kate. Which one? About the fire. I let you in on a little secret, Mr. Finley. Yeah? I didn't write it. What? It wrote itself. Well, I always say a writer shouldn't interfere when a story writes itself. No kidding. It couldn't have been easier. Smoke and flames shooting out of a warehouse, firemen wasting to the scene from all over the city. An old man jumping out of the fifth floor window into a net below. A good looking fire lieutenant, calmly leading his men to the rooftop. Wonderful dramatic stuff. It cries out for words. No one here writes this kind of story like you do. Thanks, Clark. By the way, there's a fireman waiting to see you. A fireman? That's what he said. What would a fireman want with me? Ask him. I'll send him in. Davis. She's right in there. Oh, thanks. Uh, Miss Swift? Yes? My name is Bonnie Davis. Of course. You're the lieutenant who was in charge of yesterday's fire. Well, partly in charge. I wrote you up in my story. I know. I read the whole thing. Five times. Thank you. You write a wonderful story, Miss Swift. Thank you again. What did you want to see me about, Lieutenant? Well, could we sit down someplace and talk? Maybe I'd be able to explain it better. Sure. Let's stay over a cup of coffee. Fine. There's a little place across the street. Come on, Lieutenant. After you, Miss Swift. Interesting people here. This is a newspaperman's hangout, Lieutenant. It sounds funny you're calling me Lieutenant. Isn't that what the men call you? No. They just call me Bonnie. All right. What's on your mind, Bonnie? While I was reading your story on the fire, an idea came to me. Oh? I thought to myself, you would have put your talent to better use. I think I'm putting it to excellent use. Oh, don't get me wrong. I'm not criticizing your ability to write. What better use do you suggest? Well, I've got a feeling you could write a great series of articles telling people how to prevent fire. My dear Mr. Davis, you don't understand. That sounds like the beginning of a letter. Do you realize that I'm the Chronicle's ace reporter on flame, smoke, and heroism? Oh, there's no question about that. And if people stop causing fires, well, I'm liable to be shifted over to the advice for the Love Loew and Collins. Oh, no, Bonnie. Let the city burn. But it's your city. It's my job. Well, that's just it. You're doing the kind of job in which you can help this city. There have been an awful lot of fires lately. I know. It'd be a great help if you do a series on fire prevention. Sorry. Why not? Allow me to reveal the innermost secrets of a newspaper writer. Yes? A good newspaperman never writes a story. He lets it write itself. What? That's right. But not every story will write itself. It has to be an exciting story to begin with. A series of fire prevention just isn't exciting. But it's so important. It's got to be brought before your readers. Bonnie, it took me quite a few years to build up a reputation as a feature writer. I'm not going to jeopardize it now with a dull story. It doesn't have to be dull. It will be. It seems to me you take fires too lightly. That's a wonderful pun. The hardest thing in the world is to make a good pun. I didn't mean it as a pun, but you can have it if you like it. Thanks. I'll use it in the next story I cover about fires. You won't do anything about preventing fires? Sorry. It's not in my line. Don't look so disappointed. I am disappointed. It means so much. There are a lot of people who like to watch us putting out a blaze, but there are very few who are willing to try to prevent fires. Meaning me? Well, it sounds to me like you're one of those who enjoy watching fires. It's no thrill to me, and it's no thrill to the people caught in them. If that's the reason you've come to see me, then I... I'm sorry, Miss Swift. Goodbye. Goodbye. Hello. Hello, Mr. Finlay. Uh, what did he want? Who? Who do you think? Oh, the uniform. Yes, the uniform. Oh, he just wanted a favor. You know, people are always asking reporters to do favors. Sure, I know. I have to guard against that. What did he want? He wanted me to write a series on fire prevention. Then the show is the show. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have to guard against fire prevention. And what did you tell him? I just laughed it off. He got pretty angry, didn't he? How do you know? Well, by a strange coincidence, I was having coffee at the same time that you were. As a matter of fact, I waved to you. Oh, I didn't notice you. I know you didn't. I guess I was too interested in the coffee. Yeah, or the man in the uniform. Mm-hmm. In case you changed your mind about, uh, doing a series on fire prevention, why, let me know. You know, it might make a darn good subject. I am one gal who does not change her mind. and I think it would make a very dull subject. That fire lieutenant really got you, didn't he? Not at all. I've completely forgotten it. Completely. A few days later, I was downstairs having my usual three o'clock coffee when Lieutenant Davis showed up again. He sat down opposite me at the table. Hello. Oh, hello. Good coffee? Yes, powerful stuff. Is that what brought you back? No. I came back to apologize. Oh? I'm sorry. I shut my mouth off last time. Forget it. Thanks. Only next time you walk out on a girl in a restaurant, remember to leave a tip behind. Why? Because you may come back looking for the girl you left behind and you'd want the waiter to be nice to you. You mean you expected me to come back? Well, the idea had occurred to me. Thanks. Thanks for coming back. Uh, are you doing anything special in the next hour? Well, I was planning to get back to my typewriter. Would you take a little ride with me instead? On the top of a fire engine? No, no. In my jalopy with the top open. Sounds wonderful. It's a swell day for a ride. My typewriter and boss will both miss me. Shall we? All right. Where to? Oh, just outside the city. There's a dry cleaning plan I want to look into. I promise not to say a word to you about fire prevention. Oh, I don't mind, really. As long as you don't try to get me to do those articles. Good. The day was like a tonic to a dull mind. Barney tried to avoid talking about his favorite subject, but after a while he forgot himself and latched into it again. You know, the other day I was looking through a batch of literature that was sent to the fire department. It gave some amazing facts. Did you know, for instance, that... Look, I still haven't changed my mind about doing the articles. Well, that's all right. I'd like to tell you about it anyway. I'll bet you don't know what the greatest single cause of fire is in the United States. No. Well, I must admit that I don't. Smoking. Three out of every ten fires are caused by careless smokers. Really? You know the second greatest cause of fires? No. Faulty chimneys, stoves, furnaces. About one out of every five fires start there. The important thing is that most of those fires can be prevented. How? With better fire laws and an up-to-date building code. Well, that sounds simple. Why doesn't the city pass such laws? It's not so easy. Old laws are as hard to change as, well, old prejudices. The public has to be educated to the change first. And that's where I come in. Yes. You don't take no for an answer, do you? Well, you can't blame me for trying. Sorry, Barney. Forget about it. Say, how far is that plant? Well, we're nearly there now. You're Mr. Jenkins, the owner of this plant? That's me. I'm Lieutenant Barney Davis. I sent you a letter. Oh, yeah, yeah. Lieutenant Davis. You wanted to go through the plant. Yeah. Sure. Very happy to oblige. This is Miss Swift. Pleased to meet you, Miss Swift. How do you do? Well, you just follow me. If you don't mind, I'd like to take a look at the boiler first. The boiler? Yes. Well, okay. It's to the right over here. Doesn't the boiler take an awful lot of pressure? Well, in this business it has to. Some of the suits come in so dirty, only blasting will do them any good. These pipes look as if they need tightening. Oh, yeah. Well, that's an old story. Why don't you have it fixed? Well, first chance I get, I'll have a man take care of it. If oil fumes start escaping from there, it might be too late. Don't worry. I'll have it fixed soon. It should be fixed right away. And look, Lieutenant, I can't do everything at once. This is a big plant. There are lots of things to take care of. But you've got to take care of this right away. You have to obey the law. What law? There's no law about that. He's right, Kate. There's nothing in our city ordinance that forces him to do it. Really? That's what I've been trying to tell you. That's why it's so important for you to inform the public. Please, Barney, leave my job out of this. From now on, I'll just follow along quietly. We hardly said a word to each other after that. Barney didn't seem especially sore at me. He just seemed more absorbed in this work. He asked a lot of questions of Jenkins and made a lot of notes. As we drove back, I was convinced he was never going to call me again. Then back at the office, he said... Enjoy the ride? It was pleasant. I'm going out again tomorrow. Are you? Yeah, I am. All by yourself? All by myself. Why not stop at the coffee shop first? Will you come with me again, Kate? I might. I'll be there. The next day as we drove out, he didn't say a word about the articles. He didn't even tell me where we were going, and I didn't ask. It didn't matter. Frankly, I just like being with him. After a while, we pulled up in front of an old flat sort of place. It was an auto repair station that specialized in repainting cars. We got out and spoke to the manager, someone named John. There ain't much to see here, Lieutenant. Well, I'd still like to take a look around. Okay, anything special? Where do you do the body painting? All over the place. This car here is ready to be sprayed. Right here, near the pot-bellied stove? Why not? Well, do you ever use the stove? Yeah, sometimes we work late. Gets pretty cold at night. You're running the risk of a fire. Why? Paints, enamels, oily rags, and a hot stove all in the same place. That's dangerous. My men are pretty careful. You still can't take a chance. There's nothing to worry about. You ought to set off a special section for painting, away from the stove and any electrical work. Special section? No, that ain't practical here. It's the only practical thing you can do. Listen. All I know is that so far, nothing has ever gone wrong here. I can't afford to make any changes, and I don't have to. Look, Davis, why don't you bother someone else? Barney looked around a while longer, made a few notes, and then we left. All this time, I hadn't said a word, and he hadn't asked me a thing. Finally, on our way back, he said very simply, See what we're up against? Yes. The terrible thing is we can't do anything about it. We don't have the authority. I certainly think you should have it. First, we need new laws. But unless the public is given the facts... You're pointing your finger at me again. Yes. But I still can't see myself writing that stuff. Okay. Forget it. We drove back in silence. As he left me in front of the office, I was convinced that my fireman was not going to see me again. But once more, I was wrong. A few days later, he phoned me and asked if I would like to take another ride with him. To put it mildly, I was extremely pleased at the invitation. Where are we going to go? To a lumberyard. I hope it's a long ride. I'll go in a roundabout way. And I promise not to mention anything about fire prevention. I hold you to it. You've got my word. An hour later, near the outskirts of town, we pulled up outside the lumberyard. Barney and the owner, a man named Hamilton, were quite friendly. They walked around inspecting things, and I tagged along. Take a look at this wall, Barney. Fireproof. Even if a fire starts in one section of the yard, can't pass through to the next. It's quite an improvement. Notice the aisles. We keep nothing in the aisles anymore. Strict orders. They've always got to remain open. Good. Here, take a look at the buzzsaw. Just a minute, will I? There. See this receptacle underneath? Uh-huh. I had it built in. There's no more sawdust spreading out all over the place. Well, all this must have cost you a lot of money. After that last fire, I learned my lesson. Lives are more important than money. That's one thing I'll never forget. Thanks, Barney. Nice to have met you, Miss Swift. I could see Barney was pleased that afternoon. During the ride back, he kept his promise. He didn't say a word about writing the articles. I'll be honest. By this time, I really liked the guy. I was even hoping that he'd take me on another inspection tour. When I got back to the office, I found myself smiling to the typewriter. Suddenly, I decided on something. Why not do a series on fire prevention? It might even be more dramatic than a fire itself. Well, anyway, it certainly would be more important. I got up and marched straight into the boss's office. Mr. Finley? Yes, Kate? If I remember correctly, you gave me permission to do a series of articles on fire prevention. If I wanted to. That's right. I want to do them. Oh, you've changed your mind. That's the privilege of every human being. I'll get to work now. See you later. Hello. Kate? This is Barney. Hi. Are you busy? Very busy. Oh. Why? I thought you might like to come with me and meet a very interesting old man. The chief of the fire department. I'd love to. Pick me up any time you want to. But you just said... That I'm very busy. Of course. And you're the reason for it. I don't understand. I'll tell you later. I'll be right over. I'll be waiting for you. Chief Brophy, I'd like you to meet Kate Swift. Hello. So you're the newspaper girl. So they tell me. Young lady, I'm going to ask you something, and I want a straight answer. Go ahead. Why won't you do a series of articles on fire prevention? Well, you'll realize now this is probably one of the most important things you can accomplish. Can't you get that into your pretty head? Hold on. Now, why should I hold on? Because I've got a little secret to let you in on. I've already started the article. Kate? That's right. Just a little while ago. Lieutenant, why did you tell me that she wasn't good? But, sir, I didn't know her an apology. Apology? Certainly, Miss Swift. Barney said you were the most stubborn girl he's ever met. My own opinion is that you're probably the prettiest girl he's ever met. Thank you, Chief. The trouble with Barney is he's too bashful. Took me a whole day to convince him to see her the first time. Finally, I had to order him to do it. You ordered him to meet me? Sure did. I read that story you did on a fire, and I said to myself, Now, that's the girl to do a series on fire prevention. Now, why do you think he went out to see her? I did wonder at the beginning. I told him that no matter how tough it seemed, he had to keep after you for those articles. That'd be worth it. Yes. It must have gotten pretty tough at times, didn't it, Barney? Oh, look, Chief, you're giving her the wrong idea. No, no, he's not. He's giving me the right idea. You must be very proud of yourself now. Both of you. Well, excuse me. I've got to run along. I've got a story to write. I'll drive you back. No, thanks. I love to walk. I sit better on my feet. Goodbye. I was hurt and angry. Fortunately, I long ago developed a safety valve against anger. A sense of humor or what I like to pass off as my sense of humor. By the time I got back to the office, I decided to change the article from fire prevention to an article on the fire department's methods. I began to write the feature. This is a story about the so-called fire prevention methods used by our city's fire department. Actually, the frequent inspection tours conducted by certain of our fair-haired firemen are nothing but a waste of the taxpayer's good money. It's about time that the town's firefighters devoted more time to putting out fires and less to annoying owners of various business establishments. This reporter has a secret suspicion that some of our city's firemen will do anything to avoid real work. Well, what do you think of it, boss? That's pretty strong. You're really giving him an awful booting here. I know. You don't really want to print it, do you? I certainly do. I kind of thought you had a soft spot for that fireman. Him? Impossible. And that this was supposed to be a series on fire prevention. It is. You said you'd print it. You're not changing your mind, I hope. Changed my mind? No, not at all. Matter of fact, I think I'll print this as a feature story with a blown-up cartoon. How's that? Suits me fine. Finley talking. Yes, Tommy. What? No. Sure, sure, I'll send someone right down. Hold on a minute, Tommy. Kate, get out to the dry-cleaning plant right away. What's up? Fire. Tommy's out there now taking pictures. I'll hold everything. Get over there fast. When I got to the fire, the third and fourth alarms had already been turned in. The building was belching smoke and flame from each of its gaping windows. Firemen were pouring water on it for every side. Over the rooftop, a fireman was leading a group of women workers to safety. When they came down, I saw that the fireman was Barney. I stood near Chief Brophy as he came over to him. The Chief? Yeah. I'm not sure, but I'm afraid that we might have left someone still in there. I think I ought to go back and take another look. Into that furnace, you're crazy. Well, maybe I'm crazy, but... Now, listen, Barney. I'm not looking to make heroes of my men. Our job is to put out fires and save lives, not to end up roast pigeons. Now, you stay out of there, and that's an order. Yes, sir. Just then, the woman appeared at the third floor window. She was screaming, but her voice couldn't be heard above the noise of the crowd. Chief Brophy didn't hesitate a moment. He rushed into the building and up to the third floor. Gently, he picked up the woman and dropped her safely into the crossed arms of the firemen below. He was about to jump himself after that, when the entire wall suddenly buckled and caved in. And he appeared in the wreckage. Mr. Finley? Yes, Kate? I'd like that article back. What for? I want to tear it up. Why? Please. It was a darn good piece. Sorry, the story isn't funny anymore. Here, I wrote this instead. To only a handful of men in this world comes the honor of dying heroically. That honor came to Fire Chief Brophy last night, when he gave up his own life to save another. No tribute we can pay him will ever match his deed. And yet, if we are to build any monument to him, it can only be the one he himself would have asked for. A better building code and more up-to-date fire prevention laws, so that tragedies like last night become a thing of the past. Let such laws stand forever, as this city's memorial to a great and fighting public servant. I see. Here's another piece on the fire itself. This is good writing, Kate. The story wrote itself. Why don't you go home now and take a rest? No, thanks. I promised Bonnie I'd be back and share a container of coffee with him. Hmm. Can I expect a new article on fire prevention this week? You certainly can. With Bonnie for my inspiration, you can expect a whole series of them. Good night, Kate. Good night, boss. Good night. realizes that we must stop going to fires and start preventing them. But the story of fire prevention won't quite itself. That's one story that everyone will be in on. That's a story you will have to write. You have just heard Never Take a Fire Lightly, a radio drama by Harold Callum. This program was presented by WNYC in conjunction with the National Board of Fire Underwriters as part of the observance of Fire Prevention Week. In our cast were Rita Lloyd as Kate Swift, Paul Herlinger as Barney Davis, Lloyd Moss as Finley, Jack Tureen as Brophy, and Martin Waldman as Hamilton. Sound effects and music were by George Morrison. The program was directed by Arthur Lee. Micro explosion of fire underwriters. And now here is Mr. Lewis A. Vincent, General Manager of the National Board of Fire Underwriters. Many of us have seen a fire at one time or another, and it probably was a thrilling event. But I wonder if you can visualize what fire means to your community and to your nation. If we could drive down a highway and see all the fires that occur in the nation in one year, at one time, the sight would be appalling. There would be mile after mile of desolation resulting from destruction of irreplaceable property. But what is more important is the fact that thousands of lives were lost because of those fires. Whatever is destroyed by fire can never be replaced in its entirety. The lives that are lost, the forests that burn, the topsoil that is eroded, the jobs that are lost, the businesses that fail. These are some of the many things that are irreplaceable. Yet, all fires have small beginnings. Most fires start with little acts of callousness, such as anyone might do. A cigarette thrown from a car, failure to have a worn electric cord replaced, faultless use of gasoline or other flammable cleaning fluid. These are some of the little things that can cause great conflagrations. In these times when defense effort requires that we conserve every piece of material and every bit of manpower, no one can afford to have a fire. No one can afford to have a fire. Not even a nation as rich as ours, because money can't replace the irreplaceable things that fire destroys. Now, as always, it is good citizenship to be careful and to help others to prevent fires. See what you can do in your own community to help save lives and to conserve the resources of America. Let this fire prevention week be the start of a year-round campaign to reduce fire losses. You will enjoy working with others to help keep your America safe. Thank you, Mr. Vincent. Thank you, Mr. Vincent. Thank you, Mr. Vincent. Thank you, Mr. Vincent. Thank you, Mr. Vincent. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the NAEB tape network.