Members of the association and guests, the principal address this evening will be given by a longtime friend of the American Library Association. His appearance tonight is an encore, for he was an ALA general session speaker at the Milwaukee conference ten years ago. Incidentally, through no fault of Mr. Blakely, that was the conference, you may recall, which ended ALA conferences for several years. A native of Nebraska, Mr. Blakely is an alumnus of the State University of Iowa and did graduate study in history at Harvard. For several years, he was editorial writer for the Des Moines Register and Tribune. But then, like so many other young men of the time, his career was changed by the Second World War. He joined the Office of War Information in 1942 to become special assistant to Gardner Coles, Jr. in the domestic branch of the OWI. A year later, he was in the U.S. Marine Corps, was commissioned in 1944, was a forward observer for artillery with the 3rd and 6th Marine Divisions, wounded on Okinawa, and discharged as first lieutenant. He rejoined the Des Moines Register and Tribune in 1946, remaining until 1948, when he became editor of the St. Louis Star Times. Mr. Blakely is regarded as one of the nation's best-informed laymen on the subject of atomic energy, and has taken an active part through his writing and speaking in educating the public on this complex problem. Mr. Blakely is now on the staff of the Fund for Adult Education, an independent organization established by the Ford Foundation. His position is entitled Manager of the Office for the Central Region. He is in charge also of the Fund's Test Cities Project and of the Scholarship and Fellowship Program in Adult Education. Mr. Blakely will speak this evening on threats to books. Mr. Blakely. Mr. Douglas. Your chairman described me as a friend of librarians, and that is true. And, well, I should be a friend of librarians, because librarians have been such a good friend to me. And I think particularly of Forrest Spaulding, formerly of Des Moines. And I think of Mr. Compton of St. Louis, who is not here tonight. And I think of Ralph Ellsworth of my old alma mater, the University of Iowa. And I think of Russ Munn of Akron, and I think of many others. And it gives me a great gratification, again, to resume official relationships with the library, as once before I had during the period of the first part of the war, when I am liazoned with the American Library Association in Chicago. And it gives me such gratification to be able to work with Mr. Clift in such programs as the Survey of Adult Education Activities in the Libraries, and with Mrs. Grace Stevenson in the splendid work which she has done in the American Heritage Program of the American Library Association this past and this coming years. The assignment given me by Mr. Clift is to speak on threats to books before the American Library Association, whose theme is the American Heritage, around the corner from where Peter Zenger wrought and fought. This seems too good to be true. I invoke the muses to make me more nearly worthy of the occasion. First I ask, what is a book? Milton answers, A good book is the precious lifeblood of a master spirit, embalmed and treasured on purpose, for a life beyond life. A good book, yes. But what about the lifeblood of Adolf Hitler, Henry Miller, or Mickey Spillane? Beyond those books which are demonstrably false, poorly written, or pornographic, what is a good book? The books which have survived the criticism of the ages present a bewildering variety. The Gospel according to St. Matthew, and Thus Spoke Zarathustra, The Confessions of St. Augustine, and the Confessions of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, The Song of Songs, and The Epistle of St. Paul, Discourse on Method, and The Interpretation of Dreams, War and Peace, and The Good Soldier Schweick. Probably no good book has not been regarded as pernicious by thoughtful, earnest man at some time or in some place. And probably no writer of a good book has not deplored a shelf of other good books at some time or at some place. The friends of books cannot take their stand on the good books because of their inability to agree upon what is good. And here precisely is the clue. Books must be regarded as a symbol of the process of free communication. It is in this sense that I speak of books. I would like to enlarge the symbol, first to include all records of communication, the volume, the file, the recording, the film, the painting, the statue. And next to include all forms of immediate and transient communication. The spoken word, the throwaway, the broadcast, today's newspaper. For freedom to communicate with ancient Athens is not safe if one is not free to communicate with one's neighbor. So defined, the threats to books become clear. Most sharply are seen those from the enemies outside the gates. Those who by force would overrun us and silence communication, in our time the Wehrmacht and the Red Army, and their henchmen inside who would open up the gates. Not so sharply seen are other enemies of books who would defend us against the four columns on the approaches and the fifth column within the city, but who do not understand the nature of that which they defend. What is the nature of what we are defending? We can begin by reminding ourselves that communication is a relationship. There is the communicator and there is the recipient. The enemies of freedom of communication pretend that their target is the particular communicator, but it is really recipients in general. The person regarded as dangerous is the recipient who cannot be trusted to cope with what he receives. That which we are defending, the free way of life, democracy, the American way, we call it what you will, is based on a faith in man, a confidence that man is potentially able to choose the correct over the incorrect, the good over the bad, that the way to realize the intellectual and moral potentiality of man is through the exercise of choice, because knowledge of good is inextricably involved with the knowledge of evil, and because even a mistaken choice can be an educative experience. Some enemies of communication would defend a society based on freedom of choice by restricting choice through restricting knowledge of alternatives. I will speak of three kinds of such enemies, the intellectual zealot, the anti-intellectual, and the ignorant. The intellectual zealot has the truth, but he does not have confidence that truth can win in a fair fight. He speaks for God, but he does not trust God to speak for himself. He claims to speak for the welfare of man, but he would keep man under a perpetual childhood of prescription. zealots of different stripes are always fighting among themselves, yet disregarding the stripes, there are characteristics of the breed. One is the inability to live in doubt. Zealots must have the answer. The answer may change dramatically from black to white, but the tentative gray remains unendurable. The name of the zealot's religion may change, but his God remains jealous, humorless, and harsh. The zealot may change his ends, but his means remain opposed to the free communication of ideas. Something else remains. This is the necessity to feel superior. A zealot who has renounced one absolute and embraced another will likely claim, even in the midst of the most embarrassing self-debasement, that only he can know how dangerous his old absolute is. Another characteristic of the zealot is his perennial suspicion of the free intellect. The zealot cannot understand those who are capable of sustained worry. Incomprehensible to him is the willing suspension of disbelief when the mind questions something which one's whole being says is so, and hope whispers the question was stated in the wrong way, or the evidence is incomplete, or a premise is missing, postponed despair until a more optimistic day. Equally incomprehensible to him is the willing suspension of belief when conviction urges intolerance, dogmatism, and persecution, and charity warns, beware the ulcer which is the stomach digesting itself. Beware the cancer which is creation become malignant. Postpone divine judgment until a mood more humane. For the zealot, the history of orthodoxies destroyed by their defenders, of heterodoxies become orthodoxies, of certitudes proved wrong, of the resolution of theses and antitheses, of martyrs vindicated and pontificators revealed to be pompous fools, this long, amusing history is irrelevant. Always the zealot must catalog and since the third dimension of freedom is beyond his ken, he tags those who believe in freedom as either deceitful absolutists or as dupes. Of course, some zealots say they believe in freedom. These latter turn the powers of their minds to explaining why our time and circumstances are different. these explanations give intellectual respectability to the curbing of civil liberties in the eyes of the faint-hearted. Who with any sense of history believes that our time and circumstances are really different? Is ours the first generation to see the principles of freedom put to a test? Will ours, unless freedom dies with us, be the last? Do we want to be known by future generations as the generation which distinguished itself for the subtlety and exquisiteness of the qualifications we wrote onto the principles expounded by our ancestors? Do we want to continue as we're going? Embarrassed idealists seeking justification from embarrassed idealists? Sophists vying with sophists? All animals are created equal but some animals are created more equal than other animals. The rule applied less and less frequently. The exceptions invoked more and more often. The restrictive precedents accumulating like barnacles until at last the vessel sinks. A proud ship which was seaworthy in the golden age and which we vow to raise again when the seas are more sunny and calm. There is always, of course, the judgment of clear and present danger. But sensitivity to danger is not the only factor in wise judgment. remember that communication is a relationship. Where does the danger lie, in the communicator or in the recipient? Whom are we trying to protect free men from? From those who would destroy their freedom or from themselves? Amidst all those who pride themselves on seeing most clearly the danger in communistic propaganda, is there none to pride himself in his confidence in the ability of the American people to assess propaganda correctly and to emerge more judicious for the next trial? Of course, no one has a right to cry fire in a crowded theater when there is no fire. But sometimes there is a fire. And for every person who incites a riot by falsely shouting fire, there is a score of couriers who fail to give the ruler unwelcome news because of fear of reprisal. And for every score of persons trampled to death in a riot, there are thousands lost because an impending calamity was kept secret until it announced itself. nothing is more dangerous to freedom than when free men grow cautious about expressing their true thoughts and feelings to each other. The second enemy of free communication, of which the book is the symbol, is the anti-intellectual. One type is the non-intellectual anti-intellectual. He seems to have an animus against rationality. He ignores or quickly dismisses argument based on logic and fact and focuses on motivation. His own motivation and that of his allies is noble and this relieves him of any obligation to analyze, search, illuminate, and verify. On the other hand, he ascribes to those which he disagrees the most vicious motivation of which he is aware by some process independent of evidence. Or if evidence is needed, he will produce it spun out of fancy or built upon fragments of fact. His attack upon the motives of those with whom he disagrees relieves him of any responsibility to grapple with the arguments and facts which confront him. The non-intellectual anti-intellectual like the intellectual zealot is never in doubt. Doubt is a stigma of weakness. The anti-intellectual is similarly indifferent to the continuities of history and to the changes in context which history brings about. He will brand the slightest alteration in the position of an opponent even though it be dictated by changed circumstances as proof of inaccuracy, confusion, and error. In contrast, any change in his own position even though inconsistent is held up as proof of flexibility and sensitivity to change. The non-intellectual anti-intellectual is intolerant of mistakes. He is impatient of the suspension of judgment. He is grandly scornful of the idea that there is or ever was a problem incapable of simple and immediate solution. The might-have-beens of the past are clear to him. With infallible hindsight, he will tell exactly what ought to have been done in the past and he has a kit of nostrums for the future. Because life is so simple and because his opponent's motives are vile, the anti-intellectual brands a mistake defined as an action with which he disagrees as treason. Thereby, he strips life of its educative quality, the lessons of trial and error. The anti-intellectual considers that any exploration of the future is a betrayal of the past. Is there something new in the loom of time like the United Nations or UNESCO? Is a multicultural world society in the making? Blind opposition is the only safe policy. Ignorance is the only defense. The second kind of anti-intellectual should be identified. The intellectual anti-intellectual. This person has not an animosity but a contempt for rationality. He has probed with the crude tools fashioned by Marx and Engel and by Freud and he has uncovered the complexities of the human being and of society. Rational analysis and explanation seem pitiable rationalizations to him, subjects for diagnosis not respectful consideration. He misses two main points apparent to the wiser students of personal and social psychology. First is that the greater complexity of life was discovered by means of the human mind and in this discovery lies the key to greater achievement. Second, a deeper awareness of human motivation can lead to more effective self-discipline and increased responsibility. Freedom of the will may be more difficult than we used to think but it has not been disproved. Its essence is all the more precious and its exercise is all the more imperative. Let us spend a moment examining the relationship of the enemies of books just described. The intellectual anti-intellectual helps discredit morality and rationality. This frightens the intellectual zealot into an even more desperate embrace of the truth. It softens up society for the non-intellectual anti-intellectual to wield his brute weapons of defamation and abuse. The intellectual zealot and the anti-intellectual try to use each other in cynicism and expediency snapping at one another when their paths cross too closely but in the main concentrating on the common prey free inquiry and communication. Their common theme is that the free intellect is not only wrong but evil. Intolerance and accusation sap the foundations of democratic life. There is much talk this year and properly so of the morality of public life but most of it is in terms of money. Money morality is important but not the most important. Money can be restored but if the American people lose trust in each other and in the process of free and honest debate where is the court that can give that back to us. The third enemy of free communication is the ignorant. He is passive rather than active played upon and exploited by the zealots and the anti-intellectuals but capable of brief moments of violent exertion. We are all ignorant of course in the face of the mystery and the intricacies of life but some are content to let what little we have learned fade into forgetfulness to let the powers of our mind wither by disuse and to let the little gardens of knowledge irrigated for us by others in our childhood be reclaimed by the desert. These I call the ignorant who neither partake of nor impart to the commonality of ideas and understanding. Others are continually trying to push back the frontiers of understanding and to increase that power to recognize the best ends and the best means to those ends which is wisdom. My speech now comes into focus it is a plea to you as librarians and as citizens in a free society to help protect and improve the process of free communication and to use it for your own continual education and for the continual education of all citizens of our free society. This is the only possible answer to the enemies of free communication to those enemies who would use freedom to communicate in order to destroy free communication. It presents a people able to discern the falseness of their arguments and indeed to use the challenge as an exercise in wisdom. It exposes the triple fallacy of those who would curb freedom of communication in order to protect free communication. First, that the curbers can be trusted. second, that the ability to choose wisely can be promoted by narrowing the knowledge of alternatives. And third, that the American people need such protection. There is much misunderstanding of adult education. It is thought of by some as training for jobs. It is thought of by others as a belated learning of basic educational skills. It is thought of by still others as the acquisition of pastimes. It is these and more, of course, but it is also something else. It is the concept and practice of education as a process that ends only with death, of life as a continually educative adventure, of the constant development of the creative powers of the individual and the constant improvement of the exercise of citizenship. This is the kind of education which can be called liberal education, a preparation for the rights and duties of freedom. Liberal education does not mean a particular school method or content. I repeat, liberal education does not mean a particular school method or content. It does mean the process of free and responsible thought. It does mean the product of free and responsible citizenship. Liberal education used to apply only to the few. We, in this generation in the United States, must make it apply to the many. First Amendment . . . . .