Good morning. We're speaking to you now from police headquarters at 240 Center Street, where police promotion ceremonies are about to begin. And now to start the proceedings, here is Police Commissioner Thomas Murphy. It gives me great pleasure to extend a hearty welcome to you all this morning on this very happy occasion. Extending official recognition in the force by way of promotion is always a pleasant duty. But in this instance, the spirit of the season gives the occasion added significance. Now the Chief Inspector will announce the men designated for promotion. Promotions from Deputy Inspector to Inspector. Benjamin King. Daniel Blake. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. You want a picture? Thank you. Thank you. The police commissioner and the mayor here at police headquarters are at the moment congratulating the offices just promoted to inspectors. You may also hear the snap and clatter of the cameras of the newsmen of the press represented here at police headquarters for these police department promotion ceremonies. At the moment, police commissioner Murphy and Mayor Impeletere are posing for a picture with the newly appointed inspectors. Now, once again, here is chief inspector August Flath. Next in line for promotion will be that from captain to deputy inspector William F. Mailey, James P. Dermody. The promotions just mentioned were those from captain to deputy inspector. And once again, the mayor and Commissioner Murphy have come forward to pose for another picture for the press. Congenial smile and handshakes at the same time. The police commissioner and the mayor are very patiently waiting while one of the news photographers adjusts his camera. Well, there's the light and that picture is taken. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That will be that from lieutenant of police to captain of police. Hector Copeland, George D. Reyes. And the mayor and the mayor have walked over to congratulate them and they are at the moment being sworn in. The promotions just mentioned, the officers have remained in their place but standing, and Commissioner Murphy and the mayor have walked over to congratulate them, and they are at the moment being sworn in. Doing the swearing in is the Chief Clerk here at police headquarters, Finn. The next promotions will be from Sergeant of Police to the rank of Lieutenant of Police. William J. Sullivan, Daniel O'Callaghan, Arthur W. Regan, Morris Alties, John M. Parshen, Peter J. Quinn, John D. Wafer, Frank R. Dukes, William A. Stahl, Robert F. Devine, Anson A. Shevelyn. The names just mentioned represent the promotions from the rank of Sergeant to the rank of Police Lieutenant. These men now raise their right hands and are sworn in by Chief Clerk Finn. I don't know whether you can hear the oath or not. There are the click and flash of the cameras again at this group of officers photographed for the press. Once again, here is Chief Inspector Flav. The next promotions will be that from Patrolman to the rank of Sergeant of the Police Department of the City of New York. All those who are eligible for the promotion to the rank of Sergeant will please rise. Stand at attention. Looks like something in the amount of 50 promotions to the rank of Sergeant. Here is the oath now. The Chief Superintendent of State is secured to roles for Mr.agh Cat. And in an economic signs of the Typekit to the ground of drills of theJust 32nd infantry to be positioned to the R juicester. And the we can see the ground of Pennfur, Thank you. Michael J. Patler. From third grade to third grade with extra compensation. Isaac Exegu. Edward L. Swenson. Samuel M. Cohen. Martin J. Ziskan. Robert W. Damero. Samuel Braunstein. James J. Shea. Johnny Curry. John Rawitz. Thank you. These names represented detective promotions from first, second rather, to first grade. Now here is Commissioner Murphy. I wish to congratulate the men of the various ranks who received promotions. Each and every one of you have earned your advancement on the basis of merit alone. This is equally true of the inspectors and detectives as it is of the sergeants, lieutenants, and captains who competed in civil service examinations. By this time, I am sure it is very well understood that there is not and will not be any other basis of promotion during my administration of the department. Promotion to any rank brings with it additional responsibility. This is especially true of the men newly made sergeants. The sergeant is the sergeant. The sergeant is the backbone of order and discipline in our organization. You must now demonstrate your ability to instruct. supervise and discipline and lead. You must now be a leader. You must be a leader. You must be a leader. You must be a leader. You must be a leader. be a leader. Raising your traditions. You must be a leader. You must be a leader. Ephesians CARTER. For the sergeantjugation, your leadership of the department, you are responsible for the conduct of others, as well as your own. The sergeant is the backbone of order and discipline in our organization. You must now demonstrate your ability to instruct, supervise and discipline, and lead the men under your supervision. challenge not only to your capabilities but also to your character and integrity. Interest in your work and sincerity of purpose are the prime factors for success. I wish to avail myself publicly of the opportunity to express my appreciation to all of the members of the Department for the fine spirit of cooperation that I have experienced since I became Commissioner. In facing the crucial times ahead, it is very gratifying to know that our Department is still the finest in the country. It is my earnest good wish that the spirit of this happy season will be with you all. We all owe a great deal of debt and gratitude to the Mayor whose keen interest in you and in your welfare has again been demonstrated by him in providing the funds for your promotion. I may add that the promotion to Sergeant at this time gives you an additional advantage of being qualified to compete for the coming examinations for Lieutenant. Ladies and gentlemen, Merry Christmas and I'm proud to present his honor the Mayor. wonderful Minister Murphy, Reverend clergy, deputy commissioners of the police department, all of the men in the department who are elevated in rank today, and I think on this occasion particularly the members of the families and the friends of all the men who are promoted today. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure for me to be invited as the mayor to attend these promotion ceremonies. Ever since I became mayor, I've always tried to work into a very crowded schedule these promotion ceremonies. Whenever possible, I hope to attend all future promotion ceremonies because as I've stated publicly and privately on many occasions to Commissioner Murphy, I feel that the success or the fall of an administration depends upon a virile, honest, capable police force. To that end, ever since Commissioner Murphy took over in my administration, I've made it a point to see to it that where funds are available and promotions should be made, they will be made and will continue to be made. I join Commissioner Murphy in extending my congratulations and wishing you success in your new promotional rank, to wish you the tidings of the season, but particularly on this occasion, I would like to refer just for a moment to the present condition in world affairs, particularly as it affects us here in the city of New York. Today we're engaged in a very vital civil defense program. Only last Thursday afternoon, I conferred with President Truman for almost a half an hour, and that conference was exclusively on the role of New York City in the civil defense program. Shortly after that conference and the following day, President Truman declared a state of national emergency. I made a mistake. That happened last Friday, and the president declared the national emergency last Saturday. Immediately on the proclamation of the national emergency by President Truman, through the offices of former police commissioner, Arthur Wallander, who now heads up the civil defense unit here in the city of New York, I declared a national emergency insofar as it affected the city of New York here in New York City. We are living in very troubled times. The nation faces great peril. It is vitally important for us here in the city of New York to give every kind of cooperation and assistance to Commissioner Wallander. We have a tremendous role in this civil defense program. The police department of the city of New York has a very significant, a very vital, and a most urgent role in the civil defense set up insofar as it affects the city of New York. All of you men who are promoted today, in addition to your regular assignments as police officers, will play very important parts in that civil defense program. So my message to you today would be this. Do your job as police officers. Do it well. In addition to that, make certain that you personally and all the men in your command are alerted to the need for civil defense, and to that end, I urge you to give Commissioner Wallander complete cooperation at all times. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the exercises this morning. and now the chief inspector will read the different assignments. The inspectors and the deputy inspectors ladies and gentlemen from the main police headquarters at 240 Center Street, you've heard the police promotion ceremonies with remarks by Police Commissioner Murphy and talk just concluded by his honor, Mayor Vincent Arim Pelletieri. This concludes the ceremonies here at police headquarters. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. and we return you now you