Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a discussion program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, how can we prevent family failure? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the role of the family today, failures of the family, and possible solutions for these failures. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Clark W. Blackburn, General Director of the Family Service Association of America, William F. Byron, Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University, and Frank J. Hertel, Associate General Director of the Community Service Society of New York City. Now, as you have just heard, we asked the question today, how can we prevent family failures? Does this question, as worded, Hertel, mean that the family is failing? Well, I think, Mr. McBurney, if you took your lead from many of the popular articles that we're seeing in various magazines today, or that we're hearing about over the radio on various kinds of programs, you might think that the family was losing out as an important force in American life. On the other hand, I am inclined to think that the family today is as resilient as it was a quarter of a century ago. However, I think we must recognize that the family is faced with certain major disturbances which are affecting its stability. That doesn't mean that the family is failing or that it's doomed to failing, but that there are many crises that are affecting its stability. What do you say to that question, Byron? I would merely like to suggest that before we get too far into this, that we recognize that we are talking about the family in this particular country. And while it seems to be true that as urban industrialization spreads throughout the world, we are going to have increasingly common problems, the fact remains at the present time that there are significant differences among the problems which the families face in the different cultures. And so I think we should be very careful to confine ourselves in this broadcast to the American family in the USA. Well, certainly the function of the American family, if we accept Mr. Byron's limitation, and I think we should, the function of the American family is changing. Wouldn't you agree with that, Blackburn? Well, that's certainly absolutely true. With our urbanization and so on, many of the functions of the family have been modified tremendously. We have central schools. We have churches. We have ways of making a living in an economic way away from the home. We have organized recreation. Many of those things that used to be centered around the home are now away from the home. And the affectional ties in the home are one of the main differences now, in contrast to a long time ago, let's say. What would you say is the proper role of the family in our society today? How would you answer that, Ertl? Well, I think, as Blackburn points out, that the family... Would it be these affectional ties to which Blackburn refers? Yes, and just as important, the meaning of affectional ties in helping children develop the kinds of personalities which will enable them to live as mature and constructive members of society. In other words, that's quite as important, it seems to me, as the significance of affectional ties within the family itself. That is, there's a relationship between the two. Well, isn't that true? You think of interpersonal relationships as they relate to much broader issues, which you have pointed out in foreign countries. We try to stress the dignity of the individual in this country, the democratic family and so on. It's the family where a child really learns how to relate not only to other individuals, but to much larger groups, the community and the state, as it were. Yes, someone has said that the family is the smallest democracy, and I think that is absolutely right. In other words, what you were saying is that the primary responsibility of the family, as the first primary group, is to socialize the child, and at the same time to give it a sense of security, both physical and emotional, upon which these later processes of socialization can build. Now let me renew my initial question. Is the family failing in those terms? Well, there's an amount of degree. Some families are failing. For instance, the couple who has a child that they don't particularly care about and do not help that child in giving him the security and love that he needs, then are failing to help a child be a normal adult in later years. And that particular person, when he grows up, is going to have problems, which will affect him and his relationship with society. Well, just the other day, for example, a situation was referred to the agency I'm with by the Children's Court. The child had broken into a home, had stolen some trinkets, ransacked the house, got to the Children's Court, placed on probation, and referred to the family agency. Now this youngster wasn't a severely neurotic child, but our investigation revealed that the father was away from home a great deal of the time, trying to earn a living for the family. The mother was a neurotic person, had turned to alcoholism as a way out. In other words, there wasn't the kind of affection, the kind of love in the situation to give this child the climate that he needed in order to grow up into the kind of mature person that we want him to be. Now do you cite that as an example? As an example of a family where they have failed to provide this right kind of emotional climate. I think it's extremely important to follow through on what Mr. Hertel said, because he pointed out it's the right kind of affection. It isn't just the absence of affection or the presence of affection and love which count. It's the right kind of and actually and truly it is the right quantity of at the right moment. Now if I were, incidentally I'd like to underscore that, Mr. Byron, but if I were able to show you, and I confess I'm not, I don't have the facts, if I were able to show you that the delinquency rate was increasing, the divorce rate was increasing, that more fathers are failing to support their families, that we have more poorly adjusted children, that the family is failing to develop loyalty and understanding of our democratic society, failing to instill religious values. If I were able to show all those things, would you concede family failure? Are those indices of family success or family failure? Yes, I think they represent popular indices. You have to go back, though, and consider how those indices are established, what goes into them. Take the matter of divorce. I think that many people believe that divorce in all cases is bad for the family. I think, on the other hand, that you can cite cases where divorce has not necessarily been bad for the family. Of course, there are differences in opinion on that. It may represent the right solution for a given family. So I think you have to examine those generalizations very carefully. Well, I want to get back to this business of the pressures that are affecting family life that tend to create failures. Now, it seems to me... But you're beginning to offer extenuation. I'm still pursuing the question whether the family really is breaking down. Well, may I raise a point that I think, Mr. McBurney, you are raising almost to the detriment of our culture, and that is, do you believe that we, I don't mean we here, should judge our culture by the fact, for example, that in 1946, there was allegedly 40 divorces per hundred. Why not talk about the 60 who don't get divorced? I think we must recognize that there seems to be this point below which we won't go or point beyond which we won't rise, depending upon the figure of speech, and that we're not having all failures. We're having a great many successes, despite all of these terrific pressures and crises that develop. I think you have to keep in mind, from our point of view, those of us who work with families in a family service agency, we naturally see some of the gross behavior and are not as close to the more normal situation. So I suppose we are a little bit slanted in our point of view on this thing, but you're absolutely right that we need to think about the strengths of our society, the strengths of the family. Those are the things that we must build on and not accentuate the negative elements in our society or in our families. Well, with that, I would agree, certainly. And now to pursue the question that you started to raise a minute ago, Mr. Blackburn. However successful the family may or may not be, I take it that they face some pretty serious problems today. Well, I think this whole matter of inflation, for instance, is a tremendous problem to many families that are getting started. We see young couples coming along, even in employment where the man has gotten married in service, he's had certain GI rights, he wants to go on in the profession, say. But he's got a family of a wife and maybe two children, and what are they going to do? They can't make the grade. He's educated, but the kind of salary he makes is just not enough. So the tendency is for the wife to say, okay, I'll go out and work. Then you have the question, society has the question, what do you do with those children? Suppose they live in a community where they don't have any relatives. There's no grandma around to take care of these children. Something has to be done. Society has to do something. What are you saying? That on the one hand, we boast about the fact that we have the highest standard of living in the world, and that we want that highest standard of living without having 19 million working women who are going to dump certain of these problems of children in your laps? Well, we have this tremendous outside pressure of what to do about the world situation. Should we prepare for it? That's the pressure that impinges right on family life, isn't it? All right, but we say to a particular woman, mother in one of your families, your country needs you. You go into military production. The question is what's going to become of the children, is it not? Now, aren't there just two questions in a sense? Who's going to take care of them? Will it be a private or a public agency? Well, is it true, gentlemen, that throughout the country a great many community chests and funds are not meeting their budgets? Well, that's very true, and we can't possibly meet the daycare problem for children in this country through private funds. It's going to call for governmental help as well, and I agree with you, Mr. Byron, that we're in this situation, and if social agencies are to help meet it, the responsibility is going to have to be shared by voluntary agencies and public agencies alike. Of course, hasn't the real income of the average American worker gone up? Well, that's right. Costs have gone up, but wages have gone up, too. We're all living on a fairly good standard of living in this country, certainly compared with other countries, much better. But once the family is committed to that standard of living, it hesitates to give it up. It gets down to values, I suppose. I mean, what our values are. Some people, and many millions of them, think that it's tremendously important for the family to have a TV set, for instance. Well, that very... So the mother will go out and work to earn it. Sure, that's right. It's more important to go out and work and do something about the children, have some temporary plan made in order to afford to have that kind of standard. Well, is your goal in your particular agencies almost exclusively to get more money for these families, or are you also concerned with the attitudes which they have and which they might have toward money? Well, the agencies that Mr. Blackburn and I represent are not concerned primarily with the economic families, economic problems that families face. the whole problem of financial assistance, and aid is the responsibility of governmental agencies. Our job, rather, is to help families utilize their own capacities and resources in the interest of strengthening their own family situation. The job is essentially a service job rather than a relief job. Is there a high degree of correlation between economic problems and family problems? Is there a high incidence of family failure in the lower economic groups? We have no scientific evidence on that point, but my guess is, and it's backed up by a great deal of experience, is that the incidence of family difficulty and family crisis is just as evident in the higher economic groups as it is in the lower economic groups. May I say this, that formally, people of any means at all tended to stay away from social agencies because they felt there was a stigma attached or there was too much relationship to economic failure. Well, the trend recently has been that as these agencies have become service agencies, many of them are now making it possible for people to pay fees, and that is bringing in more and more middle class, upper middle class, even the highest economic group in the country. Another attitude that we've had to contend with is that many families, and I suspect this may be true in the higher economic groups, have considered it to be a sign of weakness to seek the help of social agencies. A certain stigma has been attached to it, and we're working constantly with that because actually it's a sign of strength for an individual or a family to make use of this kind of resource so that they can help get themselves back into the productive stream of life again. Going back to your question, Dean McBurney, I do not know of any studies which have established a consistent correlation between family failures and income. For instance, there is no evidence, to the best of my knowledge, that family disintegration accelerated during the Depression. Have you any experience in that, either of you, General? No, I think on the other hand, when more men were at home, things like juvenile delinquency rates actually went down, did they not? I don't remember. Of course, your answer to my question frankly surprises me. I would expect to find a higher incidence of family breakdown in low-income groups for a variety of reasons, not the least of which would be the terrific problem that some of these people face with housing, just sheer physical conveniences for their family. Well, of course, housing is a strong contributing factor to family distress and failure. There's no question about that. But I wouldn't agree that the higher you go in the economic bracket, the less you'll find in terms of interpersonal problems, emotional difficulties, parent-child relationship problems, and so forth. I think that it is true that you're led to believe that there's a higher incidence in the lower economic group because that is the group that comes to the attention, perhaps first to our official and voluntary agencies, you say. Well, now, you say you encourage families to come to agencies of the sort you represent, family welfare services of one kind or another, for guidance, that no stigma attaches to that. What kind of help do you give them when they come there? What do you do with them? Well, much of it is counseling help. It's done just by really sitting down with people. Well, first, let me ask this. What kind of failures would bring them there in the first place? Why would a family come to you for help? What are some of the problems? Well, I would say marriage failures, for one thing. That is, where people are really concerned about their marriage. They feel that maybe it's breaking up, and they want to go to a place where they can get some objective person who's disinterested in them personally to talk about this thing, somebody who's a good listener, for one thing. A skilled listener. That's understandable. Do they ever come in with problems in connection with their children? Oh, absolutely. Many of them do. What would be an example of that kind of a problem? Well, I don't think of one just offhand. Maybe Mr. Hurdle does. Well, there's the whole range of problems. In addition to problems of children, problems of ill health. For example, a mother may face a serious operation and a long period of hospitalization and recuperation. She may come to one of our agencies first for homemaker service, and the agency will place a homemaker in the family to keep the family together during this period of hospitalization. Then when she returns, there's the whole question of proper rest and diet routine and so on. And the homemaker, with the help of the caseworker, is able to assist in a family situation of that kind. It doesn't require financial assistance, but it does require aid of a different kind. Do you handle adoption cases? Well, in the membership of the Family Service Association of America, I think I'm right, Clark, there are approximately 33% of our agencies that are in the field of child placement, and then a smaller percent that are in the field of adoption. Yes, that is not a function that most family agencies have. It's more related to the home itself and to the normal family unit. But I'd like to get back, if I could, and talk a little bit more about this homemaker service, because that is a relatively new development that has come about in the last few years. Formally, when the mother was out of the home because of some emergency, the tendency was for an agency to make a temporary placement of those children in a foster home, or maybe even in an institution. But that is so the father could continue working. Well, this plan now is, in a sense, to have a visiting foster parent. We call them homemakers, you see. They're not just people who go in and clean up the house, but they really are a temporary substitute mother, and it helps the father to continue the strengths of the home life, you see. You don't go through this traumatic experience. The children do not. I was going to ask this. When people come to you, do they come to you as families with a problem, or do they come to you as a complaining witness from the family? Is it the mother complaining about the husband, or the husband complaining about the wife, or how do they come to you? I think in most instances that one individual in a family perhaps will come in about a problem. And are they sore about the... If the wife is experiencing trouble in her marriage, she will come in and want help in knowing what to do about it. But the social caseworker, in dealing with the situation, tries to see the family as a whole. In other words, what are the various factors contributing to this problem, you see. That is, while the whole family doesn't come in initially, we try to understand the entire family in dealing with the problem that's presented to us. Because I was speaking figuratively, whether they came in as a family, or whether they came in as an individual complaining about other members of the family. I think it starts with the individual, actually. And many times they want to have somebody to use as a weapon against the person that they're complaining about. In other words, you're talking about counseling service. And I think, Mr. McBurney, we ought to, as very briefly, as evidence of the tremendous concern of our country with this problem of family welfare, point out the extent to which this counseling has extended and grown. For instance, our churches, on the whole field of adult education, we have high school courses, and college and university courses, on marriage and family counseling. And then, as we look at the literature in the field, well, you gentlemen know the state literature, county city literature, you have the publications, the United States Children's Bureau, and then look at that whole group of women's magazines that are stressing month in, month out, this whole field, using the counseling program that you're using. You're getting an awful lot of good companionship in your endeavors. Could it be that we're getting a bit soft in this field, that we're giving too much advice and counsel, that families are becoming too dependent on all these agencies that Mr. Byron was just describing? It seems to me that depends so much on the skill of the person who's doing the counseling. If the person does not have skill, they can do a great deal to really ruin family life. But if they have real skill, they know how to draw out the strengths and build on those. I don't want to be nostalgic about this, but might we not be better off? Perhaps this goal is completely unobtainable. To go back to the old family circle with the family Bible and God-fearing father and mother and have fewer of these agencies that are willing to relieve them of all their problems. Well, may I ask you what you would do in this nostalgic mood of yours? A case came to my attention where a landlord had taken over three seven-room apartments and converted it into 21 kitchenette apartments. There were the man and woman and there were three children in it. The daughter of 16 and the daughter of 14 were found in a neighborhood cavern and as the 16-year-old said, when asked why they were there, she said, it's the only privacy we have. Would you get nostalgic about that, please? No, I'll tell you what I'd do. I'd send them to one of the agencies that these gentlemen represent. If I must be very frank. I'd build bigger homes. What about public housing? Does that contribute to family welfare? What do you think? I'm very definitely think so and I'm not afraid of it under limited circumstances even if it's called socialistic. Well, I certainly think that that's part of it. I also think that the people who have a private interest in building homes should recognize the fact that we are again in a trend of having larger families and need more adequate housing. in the degree that you men would move to improve facilities for family help, what program would you recommend? Well, I'd like to speak to that. First of all, I would agree with Mr. Byron that we're already making great headway in the social work field, education field, religious field, in group education. education. And I think that over the next five, ten years we're going to see an extension of that. And because we can't possibly reach all families on an individual basis, it seems to me that this group education process serves as at least a fair substitute because many families don't need more than that. second, I'd like to see us strengthen our program of detection, if you will, or case finding. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Can We Prevent Family Failure? We'd like to thank our guests today, Clark Blackburn, Executive Director of the Family Service Association of America, William F. Byron, Assistant Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University, and Frank Hertel, Associate Director of the Community Service Society of New York. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents in coin, or you may wish to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next twelve weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, Should we harness our wilderness waters? Our guests will be John B. Quinn, Executive Director of the Missouri Valley Development Association, Charles G. Sowers, Chairman of the Advisory Board on National Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings, and Monuments, William Voight, Jr., Executive Director of the Isaac Walton League of America, and Chairman of the Natural Resources Council of America, and John Jeffrey Will, Secretary and General Counsel of the Upper Colorado River Commission. We hope you'll join us next week as we ask, Should we harness our wilderness waters? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual broadcasting system. This is the Mutual of the University of Miami system. The title is the Mutual of Eunice and General Counsel of the Ultra Cinema is television and subtitт television and television and television and television is radio and television and television可愛 49 television and television television and television and television and television and television is