Thank you, Mr. Siegel. I am delighted to launch WNYC's first annual American Art Festival. While this series will rise in stature, I am sure, to the high cultural level of the springtime American Music Festival, now recognized the country over as an important annual event in the world of music. Now, too often, amid the struggle of making a living for ourselves and our families, we lose sight of the potential beauty around us, which is mirrored in our great works of art. If we, and we must if we are honest with ourselves, recognize the validity of this point, the worthwhile quality of the first American Art Festival comes through to us in renewed strength because it will turn a friendly, searching, helpful spotlight on all the key phases of American art. Certainly, with more than 100 hours of program devoted to painting, sculpture, architecture, and the Allied arts, this festival represents radio at its very best. New York and WNYC, our city station, have always been the thriving source of artistic activity, of appreciation, of inspiration for the creative artist, the lifeblood without which he cannot go on giving his best to the world. Our many museums, our colleges and universities, our art schools, our exhibition halls, stand ready to offer honest, warm recognition to people of talent. But it is more, far more than just a matter of facilities, for what makes New York more than anything else is the alert, progressive, cosmopolitan spirit in the air here. People of talent can come to this city and work here in independence, free from prying eyes and cynical rebloves, no matter how strange, no matter how off the beaten track their creative ideas may be. Yes, it is this breadth of intellectual interest here in our city, this maturely democratic attitude of, let him work as he pleases, we'll wait and see, which forms the friendly climate, creative artists thrive in. And it is that spirit, riding high in our wonderful city, which will ensure, always along, of course, with our unmatchable facilities, that New York will remain what it has been for many years, the art capital of the entire world. WNYC, in arranging this exciting overall review of art in America, is attempting to bridge the gap that has unfortunately developed in the civilized world between art, capital A, art, and the majority of citizens. All that happens, everything that is in this world, belongs to either nature or art. We consider nature as the expression of the divine, while we hold art to be the expression of the human. Nature has supplied all the matter that there is in the world. Man uses that matter. He combines it, works it, molds it, into what we call art. Now the so-called useful arts, such as the art of sewing, the art of seamanship, the art of farming, the art of warfare, and it is a pathetic commentary on our time that we have to include this, grew out of man's ambition to improve and protect his practical standards of living. In the bigger sense of the word, we must realize that every man who cultivates a useful art is also an artist. if he practices his work as an art with the same full being, the same whole spirit, the same honest pride. I would feel remiss if I did not emphasize this point. I have seen longshoremen at the piers, handling their bailing hooks with an amazing dexterity. That is art, in a sense, of course. The expert tailor in the garment center, the subway engineer who pilots the D train over a network of rails into 42nd Street, the leather craftsman, the watchmaker, yes, Joe DiMaggio running back to catch a fly ball. Now, there are true artists all about us in this great city of ours who pour themselves and their great skills into their special jobs. But the whole civilized world today agrees completely that the fine arts, born of man's desire to put things together beautifully, is worthy of a different, a more thorough-going kind of respect. Why? Because we are all agreed that arts, rather than merely being useful, must give delight to the soul and thus stand at a higher level than those arts which merely serve our physical and sensual needs. Creative genius is nothing less than a flash of the divine. No man can tell precisely how and why the music of Bach came to be written. No man can delve into the life of Rembrandt and find the exact inspirational factors that stir us so greatly as we view any of his great canvases. When the Metropolitan Museum presented the magnificent Van Guff collection last season, who was there who could stand before those tortured works and analyze them coldly? No, extinctively. We knew those paintings possessed a divine something, the same something we hear when Horowitz plays or Tuscanini conducts, the something that grips our heart when we see the strikingly magnificent art treasures in the cloisters. Perhaps as the art festival goes on, we shall gain a new insight into the stimulating mystery of what make art great. Perhaps we shall not, but in any case, in the wealth of program material that is to follow, we can all benefit from a vast new understanding of art and what it means to our civilization. Just looking at the network of subjects which the art festival will cover reveals the fascinating interrelation of art, how it is woven into our very needs, how it is related to our every activity. And so it is, with a deep and profound feeling of pride, that I, as mayor of the city of New York, hereby inaugurate WNYC's first annual American Art Festival. How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? This is Seymour Siegel talking. As the director of your city station, it's my great pleasure now to welcome you to WNYC's first annual American Art Festival, the fall counterpart of our nationally known Spring American Music Festival. During this coming week, your city station will broadcast an integrated series of stimulating programs concerning the fine arts, a series prepared in close cooperation with more than 50 American and foreign art galleries and museums, as well as the leading individual artists, museum executives, critics, and commentators, both here and abroad. Two general motifs underlie our planning of the American Art Festival. The first is to bring us all up to date on the variegated patterns and perspectives in the pulsating world of creative art. Along with this rides our corollary purpose, to outline the methods, facilities, and opportunities by which all of us can improve our appreciative perceptions so that we can share in the uniquely intense emotional stimulation derived from contact with the masterpieces of our civilization's fine arts. To encompass these twin objectives, we have set up a schedule of programs to cover both the cultural and the practical aspects of art. We have included museum and gallery tours. We have arranged for panel discussions, quizzes, and informative talks. We have set up candid interviews with preeminent painters, sculptors, muralists, designers, architects, museum and gallery directors, critics, curators, and art collectors. It's no overstatement for me to suggest the obvious point that this series of art programs represents an important innovation in the progress of American radio. Nor need I point out that this marriage of the fine arts and the greatest of all communications media, radio broadcasting, is in many fertile ways an historically significant advance in the development of the American liberal arts education. None of it could have been possible without the wholehearted cooperation of the entire staff of your city station. Special thanks must go to Mr. Condon Riley and Mr. Alan Carter who have dedicated themselves to this effort. and now it's an honor for me to introduce a man who has recognized the epic-making cultural implications of this program almost from its very inception who is thrown as full and gracious support behind the organization of WNYC's first annual American Art Festival. It's my privilege to introduce the acting mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari. All right.