At one of the most beautiful sights anywhere in the world, which used to be in colonial days, the site of the residents known as the Chimneys, which George Washington occupied, and which was connected with the historic Battle of Long Island, and overlooking the magnificent New York Bay, one of the greatest panoramas in the world, the members of the Board of Estimate, the President of the Borough of Brooklyn, and the Department of Parks today are dedicating the Brooklyn Heights Promenade above the shelves here on Furman Street, Brooklyn. And we'd like to say that at this time, we're presenting you a chairman who will introduce the regular speakers. The band has just started to play, and we want to stop them now because it will interfere with the speeches. We're just waiting a minute now for the band to end, and then we'll have the privilege of presenting Mr. John F. Hayes, Assistant to the President of the Borough of Brooklyn. Mr. Hayes. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to welcome you here today to join with us in dedicating to the public use the new Brooklyn Heights Promenade. It has been built under the supervision and jurisdiction of the President of the Borough of Brooklyn, and it is a part of the Brooklyn Queens Connecting Highway. Those of you who are here today will agree, I think, that it is one of the most beautiful public improvements ever undertaken by the City of New York. And as this beautiful panorama unfolds before us in a view of the harbor and skyline of New York, I think it proves once and for all the truth of the old adage which says, if you want to see New York, you have to go to Brooklyn. Now there are many men who played a part in making this day possible. Because of the limitations of time, however, we will have to let two or three officials speak for them. It is fitting, I think, that the first speaker should be a man who has played such a vital part in the development of New York that in his own lifetime he has lived to see himself become an historical and almost legendary figure. He has made realities out of architects' dreams. He has beautified an entire city. His name is the Honorable Robert Moses Construction Coordinator of the City of New York. Mr. Moses. Mr. Hayes, our President Cashmore, ladies and gentlemen, this is an historic occasion, as Mr. Hayes has said, and it's a unique improvement. I think it represents more than anything else the continuous and effective cooperation of many agencies of the government with the Borough President of Brooklyn, with Mr. Folley, his Chief Engineer, and the other members of the Borough staff. Now, this wasn't an easy thing to do. To begin with, I don't know whether most of you know the conditions under which work of this kind is undertaken. Up to a few years ago, the federal and state governments never spent any money on arterial improvements within cities. That was on the false assumption, the traditional assumption, that you bypass cities with your traffic, that Maine, through traffic, shouldn't go through cities at all, that it ought to go around them. Of course, that was and is errant nonsense. Fact is that most traffic here and in the other big cities begins in the cities and ends in the cities. And if you don't take care of the traffic through the cities, you haven't done anything because all the time that you gain in the suburbs, you lose when you get into town. We managed, as the result of many years of effort, to get both federal and state money for these improvements. But we couldn't get enough. And this is a case right here where the city had to step in and piece out these funds we got from the federal and state governments. And in many ways it was a good thing that it worked out this way because this was a very difficult job. Naturally, the first inspiration was to go right through the heights, plow our way through and take whatever there was. Now, John Cashmore and his associates knew this town pretty well and they knew how difficult that would be. what an immense amount of destruction would be wrought by that process. And I think that it was quite possible that it couldn't have been done at all, that the opposition would have been so great and so justified that we couldn't have done it. so the alternative was to go along Furman Street, build up two levels above the ground, tear off the, tear out these old structures and the gardens on top of them and then we had the idea, all of us, that the thing to do was to put an esplanade on the top so that people who were not driving in cars and who were not in a hurry and who wanted to get this magnificent view of the harbor could get it on foot, could sit there and get the sun. and of course to that idea was added the notion of having some playgrounds as large as we could afford, as large as we could get for mothers and children and they were added and I guess most of you have seen this construction underway. The work that Andrews and Clark did on a consulting basis assisting John Cashmore and Bill Farley is a first-rate job. I don't know anything quite like this in any other city in the world and I'm sure Brooklyn appreciates it. I'm delighted to be here as not so much for myself as for the many other people who cooperated and worked on this undertaking who are nameless, who don't appear in print and are on the platforms but who really did much of the work. I congratulate John Cashmore and his associates and I want to express the hope that as soon as possible we'll get the entire Brooklyn Queens Expressway finished. Thank you. ladies and gentlemen the glee club of the police department of the city of New York under the direction of Sergeant Edward Dillon will now sing Any Old Time. Any Old Time You're wholesome Any Old Time You're blue Drop me alive Oh, sweetheart of mine I'll hurry back to you Know this wide world divide us I'll answer You The animal Vincent Impeletary mayor of the city of New York has just made his entrance here at Brooklyn Heights here on this marvelous skyline promenade with one of the most amazing views anywhere in New York with the city itself as a drop curtain and as Mr. Hayes said in the opening number and the opening address rather if you want to see New York you've got to come to Brooklyn and now Mr. John F. Hayes will take over again Mr. Hayes Ladies and gentlemen we will now have another selection from the Police Department Glee Club Oh, Oklahoma where the wind comes sleeping down the plain and the waving wheat it sure smells sweet when the wind comes right behind the rain Oh, Oklahoma every night my honeyman and I sit alone and talk and watch a hawk making lazy circles in the sky we know we belong to the land and the land we belong to is grand and when we say Yippee! Yippee-oh yay we're only saying you're doing fine Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma okay ladies and gentlemen our second speaker is our first citizen for the past thirty years Brooklyn has been his life's work his hobby his constant preoccupation during the last ten of those years he has been our president and in that time he has brought to Brooklyn more public improvements than any other predecessor who ever held the office before him it is with pride and considerable affection that I introduce the next speaker the honorable John Cashmore president of the borough of Brooklyn thank you John Mr. Mayor Commissioner Moses distinguished guests neighbors and friends in the ten years that I have had the honor to be your borough president I have joined in the dedication of many public improvements but never have I had the pleasure of taking part in the opening of a project more beautiful than this it has always been my belief that the view of New York harbor and the city skyline which can be seen from here is unexcelled anywheres in the world and now thanks to the hard work and the splendid cooperation of all who are with us today we have made possible the enjoyment of this great panorama for every citizen who may care to stroll on this promenade oh in a city such as this which is the nerve center and the commercial hub of the entire nation it is understandable I think that much of our municipal planning and construction must be given over to transportation facilities express highways and similar projects that will enable the city of New York to live and to prosper this time however I am sure you will agree we have seized the opportunity of a lifetime by utilizing the engineering skill and the construction techniques which are the pride of America we have combined here the solution of a traffic problem with a park development and that development I believe will bring enjoyment to thousands of people now and long after we have gone today must be a day of thanks and appreciation and I am happy to express our thanks to all who have made it possible for this splendid achievement and to Commissioner Bob Moses this is just one more feather in a cap filled with feathers I pay tribute to his work so often that I'm really running out of adjectives when you see his work then you can realize why words fail me and to the greatest engineer in the state of New York the great engineer in the borough president's office Mr. Philip P. Farley I must express my sincere appreciation in my opinion the entire Brooklyn Queens connecting highway might well stand as a monument to his half century of service to what we call the greatest city's greatest borough the borough of Brooklyn and finally the greatest praise I can offer I humbly pay to the people who in the last analysis made this improvement possible the taxpayer those who live in this neighborhood I want to thank for their patience and their tolerance for the streets that have been torn up for almost four years and for the many inconveniences that they have suffered and to all our citizens who pay the bills for municipal improvements I can say to you sincerely the officials who are here today have seen to it that you've gotten your money's worth and we are happy to render this report the stewardship not only of the borough president's office but the Bob Moses the entire board of estimate and anyone who has had a part in making this development possible and to you of New York's finest I say the greatest band in any municipality in the United States thanks from the bottom of my heart as I speak as the president of Brooklyn for you being here today and to you Metropolitan Opera Stars the great glee club thanks again we appreciate it and we love you for the great work that you do not only when you're singing but when you're at work helping us may God bless you thank you fittingly enough we will now be favored with a selection from the greatest band of the greatest municipality in the world the police department band and and and The End The End Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor to present the acting mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletari. This magnificent project brought to conclusion. The End Naturally, all of us who have anything to do with providing the funds with which these projects are started have a great number of headaches. And tell your great borough president, John Cashmore, what a splendid job they have accomplished. None of these things come to me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The council requires the three votes of the president of the council, the three votes of the controller of the city of New York, the votes of the borough presidents representing all five boroughs within our great city, so that as a member of that board for the last five years, when this project was first contemplated, when it required board of estimate action, I was happy and pleased to vote along with your great borough president, John Cashmore, and to give my wholehearted cooperation to Commissioner Bob Moses. This is one of a great number of projects that have been projected all over the city of New York. Those of us who live in the city are fortunate indeed to have civic-minded people who are willing to serve the people of their city at tremendous inconvenience to themselves and at times great personal financial sacrifice. One of the people of that type is Commissioner Bob Moses. During the five years that I have been connected with the city administration, I have seen a great many of the things that he has contemplated, sometimes after bitter opposition, come to bear fruit like this project that we dedicate today. Those of us who have seen one after another slum area torn down, so many, as a matter of fact, torn down within the last four years that have permitted 193,000 people to be moved from slum areas into decent, clean, wholesome, low-cost housing projects, owe that in large measure to the imagination, the courage, and the foresight of one of our most distinguished citizens of the city of New York, and that's Commissioner Bob Moses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. During all of these years, I've sat as a member of the Board of Estimate with your borough president, John Cashmore. During all of these five years, I've had his wholehearted cooperation. I still enjoy that cooperation today as the acting mayor of the city of New York. Thank you. This project, although fathered by Bob Moses, required the wholehearted cooperation of the borough president of Brooklyn and his staff. Commissioner Moses has had the wholesome support of borough president Cashmore and his entire staff from the very day that this project was projected, and today he and his staff is here to see that his effort, his work, and his industry today permits us to sit on this plaza and enjoy the fruits of his work and that of his staff. Today I want to pay public tribute to the effort that he and his staff has put in to this particular project. On an occasion like this, those of us who serve you are happy to come before you and tell you that this is only one of many projects that are now underway. We insist upon keeping this city decent, clean, and a wholesome place for our children. This is one of the things that makes New York City one of the greatest cities in the entire world. So as your acting mayor today, I am pleased to be here. I am pleased to thank you for participating with us in this ceremony. And I want to assure you that in spite of measures that we have had to take in trying to maintain an adequate civil defense program, these projects affecting your hospitals, affecting your schools, affecting your libraries, affecting every other thing that's conducive to the well-being of the people of the city of New York, will keep going on full-fledged. We don't intend to stop for a minute in progressing these things that are helpful, constructive, and mean so much to the average citizen of the city of New York. So today, Bob, John, I want to thank you on behalf of all the people of the city of New York for the splendid services that you are rendering to your city. Thank you very much. You've just heard the speech of Mayor Impeletary at the dedication of the Skyline Promenade in the borough of Brooklyn Heights. Mr. Hayes is now speaking. to a man who is responsible more than any other for the successful completion of this project. I would just like him to stand so that you may meet him, Mr. Philip Farley, the engineer of the borough of Brooklyn. Ladies and gentlemen, the color guard of the park department will raise the colors while the band of the police department under the direction of bandmaster Harold Byrne plays The Star Spangled Banner. The Star Spangled Banner. The Star Spangled Banner. James Mc experts The Star Sp Events Hall & Chancellor an ensemble been the best in the vulnercome during the play of the city of New York fore, by Rene in the water andTwitch accounts and the poet who is cùng where the man has pry the German and Waite near theander of the except the one and pouch on theес in the water And now the flag of our country, the stars and stripes have risen on this historic spot. Mr. Hayes is speaking. Of chromium shears and Mayor Impeletary, Borough President Cashmore, Commissioner Moses, will cut the tape which will open Brooklyn Heights Promenade to the public. On this magnificent spot here where George Washington watched the retreat of the American troops under General Putnam and they made their escape to Harlem Heights after the Battle of Long Island, on this most beautiful site here in the borough of Brooklyn, where, as Mr. Hayes pointed out in the introductory remarks, if you want to see New York, you have to come to Brooklyn. And what a magnificent view of New York you do get from here and the panorama of the harbor. The sun sets here from this promenade with the Statue of Liberty and all the drama that the entrance to these United States mean to those making their first visit to our shores and thrilling to every American who has journeyed from any other shores to come back to his homeland. Well, on these magnificent sites here, this site, the Skyline Promenade, well, it's being inaugurated today. So if you get a chance, New Yorkers, discover your city and come over here. And now the cameramen are directing Borough President Cashmore and Mayor Impeletteri in the proper procedures as to how to cut this tape. Of course, they want a good picture, and we do for history too. And our handsome Borough President, John Cashmore, is standing ready and anxious to serve. These colors, the ancient colors of the Netherlands, which is the color adopted by the city of New York out of tradition and respect to old New Amsterdam on the tip end of Manhattan Island where really the United States of America began. There were other colonies, but no place flourished like Manhattan Island and old Amsterdam in the early colonial days. And now Commissioner Moses has come over at the earnest request of the Mayor and Borough President Cashmore. And these three great men, Mayor Impeletteri, Borough President Cashmore, and Commissioner Moses are posed and ready to cut this ribbon in unison while the cameramen issue all the orders. And you'll get a wonderful picture of this event since you were not able to be here, rather. This is a magnificent scene here today. The lack of sunlight only makes the visibility better because we haven't the sun in our eyes. We have stars in our eyes because this is a magnificent, one of the greatest engineering concepts anywhere in the world. Since these shelves that will be outlets to the Belt Parkway and the arterial highways of the city and the boroughs are underneath this promenade, and while we promenade above all this traffic with this magnificent panorama of New York Harbor, will none of us be aware that thousands and thousands of automobiles are rushing in both directions along these shelves of Brooklyn Heights, along historic Furman Street, and one of the busy... There goes the ribbon, and it's just been cut by the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletteri, Borough President Cashmore, and Commissioner Moses. And now congratulations to everybody who's rushing over to shake hands with the Mayor, and Borough President Cashmore wears a big smile as he puts on his hat. Another deed well done. And now Bob Moses, we say that affectionately with no disrespect at all, our great Commissioner Moses, he's joined in the congratulations, and all Brooklyn seems to want to participate in this great feast today. Well, that's about all from Brooklyn Heights here, where the historic mansion, the chimney stood, and where George Washington found shelter after the Battle of Long Island, and this whole magnificent thing is tied together. And as we look up Montague Street toward Borough Hall, we miss the little old Penny Bridge, one of the great sites of Brooklyn, until this great improvement went through and abolished one of the historic sites, the Penny Bridge at Montague Street, and Brooklyn Heights. Columbia Heights is the name of the street. Well, that's about all now from this most magnificent spot anywhere in the world for its view and its concept of everything that America means. And if you want one of the most inspiring views anywhere in the world, walk down here some evening about sunset, with the magnificent sun setting in the west, the Statue of Liberty raising her torch, and the lights just going on, and the magnificent panorama of the skyscrapers that are the tradition of New York. And so we take leave of you from Brooklyn Heights with the best wishes for the arterial highway, which will soon be rushing traffic along these shelves underneath the promenade. See one of the greatest engineering concepts, as well as one of the most beautiful engineering feats anywhere in the world, here at Brooklyn Heights. I'm just waiting because I thought maybe Mr. Hayes had some closing remarks. The Glee Club of the Police Department of the City of New York, Sergeant Eddie Dillon, conducting were the vocal features of the program, and Bandmaster Harold Byrne conducted the police band. And now well-dressed, happy, smiling Brooklyners leaving this spot and journeying toward their various homes in the borough. Thank you from Brooklyn Heights and the Skyline Promenade. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.