The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand presents the second of four rebroadcasts transcribed of our most popular discussions during the past year. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In a moment we'll tell you about today's discussion, but first, here is our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University. We're very proud and pleased to have with us as our special guest today, Mr. Leo K. Bishop, Vice President of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Mr. Bishop has an award to present to the Reviewing Stand. Accepting the award will be Ms. Myrtle Stahl, our producer and educational director for WGN Chicago. Now may I present Mr. Bishop. Millions of people recognize the Reviewing Stand as the 20th century counterpart of the Old Town meeting. Because of your contributions to democratic discussion, your willingness to face the most controversial issues of the day, and because you bring to the Reviewing Stand the best minds of Protestant, Catholic and Jew, Negro and White, Oriental and Occidental, the National Conference of Christians and Jews has selected the Reviewing Stand and the Mutual Broadcasting System for its 1952 Brotherhood Week Award to a single network radio broadcast. We were keenly interested in your program of December 2nd, in which you brought priest, rabbi and minister to your microphone to discuss should more people read the Bible. These three dynamic religions, these groups of American people, brought to America its spiritual heritage. Through this particular program and through the year-round broadcast of the Reviewing Stand, you give recognition to this spiritual heritage as an important factor in modern living. You bring to bear the concern, philosophy and insight of our religious leaders on the vital issues of the day. The National Conference of Christians and Jews takes pride at this Brotherhood Week period in awarding you this citation for outstanding contribution to mutual understanding and respect among people of diverse backgrounds through the powerful medium of radio. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. On behalf of WGN, the Mutual Broadcasting System, and the staff of the Reviewing Stand, it gives me great pleasure to express our appreciation to you and to the National Conference of Christians and Jews for presenting us with this award. On behalf of Northwestern University, I too should like to tell Mr. Bishop that we are deeply appreciative of the award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, what should children read? Our speakers today are Mrs. Margaret Frisky, editor of the Children's Press, Mrs. Dilla McBean, director of the Division of Libraries in the Chicago Public Schools, Leverett S. Gleeson, president of the Lev Gleeson Publications, and Paul A. Witte, professor of education and director of the Reading Clinic at Northwestern University. What should children read? Witte, why does it make any difference whether children read or not? Bernie, I think there is no substitute for reading in the lives of boys and girls. I think it is the most important single force in education. And I think, too, it is one of the greatest avocational or leisure activities that we have. I think it is important in answer to the question that children read, because it is in the early years that the habits are formed that they are going to carry all their lives. Well, it enriches their lives, Dean McBurney. They learn vicariously about the world and things and people, and through these enrich their experiences. And we feel that that all helps develop the whole child, which, after all, we feel in the educational world is our main objective and obligation. Does it make any difference what children read Gleeson, so long as they read? Well, I think, of course it makes a difference, but I would rather that a child read almost anything than that he should not read at all. Because I think that reading and writing are an important means, perhaps the most important means of communication. And an illiterate person or a semi-literate person is at an enormous disadvantage. I think it is important that they should learn to read easily. Mrs. Frisky? Well, there is a time when a child will read a laundry list or a road sign and get pleasure from it, because it is a new capacity. But in books he must get something. It is what happens in the child's mind that is important and adds to his growth as a whole child. Well, you mean to express some concern, then, about what they read? Oh, of course. Mrs. McBean? Very definitely, I feel that there is a need to develop a love of reading and to guide him in what he reads. And we have a wealth of material in books today, according to various abilities, grade levels, and on every subject under the sun, moon, and stars, to meet his needs and to fill his interest. Well, there is no whole education without books, since we have given up the old tribal songs. It is the way we can tap the minds of all ages. But who is to say what children are to read, Witte? And how should this censorship, forgive me for using that term, be exercised? Well, McBernie, there is a concept that is generally held in education, that education might be regarded as a process that seeks the greatest development of every boy and girl, in accord with his unique nature and his needs. Now, if this be true, all our agencies of education should be used in a developmental way. And books should serve, then, to help youngsters understand themselves better, to understand their social environment better. They provide, perhaps, the most satisfying and desirable method of escape. It is, therefore, in a developmental concept that we seek an answer to this question of what is good for boys and girls. Books are good for them if they serve their needs and help advance them toward the goal of an adequate kind of maturity. I think it is very important that we take up this question for a moment as to who should say what children are to read. And I, perhaps, may shock some of you educators, but I think it might be a good thing to let the children decide. They know what they like, and I think you can trust their judgment and their discrimination. Would you extend that to their eating habits, Mr. Gleason? I think so I would, yes. I don't think it's a good thing to make kids eat something that they don't like. Not even spinach, huh? Not even spinach. Well, would you all have them eat candy and ice cream and all the starches and the rich foods? After all, a child has to be guided in what he eats and his habits in the home as well as on the street and his community. It's not so much a question of censorship, I think, on these books as it is knowing what is available in a wide way. And parents must know books and they also must know the child. But I think children have to have guidance in what they read, just as they have to have guidance in other aspects of growth. And that means, of course, that if a child comes into the clinic, as good many do, who read probably very little but comic books, we want to start there and lift them to higher levels because we believe that there are levels of development and growth. I certainly agree with guidance, whether it has to do with reading or spinach. But guidance and censorship are two different things. Censorship, it seems to me, lies in the hands of the publisher, who should inform himself and be in line with what the educators have found helped the child the most in his full development. Does it make any difference how children read so long as they do read, will it? Bernie, I think that we have to have youngsters enjoy the process of reading, the act of reading, and the results, if they are going to educate themselves forever through reading and lift themselves gradually through reading. And this means that we have to have reading as a meaningful thing associated with interests and needs. It means that we have to give attention to reading in the subject fields. It means that we have to have a balanced reading of program in reading. Have balanced reading of program. And it means also that we have to give intelligent guidance through home and school in order that children will lift themselves to higher and higher levels of taste and understanding. Now you took exception a minute ago to my word, censorship. What kind of censorship are you particularly afraid of, Gleason? I'm afraid particularly of state censorship and local governmental censorship of all kinds. And you'd be interested to know, and maybe you might be frightened, that two years ago, 42 states introduced legislature to censor comic magazines. And when you censor comic magazines, you begin to censor your books too, and you censor everything. And I think that such guidance belongs in the classroom and in the home and not in a state. Does anyone take exception to that? Yes, I take exception to that because after all there must have been some reason for those books being censored. We have to evaluate everything that we use in the classroom and that we use in the library. There's lots and lots of books that have come off the presses that we do not accept because they are mediocre. And yet we try to select the best that there is for children. And that doesn't mean that they're stuffy and that they're over their heads. Because a child will never read a book that is too hard for him to read. And the amazing thing is that the publishers have given us these books. They give us the ones for the slow reader. We have them beautifully illustrated and very easy reading for them and contribute to this development of the whole child. Bernie, I want to make two points about the comics. There is an alarmingly large number of comic magazines sold every year. Yeah, about 900 million a year. It is simply astonishing that for every book, including textbooks and the Bible, there are two of these books published and sold. Now, if one examines a fair assortment of these, he will discover that many of them present our world in a kind of fascist setting, a world of violence, of hate, of destruction. I think it is bad for children to get that kind of recurring diet. And then a second thing, you could read carloads of comic books and not be lifted. Because comic books tend to keep people on a plateau. Now let's take a look at the reading habits of our children. Ms. McBean, are children reading more today? Well, I feel that they are. And it's amazing to study that's been carried on by the American Library Association and has been published in their bulletin. And there were 42 public libraries that were checked, beginning in 1939 and up to date. And they cover from the west coast to east coast, north to south, large cities and small ones. And it began with their index figure in 1939, feeling that that was a good basic year, when it was 100%. And it is surprising, the fluctuation, but sort of a downward trend as far as adult reading. But reverse is true as far as the children's reading. Beginning with 33% of that total 100 in 1939 were children's books that were circulated in public libraries. Where in 1951, it's up better than 44%. And I know that even in our Chicago public schools, we circulated a million and a half books in a little less than 200 of our elementary school libraries. And that doubled the figure of not only about five or six years ago. So that we do feel that there is more reading. I think that's a very important point, McBurney, about the increase in the sale of children's books and the use of them, and the fine works that public schools and libraries are doing in getting books into classrooms and getting books used. But the fact remains that surveys continue to show that amount of voluntary reading goes up to about age 12 or 13, and then there is a drop. Surveys show, too, that there are probably 25 million American adults who do not have available public libraries. There is a great need for doing something to improve the level of reading, to create opportunities for better kinds of reading among adults. The process must start with children, but we must also work on adult education, too. Well, now let me ask this rather obvious question suggested by what you people have reported. I take it that the circulation of children's books has stepped up considerably from some 33% of the total circulation to some in the 44%. Then Mr. Whitty here reports that it drops off precipitously when these youngsters achieve the ripe old age of 13. Now how do you account for that, anyway? Well, I feel that in the complex life of which we all find ourselves in the rush, that that in the high school, by the time the boy or girl get from the high school, his day is very crowded and very full. I think there is a wide variation in the type of way the materials are presented to him, too. And yet perhaps I shouldn't be speaking against the high school to that extent, but there is much more required reading, as we call it, of what we have in the classics or in recreation reading and supplementing curriculum needs. And Mrs. McBean, formal reading instruction usually stops in the sixth grade. If you look at distributions of reading ability for high school people, you will find with the kinds of people we now have in the modern high school, that many of them need to have reading programs continued. Certainly throughout the junior high school, there's a need for developmental reading programs, and there's a great need in the high school. This means, then, that what we ought to do is conceive of reading as a continuous process. With guidance and direction of reading in accord with these needs that we have mentioned, like understanding oneself, one's social environment, and reading for the joy of it, that type of program should go right straight on, because so many people of a type are going to high school at the present time who dropped out in former years. Of course, the obvious answer for Mr. Gleason here to my question is that with 900 million comic books being circulated each year, that that might be an important factor in contributing to this upsurge in the reading habits of young children. I'd like to emphasize that point. It seems to me apparent that with this enormous growth of comic magazines, and at the same time, this enormous growth of children's books, that there is very possibly some connection between the two. I believe this. If you want people to read books, they must first, of course, know how to read easily, and second, they must have some love for reading. And I say that the comic magazines have greatly stimulated that, and I can even give you a good example. Here in Chicago at the Holy Name School, they have been making an experiment with one of my magazines, Uncle Charlie's Fables. And while the experiment is only three months underway now, already I'm told that they have noticed a considerable increase in the desire to read and speed of reading. And furthermore, and this is quite unusual, I think, they have in their art classes found a new desire to recreate scenes which have excited them or interested them in the magazine. Mr. Gleason, yes, you can stimulate reading through comics, but you will get more reading of comics. You will get people performing on a level that is not in a card with our hopes in education. Well, I feel that the books are available in our schools today and our new trend in education to educate and, well, in our curriculum around a unit of work, having many, many books that we're going to find that by, say, maybe 20 years from now, we're going to find a better and a larger reading public than we have today. Well, I think it's up to the publishers to see that the books they're putting out for children have enough appeal to raise the children off of this plateau. It isn't, the comic books don't disturb me so much, but I think they need this great variety of other materials so that they can go on. And that's right, and in order for children to go on, they have to have guidance from their levels of activities such as reading the comics. And there are two groups of people involved in giving that guidance. One will be teachers, another will be parents. We will start with youngsters reading the comics, yes, without banning them, but we will try to lift them on to such beautifully illustrated books as some of the Disney, some of the U-books, and many others where the cartoon technique is used, but we'll lift them on to a higher level. So, too, we will take children's love for excitement and adventure and the types of things that comic books give to them. And we will give them, then, the story parade adventure books, the beautiful adventure books such as Elizabeth Coatsworth, Tony Owen and the Stranger, and the many, many others that are coming out, and gradually get a higher level of function satisfying the same appetites, but with a fair that will lead to greater gains for society and democracy generally. Now, as an old-fashioned college professor, Mr. Gleason, may I ask you a question that probably will be inflammatory in view of some of your interests? Is it too much to expect, after all, that the things children read should contribute to understanding, judgment, desirable human values and imagination? Is it too much to be expected that the books that they read should be put up in an attractive format that will contribute to appreciation and desirable human values, that will elevate taste? Now, do these comic books that you see scattered around on the newsstands really do those things? Well, I think some do, Dr. McBurney. Some do, and some just have no effect whatever in that respect. And, of course, when you come to... They have a negative effect, don't they? I wouldn't say so. But you take the question of taste. Taste is a matter of taste, after all. And who's to say? But, Mr. Gleason, education is a matter of learning something and having available the tools and the materials by which to learn. Carlisle once said, all that mankind has done, dreamed, hoped, or been, it is lying as in ready preservation in the pages of books. And these are not comic books. And guidance and help and direction are needed if children are going to read them. Now, you understand, Mr. Whitty, that I am in no way against reading of books. I'd like to encourage it, and I think that our magazines do encourage it. But I want to say this, that children, like adults, read primarily for entertainment. I do not grant that they will necessarily read primarily for entertainment. I have seen children read to find answers to problems in chemistry. I have seen them read with enjoyment and satisfaction, understand themselves. I've seen them read to find out about other people. I think you need two things to get children to read. First, you need to know something about youngsters, and hence, know their interests and their varied needs. And second, you need to make sure that the materials you give to them are readable. Then you ought to be concerned about what the materials do to youngsters. I think this basic love of books that we are trying to develop in children, much of it can come through a tactile sense. The way a book feels and the quality of the artwork. And the books should be designed as a three-dimension thing, from the relationship of the cover to the title page, and from one page to another, and not just a page as a single plane. And some of the greatest artists in the country are working on these children's books. And so that many of them are beautiful enough to be included in part of our cultural heritage, along with music and art. And I feel, of course, that a book, the primary theme we're looking for is the style, the beauty of words put together to tell a good story. That comes, and then we have these magnificent illustrations that complement that story. And the child, as he turns from page to page, is enthralled with the beauty. And that is something, too, that we're trying to develop in him, as well as satisfying his curiosity, or satisfying his enjoyment in a good adventure story. And so that, uh, take Robert McCloskey, uh, uh, Homer Price, a good live story with lots of humor. And then, uh, uh, another one as an example is Kate Sheridan. He's the good master in Chester Eoak. Beautifully illustrated. And the child gains something that, uh, contributes something that's lasting in his life. And Mrs. McBean, publishers are giving us excellent biography. Janet Eaton's New Washington. And, uh, so many... To learn rough. ...fine books of, uh, poetry. And books on special subjects, and books in science and social studies. All these fine things are being made available at the present time through, uh, publishers. But we, as teachers and parents, have to give children guidance to introduce them to the treasures to be found in these books. Oh, yes, indeed. And there is a certain pattern in their, uh, in their interests. After all, we find another thing that we need to be found in these books. Another thing that we need to develop in their, uh, their lives is imagination. And after they learn to read their love of, uh, their little folk tales and, and fairy stories, and from there into legends and ballads, and all the way along, I feel that poetry is very important. And so that means, Mr. McBurney, a balanced reading program in which the reading of magazines, children's magazines, and newspapers, biography, factual materials, and so on, will find an important place. And one word for poetry. Once Coleridge said, poetry, the best words in the best order. Therefore, I believe that it's a very important part of a reading program. Well, now let me, let me say a word about poetry. Uh, you've been speaking very eloquently about poetry, uh, ballads, and, and, uh, and fine stories, uh, beautifully, uh, illustrated. Are you describing books you like, or books that children like? Oh, no, indeed, Mr. McBurney. They are by just, uh, uh, countless children. Uh, we have, uh, there have been many, many studies made, and those are the favorites of the children. And there's, uh, for authors, there's Howard Pease, there's Stephen Meter, there's Armstrong Sperry, uh, uh, Clara Ingram Judson, and Genevieve Foster when it comes to biographies. Uh, the, uh... Mrs. McBean, I went over to a school the other day. We had talked to youngsters about poetry. They had become interested in it. They were studying heredity, and one youngster came up to me and said, Mr. Whitty, I want you to see this. The pedigree of honey does not concern the bee. A clover any time to him is aristocracy. They love poetry if they're introduced to it. Well, now, uh, this, uh... That's right, it must be read aloud and enjoyed together, sharing. This, uh, youngster that, uh, quoted those lines is, is a, I, I feel a remarkable youngster. Uh, how many red-blooded, uh, little rascals are, are going to, to go for this, uh, poetry you're talking about in these fine books? Do you think they really do, Mrs. Frisky? Well, I haven't, uh, had too much experience except in reading aloud to my own children, and, uh, we had this comic book problem at one time. They sort of devour comic books, and, uh, I think it's a, uh, phase they go through. And I was looking around to find things to lead them on, and, uh, one of the things I got for them was Alfred Noyes, the Highwayman. And that seemed to ring a bell. That's on an adult level, but much of my own reading as a child is... Whereas that almost does ring a bell, literally. Mr. Miss Riddie, I, uh, I, uh, like poetry myself. But, uh, I, uh, I know children devour comic magazines, but I cannot conceive of children devouring poetry, especially sold in the newsstands. I doubt it very much. No, but, uh, poetry is, uh, is a part of their, of their lives. I think poetry needs to be shared, needs to be read aloud, and, uh, you get a good teacher, and, and it's really thrilling to hear the children, uh, share in their enjoyment. The Korek speaking that's going on. I've heard, uh, some of the Sandberg's poems, uh, given in, uh, in a choir together, and the, the enjoyment those great big boys had in... Why, there is the clearest evidence, Mr. Gleeson, that children, boys, red-blooded, and all kinds of boys, do like poetry. They will write it. Think of Hughes Mearn's great work, uh, in which he encouraged the boys at Lincoln School to write. They wrote the Lincoln School Book of Verse, and every year, some of the children's own writing was selected for anthologies. Children love poetry. I almost go as far as Hughes Mearn's in saying it's a natural part of their growth until we block it or inhibit it or do not direct it so they get satisfactions in it. Well, you know, uh, Mr. Whitty, in the children's newspapers that you find in the schools, the, uh, various poems that are included there are almost always a page of little poems that they have written. Now, after all, children, uh, get a lot of enjoyment out of writing poetry, or, or you wouldn't find a full page. In Story Parade, we encourage, through Story Parade, we encourage children to form, uh, poetry clubs, the Penguin Clubs, all over America. Children contribute, write books of verse, love it, but they have to have some encouragement and guidance to do it. Now, I, I accept this, uh, exciting evidence, but it's, uh, it is a matter of record that some, uh, 900 million comic books are being sold every year. Now, if you, if you have a, a, a strong preference for, uh, uh, other types of, uh, reading matter and other types of, of reading habits, uh, it, it would seem to me that you'd have to do something to implement this, this, uh, preference. The publishers, uh, are trying to find books that will have the same appeal by giving them, uh, action, and... I think, Mrs. Frisky, they are doing a wonderful job, but the big job is to be done by parents and teachers in the guidance of the fine materials you're turning out, so that children will develop a balanced reading program and will enjoy the process and the results of reading, so that they will continue to educate themselves all of their lives through reading. And I can't understand why Mr. Gleason here doesn't separate the sheep from the goats in this comic book field. There's some of those comic books that are on the lowest level, it seems to me, exploiting... I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Should Children Read? Participating today were Mrs. Margaret Frisky, editor of Children's Press Chicago, Leverett S. Gleason of Lev Gleason Publications, Inc., New York City, Mrs. Dilla McBean, director of the Division of Libraries of the Chicago Public Schools, and Paul A. Witte, professor of education in the School of Education at Northwestern University. James H. McBurney, dean of the School of Speech at Northwestern University, was our moderator. If you have any comments about today's broadcast, we'd like to hear from you. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand will present the third in this special series of transcribed broadcasts of our most popular discussions from the past year, How Should We Educate for the Future? Our guests will be Henry Heald, Chancellor of New York University, the Reverend Lewis L. Mann, Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai congregation, and Guy E. Reed, Executive Vice President of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank of Chicago, and President of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry. We hope you'll join us next week as we ask, How Should We Educate for the Future? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Kaufer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.