Thursday morning of each week at 10.30, we have the second cooperation of the week. Since Tuesday at the same time, the Oral Hygiene Committee cooperates in bringing to your attention the subject of your teeth and their very important relation to your good health. In this splendid series of broadcasts in which we've discovered the importance of our teeth, Thursday morning's Chairside Health Chats do so much to make us better understand why we should have clean, healthy mouths. And your two very good and expert friends are here, Dr. Clapp and Carolyn Hawks, to tell you all about it today, and here they are. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to you, friends. My truth story this morning is also a very amusing one. It has to be done in dialect, and as I'm a rank amateur at mimicry, this is not going to be a Jack Benny or a Fred Allen performance, but the story's funny at any rate. Well, did you say it has a real-life story? Oh, yes. It's told by a dentist, and I have the permission of Mr. Strack, the editor of a dental periodical in which the story appeared, to tell it just as it was printed. Well, what is the title? Well, it has a title that fits it very well. It is Nothing Unusual Ever Happens, and here's the story as the dentist told it that must distract. I suppose many people think nothing funny or unusual ever happens in a dental office. As I look back over my many years in the profession, I think the funniest circumstance that happened to me was during my second year out of dental college. At that time, I was practicing in a small town of about 700, in which the Irish predominated. Across the railroad tracks in the business section lived a real old lady by the name of O'Connor. Acutely, she and her bachelor son were well off. Mrs. O'Connor was probably 80 years old, very stooped, very wrinkled, but very active for her age. One day, I returned from lunch to find Mrs. O'Connor waiting for me. Immediately, she began tumbling for the pocket in the voluminous black skirt she wore. She finally found a handkerchief tied into a dozen knots. She was so nervous and trembled so much that I took the knotted handkerchief from her and untied it. In the handkerchief was an old rubber plate, a denture, broken into at least eight pieces. Can you fix the case for me, doctor? She asked in a rich Irish bro. Mrs. O'Connor, the plate is so badly broken, no man living could put it together again, I told her. Tears came into the old lady's eyes and ran down her cheek. What'll I do, she cried, wringing her hands. What'll I do? I tried to calm her. Now, Mrs. O'Connor, don't cry. I can take the old teeth off the broken plate. Take a new impression, make a plate for you that will be just like this one was. I knew the old lady could easily afford a new plate with new teeth, but I thought I'd relieve her mind about the cost. Tis not the cost, she quavered, but the teeth, they don't belong to me. Then why are you crying if they don't belong to you, I asked. Ah, the teeth belong to me and to me neighbor together, she explained. When she goes to mass, she wears the teeth and I stay home. But when I go to mass, I wears the teeth and she stays home. Amazed, I exclaimed. You mean to tell me the plate fits both of you? Sure, in the teeth fits both of us fine, but sometimes I do get plagued with her attack and so long to eat her dinner, just when I want to be eating me own, she explained. It was true. Both of these old women wore and ate in the same place. Well, I would have a good many examples of the good neighbor policy and of the good that has come from most of them. But sharing teeth is a good neighbor policy that is entirely new and one that I'm sure would not only not appeal to people, but I doubt whether anyone before has even thought of it. You know, I'd call it a bad neighbor policy rather than a good one, doctor. I was thinking that there's a bad neighbor policy in line with what we're trying to talk about today. Well, you mean in connection with how dental conditions may affect your speech? That's it, exactly. You know, I can just about imagine how Mrs. O'Connor must have lisp and griggled when she talked while her neighbor was using that teeth, can't you? I think I can try to. You know, how the loss of teeth can affect speech was very vividly impressed on my memory when I was a young child. I went with my mother to the dentist when she had to have all of her front upper teeth extracted. And the first thing I noticed on the way home was the difference in the way my mother pronounced her words after her teeth had been extracted. Well, of course you know, Carolyn, that it's not only the loss of front teeth that affects speech. Yes, I suppose that is so. But just when front teeth are lost, that the difference in pronunciation is more smart. But I've been just thinking, if you tell us something about how and why the loss of back teeth also affects the pronunciation, we'll have another good reason why all of us will want to have missing back teeth replaced. Well, before I tell you that story, let me tell a little about the wonderful way in which nature engineered the plan of our entire mouth. It is not only the teeth that are important to speak. The lips, the tongue, the muscles of the face are also important. All of these are parts of the face, and they work in a beautifully coordinated pattern to help us produce the kinds of words, of sounds that make understandable words. We know, Doctor, today everyone who listens to the radio knows how important front teeth are to speak because it's a popular song that everyone is singing about front teeth. It's called, All I Want for Christmas is My Two Front Teeth. Very, very good. I haven't heard of that. Suppose you sing it for me. No, I won't sing it, Doctor. I'm not a singer. I do have the words in the music, and I'll just read some of the words. Here's how the song goes. Everybody stops and stares at me. These two front teeth are gone, as you can see. I don't know just who to blame for this catastrophe, but my one wish on Christmas Eve is as plain as it can be. All I want for Christmas is my two front teeth. My two front teeth. See my two front teeth? Gee, if I could only have my two front teeth, then I could wish you more Christmas. It seems so long since I could say, Sister Susie is sitting on a sizzle. Gosh, oh gee, how happy I'd be if only I could whistle. All I want for Christmas is my two front teeth. And there's more to the song, but that tells our story. I guess folks must know how important front teeth are to speak, and they even write a popular song about them. Now, suppose you tell us that, the crap. What if that back teeth have on pronunciation, and who knows? Someone may write a song about the back teeth. Oh, that would be surprising indeed. This brings us back to one of the important functions of the back teeth, which is that of keeping the muscles of the face of the proper length and fullness. When many back teeth are lost, and are not properly replaced, the lower jaw comes closer to the upper jaw than nature intended, and that shortens the muscles of the face. Oh, wait a minute. You mean to say there's a certain position that the jaws should have for the proper relation of the lower and the upper jaws? I certainly do. There are two such positions. One is called the rest position of the lower jaw. In this position, the lower teeth do not touch the upper teeth. For the average person, the edges of the upper and lower front teeth are about an eighth of an inch apart. And, now that's the first position. What is the second position? The second position is when the lower teeth are closed firmly against the upper teeth. In other words, you mean when the lower and upper teeth are closed firmly together, and, as you call it, messy, as they are when you finish a chew of some hard food? Well, that's very well said from a non-professional point of view. Well, now, tell us what positions of the jaw that I have called the closed position, or the open position, have to do with speech. Well, what you have called the closed position, in which the lower teeth are firmly closed against the upper teeth, has nothing to do with speech. Because, in that position, the mouth is firmly shut. There can be no speech. The mouth is not intended only for eating. It is a sound box, and has a very important part in making our speech clear and pleasing. When the back teeth are in good position and condition, they hold the lower jaw quite a distance away from the upper jaw. This forms a space in the mouth, and helps us to make our voices resonant and pleasing. When the natural back teeth are lost, or are so badly worn that the lower jaw is not held far enough away from the upper jaw, the sound box is made smaller or is destroyed, and the voice loses much of its pleasing quality. The muscles on the side of the face, that is, in the teeth, are also part of the sound box, and when the face shortens, they lose their power to help make the voice resonant. Well, I've seen some people well along in years, whose natural teeth have been badly worn, and I've seen some people who have worn the same artificial dentists, long after the gums have sunk and the dentists have settled. I remember now that their faces looked funny when they talked, and their speech had a peculiar sound, but I always thought it was old age. Well, but as I tell you again and again, years have nothing to do with it. Its condition, if the natural artificial teeth held the face of copper form, the voice would stay pretty to the age of a hundred. Did you notice anything special about their pronunciation? Yes, I noticed that it seemed to take a good deal of movement for them to pronounce words, and that in many cases, the enunciation was not clear. Well, that is because the face shortens when the natural teeth wear badly, or when the gums shrink, so that the dentists no longer hold the lower jaw far enough from the upper door. Under those conditions, the upper and lower lips crowd against each other. Neither of them has enough room to be triable. People then speak under difficulties, and naturally enough, they either have to go through more movements to speak plainly, or in spite of the movements, the speaking is not plain even when they try. Well, does a knowledge of these facts form a part of the basis for the dentist service when he's trying to restore the natural teeth to their proper positions and conditions, or when he's making an upper denture or a lower denture for patients? Of course, that's one job, or because of a natural teeth remaining on the upper jaw, or when he's making upper and lower dentures for both jaws. I should say they do form a very important part indeed. I wish we had time to describe it. She wants to ascertain what is the proper length of the face for that patient for whom he is working at the moment. She calls it proper vertical dimension. It requires a good deal of knowledge and skill to get it, but it has a very important influence upon a patient's facial appearance, and also upon the ability of the person to speak plainly and pleasingly. When he reaches a certain stage in the work, that is, a dentist, I mean, he uses a speech as one of his guides in determining the right vertical dimension for that patient. In fact, he determines the right position for clear speech first, and that is a part of his guide to the length of the face in the closed position. How can speech help the dentist to discover what you call a proper vertical dimension for the individual face? A number of years ago, a dentist who is now famous discovered that if, when he has the bite rings, as we call them, or the trial plates that he is making for the patient in position in the mouth, and asked the patient to speak the word Mississippi, that it was a very important guide to correct vertical dimension. In order to speak the word Mississippi plainly, that is, without listening, it was necessary for that the lower jaw should be far enough from the upper jaw to make a good sound to bark, that the lips should have plenty of room to move and be flexible, and that the tongue should not be crowded, but could come into proper contact with the other parts of the mouth. If the patient could not speak the word Mississippi easily and plainly, it was a sign to the dentist that one or more of the conditions was not right. Then he could go on and carefully correct the different conditions until he found just what was right for that individual patient. This patient has seemed to be so valuable that it is now in almost universal use. You know, when I think of the wonderful contributions which dentistry has made to our welfare, you know that fact, I marvel at their value. So do I. And I feel so sorry, so very sorry, that people in general don't know more about how to take advantage of them. Don't you feel? I feel the same way. Yes. I'm trying to learn each year how to tell them more and more about it. So I'm going to urge our friends again to send to the little booklets friends that we offer from town to town on this program. You can read them and then pass them along to your friends. And you write to us today for this booklets. The name of it is Your Teeth, How They Go. It has pictures that show the eruption or the coming through the gum of the teeth from the age of six to four and a half years. There are other pictures that show the functions of our different teeth. There's a wealth of information in this booklet and it's an interest to everyone. Perhaps you mothers who are interested in CTA work would like several copies to pass around to mothers in your group. Write us and while our supply lies, we should be glad to send this booklet to you without choice. Write to the Careside Health Chat and care of this station. And now from Carolyn Hawks, to all of you, a very merry, merry Christmas. And from me also, a merry Christmas and a happy new year. I'm quite sure, as the committee won for the radio audience in exchange for the wonderful advice and direction they've received on these Careside Health Chats, we return the compliment by saying a very happy new year and pleasant Christmas to you, Dr. Clapp and Carolyn Hawks. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. with the