The following program was transcribed earlier today for presentation at this time. From the mayor's reception room at City Hall, WNYC brings you a special broadcast of the city's official reception to His Imperial Highness Akihito, Crown Prince of Japan. Now you're listening to the music that's being played as the various dignitaries have come into the room, including Grover Whelan, the Crown Prince, and Mayor Impeletere. Now let's listen to the police department band. The legalным mercy is received to political environmentalism and nutrition and history The End The End The End The End You have just heard the national anthems of Japan and of the United States. Now here is Grover Whelan. The End His Imperial Highness, the Crown Prince of Japan. Your Imperial Highness, Mr. Ambassador, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. New York City today is happy to give its traditional warm welcome to the youthful heir of the ancient Japanese throne. To a young man of noble lineage whose words and movements we have followed with a great deal of interest since he arrived in our country some months ago. The future ruler of Japan, whom we honor today, readily won our affection when on his April stopover in New York City, he told the press that our city eloquently symbolizes the industriousness, prosperity, and freedom of the American people. To indicate further how adept the Crown Prince is in building goodwill. I should like to quote from an Associated Press Dispatch when he visited President Eisenhower, Secretary of State Dulles, and other officials in Washington. In response to a toast that the Secretary of State offered to his father, the Emperor of Japan, Crown Prince Akihito, responded with a toast to our President, and I quote, My visit to your country will be memorable. I look forward to seeing its many wonders. I shall never forget them, just as I shall always remember the cordial welcome I have been given. Your Imperial Highness, New Yorkers welcome you because you speak their own language and speak it well. And because you like the things that they like. Last night, for instance, you saw the World Championship Yankee team play the St. Louis Browns. And this afternoon, your itinerary includes a visit to the United Nations building. Tomorrow, I am informed that you are to visit some of our great television studios. And I've had considerable experience myself in the last few weeks with television studios, but it didn't do any good. And the great music hall show, if your schedule permits. Other events planned for you are a visit to the Empire State Building, the Museum of Natural History, and similar sightseeing. I'm pleased to be with you. Thank you, Mr. Washington, my name is my name, Mr. Washington. Thank you. And the many visitors to our fabulous town. Your recent travels have indicated to us your deep respect for the things that are sacred to us. You have laid wreaths at the tomb of George Washington, father of our country, in Mount Vernon, and at the tomb of the unknown soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. We welcome you because through you are the, because though you are the heir apparent to the oldest throne on earth and are destined to become the 125th emperor in an unbroken line originating more than a score of centuries ago, you represent a vibrant new idealism that has a firm foundation in friendship with America and its people. May your visit to our city be a memorable one. And on behalf of all the citizens of the city of New York, all eight million, I extend to you the princely welcome that your charm and graciousness deserve. Thank you. And now the mayor is shaking hands with the crown prince as the photographers from television and the various newspapers and publications throughout the city are taking pictures of the dignitaries. Grover Whelan, Crown Prince Akihito, and the mayor are posing now for the photographers. We notice that Mr. Whelan has a scroll which we imagine he will be presenting to the crown prince on behalf of the city of New York. The mayor is talking to the crown prince who is a young looking man. The crown prince is wearing a light gray suit and a red tie, western clothes of the type that we're all accustomed to. The photographers go on with their familiar cry of just one more, one more picture. We don't know as yet whether Crown Prince Akihito will make a statement in reply to the mayor's talk that you just heard. But we believe that at the present time, Grover Whelan will be speaking to us. Mr. Highness, the crown prince of Japan. Mr. Mayor, it is my great pleasure to be back again in your colorful city and see a bit more of the great financial center of the world. I am indeed grateful for the generous manner in which you and the people of New York have received me. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, you can see how well that glorious teacher from New Jersey did in the English language. May I present formally the Japanese ambassador to the United States, Mr. Mayor, and the Chamberlain of Japan and, of course, the chief of protocol of the State Department. We now have a selection from the police orchestra. This evening filled withsen西 flabbergam Anglo-斯 The End The End The End The End The End The End The End
