Mr. Mayor, the school children of New York City know what it means to be a citizen in this great land of ours. We are very grateful to you for your efforts to defend and maintain the American way of life. We represent various nationalities, but in action and in thought, we are all Americans, as we have tried to demonstrate here today. Sunday is I Am an American Day, and in honor of this great occasion, I ask you, sir, on behalf of all the school children, to accept this token of our extreme, of our high extreme. Thank you. Thank you. The cameramen are very anxious to take a picture now with Miss America and acting Mayor Impellitari. Go ahead and take your picture now, not hold up. Yeah. There's a very interesting group of very tiny youngsters here, and they have baskets of flowers strewing petals on the pavement here in front of City Hall. And we have this very interesting factor that the cameramen have to get their innings because it's very important that we have a picture of this very, very precious ceremony. The occasion being, of course, the cooperation of the school children of the City of New York as a preliminary to the I Am an American Day ceremonies at Central Park next Sunday. Now, of course, we're keeping you thoroughly publicized on that event, and this is the midweek participation by the school children to prove that they are keen on the subject of I Am an American Day, and they'll be there, of course, in volumes to swell the million people expected in Central Park next Sunday. We hope the weatherman's a better American on Sunday than he was on Wednesday because we've had sort of a weather threat hanging over us all the time in front of City Hall. Some of these youngsters are dressed very beautifully in gauze dresses, and they present a very pretty picture indeed, Miss America included. And I hope Miss's impoletary won't be jealous when she sees the picture. However, this is the civic duty which the acting mayor naturally is most anxious to perform and do his part in adding interest to the I Am an American Day ceremony next Sunday. And now, have you got your pictures, boys? Oh, not the way, the necessary. Where do you want them? And now we're still busy with the pictures, and as soon as they conclude, presto, as they say in the opera. That's a very lovely basket of flowers, young Miss America from the schools is presenting to Acting Mayor on Coletary. And if you don't believe it, you'll see it in the papers tomorrow when the results of the cameramen's activities are exhibited in your various periodicals tomorrow. These delays are quite necessary in the regular order of procedure because you have to take the picture when it is a picture. And it presented a very pretty sight indeed, beautifully arranged by the schools, when Miss America properly dressed in red, white, and blue, and quite representative of the occasion with the little flower maidens, tiny little tots with baskets of flowers, screwing the pavement here in front of City Hall. That, of course, is a very pretty picture indeed, and sometimes the greater responsibilities and opportunities at City Hall and the Old School of Flowers. We'll charge these cameramen to merge if they don't hurry. You know, prodigal is very wonderful, but in all the big ceremonies, the State Department issues orders, and along come the cameramen, and they tell the best people, do this, do that, do the other thing in the briefest kind of orders, and very strict orders. But everybody realizes the picture is very important, and the cameramen have no time to fool around with prodigal. They just yell, shake hands with him, shake hands with her, take your hat off, Queen. And that's the way it goes. In the name of Mayor O'Dwyer and all the citizens of our great city, I accept this tribute which the school children have prepared in honor of I Am an American Day. Mayor O'Dwyer, as you all know, is out of the city today. He went to Rochester yesterday, expecting to be back in time for this very imposing event. But bad weather has delayed him, and I have been asked by the mayor to serve in his stead. This is a stirring example of Americanism in action. Here in City Hall Plaza, we have hundreds of children of all races, all creeds, and all colors, raising their voices in salute to the principles for which America stands. All of us are citizens of a great democracy, and citizens of the greatest city in the whole of the United States. On Sunday afternoon, on the Mall in Central Park, more than one million persons of our city will assemble in observance of I Am an American Day. By virtue of the authority vested in me as acting mayor of your city, I now declare each and every one of you children honorary members of the I Am an American Day committee. And I urge you to see to it that your parents, your neighbors, and your friends come to Central Park this Sunday for what we are certain will be the greatest municipal event in the history of our great city. Thank you very much. The microphones of your city station have been listening in front of City Hall today for the school show. Rachel Oh shoot. Rachel Heist Newrides Thank you.