Here's to veterans from your hit parade starring Frank Sinatra with lovely Doris Day and Axel Stardall and your hit parade orchestra. Here's to veterans brought to you transcribed by the top flight talent of radio in cooperation with the Veterans Administration dedicated to the citizens who served in our armed forces. Now working shoulder to shoulder with their fellow Americans to make a stronger and better America for us all. And here's your hit parade star Frank Sinatra. When you're down and out lift up your head and shout there's gonna be a great day. Angels in the sky promise that by and by there's gonna be a great day. Gabriel will warn you some early morn you will hear his horn. Moody tootin', it's not far away. Hold up your hands and say there's gonna be a great day. Gabriel will warn you some early morn you will hear his horn. Roody tootin', it's not far away. Hold up your hands and say there's gonna be a great day. This is here's to veterans from your hit parade. And here's Frank Sinatra. Yes sir, and here's Axel Stardall and the orchestra with a hit parade extra that's jumpy as a ride in the backseat of a motorcycle. The Jersey Bounce, that's my home state. You all? Bye. Where are you? Welcome home. Where is Katie? A little bern nepalẽ much to see, right? Over here. There let's go, we're in there too. I saved Jeffrey. What did you ever do? I saw60edes, and I used togarden's ship rigging in the backseat. I saw Academy of Air. What did you ever bring here and have 1850? Oh, how was yourarry substantia tartal and green? You all heard me. There was in the backseat of a chair. Yeah. Tonight have you there to know it. You all ha Luya. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll be back in a few minutes to explain to you what compensation is and exactly how it works. And here is Andre Baruch. Here's a first-class reason for you ex-GIs at colleges and schools to push back your books for a minute and relax and listen. The house canary lovely Doris Day comes through with a tune that has songbirds all over the country chirping away, That's My Desire. To spend one night with you in our rendezvous and reminisce with you. That's My Desire. To meet where gypsies play. Down in that dim cafe. Dance to break of day. That's my design. To meet where gypsies play. I'll be back in a few minutes, I'll go to my eyes. We'll sip a little glass of wine. I'll gaze into your eyes divine. I'll feel the touch of your lips pressing on mine to hear you whisper low just when it's time to go. Sherry, I love you so. That's my desire. I'll be back in a few minutes. To hear you whisper low just when it's time to go. Sherry, I love you so. That's my desire. That's my desire. Thank you, Doris. This is Frank Sinatra again. A while ago, I promised you veterans I'd try to explain about compensation. Many of you seem to be puzzled about this benefit judging by your letters to the Veterans Administration. Compensation is the term used in describing payments to veterans for diseases or injuries caused or made worse by service in the armed forces. The amount of compensation you get has nothing whatever to do with the kind of job you have or the amount of money you earn. Your compensation payment is based solely on the kind and the degree of severity of your disability. The only way your compensation check can be reduced is for your disability to become less severe. Of course, if your disability should grow worse and become more serious, your compensation check may be increased. In other words, the degree of your disability determines the amount of payments you may receive. For complete information about compensation, see your nearest VA office. They'd be very happy to answer all your questions. Every once in a while, alone comes a song that makes you feel sort of humble in its presence. Just such a song is one written by Rodgers and Hammerstein for the distinguished production Carousel. The only way you'll be able to answer all your questions. You'll never walk alone. When you walk through a storm, keep your chin up high. And don't be afraid of the dark. At the end of the storm is a golden sky. And the sweet silver song of the love. Walk on through the wind. Walk on through the rain. Though your dreams be trust alone. Walk on through the rain. Walk on through the rain. Walk on through the rain. Walk on, walk on. With hope in your heart. And you'll never walk alone. You'll never walk alone. You'll never walk alone. walk on through the rain. Walk on through the rain. Walk on, through the wind. Walk on through the rain So your dreams be tossed and grew Walk on, walk on With hope in your heart And you'll never walk alone You'll never walk alone You'll never walk alone And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from your hit parade starring Frank Sinatra with lovely Doris Day and Axel Stordahl and your hit parade orchestra who were their sponsor the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, the Advertising Council and this station. I'm Ray Baruch speaking asking you to remember a well-adjusted veteran means a happier and more prosperous America. And now a word from your station announcer. And now a word from your station and on, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
