Good evening everyone. This is Kevin Kennedy speaking to you from the grand ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, marking another public service feature of your city station, WNYC. The dinner ceremony, sponsored by the American Locomotive Company in honor of the Santa Fe Railroad, will highlight the acceptance speech by President F.G. Gurley of the Santa Fe Railroad, accepting on behalf of the Santa Fe the new 6,000 horsepower diesel-electric locomotive, which is the 75,000 locomotive manufactured by the American Locomotive Company. President R.B. McCall of the American Locomotive Company will be the first speaker on tonight's program. Your city station therefore takes pleasure in presenting these ceremonies, which will include many features of interest to the railroad world. And here now is our first speaker of the evening, President R.B. McCall of the American Locomotive Company. The American Locomotive Company represents a significant advance in the diesel-electric field. It is a technological achievement. It has already done things under hard test conditions, which no other locomotive in history could do. It curves more power into less space and weight than any other locomotive of its kind. But I believe that this occasion has a more profound significance than any single locomotive. We in America may be on the verge of one of the great technological revolutions in the history of our nation. The railroad industry is probably well started on a complete renovation of its power plant. At the end of 1945, there were in this country 42,400 locomotives, of which only 2,900 were diesels. In the year 1945, 86% of total locomotive miles were turned in by steam locomotives. Even in the switching field, steam power still did 75% of the mileage. But the significant fact is contained in the record of orders for new locomotives. In 1935, 20% of locomotive orders were for diesels. Two years later, 40% were for diesels. Four years later, 62% were for diesels. And six years later, in 1941, just prior to our entrance into the war, 76% of all locomotive orders were for diesels locomotives. And at the present time, the demand is overwhelmingly for diesels electric power. American locomotive orders were for diesels electric power. American locomotive company has built more locomotives than any other company in the world. It has been building locomotives. It has been building locomotives for more than 100 years, if you go back to the beginning of its earliest predecessor. It has been responsible for some of the most important developments in the locomotive field. It was the first company to build a commercially successful diesel electric, which, by the way, is still in service. The company first concentrated on the diesel electric switcher field because it was obvious that here, the high availability of the diesel electric gave it every advantage. The steam switcher is available for active duty only about 40% of the time and cannot compete with the diesel switcher available about 90% of the time. The result is that we have built more diesel electric switchers than any other company in the world. There is no question in our minds that the diesel electric will not supplant the steam locomotive in every set of circumstances. There are conditions under which it is not economical to substitute diesel electric power for steam power. Furthermore, there are great railroads which serve coal districts, own coal mines, and get sometimes as much as 70% of their revenues from hauling coal. We must take into account also that under the pressures produced by competition, great advances have already been made in the effectiveness of steam locomotives. In the past year, we ourselves have built for one of the nation's great railroads some 25 giant steam locomotives which have turned in hauling performances not believed remotely possible as recently as 10 years ago. But the matter of fact is that the strong tide of today is running in the direction of the diesel electric. I would therefore like you to feel tonight that you are participating in an occasion which is more than a ceremonious delivery of a significantly new locomotive to a great progressive railroad, even the 75,000 locomotive locomotive locomotive. I think you are tonight entering with us into one of the exciting areas of the post-war world, about which there was so much talk during the war. The period that has passed in this country since the end of hostilities might best be called the aftermath of war. It has been a time of time of time, about which there was so much talk during the long, hard years of the war. It could not be such a productive period because so many costly obstacles have been thrown in the way of production and productivity. But it may well be that we are now entering or that we are now nearing the threshold of the real post-war world. And I would like to think that this new locomotive is one of the first major post-war products to make its appearance on the American scene. The American locomotive company was forced by the tremendous job it was called upon to do during the war years to set aside much, very much, of the research work which had led it close to this new locomotive. During the war, the company, acting on government orders, did not make any diesel-electric road locomotive. In a sense, we lost several years. But in another sense, we were fortunate. Out of the experiences of the war came radical improvements in the development of diesel power, which we were able to incorporate in the new locomotive. Meanwhile, the General Electric Company, our associate in this great undertaking, had made major discoveries in the field of turbo supercharging. The new ALCO GE diesel-electric on the private siding under the Waldorf is not a jet-propelled locomotive, but the principle of the turbo supercharger is the principle of jet propulsion. Chiefly by application of the turbo supercharger, it was possible to double the power of four-cycle diesel engines without any increase in weight. It made it possible for one diesel engine to do work that formerly required two. The great importance which we, at American Locomotive Company, attach to the trend toward the diesel-electric will be indicated by the fact that the company has now completed the rebuilding, the retooling and reorganizing of large areas of its biggest plant at Schenectady, New York, for the mass production of diesel engines and diesel locomotives. For the first time in the history of the industry, locomotives will be built using assembly line techniques. ALCO intends to maintain a top position in the steam locomotive field for several reasons. Foreign demand is almost entirely for steam locomotives. Many domestic railroads need and want superior steam locomotives. Furthermore, research has been carried on in the steam field to find out whether new variations on the coal-burning locomotive may not lead to important advances in the future. But the underlying fact is that the company which has built more locomotives than any other has converted to the mass production of diesel-electric locomotives. No time is more interesting or challenging than a period of change. The great periods of history have been times when old things were being discarded and new things adopted. A time of change is a time when young ideas and young viewpoints are dominating the world. They are periods of movement, excitement and of opportunity. The status quo may sometimes seem safe, but it is often very dull. As we look out in the world today, we see a great many things that disturb us. And I don't minimize the problems and the difficulties of our time. At home and abroad, we see great confusion. At a time when we as a nation, and perhaps especially the wage earner, need to produce more things, production is hamstrung by strikes, work stoppages, demands for limitation on production, and selfish political maneuvering. Time, these are bad times, but they should remind us that we today face the opportunity which always lie in great problems. They are a hard challenge to the best leadership in the ranks of labour. But there is no reason to doubt that we will meet the challenge. We have to have the privilege this evening, and the great privileged gentlemen, often addressed by one of the nation's outstanding railroad men. I refer to Mr. F. G. Gurley, President of the great Atkinson, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway System. No man stands less indeed of introduction to this audience than Mr. Gurley. Before I call on him to address you, however, it gives me great pleasure to carry out a ceremony, which is one of the principal reasons for our meeting here this evening. You see here before you a scale model of the locomotive which stands on the private siding below us, and which is destined to join the great fleet of diesel-electric, now operating on the Santa Fe. I am very glad to be able to turn over to Mr. Gurley this model of our first post-war diesel-electric road locomotive, which stands on this siding below, our 75,000 locomotives. And as soon after this dinner as possible, we will deliver the locomotive itself. If Mr. Gurley will step forward, he may have his locomotive model and this platform from which to address you. Mr. Gurley. Thank you, Mr. McCall, and thanks for all of us at the Santa Fe, to the great American locomotive company for this splendid dinner, and thanks to you for coming. Now, of course, Mr. McCall has told you something about the early history of the American locomotive company. But we have here in the Waldorf some earlier Americans, if you please, the American locomotive company. And some of those have thought that this very fine Scotch gentleman should... I wonder how he knows. Should perhaps have other allegiances and another name, another name, and if the fine Navajo from the West will step forward, you will have a new name conferred upon you. And, ourетр seis are distrapped upon you. Yes, our China, era of the US, and as 오 KallGI won say the national harte over theirей and the national haya hoesgano's perspectives. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, a Navajo Indian is out on the stage dressing Mr. McCall in the blanket of his tribe plus the headgear. That means that I'm naming him Chief Iron Horse. And in addition, the Navajo Brave has also called Mr. McCall Chief Iron Horse. I now will return you to the speaker's platform for an address by President F.G. Gurley of the Santa Fe Railroad. Chief Iron Horse, ladies and gentlemen, as Major Railroads go, the Santa Fe is comparatively young. The Santa Fe started building westward from Topeka, Kansas, and the first 26-mile section was open for operation in September 1869. That was four months after the first Transcontinental Railroad was completed by the meeting between the Central Pacific and the Union Pacific at Promontory Point, Utah. Very early in the life of our company, the directors became conscious of certain facts which are related to the circumstances which bring us together this evening. In the annual report of the Board of Directors for the year ending December 31, 1874, they reported that the company then owned 38 locomotives. And here is an excerpt from that annual report. The accompanying locomotive statement shows fully and in detail the operation of this department during the past year. The repairs have been heavy considering the newness of the engines, but this must always be expected on this road owing to the bad quality of the water. Scale forms very rapidly and flues require to be taken out about once in every seven months for thorough cleaning. Mr. Ferries, your master mechanic, has reduced this work to a system and it is now done in a most expeditious and economical manner. It is interesting to observe that the cost of repairing all of the locomotives of the Santa Fe for that year was $57,000. And the cost of fuel and water for the locomotives was $84,000. The cost of locomotive repairs last year was $31 million. And the cost of fuel and water, oddly enough, was $31 million. In 1894, we were bringing coal for locomotives into Southern California from British Columbia. And Australia. In that year, Santa Fe made a great contribution to railroad progress, for then it was that Santa Fe developed the first successful apparatus for the burning of oil in locomotives. The 1896 report of the Board of Directors stated, More than half of the locomotives in use in Southern California have been converted into oil burners. And that improvement is still in progress. The discovery of petroleum in Los Angeles furnishes a fuel considerably cheaper than coal for use in Southern California. And the results obtained from its employment are gratifying. The two reports explain two of the basic reasons why Santa Fe embraced the diesel locomotive enthusiastically when it was developed for railroad use. We serve the large oil producing areas of the Southwest and the Pacific coast. And because of that, a high percentage of our engines burn oil. Water is very scarce in Arizona and in other sections crossed by our transcontinental line. At many locations, we have the same quality of water which called forth the comments in the report for the year 1874. Although since that time, we have learned much about chemical treatment of boiler water. There are many other reasons why the diesel locomotive is attractive. It starts to train easily and without jar or jolt. When equipped with a dynamic brake, which is an expression coined to denote the use of the traction motors in reverse on descending grids, it obviates the use of pressure against the wheel to control the speed of trains on downed brakes. It is easier on the track structure. It is unnecessary to stop at intermediate stations for fuel or water. It can render many more miles of service per year than a steam locomotive. Time does not permit a discretion of all its virtues. It is sufficient to say it is the best which man's ingenuity has produced for our service. The American locomotive company are strong advocates of the four cycle diesel. And Santa Fe diesel locomotive number 51, which is the 75,000th engine manufactured by that excellent institution, represents the last word in the refinement of that engine. It will take its proud place at the front of our finest trains. It and others like it will be used on our super chief, the chief and El Capitan. We share the confidence of the builder. We share the confidence of the builder in its success. Our initial order was for six of these locomotives. But I make the prediction that many more will be seen upon our railroad and upon other railroads of the nation. The American locomotive company diesel typifies our new technology. And I want to say a few words about new technologies on the railroads of the United States. A simple truth which has been stated before, but one which bears repeating, is that the metallurgist, the scientists, and the engineer, coupled up with the manufacturers of this great country, have produced no material nor equipment suitable for use in railroad transportation, which is not being so used. Certain people would have you believe otherwise. But the facts are as I have stated. Our own company has an unavailable record in this regard. We have a fine record, too, of doing things first. That is something to bring you pride, and confidentially, it will bring you some headaches. Because when you do things first, you cannot draw upon the other fellow's experience. You must reason things out for yourself. As an example, after many headaches, our engineers succeeded last year in perfecting an ingenious ballast cleaning machine, which contributes to better riding track. Recently, we have devoted a lot of thought to the details of service to our passengers. For example, this spring we began the use of wire recording apparatus in our dining car to provide musical entertainment during the meal hours. The emergency of war expedited the development of wire recording, but it required much improvement to make it suitable for high fidelity musical reproduction. The system was perfected through the joint efforts of Santa Fe engineers and the equipment manufacturer. After the apparatus was perfected, Santa Fe, in connection with the supplier to wire recordings, surveyed such questions as public appreciation, types of programs best suited to train, distribution of speakers, and acoustical treatment of cars. The result of all this has been that we are now installing on our new passenger equipment a system of sound reproduction which will provide musical entertainment of a quality here before unknown on train. Radio is being utilized to improve communication between yard engine crews and the yard master's office. It is being utilized as a new method of communication between the locomotive and the caboose of freight trains. Other uses are suggesting themselves. Electronics are finding new application in determining the strength of steel and in searching out hidden defects. Modern signaling is being employed to improve safety and speed train movements. Time does not permit further discussion of new technology. Every new development is a story. It seems to me, and I think most fair-minded men will agree, that when a financially sound transportation organization has demonstrated, as we think we have, that new technologies and new techniques are welcome, are in fact so earnestly, and thereafter utilized advantageously, their use in the public service would not be denied us by drawing an artificial line of demarcation between types of transportation services. That line has been drawn, however, and then, however, and then, however, by the Civil Aeronautics Board. But for this, Santa Fe before now would have engaged in air transportation in a rounded out system. The air and surface operations would be coordinated where coordination was helpful, but transportation would be provided entirely by air or entirely on the surface as the customer desired. We handle a large volume of United States mail, and the Post Office Department has been kind enough to say that we handle it quite creditably, and they give evidence that they think highly of it. For that, we are very thankful. For some time, however, we have been aware of the desire to move mail by air, and our natural ambition has been to be in a position where Santa Fe could continue to handle the mail, which historically has been moving on our system. That is one of the reasons we have created an air organization known as Santa Fe Skyway. It has been functioning as a contract carrier and not as a common carrier. The Civil Aeronautics Act does not require a contract carrier to secure a certificate before engaging in that business. We are using trained veterans from the armed service almost exclusively, and a substantial portion for Santa Fe employees prior to their entry into military service. We use excellent equipment and go to extremes in our efforts to operate safely. Santa Fe Skyway proposes to file with the Civil Aeronautics Board an application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity for an authority to carry United States mail. We think there is great justice on our side, and we are confident our organization can continue to satisfy the wishes of the Post Office Department by this new method. So far, we have discussed new technologies and new ideas. Those discussions always thrill me. But as the Santa Fe improves its fixed property, or adds to its supply of modern freight and passenger cars, and acquires units of power like this great locomotive which American Locomotive Company has built for us, there arises a sort of emotional elation which ordinary prudence bids us curve. And we must protect ourselves against our own enthusiasm by taking a square look at what has happened and what is happening to the railroads, and then indulging in sober reflection. We have engaged in this mental process a good deal lately, and have reached a conclusion which is not based on irrational enthusiasm. It is this. The Santa Fe is an institution of public service, which should never be permitted to lag in its growth and development. Plans for improved track and better tools, modern freight and passenger cars, and more efficient power are not schemes for extravagance, but programs for progress. Such programs, intelligently conceived and sensibly administered, should be carried forward. But this requires bravery, which under existing conditions in the railroad business, would not be courage, but recklessness, were it not grounded on what we believe to be justifiable faith in the ultimate wisdom of the American people, their common sense, and their spirit of fair dealing. Which means faith in America, a faith in the great thinking public whose opinions finally must control both the Congress and the Interstate Commerce Commission. As a step in this direction, just as briefly and clearly as I can, I am going to set up some of the fundamental facts of the present day against the background of modern railroad history. Modern railroad history really begins with the return of the railroads from Federal control after World War I. And the ten years, 1921 to 1930, which includes the first full year of operation after that event, and the last full year of operation before the railroad suffered the real impact of the Great Depression, is a period which should furnish lessons of value, not only to railroad management, but to the Congress, and to the Interstate Commerce Commission, and to railroad labor, which, whether it realizes it or not, depends for permanent and satisfactory employment upon successful rail operations, and to the public as well. In 1921, the entire transportation plan of the Santa Fe, track, bridges, structures, cars, locomotives, was in poor condition as a result of war use. It operated about 11,700 miles of main line, and its investment in road and equipment was about $772 million. Its management took a constructive position, just as its management now proposes to do. As a result, during the ten-year period beginning in 1921, they increased its main line mileage by 1,500 miles, and increased its road and equipment investment by about $365 million, an average annual increase of about $36 million, and an increase for the period of about 47%. All this required courage, but it paid. Ton mile performance, less than $10.5 billion in 1921, rose by healthy steps to an average for the ten-year period of almost $14 billion, an increase of more than one-third. Average operating revenue rose about five and three-quarters percent above 1921, while the annual average operating expenses were reduced about one and two-thirds percent below that of 1921. This increased by about 29% the spread of average annual operating revenue above average annual operating expenses. And, despite substantial decrease in ton mile earnings and passenger revenues, and substantial increase in taxes, annual average net railway operating income increased above that of 1921 by more than one-fourth. Perhaps none of you has memory so short that he forgets that there were times between the two great wars when there were some men, in such positions that their voices were heard, who cried out that the railroads were overbuilt, that a great part of their mileage was unnecessary, and that in a large measure their expenditures for equipment improvements and extensions were wasteful, and not entitled to earn a fair return, or any return. But, what a different story it was when World War II burst upon us. The safety of our nation would have been endangered if we had not been equipped and prepared to assume our full part in the national defense. The statement which I have just made falls far short of being complete. I have omitted impressive facts of great statistical importance, because their inclusion would serve only to obscure what I am trying to portray, a picture of business courage. It was courage. But, it was not blind courage. When the Santa Fe and the other railroads committed themselves after World War I to huge expenditures for restoration and benefit, they had the encouragement of actual demonstration, through the Interstate Commerce Commission's proceedings and decision in Ex-Parte 74, that the government, in the exercise of its regulatory power, would recognize and make adequate provision against known adverse conditions. They were especially encouraged by the fact that the commission did not wait for the railroads to apply for rate increases. On the contrary, the commission on its own motion, even before the wage increases which were granted in 1920, took notice of conditions threatening rail transportation, and suggested to the carriers that they assist the commission in the performance of its duties under the recently adopted Transportation Act of 1920. In response to this invitation, the railroads in the latter part of April and the early part of May 1920, filed application for rate increases. Hearings on these applications were conducted in about 60 days, and the commission rendered its decision in 23 days thereafter, authorizing freight and passenger rate increases designed to meet the requirements of the carriers. It authorized increased freight rates of 25% for the southern and mountain-pacific groups, 35% for the western group, and 40% for the eastern group, and 20% for passenger fares, and made them effective on five days' notice. How closely conditions then resemble conditions of the present will be apparent to anyone who cares to read the commission's decision. That decision might well be based on the transportation news of today. The need for additional locomotives and freight and passenger cars was, in effect, acknowledged. The commission commented upon reduction in passenger traffic on account of reduced troop movement. It mentioned increased loading of freight cars during the war period. It took notice of decreased operating revenues, rising price levels, and increasing expenses attributable to many causes. And especially, the commission called attention to the fact that after the hearings in Expart A74 were closed, the Railroad Labor Board awarded a wage increase of approximately $618 million per annum. Those of you who are shippers, or who read the warnings of the Office of Defense Transportation and other government authorities know something about the present-day need for additional equipment. Well, surely everyone ought to know that because rates have not been increased adequately following the wage increases, that much of the money that could have been used for buying equipment has been drained away to pay for the wage costs. There has been too much loose talk about the railroads being benefited by the excess profits carryback brackets. It probably isn't generally understood that the tax credit becomes effective only after a railroad has been forced into undesirably low-income brackets. They would be better off if they could stay out of those brackets. And we should always remember this. There is no secret or mysterious process by which a railroad can secure money. Increased price levels include everything that a railroad must buy. I shall not tax your patience by reciting them in detail, but perhaps they are sufficiently indicated by the cost of a boxcar. Boxcars built 20 years ago cost $2,300 each. Boxcars purchased today cost about $4,600. Surveys made in 1920 and 1921 revealed facts just as disconcerting to railroad management as those which we face today, some of which I have mentioned. But there is this important difference. In 1920, the commission aroused itself and took prompt action. In 1946, the railroads may succeed in arousing the commission sufficiently. That remains to be seen. But, despite applications filed immediately after the 1946 wage increase, they have not been able to get prompt action in any sense sufficient to meet their unmistakable need. Their needs are affected not only by the conditions which I have recited, but also by an additional burden of cost placed upon the railroads effective January 1, 1947, by very disturbing and significant action in the last Congress. Its implications are such that it should not be overlooked in any discursion of railroad courage based upon faith. Before discussing that, let me explain some differences between the Social Security Act and the Railroad Retirement Act. The Social Security Act, providing old age annuity for other than railroad employees, as originally enacted, prescribed payroll rates of 1%, payroll tax rates of 1%, to be stepped up one half of 1% each three years and to reach 2 and 1 1 half percent for the years 46, 47, and 48. Subsequently, the Railroad Retirement Act was adopted. Our payroll taxes started off at 2 and 3 quarters percent. Other industries started at 1 percent. Ours was to rise by three-year steps to 3.5% for the years 46, 47, and 48. Despite the rates first provided, Congress has repeatedly amended the Social Security Act so as to hold its payroll tax at 1% for non-railroad industry, but has permitted the railroad payroll tax rates to increase progressively as originally prescribed. As a result, the railroads are paying three and one-half times as much as non-railroad employers in 1946. Well, this was bad enough, but in the closing days of the last station, Congress voted first to increase the payroll tax on railroads to 5.75%, and second, to continue to freeze the rate on non-railroad industry at 1%, thus requiring railroads to pay at a rate 5.75% times that of non-railroad employers. This increase will cost the Santa Fe more than $4 million in 1947, practically absorbing all of the benefit which it gets from its $104 million debt reduction. The injustice of this is obvious, and I shall add only this. The tax bill of the Santa Fe Railroad for the purposes of the so-called social benefits alone, based on present payroll, which means its payroll tax bill for the purposes of the railroad retirement act and the railroad unemployment insurance act, will be far more than the entire amount paid by the company for any year from its formation until 1922 as its aggregate ad valorem, franchise, capital stock, state and federal income taxes. It will be substantially more than its aggregate tax bill for all these purposes for any year between 1930 and 1940. I shall not discuss further the conditions which face the Santa Fe and the railroads as a whole. Even though, comparatively speaking, our own railroad will come through 1946 somewhat better than the others, influenced substantially by the fact that we had a fortunate level of business in our territory this year. The
