The radio's microphones are now in front of City Hall, and the occasion is the inauguration of the Department of Defense. The Honorable Grover A. Whalen, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee and Coordinator of Recruiting for Civilian Defense and Public Information, will act as chairman and present the regular order of program. Mr. Whalen has just escorted the mayor and the guests who will participate in this program, and in just a moment we'll inaugurate the department's activities here in front of City Hall with the usual procedure. He's sitting down now for just a moment in order that some of the guests who are late arriving will take their places and be comfortably seated before the regular program begins. The occasion for this recruiting service here today in front of City Hall, it's a program of recruiting for women for the armed services, and the various women's services are represented here in front of City Hall, and they certainly are an inspiration to any young woman who would care to make the service a career. Their uniforms are particularly fine-looking and give an intelligent and a magnificent aspect to the young woman wearing it, a uniform that brings out every bit of her zeal and intelligence in service to her country. And it is just for such a purpose that this program is being held here today at City Hall. Guests are still arriving and taking their places on the platform, and it'll be a few minutes yet before Mr. Whelan calls for the regular order. The mayor of the City of New York will be with us in the course of the program. Mr. Whelan will introduce Helen Hayes, who is participating in the program as well, and who is always interested in all public events, particularly where women are concerned. Mrs. Oswald B. Lord and Mrs. Anna Rosenberg will be just some of the other speakers in the program. The Department of Sanitation Band is entertaining at the present time, and a very large crowd is turned out here in City Hall. We have previously announced over the public address system of the City Station what the occasion is, and those lining the plaza here at City Hall are thoroughly aware of what is to happen, even if they haven't obtained the programs of the event itself. And now for the benefit of those who may have tuned in late, may we say that the program here in front of City Hall today marks the inauguration of the Department of Defense. The mayor of the City of New York and all those concerned with defense matters will be represented in the program in the course of its presentation. We've just listened to a little music now of the Department of Sanitation Band while the party is organizing here on the stand. A much bigger crowd than we expected is taking their place now in the seats. The mayor of the City Hall The mayor of the City Hall We have an extra treat that I was not quite aware of until I heard the drums and the music down Broadway. I thought all the ladies who were wearing uniforms and who would participate in this program were here in front of City Hall today, but not so. They're being escorted up Broadway now, and they're about ready to swing from Broadway into the City Hall plaza. The mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arm-Pelletieri, has just taken his seat on the stand now, and everybody's expected, waiting for this very interesting pageant of young women who are anxious to serve their country. The music now is quite close to the City Hall from Broadway, and a few moments they'll be swinging into City Hall plaza, and we'll get some idea of the fact that women are just as important as men in any phase of the modern scene. We've learned that. There was a time when the ladies stayed very much in the background. The night went forward and did all the battle. Now we know the wonderful record that women have made in all branches of the service, and it is for this purpose that this women's recruiting program has been organized here today in the inauguration day of the Department of Defense. And for the benefit of those who may have tuned in late on these facilities, why this is the inauguration of the Department of Defense, and a regular program will be presented outlining in word and deed what is expected of women joining the armed forces. And every degree and type of person is here today from the various branches of the armed forces in vantage places here at City Hall. Maybe you can hear those motorcycles now chugging into place, can you? I'll just turn the mic around so you'll get a little of that atmosphere. There's the motorcycles decked out with the flags of our country, the flag of our country, and the flags of our city. Now here's a magnificent bank of American flags being carried by the members of the fire department. They'll no doubt do as they usually do, either dress the steps here at City Hall or some vantage point here in the pageant in front of City Hall. It's quite interesting to note that the flags are all at the same height because the men carrying them are picked for size, and it's almost a straight line as we see that bank of flags. The eagles are flying at exactly the same height from the flagstaffs of those silk flags. And now here's a band turning in, and you can get the effect of its music as it turns into City Hall Plaza. And it's ladies that are playing the music. There's our own red, white, and blue, and the red cross flag. The red cross is a very important factor in the defense setup, whether it's civilian defense or the armed forces, and we're constantly reminding you in announcements between programs of the importance of that blood donation, and it is most important. The recent emergencies pointed out that that restitution of blood to the person in shock is the only means of saving that person's life, and we do know now that the blood bank is one of the most important factors of therapy in the retrieving of the battered and bruised life and bringing it back to the standard of a living that is so essential. And because of the blood bank and your blood donation, thousands of men today have returned to their homes because the blood was available to relieve shock in time. Now, you can call the red cross, Murray Hill 9-1000, and make that date for a blood donation, and if you do not happen to be near the red cross headquarters in New York, they can advise you where the best place to do, rather to perform that ceremony of donation. The red cross bank in Brooklyn is located at 57 Willoughby Street, and the telephone number there is Maine 4-6001. Here's another band coming in. The United States Navy. There's our own stars and stripes and the Navy flag. Now a company of waves marching smartly, and behind them a company of sailors. The sailors have competition now. Now the Air Force. The Air Force. The air force. The air force. The air force. The air force. The air force. It's interesting the way these bands give the ruffles right on a beat, ad-lib their own anthem, and then come right back to again after they have saluted the dignitaries on the stand. And now the women connected with the Air Force are marching past. This is certainly a full dress here in front of City Hall today, and it's a remarkable turnout of the different branches of the service. In tribute to the women and the inauguration of the Department of Defense, which is the program here today. The Department of Defense is inaugurating in this program a recruiting program for women for the armed services, and they certainly have a magnificent turnout here today as an inspiration to young women desiring to join the services. Thank you. Our own army of blue, the police department. Now the flags, our stars and stripes, the city flag, and the green and white flag of the police department. There's still plenty of parade down Broadway yet. You get an interesting idea from the steps of the City Hall here because you get two angles on the parade. We're high enough up to see it coming along Broadway as it passes the Woolworth Building, and then, of course, the inspirational site of St. Paul's Chapel there at Fulton and Vesey Street and Broadway because that is exactly the same building where George Washington and the first Congress of the United States marched from Nassau and Wall Street from the then Federal Hall, which is now the site of the old Treasury Building, and they marched to St. Paul's Chapel, exactly the same building, and asked God's inspiration in the guidance of this new and timid government that was to become, finally, one of the greatest governments in the world and a leading inspiration to all. The Constitution of the United States being, of course, one of the greatest documents ever conceived, and that, of course, is conceived in the spiritual values of God himself for leadership and for the success of the enterprise. George Washington's pew and Governor Clinton's pew are still maintained in St. Paul's Chapel. Now it looks as though our square is thoroughly dressed, and in a few moments we'll hear Mr. Whelan in possibly one of the most amazing and interesting military turnouts ever held here in City Hall Plaza, a scene that has seen many such great events, and again, for the benefit of those who tuned in late, may we say that this program today marks the inauguration of the Department of Defense and is a program of recruiting for women for the armed forces. The Honorable Grover Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for Reception and Coordinator for Recruiting of the Civilian Defense Organization and public information relating to it, will preside and present the regular of order program. He's waiting now for the full dressing of the square before he calls for the anthem. The fire department dresses the top steps of the City Hall with those magnificent silk flags of our own United States as a topmost decoration to this great and inspiring scene. The turnout of the young women in uniforms of their various services is also one of the inspirational factors of this scene here today at City Hall. The flags and the banners of the different insignias of groups that are represented here today create a very interesting touch of color in the pageant itself. And of course, the uniforms and the various colors involved in that investiture also create... Mr. Whelan's just called coloring. Call for the national anthem. Call for the national anthem. This is Yak inclusive 없습니다. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now the Honorable Grover Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, who will present the regular order of programs. As soon as the square is dressed, you will hear Mr. Whelan's voice. Now the flags are at rest, and Mr. Whelan will present the program. Thank you. At these impressive ceremonies, we inaugurate today through the Department of Defense of the United States Unified Recruiting Program for the Women in the Armed Services. I should like to call upon Mrs. Oswald Lord to present the advisory committee for this action. Mrs. Lord. It gives me pleasure to present to the City of New York the members of the Department of Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Armed Services who could be with us today. I'll ask the committee to stand and remain standing until I finish reading the list. Mrs. Mary Gibbons, Mrs. Helen Hayes, Mrs. Dorothy Height, Mrs. Sydney Hillman, Mrs. Claire Lang, Mrs. Bradner Lee, Jr., Mrs. Philip Pillsbury, Mrs. Helen Rogers-Reed, Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller, Dr. Dorothy Stratton, Mrs. Thomas Streeter, Mrs. John Haye Whitney. At this time, I would like to also introduce to you two outstanding women who are helping us in this recruitment drive, Jenks Falkenberg and Rosalind Russell. It's great. Pleasure and privilege for me to present great actress and artist who will speak for the Advisory Committee, Miss Helen Hayes. Our country today faces a grave crisis. Challenged by mounting threats of aggression, we must quicken the pace of our present defense program if our liberties are to be preserved. The need is urgent, for power alone is respected by potential aggressors. To build up that strength, all Americans, men and women alike, must put their shoulders to the wheel, must be alert to the problem. All of us must work at patriotism, not just believe in it. For only by our young women offering their services to our country as working patriots in the armed forces where a critical manpower shortage exists, can our defense be adequate? Every service is appealing for women volunteers, women to do vital military jobs. Quotas must be met. We need 72,000 additional women in the services of the armed forces. It is certain that America's young women will come to the defense of their country and will overfill this dangerous gap in manpower in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I think this is the opportune time to report that all the newspapers of the City of New York, the radio and television, and all the retail stores of the city have joined together in providing not only editorial space, news space, but also advertising space in order to make this drive in the City of New York successful. And I'm sure they would like to hear a word from you not only about your proclamation, but a word of encouragement for their splendid support of this movement. It's a great privilege for me to present to you the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, Madam Secretary, gallant women in the armed services of the United States, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and may I also include the thousands of New Yorkers that I know are listening in to this radio broadcast. First of all, let me welcome back to the City of New York a fellow New Yorker, the distinguished Assistant Secretary of Defense, Anna Rosenberg. You see, ladies who are thinking about going into the armed services, the appointment of Mrs. Rosenberg clearly indicates that there is a definite place for women in the armed forces of our country. As the announcements of this great meeting proclaim, we are met today in the name of freedom to launch in our city the official opening of Women in the Armed Services Week. It is indeed a privilege for me as Chief Executive of our city to offer the vast resources of the City of New York to the United States Department of Defense in this dramatic and urgent call to the women of America to provide some 72,000 additional women for the services of our armed forces. It has been conservatively estimated that 112,000 women must be enrolled in our country service by July 1st next to carry on the vital task of our national emergency. The current call for 72,000 women will bring us to that goal. May I point out that your government is not asking too much by asking for voluntary enlistments. I had occasion to discuss this program with Mrs. Rosenberg shortly before we came out on this platform. We discussed her recent trip to Korea. She was interested in my recent trip to Israel. And I pointed out to her something that she already knew. For instance, in the new democracy of Israel, women share an equal responsibility with the men. And women are drafted for compulsory military service just like the men. So that I know that in America, we are asking our women to share some of this responsibility with the men. That our women are not going to let down the government of the United States and are going to enlist in droves here in the city of New York, Mrs. Rosenberg, to help you and the government with our program. I know, Mrs. Rosenberg, that the women of the city of New York will respond as they always have responded to the call of their country. Our able, brilliant, and very human Assistant Secretary of Defense has just returned, as I told you, from a visit to Korea. And I know that every American, particularly her fellow New Yorkers, are anxious to hear something about her report on that visit. It is now my pleasure to read to you the official city proclamation designating Women in the Armed Forces Week. Proclamation. Whereas the United States Department of Defense has called upon the nation to provide 72,000 additional women in the services of the armed forces, bringing the total to 112,000 by July 1, 1952. And whereas there are in the United States 8,500,000 women between 18 and 34 years of age, of whom 2,225,000 are eligible for military service, and whereas defense of our country is everybody's job, and there is not enough manpower to do the urgent work necessary for adequate national defense, and whereas the city of New York has been requested specifically by the United States Department of Defense to assume its share of the responsibility of providing women volunteers in the armed services, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelletary, mayor of the city of New York, to hereby set aside and proclaim the week of November 11 through the 17th, 1951, as women in the armed services week, during which I do call upon the people of our city to support this special recruiting campaign of the Department of Defense, to the end that this community may supply its quota of women in the armed services to defend our nation against any potential enemy, and to the end that these patriotic young women who do offer their services to their country may work shoulder to shoulder with our men in the armed forces in making the United States of America the strongest and safest land in the world. Thank you. To introduce an old friend to a great audience is always a delightful privilege, and to introduce an old New Yorker to New Yorkers is an added privilege, and I think there are few women that are on this stand that have been at the City Hall and have served their city more frequently in public and private and charitable movements than your next speaker. It's a great honor to present to you the Assistant Secretary of the Department of Defense, Mrs. Anna Rosenberg. Mr. Mayor, Rover, distinguished guests, men and women of the armed services, I come here today and I consider it a great privilege to give to the City of New York and to you, Mr. Mayor, the official thanks of the Department of Defense for this magnificent effort that you're going, putting on and that you're going to continue during this week, which is the week devoted to recruiting more women in the armed services. It's my great privilege also to thank Governor Dewey for his proclamation and to the many mayors and governors throughout the country who have done the same because today similar celebrations, similar services are going on from the Gulf of Mexico, from San Francisco, Chicago, all the way from south to north, from east to west. the United States is dedicating this week not only to get more women into the armed services, but to remember that significant day, November 11th, and to make sure that the strength of this country will be ready to meet any emergency so that armistice for which so many men have given their lives had not been in vain. It's a particular privilege for me as a New Yorker to come back to my own beloved city and to thank you, Mr. Mayor, to thank the women of this committee and to thank you, Grover Whalen, for the job that you've done. And maybe you'll forgive me if I give a particular thanks to Grover Whalen because to me, he resembles, he's the semblance of that spirit of New York that for many years that I had the privilege of living here has answered every call for service, the call for blood donors, the call for clothing, the call for recruitment, the call to make the United Nations, its home, New York, the home of the United Nations. You have done a great service, and I, as a New Yorker, Grover, want to give you my deep gratitude. Today, I feel a little like someone who's been blind and suddenly regained their eyesight. You don't know what it is to come down Park Avenue, Fifth Avenue, Third Avenue, to see the Brooklyn Bridge, the Woolworth Building, City Hall, and to see New York. Maybe to you today, this is a cloudy day, and you just see New York as you always see it. To me, I see it like someone who's been blind and suddenly sees the beauty of once again being able to stand in a city where its citizens and in a country where its citizens stand as free people. Look at the sky without the fear of the threat what may come out of there. look across the horizon with a peace and hope in their heart. I feel that way because for the past two weeks, I've been a long way from America, a long way not only in body, but in a long way in what I saw. From the snowy and icy banks of Alaska where American men to Japan, to Honolulu, to Midway, to Attu, to all the lonely islands in the Pacific, to Germany, to France, to Italy, and to North Africa, men are taking part. Men are working and sacrificing so that freedom in this city and all over the world may live. I'm going to tell you particularly about Korea because maybe that bleak and burned out hill that all of you know as Heartbreak Ridge that I saw just over a little week ago, maybe that's the hill that made me look at New York and the rest of America with a gratitude and with a new love that all of you ought to have and I know you have. I saw men, men who are boys from Brooklyn, from Manhattan, from Bronx, from Queens, from Staten Island, men whose families I've called up to tell them what they're doing and how magnificent they are. I said a few days ago that I went out to Korea to see manpower. I went out to Alaska where the wind was blowing at 120 miles an hour to see manpower. And every place I went I saw the power of men and the power of that American spirit that made us the country we are. New York is part of that power and part of that spirit. The men and women who are in the armed forces are doing their share to see that this city and this country can enjoy this peace and this beauty that we are so blessed with. I turn particularly to the women and I'm particularly happy that the slogan in New York is to share service for freedom. we women who've had the privileges who enjoy this freedom this democracy this beloved city of New York we have an equal responsibility to share that burden and that privilege of serving this city and this country. I know that the women of the city of New York are going to respond as will the women all over the country. and I look at you 40 girls who are going to join the armed services with a particular pride some people may say to you that you're making a great sacrifice. I don't think you're making a great sacrifice. I think yours is a great privilege a privilege I'm afraid I'm too old to share in. Yours is a great privilege to join men and women in the services men and women who have put duty before personal privilege and personal advantage. We welcome you as fellow workers in the armed services. Your families can be happy and proud of you and I promise them here as I promise the other mothers and fathers all over America that their girls will be safe and welcome in the armed services welcome by the men and women of the armed services and will look back on this part of their life as the greatest privilege they have ever had. I know that I need not urge the women of New York to answer the call as they always have and with great pride Mr. Mayor as a fellow New Yorker I will watch the quota go way beyond what we expect from the city of New York. You know it would be very dangerous for a man in this audience to question the statement made by the assistant secretary of defense but from what I know of Anna Rosenberg she is not too old to take on any job. There are a couple The directors of the four services are here and they are represented by their directors and I'm going to ask each one of them to stand and then we shall applaud them all at the same time. Colonel Mary Halloran director of Women's Army Corps will you please remain standing? Colonel Kathleen A. Toll director of Women's Marines Captain Joe B. Hancock director of the Waves Colonel Mary Joe Shelley director of the Waves Wax rather Colonel Ruby Bryan director of the Army Nurses Corps Captain Winnie Gibson director of the Navy Nurses Corps Major Wiedner director of the Air Force Nurses Corps Colonel Emory E. Vogel director of the Army Women's Medical Specialist Corps Colonel Marion E. Perry director of the Air Force Women's Special Medical Specialist Corps Thank you very much. Now it will be the great privilege of the Assistant Secretary of Defense and the Mayor and Major General Willis H. Hale who will swear in the new recruits if the new recruits will be lined up here Major will you line the Mayor Mayor and Mayor and the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable Grove Ray Whalen and Anna Rosenberg Assistant Secretary of Defense and other distinguished people concerned with defense of our great and wonderful nation are leaving the stand now to go down to where a great many young women have signified already their intention of joining up with the armed forces and for the benefit of those who may have tuned in late the occasion here in front of City Hall is the Department of Defense inauguration of the unified recruiting program for women in the armed forces and in case you did not hear the Mayor's proclamation a little earlier in the program the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletieri proclaimed this Women in the Armed Forces week in New York City the Governor of the State of New York has done the same and as Mrs. Rosenberg pointed out in all the towns and cities across the country north, south, east, and west are proclaiming the same thing and they have a group of 8 million women to draw on 2 million of which are already thoroughly available in every way for immediate induction into the armed services as we read the news and hear the comments it's difficult indeed to imagine that we cannot reach the degree of peace that we would like to but we have to be prepared take you down now to where the recruiting is we just made some mics open and we hope we can get some of the ceremony there they're being sworn in at this time a group of young women in front of city hall repeat your name I do not need to repeat the rest of this you solemnly swear or affirm thou bear true faith and allegiance to the United States of America that I will serve them honestly and faithfully against all their enemies whomsoever and then I will obey the orders of the president of the United States and the orders of the officers appointed over me according to regulations and the uniform code of military authority state I do that's all that's all that's all that's all right if the mayor how about moving back let's make more girls we're just rearranging the pictures now and it's necessary that you get a photograph of this kind because we want it for inspirational purposes and as a reference and you'll have a complete picture of this those of you who are not fortunate enough to be here in City Hall Park today just bear with us a few moments please come on please everybody back here about 10 feet come on back up and let's get a hand we'll remove the mics move down there in order to make better facility for the photographs and for the benefit of those who may be a little late in tuning on in this program tuning in rather I should say the occasion is the inauguration of the Department of Defense unified recruiting program for women in the armed services the swearing in is taking place now right in front of the City Hall in the presence of the Mayor of the City of New York the Assistant Secretary of Defense Mrs. Anna Rosenberg and a distinguished company who have turned out to inspire these young ladies and do everything possible to bring up to the full strength the importance of women in the armed services the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable Vincent R. Pelletary a little later earlier rather in the program proclaimed the Women in the Armed Services week and that is a program that is going forth across the country north east south and west the cameramen are recording for all time this event here in front of City Hall and as was pointed out by Mrs. Rosenberg there are 8 million women in the age group that might be available for the armed services and 2 million of whom might immediately be inducted into the various parts of the armed services where women have proved that they have a definite place in the service of the various divisions of that service in our country thanks to the cameramen and their imperial orders by we'll get a full record of this and it's a good thing they tell us what to do and boss us around a little bit because we want these pictures we want to refer back to them and a picture tells immense stories indeed saves a great deal of reading it's an immediate reference to the occasion and all we have to do is take the picture out look at it see who was there what the occasion was and we have a complete history they're asking for smiles now the cameramen have achieved their great result and this event here in front of city hall has been thoroughly picturized and that the women's services and our new recruits well and I'm sure that this blended demonstration will inspire many other women to follow your example girl and join the armed services I know that you're going to be happy have a fine career and have a great satisfaction of your service thank you thank you that was perfect that was perfect that was perfect and now there's a regrouping of the pictures with the mayor of the city of new york the honorable vince and armbelletary mrs rosenberg mr whalen and other distinguished members who are working on this committee to see that the full complement of women will be available to our country in the inauguration today of the department of defense unified recruiting program for women in the armed forces just once more the cameramen say the mayor is very patient cameras are still clicking we might say that various divisions of the armed forces from every branch of the service has turned out here today in city hall plaza and a magnificent picture of the dressing of the square is an inspiration in itself there's one lady there trying to snap a picture and i shouldn't say trying getting ready to we don't want to conclude this ceremony until such time as we find out if mr whalen or the mayor has a final word before we the cameramen are now suggesting that mrs rosenberg have a little conference with a group of these young ladies who have just signified their intention of joining with the armed services and it's starting all over again those cameramen will all be movie directors in another year pointers they have Gal!!!! they have finished and they have taken all their hands they have won戴 it was Norway wingers and need to I Well, fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens, today is Women in the Armed Forces Day and for the rest of the week, by proclamation of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere. In the ceremony here in front of City Hall today, we had the cooperation of the various branches of the Armed Services in building up the dignity and the importance of this scene and to thoroughly inspire the young women, many of whom have already signified their intention of joining the Armed Services and have taken the oath right here in front of City Hall today. And now, as the cameramen break it up and we finish the picturizing here in front of City Hall, may we say that the troops will now pass in review at the signal from Mr. Whalen a little later in the program and that is about all we can bring you for the radio. But remember, young ladies of New York City, that it is quite important that we have this service from the women of New York. One of the most picturesque factors in this scene here today were the student nurses from the various hospitals of New York City. And it only proves that New York City is organized to meet every and any occasion, and when it's a matter of recruiting and furnishing the young women that are necessary for the Armed Services, there is just as fine and great a demonstration there as in any other segment of our civic life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now I'll turn the microphone back to Mr. Whalen, who has just finished the business down here in front, for a final word. Mr. Whalen. Thank you. Will the commanding officer of the Women in the Armed Services move their groups to the buses which are located on Broadway to your left? And the WAC band, will the WAC band proceed them? Come right up. The Fire and Police will stand in position until the services move out of the City Hall Plaza. Well, we had a lot of picturizing and special events here today, most of them which didn't move fast enough possibly, but we do now conclude in front of City Hall. And remember, young ladies of New York City, after this splendid demonstration here today, if you feel that you can take up a career in the Armed Forces and find out what a wonderful privilege it is to serve your country, remember this is Women in the Armed Forces Week by proclamation of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary. You can find plenty of places to recruit, and you will be doing one of the finest things in the world when you undertake to save and serve the greatest country in the world. That is all now from City Hall. We return you to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.