Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In ten weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, should the American people reject the welfare state? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the need for welfare measures and their effects on our freedom and productive capacities. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Thousands of high school students throughout the nation are discussing the welfare state in their annual debates. We're pleased to cooperate with the National University Extension Association again this year in presenting a debate on their high school question. Our first speaker by special transcription is Mr. H. W. Prentiss, Jr., President of the Armstrong Cork Company and former President of the National Association of Manufacturers. Mr. Prentiss. Mr. Chairman, you will approve, I am sure, if I pause a moment to express my personal gratification that thousands of young Americans are now engaged in the noteworthy civic enterprise of debating the welfare state. If the facts are given them, we may depend upon them for a sound answer to the question, what kind of country do we want our country to be? Our first business today, Mr. Chairman, is the stating of an adequate definition of the welfare state, which might better be termed the handout state. I suggest the following. The welfare state emphasizes the responsibility of the government to manage the citizen. A free people emphasize their responsibility to manage the government. The controversy developing from this definition, I believe the gentleman of the negative will agree, is not whether we should seek the welfare of the American people. It is rather, what is their welfare, and how can it be assured? The gentleman of the negative believes sincerely that our welfare requires tremendous concentration of power in the federal government. We of the affirmative believe with equal sincerity that our welfare requires us to reject the concentration of power required by the welfare state, and to keep the power in our own hands, or if we must yield some of it, then to delegate it first of all to our local governments. If we would know our true welfare, we must first know the answers to two questions. First, how can we be free? Second, how can we be productive? To the first of these questions, Benjamin Franklin gave the answer at the founding of our republic. They that can give up the essentials of liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety. If we are to preserve our liberty, we must examine with double caution every handout offered by a socialistic government, tempting us to forsake the way of our forefathers. And the way of our forefathers is clear. Our American system was not built on government handouts supporting citizens. It was built on the principle that the people support themselves and the government. James Madison, the father of our Constitution, declared that the whole American system rests on the capacity of mankind for self-government. And capacity for self-government depended then, as it does now, on six essential elements of personal character. Personal responsibility, individual initiative, self-reliance, thrift, courage, and religious faith. Any governmental policy that weakens or undermines these characteristics starts the decay and will ultimately result in the loss of our freedom. Hence, let there be no mistake. If we set up and maintain a welfare state, we shall desert the principles of freedom on which our nation was founded and on which its perpetuation depends. Our second question is, how can we be productive? Is it by having our economy planned by socialist bureaucrats in Washington? Is it by allowing the hirelings of the handout state to tell us how much we may earn, or who our doctor will be, or what fields we may plant? Long ago, Thomas Jefferson, the great friend of the American people, gave us his answer to that question. If we look to the government in Washington, he said, to tell us when to sow and when to reap, we shall soon want bread. And Jefferson's wisdom is curiously confirmed by the most potent enemy our country has ever known. Lenin, the Russian, said years ago that the surest way to destroy any Western democracy is to lead their people to expect the government to take care of them. Is it not significant that friend and foe both recognize the overwhelming truth that our productivity rests not upon the welfare state, but upon individual initiative and free enterprise? Why have Americans in the past been so productive? How have they accomplished such notable results? The people who settled this country were not extraordinary. They had a vast continent to develop, yet its natural resources were no greater than those of Asia. They had little capital to start with. In fact, they had to seek it abroad. They were not, as a rule, as skilled artisans as the workers in European industries. They believed in education, but schools were not generally available. How then did they differ from their contemporaries in the old world? They were free. They had stopped their government from interfering with their legitimate personal activities. They enjoyed what Justice Brandeis declared as the right most highly prized by civilized men, the right to be let alone. They had known what tyranny was in actual practice. They had been insecure so long under despots, insecure spiritually, intellectually, politically, and economically, that when they found that they could have freedom in the new world, they did not worry about welfare. They gladly took a chance on that, for they valued a free mind and a free soul more than a full stomach. In God's providence, they discovered that a full stomach is often the consequence of a free mind, and they prospered. The spirit of free enterprise possessed them. The results of its driving power are around us on every hand. The industrial machine which it brought into being destroyed the Nazi tyranny. Russia's industrial planned economy is merely a struggling imitation of the production techniques that free enterprise long ago developed in America. Today, our country stands face to face, toe to toe with Soviet imperialism, that evil epitome of the welfare state. Is not this the opportunity to reject the welfare state for ourselves, and thus to convince the world by example as well as by precept that the free man living in a free nation has not perished from the earth? What could any of us do more worthy of the best that is in us than to add our spark, however small, to keep alive the principles of freedom? If through our neglect the flame flickers out upon the shores of this western world, where and when will its light be seen again? Thank you, Mr. Prentiss. Joining Mr. Prentiss on this Northwestern University reviewing stand are the Honorable Paul Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois. Dr. Alfred P. Hockey, Mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois, an economic consultant to General Motors. And Maynard Krieger, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. Senator Douglas, what is your position on the welfare state? How do you react to the gentleman's remarks you've just heard? Well, I would say that Mr. Prentiss has attempted to give the impression that it is un-American for the government to try to promote human welfare. He is quoted from the founding fathers to give the implication that they were opposed to the government acting to promote human welfare, and he has almost directly stated that this is a Russian and not an American idea. I should like to have a question on the Constitution of the Constitution itself. And I wish that all of us would read the preamble to that Constitution, which summed up four months of debate. That preamble, as we will remember, reads as follows. We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. Thus, our founding fathers made the promotion of the general welfare one of the five fundamental purposes of government, along with the establishment of justice, the insurance of domestic tranquility, the provision for the common defense, and the attainment of liberty. It was one of the purposes for which this more perfect union was being formed. Now, this is not merely a rhetorical declaration in the preamble to the document. It is given specific direction by the provision in Article I, Section 8, which states in its first paragraph, and I quote, that Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts, and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States, close quotes. And here, specific power is granted to Congress to levy taxes, which can be used in such a way as to provide not only for the common defense, but also for the general welfare. And if you go through the debates of the Constitutional Convention, you will find that early in August 1787, even broader powers were given to Congress, namely not merely to spend for the general welfare, but to legislate for the general welfare. And this was the proposal, as a matter of fact, of George Mason, and interestingly enough, of James Madison, who at this period of his life was a nationalist, not the Federalist, which he later became. So, I would say that our founding fathers intended that the national government should include as one of its purposes, merely one of its purposes, but as one of its purposes, the promotion of the general welfare. Now, of course, we're not foolish enough to say that all welfare can be promoted by the state. Most of it has to be attained by the individual and the family. But we do say that some of it can be and should be. We've heard from Senator Douglas. May we have your position, Dr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Hockey? Mr. Prentiss and I disagree with those who promote the welfare state on what we conceive to be the well-being of our people and the best method by which to bring it about. I think it is exceedingly important that we distinguish between objectives and methods. The welfare state has already made inroads in our country because the people have been deceived and have failed to recognize that the methods used by the welfare state must finally defeat the very purpose at which they are aimed. Mr. Hockey? In America, we seek to develop men and women as individual human beings, increasing their strength of character and ability to provide for themselves, with government as their servant, rather than using men and women as instruments to build the state. Since the welfare state assumes responsibility for the welfare of its citizens, it must also take the power necessary to carry out its responsibilities. That means, as I see it, that government must plan and control the economic activities of the people. It must control employment, fix wages, fix prices, control profits and markets, as well as raise the enormous sums of money necessary to pay for these activities. It seems to me inevitable that the government in a welfare state must control the lives of people whose welfare it undertakes to provide. And because government control by politics is inefficient, the welfare state has already demonstrated elsewhere that it cannot provide as desirable a standard of living or degree of well-being as is already realized under private enterprise and competitive markets. That is why the American people should reject the welfare state before it becomes so strongly entrenched in political control that they can no longer throw it off. What is your position on this, Krieger? I noticed Mr. Paredes cites Russia as the perfect example of the welfare state. I think he's getting the welfare state mixed up with the warfare state, where the objective of a political government is the maintenance and accumulation of absolute power and the development of the maximum military strength. It doesn't turn out to be a welfare state of any kind. And its measures, while they involve tremendous control over the lives of people, are turned to the objective of promoting power rather than the objective of promoting welfare. I agree that a free, self-governing people has to assume responsibility for managing its own affairs. But the very question is, how can it best do so? Now, in some ways, people can govern themselves better as individuals than any other way. In some ways, they can do it better as families. In some ways, we can do it better as towns or as organized as counties. In some ways, we can do it better with voluntary organizations, like the Methodist Church or Mr. Paredes' National Association of Manufacturers or the CIO. And in many ways, a self-governing people can promote their welfare best and remain self-governing by the use of their national government as an agency for the promotion of their welfare. And so, help me, in some ways, I think they can do it best by using world agencies as the method of promoting their welfare. I think what has happened is that group initiative has become far more important than it used to be. Mr. Paredes speaks always of individual initiative. But the Armstrong Cork Company is no individual initiative matter. It's a matter of group initiative, and so is the National Association of Manufacturers. We're accustomed now to the use of group initiative for the solving of our problems, including our welfare problems. And I see no reason why it's legitimate to resort to group initiative in the pursuit of private profit objectives and not legitimate to resort to group initiative in the pursuit of welfare objectives. My opinion is that the opponents of the welfare state aren't really opposed to the welfare state at all. But what they really want is a state that undertakes measures for the welfare of just the right people instead of everybody, that they want a particular kind of a welfare state. Now, it's only called the welfare state, I notice, by the opponents of it, when the measures, the welfare measures undertaken by government, are directed toward the welfare of the broad masses of the population. Then is when the howl is raised against the welfare state. One reservation of my own I'd like to enter about the welfare state. I think it requires a very considerable degree of planning and of coordination of the sort, for example, that makes it possible to provide through social insurance benefits for old age, to take indigent old age as the example, without those benefits being ruined by a kind of creeping inflation, which can be the result if the welfare measures undertaken by government aren't sufficiently planned and sufficiently coordinated. But to reject the welfare state in toto, I think either means that people want a welfare state that's directed toward the welfare of the rich and the powerful, or that they're hiding behind the term welfare state, something that they're not telling us about. Well, now I wonder if we can get closer agreement on the meaning of the welfare state. I think there's where our disagreement comes rather sharply in view. I frankly don't believe that Professor Krieger is speaking of the welfare state as it actually is. If you'll pardon my saying it, he's doing what a good socialist ought to do. It's good expedient behavior for a good socialist, because he's himself clouding the real issue. We're all agreed on welfare, of course, the best way that we can get it. But what those of us who oppose a welfare state are thinking of is not the desired bill of helping everybody. I think it's rather beside the point to even charge that we're thinking of helping only a few people. That just isn't so. What we're concerned with is to keep people as individual human beings still retaining their initiative. And the moment that you make the state responsible for the welfare, there's where the key comes, is the state responsible for the welfare. It's one thing to say the state may have the power to do it. The state should help provide welfare. But when you make the state responsible for the welfare of a citizen, then immediately you've got to give that state the power to carry out that responsibility. And that power cannot be exercised without destroying the very liberty which is called for in that Constitution. Well, I would like to ask Mr. Prentice and Mr. Hockey whether they object to the welfare steps which have already been taken, and if so, to which ones. Do they object, for instance, to free compulsory education? Do they object to state and local support of colleges and universities? Do they object to federal, state, and local aid to hospital research, to medical research? Do they object to public hospitals? Do they object to public roads? Just what is it that the objection is being leveled against? Do they object to old-age pensions and to old-age insurance and to unemployment insurance? Now, the interesting thing that in the past, when all these measures have been brought up, honorable gentlemen like Mr. Prentice and Mr. Hockey have said that this is an extension of the power of the state into areas into which the state should not go. Now, I'm curious as to whether these gentlemen would revert and undo what we have done, or whether their objection is merely to new welfare activities being taken on by government. I don't think, Senator, that we would undo what has been done. You can't do that. But if we could undo it... You would? I don't think we'd be afraid to have it done. In other words, I'd say this... Oh, you would like to do it, then? I would say this... If you could win a majority, you would like to do it. I would say... I would say... Yes, I think possibly so. I would say that many other things that we have done... We don't know. We can't prove it because you can't go back and do it. But many other things that we have done, I believe could have been done better otherwise than by government. Would you abolish free public schools? No, I wouldn't. Would you abolish hospitals? I would not abolish police force. Or hospitals? I wouldn't abolish courts. Or medical research centers? I would do this. I would draw the line here. Wherever the thing that we're doing takes us over into an area where the people themselves can no longer control it, where a government can go ahead and instead controls the people, there I would draw the line. Free schools are perfectly all right with the locality. We elect our school board. We can kick them out easily. Yes, but the Amish do not believe in sending their people to public schools. And the question is, should the state use compulsion to educate the children or not? It should use... Possibly so, but there again, if you please, we're getting away from the point. Let's go to the farmer for a moment. I believe in helping the farmer, giving him education, helping him. Through government channels? What we have done... Pardon? Through government channels? Educational, yes. Providing with information. The general welfare can be helped by the state, providing information which people can use effectively. But we've gone further than that. We've set up a new process of law now, a new due process of law, by means of which the federal government can actually prevent a farmer from raising food for himself. Of course... If he doesn't meet certain conditions that the federal government lays down. And the one man has to stand against the power of the whole state. Now, you can extend that into industry. The laborer may be forced to take a certain job. His savings are taken from him by means of taxes. And instead of him spending his own money in the way that he wants to, the state spends his money for what it considers to be good for him. Now, Dr. Hockey has answered the senator's question. Let me pose a question for you, Senator, and for you, Krieger. How far would you go with these welfare activities in defending the welfare state? Would you go as far as Great Britain has gone, for example, in their socialized plan? That's the sort of thing I think that Hockey is opposing. He is opposing, as I understand it, the trend that we've seen in the last few decades toward a welfare state. More and more of these measures. Well, may I say that I certainly do not approve in any widespread scale of public ownership. And secondly, I think the British have gone altogether too far in their system of medical insurance. But I do think that the steps which we have already taken are sound. And I thought it somewhat significant that Mr. Hockey said that if they could, they would sweep away. A lot of, some of them, perhaps old age or unemployment protection. But I would say there are two fields into which we may properly expand in the future. The first is the rehabilitation of the disabled. There are between half a million and a million people who are badly crippled in the United States and perhaps another two million who are quite severely crippled. Now, they need governmental assistance in retraining, medical care and so forth, to put them on their feet and make them bureau, self-supporting persons. Now, this is a welfare activity which so far from undermining personal reliance and personal initiative, actually develops it. Because at present, they're more or less out of circulation. So I would say that this is a step which very properly we should take. And secondly, that while I certainly do not agree with the Ewing plan or the British plan for health insurance, because it goes altogether too far, I do think there are very real problems in developing medical research against these terrible diseases, in training more doctors, and in providing some protection against the catastrophic costs of sickness when they run into the hundreds and thousands of dollars. And that this, to some extent, will require group work, may require activity by the federal government, and should not be automatically thrown out of court, as Mr. Prentiss seems to do. Now, I don't want to divide you, gentlemen, but do you go beyond that program, Krieger? Yes, I would go beyond that. I think there's going to have to be a considerable expansion in welfare state activities in the future. As our economic system grows more complex, it's already demonstrated that it can't even keep itself standing upright without the use of a considerable amount of public control over the banking and credit system, foreign trade, and so on. And furthermore, in the field of direct welfare activities of the old age and the unemployed sort, and so on, instead of going backward, as I think the opponents of the welfare state would like to do now, I think we're going to go forward instead. I think the main difference between Hockey and Douglas here is that Mr. Hockey seems to assume that any time a question passes into the hands of the government, it passes beyond the control of people. That is, that you do not have self-government. Now, if we decide to use the government as the agency for handling the chronically ill in the United States, I can't see that that puts the handling of the chronically ill beyond popular control any more than if you leave it in the hands of the family or in the hands of the individual who apparently aren't very well able to take care of it. Well, now, if I may say so, I doubt that Mr. Prentiss, I'm not prepared to speak for Mr. Hockey, are opposed primarily to taking care of the chronically ill. I think they are concerned about the degree to which government enters into the management and control of business. Because Prentiss argued, you remember, that this welfare state is going to affect badly local autonomy and individual freedom and our productive capacity. That's the gist of his argument. Well, I think you could put it this way, if you don't mind. It is because we want these people taken care of, because we want good schools, because we want good roads, because we want the general welfare, that we don't want the government to do it. The government doesn't do it this well. I'll go all the way with the senator on the things he's advocated. But why in the world can't those be taken care of through voluntary agencies, the various associations, local groups, and so on? The moment that you get into the federal government, power moves in just one way, more and more and more of it, and it becomes less and less efficient. Well, may I say that I think Mr. Hockey probably went farther than he intended in saying that he didn't want government to take part in schools. Now, federal government is what I should have said. Oh, I see. But all levels of government. Now, if you take the total expenditures of the federal government, which amount to about $42 billion, you find only $2.5 billion, or 6% of the entire federal budget spent on welfare purposes. By the way, Senator, you know in Alexander Hamilton's time or Ben Franklin's, the proportion of the federal budget spent on welfare expenditures was greater than that 6% is now. May well be. And we have 50% spent on direct military and economic aid to resist aggression, and that will be almost doubled in the next year. Then we have $10 billion more spent as a result of past wars. So that the amount of federal money which is spent for welfare purposes is relatively small compared with the other items in the federal budget. And it does seem extraordinary to me that people will concentrate their criticism upon this relatively small fraction and not address themselves to the other main sources. There's one other point in Mr. Prentiss's statement that I should like to comment upon. Now, there's the implication that the welfare activities of the federal government have so weighted down private industry that it has not been able to go forward. Whereas the truth of the matter is that in the last 15 years since we have had these welfare expenditures, the economy of the country has gone forward at a more rapid rate than ever before, probably doubling productivity during that time. Just exactly, Senator, as happened in France when that wild Scotchman John Law came down there and sold them on deficit financing and paper money. They had a false prosperity for a number of years and they did just exactly what we're doing following Mr. Keynes. And we'll come out the same way, I'm afraid, that they did after John Law in France. I've never understood the assumption that the moment the government takes hold of something, the government being one amongst several different kinds of human organization, the moment the government takes hold of something, automatically, it starts damaging the individual initiative of people. Government is a human agency like every other organization. Motivated by different reasons. The government necessarily is politically motivated and in private enterprise we've got to make the business work and pay and pay high wages. In politics you just get votes. In closing, gentlemen, may we wish these high school students who have been listening to us today success in their debates on this very controversial question. Well, thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, should the American people reject the welfare state? You can secure a copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. A reviewing stand subscription costs only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Senator Paul Douglas, Alfred P. Hockey, Maynard Krieger, and by special transcription, H.W. Prentiss, Jr. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand considers a question that has become increasingly important with America's expenditures in the face of new threats from abroad. Pay as you go or deficit financing. We present three Northwestern University economists with wide experience in the fields of banking and public finance. Yale Brosen, Kenyon E. Poole, and Roland Robinson. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, pay as you go or deficit financing. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Marshall Kent. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. team coordination who is fixed and ollies consisting of partners and should not Taste anybody have can solo experts in the field orilli or Cardinal people and explain whether what these rays are more State angˊ and