Ladies and gentlemen, fifty years ago, when the consolidation of the five boroughs of the city was affected, there was no thought of central purchase of supplies, materials, and equipment needed by the city. The tremendous expansion of city work in that time, and its greater need for huge purchases, produce knowledge of the necessity and the validity of central purchasing. The Department of Purchase now buys all materials and all supplies and all equipment, used by all the departments of the city, except the Board of Education and the Board of Transportation, and we include the purchases of the various borough presidents' offices. In doing so, we expended something more than forty-seven million dollars in the fiscal year 1947-1948, ending June 30, 1948. We buy eighty thousand different items, from the tiniest steel clip to the largest fire truck, all the foods, all the medicines, and all the scientific and technical equipment. We have twenty-eight storehouses, in which we hold an average of five million dollars of supplies, to be able to supply immediately the constantly recurring regular and emergency needs of the various city departments. These storehouses are distributed strategically over the five boroughs of the city, so that each agency can be served in the minimum time, with the least travelling of trucks, and the greatest financial economy and distribution. The Department of Purchase storehouse system is a monumental enterprise in itself. In buying, we have the scheme of purchase departmentized. Each buying section being headed by purchasing experts in particular fields, fortified by qualified assistants, who themselves are equipped by intimate experience, to buy to the best advantage of the city. All of them are required to know their markets, to keep constant watch over present or prospective price changes, and difficulties in procurement. Getting things is still an important factor of our work, due to post-war unevenness of supply. Ingenuity in getting things, we call it procurement, is still a major requirement. Some of our buyers, notably in foods, medicines, scientific and technical supplies, are first-grade advisers to the other departments of the city, and the cooperation of these departments with our buying sections is almost an epic, a feature of city work which would be worth an extensive broadcast in itself. Of the $47 million of annual purchases referred to, about $12 million is spent for food and food products. We spend about $7 million for coal, fuel, oil and gasoline. We go over the $7 million mark on medicines, chemicals, etc. We go close to $7 million for cars, trucks, general automotive equipment and auto supplies. Printing and stationery for the various city departments require $2 million. We might, what we might call civil engineering supplies cost more than $4 million. Hospital and other equipment, technical, surgical dressing, etc. are a million and a half. Textiles, electrical, furniture, each is a separate classification, and each costs a million or more per year. It's big business. We have a central testing laboratory in the Department of Purchase, an ably manned scientific section, equipped with graduate engineers whose technical experience is devoted to analyzing samples of materials delivered, to make certain that such deliveries meet the scientific specifications set up for such materials for the production of the city. We have a Bureau of Salvage, whose function it is to gather in from the various departments, materials, furniture, equipment, paper, junk, used vehicles, etc. And dispose of them in two ways. Either to redistribute them to departments who have need for these relinquished materials, thus making new purchases unnecessary, or to sell them for cash, which goes into the general fund of the city. The Bureau of Salvage has had a considerable impetus given it this year, largely induced by Mayor O'Dwyer's support, and its future looks especially good for the city. There is more to say about this, but to say it now would seem to be boastful. We have also a connection with the Board of Standardization of the City of New York, which is a function set up by the Charter, under which the Commissioner of Purchase is Chairman. That committee analyzes the needs of the various departments, the functions to be covered by the various items to be manufactured, and in conjunction with the best procurable scientific knowledge, sets up standards which operate as specifications for the purchases thereafter to be made in regard to those commodities. We have about 680 employees in the Department of Purchase. Its functions are expanding so that we need more people. It is honest to say, and it is not boastful to say it, that the Department of Purchase is the first line of defense for the City of New York against constantly rising prices. We try to make knowledge of markets, good business procedure, and constantly improving systems, take the place of extraordinary demands on the city budget for funds for increased personnel. But our work is increasing so definitely and so rapidly, that good economics and intelligent projection into the future compelled planning for more services, therefore new people, without increasing the cost of the unit of operation. Remember, the Bible says, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treads the corn. It is the belief of the Commissioner of Purchase that the people of the City of New York will gladly pay for efficiency and effective operation that will result in money saving for the city, now and in the future. Our guiding spirit in every operation is to do a job equally effective for the City of New York, as is done for and by the employees of the best organized corporations in the country. We have involvements that have to do with the Charter and with regulations, and with the setting up of standards of responsibility, that make it something different and substantially more difficult to buy for the city than to buy for a private agency, whether corporation or institution. The knowledge necessary of the outside market is paralleled by the knowledge necessary of city procedures, and as a result, we make greater demands upon our buyers than those made on buyers in private industry. There is, we admit, all sensible people will admit, room for improvement. But there is also the desire for improvement. And I am very happy to relate the simple statement that in the department, every person in a responsible position is alert constantly, and is being constantly alerted, to do the job in a better way, more efficiently, therefore more economically, to get more out of the tax dollar that we spend in our operations. Our unit costs are down and may go lower. That is a consummation devoutly to be wished. It's also a task to which our people have devoted themselves. Unfortunately, our work does not lend itself to dramatic representation, but we can and do show some of the highlights at our booth on the third floor of the Grand Central Palace Golden Anniversary Exposition. We invite you to see this singular great exposition, and while you are in the building, come to our exhibit, and let our Department of Purchase attendance there show you proudly the work we are doing. That is how I do it.
