Welcome to another special program in your city station's American Art Festival. Today's transcribed tour of the American British Art Gallery will be presided over by our host, Mr. Stuart Preston, who is the Associate Art Editor of the New York Times. His guests, Mrs. Alice Story, Director of the American British Art Gallery, and Miss Irene Amar, Brazilian sculptor whose work is now being shown at the American British Gallery. The next voice you hear will be that of Mr. Stuart Preston. Mrs. Story, this seems an ideal setting for the exhibitions you've been giving, but if I'm not mistaken, this is the second headquarters of the American British Gallery that I've known. Yes. But now, before you started out in your first headquarters some ten years ago, you had been connected with galleries, hadn't you? I started as a very dissatisfied artist in Vienna many, many years ago. In fact, I hardly can remember how long ago. And I have been working in galleries since 1927 in London, and I came to this country in 1940. And I have been running galleries all this time. Well, you certainly are qualified for the work that you've done. But I am rather interested in knowing whether you think your gallery specializes in any particular kind of art or artists. We specialize in living artists. Otherwise, the quality really determines our standard of artists and our work. Otherwise, there is no speciality really we can attach to our... Well, I imagine it's always more interesting for a gallery director to discover new talent than anything else. I remember myself seeing the first paintings by Grandma Moses at your gallery. And certainly, she has gone very far into popular success. I read that her pictures are now being shown all over Europe. Yes, her exhibitions in Europe have been extremely successful. Such as in Munich, she had an attendance of about 29,000 people. This summer? This summer. And at present, she's being shown in The Hague. And then there's going to be an exhibition in Paris and probably in London. And I will say that her success is quite record-breaking. Well, I'm sure it would be. And I think it's splendid that the Europeans have a chance to see her work. But as I look around the gallery today, I see work which is quite different from hers. It's the sculpture of Miss Irene Amar. And it's very nice for us that she's with us today. And I'd like to ask her a few questions, if I could. Well, I would be very glad to hear Miss Amar. Now, Miss Amar, when did you first come to this country? I came to this country in 1941, sent by a Ministry of Education during the period of the Nelson Rockefeller Inter-American Cultural Affair. But this isn't your first exhibition in this country? Well, this is the 14th South and North America. Well, I'd be interested to know, from your experience in exhibiting in North and South America, how you compare the art world and the galleries of this country with those in other countries. As we know, many of the European large cities have great activities in every art field. So is in South America today, with the influence of European culture and the real art tradition. However, there is more direct contact with the artists in the sense that in the USA, that the collectors go directly to the artist's studios and purchases directly from the artists. Unfortunately, we do not have as many galleries, although they are wonderful museums. In the USA, the art galleries have a very interesting function. With a great number of artists competing in New York, the art galleries help the public in presenting and evaluating the artists' work. Now I can say again, in the case of the American British Art Galleries, where a large story with her personal artistic sense and enthusiasm effectively helps bridge the gap between the public and the artists in this busy city. I entirely agree with you. Now, here's a question which intimidates me a little bit. I'd like to know your opinion of the art critics of this country. Just as the art galleries perform a useful function, here I believe the art critics is of tremendous help to bring the public to the contact between the artists and their followers, and very often help to the artist. Not sure every artist expects to be told that his work is the greatest thing since Leonardo da Vinci, but on the base of my experience, I think the art critics in the United States are men and women with integrity, knowledge, let's say like you, Mr. Preston. Well, that's very reassuring to hear it, even though I don't entirely believe it. However, to achieve the success that you have, you must have studied for quite a long while. I wonder where, Miss Amar? Well, I have worked in sculpture and drawing, even painting, since I was a child. My training started in Brazil at the Beaux Arts School for seven years, and then I went to Europe and mainly in France, continued my studies. But I always was considered an important part of my training as a sculptor, that three years I spent at the School of Medicine, where I not only had anatomy lessons, but also different aspects of human being as types and characters. I think it's necessary to do, to be an artist, you have to know all those things. Oh, certainly, if you're going to do figure studies, you have to know anatomy. But I would think that your three years in a school of medicine would be something quite unusual for any sculptor. Well, I think it's almost necessary to do that, even if you're an abstract sculptor, to know what you're based on. I'm sure our abstract sculptors will be interested in hearing that. Now, we are delighted to have your sculpture in this country, and we're naturally very interested to know what American artists are thought of in Brazil, and if many of them have been there. There are few American artists, but I know that there are many works of American artists commissioned by the government, and as I assure you, that they are very well received. And it's encouraging to see that artworks are bought at every exhibition. I wonder if you saw the exhibition of Alexander Calder in Brazil. I also didn't see that, but I saw it in France. Because he told me that he'd rarely been received so enthusiastically, as he had been in Rio de Janeiro, and I think he sold a good many pieces there, didn't he? I think he sold out the whole exhibition, almost. Good heavens. Well, I think that... And I know that he was very well received. I have read his press notices, which were excellent. Well, what other American artists have exhibited in Brazil? I couldn't name you all of them, because I am since this country, and I was only back in 1948 to have my two own exhibitions, the museums, but I know at least about eight of them. It was George Biddle, Helene Sardot, Calder, and many others, which I really don't remember the names. But I know they were marvelously received, and with great success. Well, if you say that there aren't many art galleries in Brazil, where do they exhibit their work? Well, we have the museums to exhibit, and we have the Association of Modern Artists, and naturally we have a few galleries, not as many as in New York. And then we have the Minister of Education, has a special room for important exhibitions. Well, could you tell us something about the museum in Rio? Well, I think it's quite different from this country, the museums in Rio, out in Sao Paulo, too. We have three departments in the museum. It's the modern art, the conservative art, and for the students, that they have classes in the museum, and plus exhibitions room. And I very seldom have seen that in any other country. Well, the museum has permanent collections. Yes, that is what we call the department, just for the permanent collection, you see. And that is the second department, for the modern art, and the third department is for the students only. And for the exhibitions. Educational. Educational department. Well, that's very advantageous, I should think, for artists and students and art lovers to be able to satisfy themselves all in the same building. But it's an enormous building. It's an enormous... It occupies about four blocks. The Brooklyn Museum has got an arrangement. Yes, that's perfectly true. There are very few museums who conduct their departments in that way, but the Brooklyn Museum has got a very excellent art school. You mentioned, Miss Amar, that there is such a thing as a Ministry of Fine Arts in Brazil. Yes, that's right. That is part of the government. That is part of the government, where they have a special exhibiting room, and they have also a museum that belongs to the government. Who would the Minister of Fine Arts be? A member of the President's Cabinet? Yes, that's right. His name is Marini. Minister Marino. Marini. No, he has no relation to the Italian sculptor. No, not at all. Well, it seems that the United States is the only country without a Ministry of Fine Arts. Perhaps one day we'll have one. Well, I think it would be a very good idea. Well, how was the Minister selected? Was it a political appointment, or did he have some qualifications? No, he was elected. He was elected as just the right person for this department. Now, Miss Amar, you did most of the sculpture in this exhibition in this country, didn't you? Yes, this exhibition I did in this country. Because it would be... I just think it would be rather difficult to transport these heavy marble statues from Brazil. No, it isn't difficult, because I brought here about 33 pieces in 1941, and they are fairly large and very heavy. And then you sent them back again for exhibition, did you not? No, I was invited by the government in 1948 to have exhibited my work in two museums. And how many pieces went back for exhibition in Brazil? Well, I have left there 14 pieces. They are purchased by the museum and private collectors. It seems very successful. Well, I'm quite sure that your present exhibition is going to be equally successful. For some unknown reason, there always have been more painters than sculptors in any country. I suppose just the difficulty, the actual material difficulty of being a sculptor is far greater. Well, I don't think not only the difficulty, but really it's more difficult to be a sculptor because it's a very hard physical work, and plus the work of a painter. Do you carve your own statues, Miss Amar? Yes, I certainly do. But as you know, a good many sculptors don't. Well, I know that, but I still like to carve my own stones. I just think you'd feel much more responsible for them if you did the whole job straight through. Well, I am doing it, and I certainly do feel responsible. Mrs. Story, what other plans have you for this winter? Our next exhibition is going to be an exhibition of paintings of trompe-leus by a very young man, Brian Connolly, whom I think quite exceptional. Well, trompe-leus are extremely popular, and I'm sure that all of us in New York look forward to that exhibition. Well, I hope it will be as successful as I imagine it. As Miss Amar's. Yes. Let's... You have been listening to another presentation of your city station's American Art Festival, presenting a discussion revolving about the American British Art Gallery. Host on today's transcribed program was Mr. Stuart Preston, associate art editor of the New York Times. His guests were Mrs. Alice Story, director of American British Art Gallery, and Miss Irene Amar, the Brazilian sculptor whose work is now being shown at the gallery. This is another special feature of the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you. Thank you.