Ladies and gentlemen, here in the Assembly Chamber of the California State Capitol in Sacramento, today the legislators of this state have assembled together to consider the business of the state and to witness as the first act of the day's session the probable pardon of Tom Mooney, labor leader, and one of the most famous prisoners of all time. Governor Olson is giving the facts of the case before the legislators. Tom Mooney has already entered the Assembly Chambers and is seated directly in front of me. 22 years ago, Tom Mooney entered San Quentin Prison, a comparatively young man. He was 35 years of age, weighed almost 200 pounds, and was in good health. Today he appears here in the Capitol after 22 years past middle age, but still standing erect, his face is lined with wrinkles like that of any other man of 56. His hair has turned slightly gray, and he wears glasses. But he's smiling happily and appears full of spirit and eagerness in anticipation... The Attorney General of California... Now Governor Olson... ...advises me that he has no knowledge of the Mooney case, but he expresses confidence in the judiciary and the hope that no developments in this hearing will question the integrity of California's judiciary. I have not received from any person any request to be heard at this time in opposition to the pardon of Tom Mooney. If there be any person present desiring to be heard in opposition and able to present information not found in the voluminous record, I ask him to step forward and state to me here and now the information he desires to impart. Apparently there is no one attending this public hearing to make a protest against the pardoning of Tom Mooney. Mr. George T. Davis. Is he here? Right here, Governor. Mr. George T. Davis, you are Tom Mooney's attorney, I believe. You have asked to be heard briefly in behalf of your client's application. You may make a statement if it can be confined within five minutes. Mr. Governor, I deeply appreciate this courtesy and this honor, and I want to say to begin with that in appearing here today, I have been asked by my two colleagues and legal associates in this case, the Honorable Frank P. Walsh of New York and the Honorable John F. Finnerty of New York, to convey to you their regrets at their inability to appear here today. They have asked me to speak both for Mr. Mooney and in their behalf. You have chosen, Mr. Governor, to pass on Mr. Mooney's application for a pardon as one of the first acts of your administration. A large majority of informed citizens believe that the delay in according justice to this man has long since become a disgrace to the state of California and a blot on the record of our courts and governors. I have no intention of reviewing the facts of the Mooney case in all its bewildering ramifications. I know that you have done that. Furthermore, you have made your own position clear in the prepared and carefully considered address which you made as state senator before the state senate of California on March 16, 1937, at which time you urged a legislative pardon for Tom Mooney. Nothing has come to light since then to change the record in any material respect. It is abundantly clear that Tom Mooney was convicted on perjured testimony and that for 22 years an innocent man has been kept in prison and deprived of his rights because the judicial process failed. I wish to dwell for just a moment on just one aspect of that failure, a decisive aspect that confused counsel and opened the door for every subsequent failure. Less than one month after Mooney's conviction in February of 1917, evidence came to light demonstrating that the one witness against him whose testimony was decisive in the minds of the jurors was himself a suborner of perjury and utterly discreditable. So conclusive was this evidence and so utterly did it destroy the case against Mooney that the judge who had presided at the Mooney trial, the Honorable Franklin A. Griffin, reached the conclusion later expressed in a public address that the Mooney case, I'm quoting now, is one of the dirtiest jobs ever put over and I resent the fact that my court was used for such a contemptible piece of work. Within one month from the close of Mooney's trial, Judge Griffin wrote to the Attorney General of California asking that he file a stipulation of consent that Mooney be given a new trial on the basis of the newly discovered evidence discrediting the chief witness against him. Attorney General Webb promptly complied. Denying the motion for a new trial, the court held that it could not even consider the new evidence because constitutional and procedural rules limited it to a consideration of the record of the trial itself and to whatever might have been disclosed within 10 days from the date of sentence. In other words, if 11 days after Mooney's trial ended and sentence was pronounced, facts came to light, as they did 20 days later, showing that he had been convicted by the grossest of perjuries, the courts of California were helpless. As it turned out, only the intervention of President Wilson saved Mooney from death on the gallows, to which this preposterous quibble might otherwise have condemned him. The state Supreme Court washed its hands and it concluded its formal opinion with the specific statement that Mooney's only remedy lay in executive clemency. The Mooney case has been on the doorstep of the governor of California from that day in 1917 to this. Now, neither public officials nor public officials who happen not to be lawyers nor the public itself are likely to understand the complexities of legal procedure. It is beyond their comprehension that any archaic formal rule could tie the hands of the Supreme Court and prevent it from doing substantial justice. It happens by a curious coincidence that you are the first governor of California since the trial of Tom Mooney, who is also a lawyer. In issuing a full pardon to Thomas J. Mooney, which, if you so act, will amount at the same time not only as a redress with tragic tardiness of a wrong done to this man, but also will amount to the doing of all that remains within a governor's power to vindicate California and clear its name before the world. But that is not enough, Mr. Governor. The law should be changed so that never again can judges fall back on a technical rule of procedure as an excuse for blinking facts and denying justice. Intelligent and fair-minded judges would have found a way to circumvent that rule. The legislature should be urged to act at this session to clarify that rule. However, I am by no means accepting the theory that it was in fact powerless to give Mooney the new trial to which even Mr. Webb ascended and which the trial judge demanded. That new trial would have resulted in Mooney's prompt acquittal as later trials resulted in the acquittal of Mooney's co-defendants, Mrs. Mooney and Israel Weinberg. And California would have been saved a scandal and an agitation that have damaged the state's credit throughout the world for over a generation. And so today, in urging you to grant this pardon, I am proud to take my stand with Judge Griffin who saw and heard all of the evidence as presiding judge at Mooney's trial. With District Attorney Brady of San Francisco, whose letter urging Mooney's pardon, San Francisco, whose letter urging Mooney's pardon, whose letter urging Mooney's Supreme Court, the only San Franciscan on that court, and a former District Attorney of San Francisco, whose dissents have preserved some shred of credit for the bench he honors, and also with every other official commission and unbiased lawyer that has investigated this case. Truth is mighty and shall prevail in the pardon of Thomas J. Mooney, should such a pardon herewith issue. Clear-sighted Americans will recognize in you, Mr. Governor, an act of conservatism in the best sense of that word. A conserving of the principles essential to free institutions and the confidence of Americans in their own form of government. Thank you, Governor Olson. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard George T. Davis of Tanepamone leading the defense of him and asking again for his pardon. Thank you. I am impressed by the fact that many thousands of California's good citizens still believe that Mooney is guilty and should not be pardoned. I am impressed by the fact that this case has been heard in one form or another in all the court. I am impressed by the fact that five of my predecessors have not pardoned him. I have re-examined the case particularly to find each and every reason given in support of their respective decisions. As a lawyer, I can well understand the reasoning of the courts in refusing new trial. They were limited by statutory restrictions upon their power to review newly discovered evidence. They were unable to consider such new evidence merely because it did not develop within the short period prescribed by law. I can understand the court's reasoning although my own would have been different in refusing to remand the case for new trial even upon the petition of the trial judge and the attorney general admitting the perjury of Oxman. It was too late for the trial judge to have the power to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial then. I can understand the dissenting opinion of Judge Langdon not only in the appeals and habeas corpus application but also from the decision of a majority of the Supreme Court upon the application of Warren K. Billings convicted of the same crime for a recommendation for his pardon. I can understand the United States Supreme Court saying in effect that if it could not could be shown that the prosecuting officers willfully produce perjury testimony it was for Mooney to make that showing to the state Supreme Court that the United States Supreme Court could not consider the matter until every legal resource of the state court had been exhausted and he was still deprived of a constitutional right. I can understand why the Supreme Court members denied Mooney's application for habeas corpus that is the Supreme Court of the state why they concluded that due process the Supreme Court of the United States why they concluded that due process had been observed in the California court at least to the extent that the state courts had afforded Mooney a corrective process. I can also understand why associate justices Reed and Black descended from the majority when the Supreme Court of the United States without an opinion denied Mooney in hearing that. I can understand Justice Langdon's descending opinion but I cannot understand how a majority of the California Supreme Court upon the record presented in the habeas corpus proceedings could fail to grant a petition because my conclusions from the record before me agree with Justice Langdon's dissenting opinion. Of all the other court decisions all of the other court decisions were entirely legalistic and formal. Not once did they express the opinion of the judges as to the actual guilt or innocence of the defendant. California law does not permit the appellate court to look behind the inferior court's record of a case no matter how false. It does not consider new developments disclosing a miscarriage of justice.