And now it's 10.15 and time for another of our monthly talks on Bringing Up Baby by Dr. Leona Baumgartner, Distinguished Pediatrician and Assistant Commissioner of Health in the New York City Department of Health. This is the 10th in this series of talks, and so today, Dr. Baumgartner will concentrate on some of the questions most likely to arise when your baby is about 10 months of age. Won't you, Dr. Baumgartner? Well, I will concentrate on several problems that often arise, let's say, in the last quarter of the first year anyway. You know, I'm afraid some listeners have missed the point that I've tried so hard to make, and that is that no two babies are exactly alike, and that while growth and development is an orderly process, normal babies do differ a lot, just exactly as their parents do. You sound as though you've been getting letters saying, You said nine-month-old babies can stand. My James can't. What shall I do? Exactly. Of course, what I did say was that a baby can usually sit at nine months, some of them can stand, and some can even walk with help. At 10 months, more of them can stand, and a few more can walk with help, and some even take a step or two alone. Most babies actually will not walk alone until they're about 15 months of age. As I understand it, a healthy infant will do what he is ready to do. He will do some things before other babies his age, and still other things more slowly. Yes, you're exactly right, Mr. Tomei. You know, you're going to be an awfully good father if you can hold on to that idea in bringing up your daughter Patricia. The important thing is not to rush babies. Just allow them enough freedom to do the things at their own speed. You should encourage their efforts to acquire new skills, of course, but don't push them. Dr. Baumgartner, you said last time that you would talk about shoes for babies. Isn't this a good time to do it? Well, I guess it is. Now, let's see. First of all, shoes under normal conditions are unnecessary until the child is walking alone. Before that, they serve only one purpose. They keep feet warm. Now, since woolen booties or socks serve the same purpose and are less confining and certainly less extensive, they seem sensible to use. Well, how about when the baby stands? Then it's sometimes hard to keep booties on. In that case, soft leather shoes with soft soles are useful so long as they're big enough and wide enough. When the baby does walk alone and on hard surfaces, that's the time to get his first real shoes. Semi-soft soles are probably best at first as they give the baby's feet a chance to grow normally. The shoes really need not be expensive to be entirely satisfactory. I suppose the best assurance of a proper fit is a good shoe salesman. But is there a simple way of checking up on him? Yes, and it's a good idea to know about it. Because at this age, baby's feet grow so fast, it's wise to think of buying new shoes almost before the old ones are entirely worn out. You know, having room for the growing feet is the most important thing wearing out the shoes is not. There should be more than just enough space for the toes. High shoes give the best support, don't they? No, not necessarily. At least if the child's foot is normal. The great advantage of high shoes is that they stay on small children and stay on better than low shoes do. On the other hand, the low shoes are easier for mother to slip on and off. You say if the child's foot is normal. How can you tell? Well, you probably can't, Mr. Tomein, but a doctor can. And examination of the feet and legs is part of the checkup that the baby gets on his routine visits to the family doctor or to the child health station. If a corrective shoe is needed, the doctor will prescribe it himself, or he'll refer the baby to an orthopedist. Well, real deformity can be terribly costly, can't it? I know some friends of ours have a child with a club foot. They've spent a fortune to have it corrected. Luckily, they can afford it. But what would happen if they had little or no money? Oh, goodness, I'm glad you happened to ask me that question. You know, I'm really proud to say that no handicapped child has to go untreated in this city because of lack of funds. The federal government, through the Social Security Act, together with the state and the city, will pay for hospital care and also for appliances for any child under 21 years of age who needs this help. Of course, there are some restrictions. For instance, care is paid for only in those hospitals which can really give good special care. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Which hospitals are these? Well, the list is too long to give here. But if any parent listening has any questions about aid for handicapped children, they may write to me or to Dr. Eva Landsberg. She's head of the Division for Physically Handicapped Children in our New York City Health Department. You know, I don't quite remember how we came around to talking about this, but I'm awfully glad we did. I sometimes think that I get so interested in babies, I neglect to publicize all the services our health department offers the public. And of course, our main object, you know, is to serve the public. But I don't want to steer right back so quickly, Doctor, but we've gotten away from our 10-month-old babies today. Can I say, is there any real difference between a 9- and a 10-month-old baby? Well, for any one child, yes, indeed. New accomplishments come every day at this age. It may be, oh, doing a new trick, making a new sound, having a new fear. There's always something. And it's a little harder to give a general description that will fit a 10-month-old baby and not a 9-month-old one. Differences aren't quite as apparent now. Well, babies, you know, just aren't growing as fast. Doctor, isn't there even a new food for the 10-month-old? Well, I suppose we should discuss two important ones. Egg white is often added to the diet at 10 months, though some doctors suggest waiting a little longer. Why is that? Egg white seems like such a simple food. More allergies seem to be due to egg white than any other food that is commonly offered to babies. For that reason, we put off giving it until we think most infants can take it easily. When egg white is first added to the diet, very small amounts should be tried. If no reaction occurs, that is, if it seems to agree with the baby, the quantity can be increased gradually until the whole leg is given. What is the second food you mentioned before? Fish. Fish. It's the other food that may be added to the diet at about 10 months of age if it hasn't been given earlier. Try it at lunchtime, for example, in place of meat. A white fish that is not oily is probably best, such as flounder, haddock, halibut, cod. The fish can be boiled or it can be baked and can even be broiled, just so it's tender. And then it can be mashed. But be sure, of course, that all the bones have been taken out. To improve the flavor of fish, you can add a little salt and a little butter. Do babies like fish? Some babies love it. Others refuse it, and there's no good reason to force them to eat it. But then, remember, no food should be forced. The most important thing about eating is for the baby to enjoy his food. But Dr. Baumgartner, isn't it dangerous to leave the choice of food to the baby's appetite? We read so much about nutritional deficiency diseases nowadays. I don't think so. Remember that a baby's appetite can usually be trusted so long as one offers him lots of different kinds of food. Well, do babies eat as much now as it did before? Our neighbor's baby is 11 months old. He seems to be getting fussy. She's always eaten well up to now. Oh, I'm so glad you asked that, for it's one of the most common problems parents and babies have. That is, when a baby gets to be around a year of age. But before I answer that, let me ask you one, Mr. Tomein. Do you know how much your baby is likely to gain in weight during the first year? Well, our doctor said she would just about triple her birthright. I should say weight. She weighed six pounds. So, he said she'd weigh about 18 pounds when she was one year old. Right. And you go to the head of the class. But can you guess what happens the second year? Well, if she kept growing that fast, she'd be a funny-looking child. I guess she'd pop right out of her skin. Right again, Mr. Tomein. But now let's see what the moral of this story is. If a baby is growing rapidly, he or she is making lots of new skin and bones and muscles. To build a body takes food. And so, in rapidly growing periods, more food is needed. Can you remember how much you ate when you were going to high school? Then you, too, were growing fast. You needed food. You were hungrier. Now, the opposite is true, too. When growth is less rapid, less food is needed. And when growth begins to slow down at around a year, you can expect a decrease in appetite. The baby is wise enough to take less. I suppose that's where parents get into trouble. They don't know that the baby needs less, so they worry and try to force them to eat. Exactly. And right there, we often cause babies to become fussy eaters, old refusers, feeding problems, whatever you want to call them. I hope I remember that until Patricia Elizabeth is that old. Yes, remember that babies have their own ideas of what and how much they like to eat, just as they do about what they want to play with or where they want to go. They may make a big fuss and clamor to assert themselves if they don't get what they want. Do babies of 10 months old have temper tantrums? Well, they often display temper, and no wonder. You know, it must be very annoying to a baby when he cannot reach something attractive that he sees, or when something nice is suddenly jerked away from him. Naturally, he feels badly, and he may cry and he may kick, being taken out of his bath when he's having fun splashing, or away from a new toy whose possibilities he's just begun to explore may get him into a real temper so that he will fight and scream and throw himself around. These are really not bad traits, of course. They're normal. What's the best way to handle this problem? Well, I'd try giving the baby a word of warning before things are taken away. I'd do it gently, too, and I'd give in a little to his wishes. For example, let him have a few minutes longer in the tub. Suggest something different for him to play with. Show respect for him as a person. That's the main thing. Then, if he does really show temper, oh, ignore it as calmly as you can. Probably he'll get over his rage pretty rapidly. Unless, of course, he's ill or overtired. Well, Doctor, it's my impression that it's usually the parents, not the babies, who are overtired. Ooh, Mr. Tomei, that was spoken like the father of a very young infant. Your baby is only two months old now, isn't she? That's right. Well, she'll probably soon be sleeping most of the night. But many babies do begin to have trouble sleeping again, somewhere between 9 and 18 months of age. They may have trouble getting to sleep, or else they may begin waking up during the night. It's almost as if they had to learn a new way of settling down to sleep. Sometimes it seems as if they dream, too, at night, or they suddenly wake up crying, perhaps a number of times during the night. Some babies who went to sleep happily when they were younger now cry. If a baby does not settle down after 15 or 20 minutes, it's quite all right for his mother to go to him and comfort him and be sure nothing's wrong. But won't that spoil the baby? No, I don't think so. Not when he feels lonely and restless or frightened. Then he should be comforted. Sometimes just seeing his mother, hearing her voice will reassure him. Maybe leaving the light on. Of course, all those exciting games of rough house with Daddy will keep any child from sleeping very well, or at least feeling sleepy. So do try to have a quiet time, singing or talking, before baby's put down for the night. Well, it takes a lot of patience and understanding to be a good parent, doesn't it? Yes, it certainly does. But, of course, even the best parents get cross sometimes. But parents usually are successful when they try to understand what the child wants to do and why. And they try to keep him happy, not to show him who's boss. Success in bringing up children requires neither perfect children nor perfect parents, but a relationship of mutual confidence and affection that enables the children to grow and learn happily. Well, the time is almost gone, Dr. Baumgartner. Before I go, I do want to thank all of you who sent me your suggestions and your questions and your comments. I'm trying to answer your questions, at least some of them, and follow some of your suggestions, too. You know, I find your letters very helpful in planning these programs. Do let me hear from more of you. Goodbye. Thank you, Dr. Baumgartner. Dr. Leona Baumgartner will be with us again on Tuesday, November 9th, at the same time. To tell us more about babies in general, and 11-month-old babies in particular, Dr. Baumgartner is Assistant Commissioner of Health of the New York City Department of Health. She is in charge of maternal and child health services, and if you wish a transcript of this or any of the previous talks in this series, send your request to Dr. Baumgartner, care of the Department of Health, at 125 Worth Street, New York 13. Certainly, Mr. Whelan. We have suggested a series of shadow boxes, and two of them should show water protecting us from fire and sickness. As for industry, the water is used for everything, from washing and steaming spinach to dying spring dresses. Hanging spring dresses. Hanging spring dresses. Have you any notes for those shadow boxes, Commissioner Hesterburn? Boxes, Commissioner Hestercoe, shadow boxes, Commissioner Hesterburn? Yes, I've got it down one suggestion for Mr. Whelan. Oil conditioning is one of the newest industries that requires large amounts of water. A unit large enough to cool a medium-sized restaurant. Needs 100 gallons of water a minute. I have a memo here, Mr. Whelan, about an industry that some people might overlook. The breweries and soda water plants. Why, I checked up on our meter readings this morning, and found that one soda water plant used a million cubic feet of water in one year. Very impressive. Very impressive. But don't detain me too long at one part of your exhibit, Mr. Canella. I'd like to review the rest of your plans. Very well, Mr. Whelan. And next, the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity offers an aquarama. An aquarama? Yes. As the sign over the entrance will say, that is a stratospheric view of the city of New York's vast water supply system. You will stand on a platform above a model of New York's watershed, and with the mountains and valleys and strategic lakes and rivers below your feet. Light bulbs will trace the sources of the water, at Ashokan and Skahari, and then follow it along its 130-mile rock tunnel. Do you know, Mr. Whelan, that the tunnel shoots straight under one side of the Hudson River, travels beneath the bed, and then comes up on the other side? There will be a lecture in the aquarama explaining facts just like that to the visitors. Just a moment, Commissioner Canella. Yes, Chief Kelly. Of course, I have nothing to do with your water exhibit. But I hope that you will describe the slope of the tunnel from its 300-feet elevation at Ashokan Reservoir. As an engineer, I've always admired the ingenuity of that route. I agree with Mr. Kelly. Why New York saves millions of dollars because the water gathers enough force to rise in the pipes to the six-story level. Other cities pay fortunes for pumping. We let the water coat. Tell the people of the Golden Anniversary Exposition that, Commissioner Canella. Yes, Mr. Whelan. Our lecturer will describe that system. While light bulbs blink on and off to show the storage reservoirs and the chlorinating plants and the laboratories. We might mention some of our less important and more startling facts, Commissioner Canella. I suppose most people realize that when we turn a valley into a lake, we cut down every tree and every fence and every house. But do you supposedly know that we remove the graveyard and re-interred the bodies? How about your exhibit, Commissioner Hesterberg? I have a memoranda that the Board of Water Supply will have a rock tunnel. Actually, Mr. Whelan, our tunnel will be made of paper mache. But it will be a perfect half-scale model of the rock tunnel that connects the brooks in the Catskill Mountains and the washstands in this building. Anyone who steps inside will learn about the longest rock tunnel on the planet. That should jolt the people who take water for granted. Our sign over the entrance is a warning. Abandon all complacency about water for ye who rent it. By the time they pass through the Hall of Water Wizardry, they look at forces with a new respect. The Hall of Wizardry? It is wizardry to pour a billion gallons of water a day through the concrete of the largest city in the world. One of the purposes of the golden anniversary is to instill a sense of the wonders that our government works every day and a pride in our city wizards. Around the walls of the tunnel, we'll have photo murals showing the wizards at work. I think that we should have pictures of the Delaware Project so that people who realize that we're planning today for the decades to come. You might use statistics, Commissioner Hesterberg, to impress New Yorkers with your project, which is their project. Could you tell me how much extra water will come from these tributaries of the Delaware River? Yes, sir. About 540 million gallons. 540 million gallons each day, that is. Mr. Whale, do you know that the Delaware Project required the cooperation of enough government agencies to staff of 49 states? Or do you know that the Sandhogs removed enough muck to cover 200 city blocks with a layer 5 feet thick? There's precisely what I mean. New York City is making a stupendous effort to keep abreast of the New York citizens' love for water. The golden anniversary must tell the people. How about the dangers involved in digging a rock tunnel, Commissioner Hesterberg? That should be a dramatic story. Dangers? Well, tunneling is full of it. But the Delaware Project has a fine safety record. There weren't very many deaths, although every man who drilled in the tunnel was constantly threatened by falling rock. Railroad cars might swing around too rapidly and crush the workers. And of course, there's always danger where there's dynamite. I've heard that your safety record was excellent, though, considering the tremendous amount of explosives that you used. Well, Mr. Whelan, let me describe that tremendous amount. We've used the equivalent of 50 million sticks of dynamite. If those sticks were laid in to win, they'd stretch from the north to the south pole. To remind people of the dangers involved in bringing them a drink of water, we have boxes outside our tunnel at the exposition labeled dynamite. Fine. But I'd like to leave the tunnel now and learn about your plans for the Rip Van Winkle Tavern. Can you describe it in any detail, Commissioner Canelo? Why, surely, Mr. Whelan. It'll be a cabin, a little old-fashioned cabin complete with a rain barrel and a lantern. We might even have a model of Rip Van Winkle sitting on a bench outside the door. After all, our water comes from the Catskill Mountains, and he's practically that district's patron saint. Inside the cabin, you'll serve croak and cocktails and Delaware delights? Yes, sir. In rainbow-colored cups. And after seeing and hearing so much about water, the visitors should be thirsty for some samples. Commissioners, I'll approve these tentative plans for Operations H-2O. And now, I'm ready to review the progress of the electrical display. First of all, I'm determined to have every main heart tree go out, illuminated with golden globes for New York's golden anniversary. Fifth Avenue, the Avenue of the Americas, Grand Concourse, a golden light should shine over all of them. Ten thousand golden street lamps. Are you working on that project, Mr. Kelly? Yes, Mr. Whalen, we've tried dozens of kinds of golden paint. The problem isn't easy, because the paint must be opaque and heat-resistant. I'd suggest that we use colored glass for our globes, or golden bulbs instead. Use any material that will provide the golden effect, Mr. Kelly. But I want every main avenue transformed into a runway for our golden anniversary stage. By the way, Commissioner Canella, we're using electricity for another spectacular effect. Outside Grand Central Palace, we'll have gigantic glowing signs, the golden anniversary and signal in full color. There'll be a, there'll be steam within those signs, and when the light shines, that steam will become a golden halo. The footlights for your stage, Mr. Whalen. Well, now, how about the electrical exhibit at Grand Central Palace, Mr. Canella? I'm sure that you and Mr. Kelly have some unusual plans. Would you like a three-dimensional scale model of a city street, Mr. Whalen, showing lighting effects? Yes, indeed. At the Silver Jubilee, when I was Commissioner of Plant and Structures, we had an illuminated model of the Brooklyn Bridge, and it was a very effective exhibit. I suppose that lights would shine through the windows of your buildings. Yes, Mr. Whalen. And street lamps will turn on and off. I hope we'll have miniature cars actually rolling across the exhibit. As for buildings, we'll have an apartment house, and stores, and a movie theater. What else can you remember, Chief Kelly? Well, there'll be a firehouse, police stations, to illustrate the fact that we're responsible for lighting public buildings, and there'll be a section of the street cut away to show gas and electrical ducts splicing and transforming manholes. I suppose that most people don't realize that 13,000 volts pass under their feet. 13,000? But only one of 200 volts enter our home. You might say that we use a volcano to light our bonfires. Why, Mr. Whalen, we have conductors carrying 130,000 volts passing under the Merrick Road in Queens. That's large enough to supply a city of one million people with electricity. Or to light our homes and our streets and cook our meals and run our radio. Your exhibit for the golden anniversary sounds excellent, Miss Kelly. But now, how will you show all the different electrical services that New York City provides? I'd suggest, Mr. Whalen, that we have a lighted panel in the sky of our street where we could flash messages. For instance, first we'd light all the lamps in the streets and buildings. A sign in the panel would describe all the $14 million services rendered by the Bureau of Gas and Electricity. Then the lights would be turned off and only the street lamps would be turned on again while the panel said that we provide lights for 5,700 miles of streets. The old lampposts could light the highways from here to San Francisco and back, couldn't they? Every visitor to the golden anniversary exposition should realize before he leaves your exhibit that he couldn't drive without your traffic signals. he wouldn't be safe from fire if there were no lights on top of fire alarm boxes, that he wouldn't be safe from burglars if the streets were dark at night. You were, you protecting him every minute of his life, Commissioner Canella. With 200 million kilowatt hours of electricity, yes, Mr. Whalen, at our exhibit, we'll try to impress the people with the progress that the city has made in 50 years, from gas lamps to bulbs as bright as 1,000 candles and tell the visitors that their street lights are regulated by astronomical clocks inside the lamppost. That fascinates me to think that these clocks are fully automatic, changing their timing daily to turn street lamps off and on to meet the rising and setting of the sun. There's an isolated fact in the drama of electricity. Yes, you'll have an important and vital exhibit for the golden anniversary. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but our time on the year is over. The meeting will continue, but we'll have to move our microphones away from the conference room of the Honorable Robert E. Whalen, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, for the commemoration of the golden anniversary. Tonight, Mr. Whalen has discussed plans for one of the 102 exhibits of the Grand Central Palace Exposition. Commissioner Henry Hesterberg of the Board of Water Supply, Commissioner John Canella of the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, and Nicholas Kelly, Chief Engineer of Light and Power. Students from the J. Yoff School of Music played a quintet by Brahms. Next week, the Education Committee will make its report to the Chairman. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.