Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is your Chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, speaking to you from the heart of New York City in the Cooper Union Great Hall. I am very delighted to greet those of you who are here tonight to open our series on the time for decision, and also we send special greetings to our fine WNYC audience. The International Implications of the Election. Mr. William G. Hetherington, speaker tonight. Mr. Hetherington is news analyst and foreign correspondent of the Newark Evening News. Mr. Hetherington has had the opportunity during the past years to be in most of the hot spots of Europe and the Near East. Vienna, Trieste, Berlin, Blockade, the Ruhr, the riots in Italy, the war between Israel and the Arabic states. He's watched the birth of Israel. He has been through all of the turmoil since World War II on the other side. He also appears on some program, some program that's fairly well thought of on some other network that I won't mention, seemingly. But it is a very good program. In addition to lecturing and radio and television, he does a great deal of writing and, of course, a very fine and excellent foreign correspondent, I'm delighted that he is here to speak on the international implications of the election, Mr. William G. Hetherington. Thank you, Professor Fairchild. Ladies and gentlemen, four weeks from tonight, we shall know the outcome of this presidential campaign. One of the most critical, if not the most critical, in all our history. And what a shame it is that today there should be a smokescreen over the one issue which transcends all others. And that issue is American foreign policy. And the smokescreen is thickened not only by the lesser issues that we've had to put up with, but by the candidates themselves. Think of the amount of campaign time we have had to spend figuring out people's expense accounts. We have Mr. Nixon's fund, Mr. Stevenson's fund, and even General Eisenhower's tax exemptions. For a while there, it took a certified public accountant to tell you just which candidate was doing what. Think of the amount of campaign time that we have had to spend deciding for ourselves which candidate is the captive of what. Think of the fact that Mr. Eisenhower is Mr. Eisenhower, the captive of some old guard, or is Mr. Stevenson the captive of a frightful mess in Washington? Think of the fact that Mr. Eisenhower is a very important thing. Think of the fact that Mr. Eisenhower is a very important thing. Think of the fact that Mr. Eisenhower is a very important thing. More important than that, let's think of this. Think of how millions of people all over the world are reacting to this campaign. Think of the fact that Mr. Eisenhower is a very important thing. They are very important, and he doesn't mean to the synagogue to the speaker. They must be baffled, just as we should be baffled, because they know, and we should know, the vital importance of American foreign policy to the worldwide fight we're trying to wage against Soviet communism. I think we have a perfect right, we here in America, and every freedom-loving person anywhere in this world, all of us have a perfect right to ask, are the real facts of foreign policy being debated and being laid on the line in this campaign? I don't think they are, and I should like to give you my reasons why. But before that, may I say that this is going to be a completely impartial and non-partisan analysis, which is something unusual, I'm to assure you. I know that none of you came here tonight to hear me deliver a commercial for one party or the other. I don't intend to do that. My purpose here tonight is very simple. I should like to point out to you where both candidates are getting away with murder when it comes to debating the real issues of foreign policy. And may I say too that I have the greatest respect for both candidates. I think we Americans are very fortunate that we have two such men as Dwight Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson competing for the president. Each man has superior talents. But unfortunately for us right now, each man happens to be a political candidate, which means that he is under terrific pressure of a political campaign. That's what makes it quite easy for me to be impartial and non-partisan. Because on foreign policy, both candidates talk in generalities and not in specifics. Because both candidates are in a very awkward position politically. Let's take Mr. Stevenson. Mr. Stevenson must stand on what has gone before. He must stand on the Democratic administration record in foreign policy. He must stand on the Democratic administration. Some of that record is good. Some of it is not good. General Eisenhower must offer something new, lest he be accused of me-tooism. And his advisors in the Republican Party have, I think, rather bitter memories of 1948 with Mr. Dewey. The net result of this is, as I said, both candidates give us the big broad picture, where you can't see anything, actually. And they don't get down to brass tacks. Now let me go from theater to theater. Let's take Europe. The Eisenhower of today. The Eisenhower of this campaign is not the enthusiastic Eisenhower, who did so much to rally Western Europe against Soviet communism. That was General Eisenhower, the commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Army, and not General Eisenhower, or I should say Mr. Eisenhower, the candidate. With Mr. Stevenson in Europe, you find that he dwells principally upon the high principles of the democratic administration programs for Europe. And they are admittedly very high. But there is a great difference between the principle of a program and the administration of a program. We have spent, or have handed out, whatever you want to call it, over 40 billions of dollars to people abroad. And most of that has gone to Europe. Mr. Stevenson doesn't talk at all about how the programs have been run. And I can assure you, as anyone who has ever been abroad and has seen the working of some of our programs, they can tell you that there are very many great faults that have cost us Americans a great deal of money and a great deal of prestige. Take the Middle East. If ever there was an area that is the area which needed a firm and definitive American policy, that is the area. It has oil and it has strategic position. It has Russia right up in the north, ready to come down. And it's wide open to Russia. Do you remember a great deal of talk we had about a Middle East defense command? That was the defense command which was to link up the Middle East with the North Atlantic Treaty in Europe. What's happened? Nothing. What about the Arab refugees which are a burning question or who make up a burning question? Nothing. How about the continuing hostility between the Arab states and Israel? Do we hear anything about that? Nothing. How about Iran? The Iranian oil. How about Egypt? Not a word. Neither candidate, neither General Eisenhower nor Adlai Stevenson has been specific about the Middle East. They've contented themselves by talking in general terms about the need for America to help underdeveloped countries through the Point Four. The Point Four. That is the Point Four program. That's fine. But don't you think we all ought to know a little bit more about what they are going to do in specific cases. Let's move on to the Far East. This is a good one. The Point Four. The Point Four. There you'll find two issues. First, it's China. And without being facetious, I might say, what happened to China? The second is, what about Korea? How did it happen? And why? If you study the speeches of both candidates very closely, you will find that Ike Eisenhower has taken a large shillelagh in his hand and he has lambasted the Far East. And he has come up with one conclusion, that the whole thing is to be blamed upon administration bungling and political incompetence. That's the answer. Don't ask any more questions. That's it. Now, Mr. Stevenson, about Korea, he says, let's start from here. Korea is a turning point for the free nations of the world. It's historic. It shows that for once the free nations can band together. And they can resist aggression. Fine. I think we all agree with that. I think it's wonderful. But he doesn't say, how come Korea in the first place? Never mind what Korea is now, it's a turning point. Good. But how come Korea began? Let's talk about that. No. No. Now, as far as China is concerned, Mr. Stevenson gives us a learned and a very profound discourse on the thinking processes of the Asiatic communist. How he thinks, what makes them, good. But how come China? What happened? Why did we lose China? Mr. Stevenson doesn't say that. He doesn't elaborate. He says, let's get on to India. Let's think of aiding India. Never mind China. But let's be a little reasonable. We voters and we Americans, we have to do a little thinking too. How can we make a success of any program in India if we cannot debate and we cannot decide where our failure was in China? They're both Asiatic countries. If we can have a good, clear, honest debate of the Chinese situation, then maybe we can say these are the errors we made. Sure, they're honest errors. People are human. You don't elect people and expect them to be paragons. What we want to know is let's talk it over. Let's find out what happened in China. Then when we go on and we put in billions maybe in India, let's have the benefit of that experience. Is it any wonder that those of us who try to think of these things might be baffled and why people abroad by the millions whose own existence depends upon what our foreign policy is going to be, when they read their papers closely and they have good coverage, they wonder where the, who's talking about what? They're not. That is, the candidates are not. I'd like to illustrate, if I may, how all this affects the thinking of people abroad. I should like to bring up the case of General Eisenhower, particularly because I'm very close to that. I spent last winter out in the Middle East, in Egypt, out in the Suez Canal zone, and in the Lebanon down in Saudi Arabia. Coming back, I spent quite a bit of time in Rome and in Paris and in London. I thought to myself, I will get myself some information. At this time, General Eisenhower was the commander of the NATO Army. He was beloved of all Europeans, as quite likely he was beloved of people all over the world, because he is a great personality. There's no doubt of that. At that time, Adlai Stevenson was virtually unknown in Europe. He was known to some people. Some statesmen knew him from World War II when he was in the State Department. He had been to London. He had been out at San Francisco at the UN conference. But Adlai Stevenson was someone that didn't exist, you might say. I asked some of these friends of mine abroad, people in whom I have great confidence as to their judgment. I said, suppose Ike Eisenhower does become a candidate for president. What do you think about it? What do you think of him as a candidate for president? Well, the consensus was that Ike, yes, they liked Ike very much. He was the champion of Europe first. He had been a spokesman for them. He had managed to keep the Truman administration, funneling the majority of our money to Europe rather than to the Far East. So they liked Ike. But some of them felt maybe it would be better if Ike were a Democratic nominee rather than a Republican. Because they remember, too, and they follow it, I think, a lot more closely than we do, the educated or politically conscious European can almost give you the voting record of Mr. Jenner, Mr. McCarthy, Capehart, Malone, the whole list of the isolationists. They can practically tell you who beats whose wife far more so, I believe, than we do know right here, particularly we in the East, as opposed to the isolationists out there. Now, that was fine. They gave me their opinions and all was for Ike. Before I left, I said, now, later on, as the campaign firms up and we do have candidates, I'd like to get in touch with you again. And I should like to have you give me your impressions as of campaigning, the campaign time. It's surprising, almost without exception, these people, very responsible people, have been in touch with me and me. The consensus is, who is this Eisenhower? We don't know him. He's not Eisenhower that we knew. It seems to be a different man. How is this? Each time I would get that impression from one of these people, it would impress upon me my own conviction. When I was outside Paris last spring at Rocancourt, which was the headquarters of the NATO army, I had a long talk with General Eisenhower. And at that time, he was enthusiastic about our policy in Europe. He did think that we were doing fine, that our relationship with the European nations was just rad. So did his staff. So did everyone close to him. But that is not the Eisenhower you hear today. I think if we analyze his speeches and his attitude now, you'll find that no longer is Ike as red hot for Europe first as he had been. He's tending now toward the Pacific. When he talked out in Cincinnati, he practically said that the Pacific theater, or the Far East, was primary rather than secondary to Europe. Now, you can detect there whose influence might be at work upon Mr. Eisenhower. Secondly, Ike Eisenhower has given a blanket endorsement to a number of isolationists, which is a nice term to use with people like McCarthy, Jenner, Kane, and the lot of them. People in Europe who are educated to these matters and who are politically conscious, they don't lose sight of these things. I don't know whether we do in the heat of a political campaign or political expediency, whether we say, okay, you take the whole lock, stock, and barrel of these characters. They're Republicans, so they're my boys. I don't know. But I know it doesn't go in Europe. Now, another point upon which Eisenhower is not at all, that is the Eisenhower of today, is not at all the Ike of before, it's his feeling now and his tendency to intrude a certain doubt in our minds that our relationship with Europe and the European states is not quite what we would like it to be. That was very new to me. And I think if any of us keep following Ike back from the time he went over to Shape headquarters, you'll see that it is. Now he injects this doubt that by our policies, are we really making friends over there or what? Another point, and probably the most important point of all with Europeans, is Mr. Eisenhower's injection of the word liberation into our campaign oratory. Now, to a European, liberation means war. And in this day, it means atomic war. He associates liberation with the roof being blown off his house, with his family being separated, with bloodshed and devastation. But General Eisenhower says now that when he talks of liberation, he is talking of peaceful liberation, of keeping the spark of hope alive in the breast or whatever the, you know, it goes out in iambic pentameter, I think, when you start out on the oratory. Fine. That's what General Eisenhower says now about his policy of liberating Eastern Europe. But there is a record, and the record is there, and we can look at it, and we can check it right now. To begin with, in August, General Eisenhower appeared before the American Legion Convention right here in New York. During his speech, he said, America should never rest easy while the people of Eastern Europe are in bondage to Soviet Russia, or words to that effect. At the same time, he minimized and disparaged the containment policy of President Truman and Secretary of State Acheson, and I might say a containment policy which had been most enthusiastically supported by Mr. Eisenhower until the time he became a candidate. With this liberation, when you, as far as Ike is concerned, personally, when he introduced that in his speech here in New York, I think that every one of us who had ever been close to him, who had ever heard him talk, wondered, what is this? this is really something new, and we could all detect the fine hand of John Foster Dulles, who is now the ranking foreign policymaker in the Republican Party. After General Eisenhower had made this speech here in New York, I think two or three days later, Mr. Dulles himself went to Detroit and he said, in effect, I shall explain to you what Ike meant back in New York. This is what he meant, says Mr. Dulles. First, we shall use every propaganda device that we have, the Voice of America, the Central Intelligence Agency, all our different means and methods of getting into people, and we shall whip up the spirit of resentment first and then the spirit of resistance in Eastern Europe against Russia. That was point number one. Number two, he said, once we do have that resistance, once we do have the groups together, and these must naturally be partisan groups, resistance groups, we will help them. We shall help them in every way we can. And then, to be more specific, he said, even if we have to send in airdrops, in other words, planes going in and helping. I don't like to be facetious, but I should like to ask you to picture a plane, or two, or three, or four, flying in over Czechoslovakia, and underneath the plane, on its wings, is a sign saying, this is not the U.S. Air Force, this is the Committee of Free Europe, a civilian organization, because Mr. Dulles says, we won't send the army in, but we will send civilian people in, to help the partisans. It sounds ridiculous, and it is ridiculous. Well, there was so much resentment against that, both here in the Democratic Party, and in Europe, that when Eisenhower, went to Philadelphia, he cut it right down, and said, there's absolutely no violence, implicit in my program, of liberation. But when you talk to a European, as I said before, you cannot sell in, on liberation, by pamphlets, liberation, by shortwave broadcasts. The only way he knows, of liberation, or the only means, is by guns. And another thing, the average European, and frankly, ourselves too, should give a lot of thought, to this, to the provocation, of Russia, which liberation implies. whether this liberating campaign, might not possibly, be provoking Russia, into a war, that not even the Russians, would want, but they'd have to go into, purely as a matter of prestige. So you can imagine, how the people in Europe feel, when they associate, this line of thought, with Eisenhower, their dear friend. Now lest I be accused, of being overly harsh, with General Eisenhower, may we go on, to Mr. Stevenson. Now Adlai Stevenson, to the minds, of many Europeans, is taken as, character A, an intellectual, fine, they like intellectuals. character B, the man, who most closely, follows, a program, which they have known, and approve of, and that is, American aid to Europe. Europe first. That's fine, for the Europeans. But I think, we Americans, should go in, a little deeper, and think a little more. of, we should not only, think of, Stevenson, as a proponent, of the, Truman program, in general, but let's, look at the programs, themselves, and let's look, at the administration, of them. I don't think, I should put it this way, I think history, will show, that the Truman doctrine, of aid to Greece, and Turkey, the Marshall Plan, the North Atlantic, Treaty Alliance, the Mutual Security Program, which we now have, and the Point Four Program, those are going, to go down in history. There's no doubt, of it whatever. They are the most, statesmanlike programs, we could conceive. But we Americans, must think beyond, the program, and its principle. Let's think, of the administration, of that program. Then let's ask, shall we say, let's ask Stevenson, to discuss it. What would he do? Has he any ideas, about the administration? As I pointed out before, the administration, of many of these programs, has cost us, a great deal in money, and a great deal, in prestige. Now there's the case, of Premier de Gasperi, in Italy. He is a strong, and a good, anti-communist, but he certainly, made us, eat crow. At the time, that I have in mind, Lee Dayton, was the, director of ECA, that is the Marshall Plan Agency, in Italy. And Lee Dayton, was confronted, with a problem. He was, administering, a tremendous amount, of money, that we were, putting into Italy. At the same time, de Gasperi, was taking the money, and, pressing, certain financial policies, which were designed, to strengthen, the lira, which, benefited, a comparatively, small group, of business people, and bankers. And it did not, sop up, the two million, unemployed, that Italy had. And that was, our big concern, because, those two million, unemployed, always give us trouble, when the communists, decide to stir them up. Now, Dayton, had gone to de Gasperi, and he had asked him, privately, please relax, your policies, have freer credit, stimulate industry, let people, set up new businesses, and hire people. Get them off, this constant, dole. De Gasperi, turned them down. Well, Lee Dayton, shortly thereafter, was at a, meeting of businessmen, and in the course, of the discussion, with them, he mentioned, his philosophy, quite innocently. He said, I wish, I wish, you people, could influence, your government, to loosen up, on the credit. It was a very, moderate, remark, that he made. Yet, when de Gasperi, heard about it, he blew his top, he went right, to the American embassy, he said, get this man, Dayton, out of here, out of Italy, mind you, the boss of ECA, the, the goose, that's laying the golden egg, get him out, his persona non gratta, and he was so angry, that he said, I, I think that even, the ECA, should be out of here. Well, I'll tell you, how it ended. It ended, with, our, practically, apologizing, to de Gasperi, saying, please, can't we keep, Mr. Dayton here, we won't press you, again, on this matter, you go along, your own way, and we will keep, paying you. My point now, is, had we been firm, in the first place, had our policy, been administered, in Europe, in Italy, in France, with firmness, and hard headedness, a practical politician, like de Gasperi, would never have dared, such a frontery, as to tell, an American, he's got to go out, especially, an American, who had not, insulted his country, who had only, asked, or only suggested, in the very, best of intentions, something, which he thought, could help. So, for all of Europe, we ate crow, because, if we didn't, read much about it, in this country, you can bet, your life, everybody, in Europe, read about, about the, great United States, taking it, right on the chin, from Italy, whose mortgage, we had right, in our back pocket, and who would be, down the drain, if it hadn't been, for us. Now, I'd like to point out, another, fault, if you want to call it that, in administration, that, Stevenson, can talk about, so can Eisenhower. Why they don't talk about them, I don't know, and that's my point tonight. I was checking, on these airfields, that we're building, in France. Now, we have, an agreement, with the French government, under which, we are allowed, to fly a flag, over an airfield, provided, we pay for it, of course. When we build, an airfield, naturally, we are building it, for the joint defense, of Western Europe, and we have, our own interest, but, essentially, it is for the defense, of France, and the low countries, and in Italy, just as much, as it is, for our interest. Well, this agreement, which was, finally worked out, gave France, complete title, to the ground, to every installation, upon it. It gave France, the authority, and the right, to issue, all contracts, on building up, the installation, road, you know, road grading, and, all building, and construction, and also, to hire, the labor, and that's, important. Now, when I got to, Marignac, it was, Marignac, Marignac, airfield, it's near Bordeaux, here was a situation, where we were paying, under French contract, mind you, almost, $1,000, for what's called, a tent frame, that's about, 16 by 32 feet, maybe if any of you, have youngsters, who go to summer camp, you've seen them there, it's a flat platform, it has some boards, around the side, and a roof, and the rest of it, is enclosed, with canvas. It's, it's a very, rudimentary, piece of carpentry, $1,000, a piece, roughly. They had a latrine, there, or no, they had three latrines, is it, before. For those three latrines, they paid, $25,000, and I can assure you, that for $25,000, you should be able, to have stall showers, and the most plush, walled off, Astoria, bathroom. But these GIs, didn't have it, it was not worth, $25,000. They had a recreation, hall, that cost $45,000, that you wouldn't, have given $1,500, for, to put up, for a boy scout troop, in the mountain. Never mind, how much it cost. The worst part, of it was, that, the labor, was being hired, by the French government. It was being hired, at $0.19, an hour, which was, the lowest, possible, working level, in the Bordeaux area, when all the people, around Bordeaux, and the laboring people, thought, well, here come the Americans, we know their reputation, of taking care of labor, maybe we're going, to get a break. Instead, they got, $0.19, an hour, which was less, than anybody else, in private industry, around Bordeaux, was paying. Now, no matter how much, you would tell, those working people, that the United States government, wasn't paying them, it was the French government, that had arranged it. No, they wouldn't believe it, they saw the, stars and stripes up there, and they said, well, it's the, the expression, the Salamette, the dirty American. So, there again, we take it on the chin, from the standpoint, of prestige, because, in the, actual application, of our policies, we aren't firm enough, with these countries. These are hard-headed, people abroad, they bargain, and if you don't, bargain with them, they wonder, either, are you an idiot, or, or, what is it you have, up your sleeve? Now, about the Far East, not the Far East, the Middle East. Here again, we find that neither, Eisenhower, or Stevenson, has said, one single word, about the way, our prestige, has deteriorated, from the end of World War II, to today. You couldn't possibly find, a plunge, deeper, than we have experienced, in the Middle East. It started out, I would say, at the time, of, the, the partitioning, problem, in the United Nations, that is, the partitioning of Israel. Here's what we did, as American policy. We tried, to be friends, with the Arabs, and we tried, to be friends, with the Jews, at the same time. We ended up, not only, alienating the Arabs, completely, but certainly, by trying, the patience, of the Israelis, who were out there, trying to defend themselves, with homemade guns. I went out, to cover that war, in fact, I had worked, in the Middle East, for the government, incidentally, during the war, from 44 to 46. So, I had a great, many friends, among the Arab people. I had been up to Palestine, back and forth, to litter, but, I didn't know, many of the Jewish leaders, at the time. Mostly, on the Arab side. So, when I went to Cairo, just before the, the flare up, of the Arab Jewish hostilities, all these Arabs, in the Arab League headquarters, were hammering at me, saying, what is the matter, with you Americans? What have you got, against us? And, I would point out, to them, that we had, put an arms embargo, which hurt the Jews, not the Arabs. The Arabs, had all the arms, they could use, but the Jews didn't. And the arms embargo, that we put on the Jews, grievously, hurt the Jews. And I told that, to these Arabs, and they said, never mind the arms embargo, you agreed, to the partitioning, of Israel, or of Palestine. They forgot, about the embargo. They only harped, on our agreement, to the partitioning, of Palestine. Now, when I went over, on the Jewish side, in Tel Aviv, there you find, a different situation. The Jews say, why do you have, the embargo? You're keeping us, from getting arms, from defending ourselves. So you try, to defend your own country, and your own policy. And you say, but now wait a minute. Alright, we do have, an arms embargo, but after all, we did, swing our weight, as a nation, toward the petitioning. which was, largely instrumental, in, in your being here now, and setting up your state. Well, you can't blame them, for saying, well, what is this? Are you with us, or against us? Fine, you help us, with the embargo. or rather, you help us, with the, the petitioning declaration, but then you hurt us, with the embargo. Then if you listen, over to the Arabs, they'll say, what is this? You're making friends, with us? You recognize the Jews, and, you put an arms embargo, on them, so what? We end up, getting nowhere, in the Middle East. Absolutely nowhere. Now, as far as, Iran, and, and, Egypt are concerned, I don't know, what our policy is. We follow the British there, but we follow them, it seems to me, rather blindly. Because, there are two different, situations. Egypt, has abrogated, an international treaty, with Britain, which is something, that we, in the family of nations, you have to have, law, and, abidance to law, that's why we have, policemen. You cannot, break, international treaties. That's what, Egypt did. So, we backed Britain, on that. Fine. But, when it comes to Iran, Iran, had an agreement, with a commercial, company. That commercial, company, the Anglo-Iranian, oil company, happened to have, 51% of its stock, owned by, the British government. Now, when Britain, was inclined, to treat, the oil company, as a private company, it did. It did, from the time, of the, the Darcy, concession, when they bought, the concession, for the whole, of Iran, for $20,000, back in 19, the turn of the century. But, as soon as it becomes, a big issue now, Britain says, no, this isn't an agreement, with a private company. This is an international agreement, an abrogation, it must go into the world, call it. Well, I'm not, I don't stand here, and try to say, what we should do, or shouldn't do, whether we should support, Britain, or not, whether we should support, Iran, or not. I only would like to say, please, let us have, the candidates, tell us, what they would do. If anyone, has read, or heard, anything, from either candidate, about the Middle East, I would love to know it. because I've been following it, very closely. Now, let's hit the Far East. Here, we find, both Stevenson, and Eisenhower, avoiding, what is probably, the key, to the whole, Far Easton situation. And that is, the Marshall, mission to China. That's when, General Marshall, went to China, in 1946. He went there, to, bring the communists, and the nationalists, together. He went away, in one year, and when he went away, one way, China went the other. And the fact remains, that the Chinese, are gone, as far as we're concerned. Five, or six hundred, million of them, went out, the window. Now, Stevenson doesn't, talk about that, because the, Republicans themselves, have played, right into his hands. McCarthy, and Jenner, to name two of them, have attacked, Marshall, not, on the record. And no man, is above, criticism, criticism, in this country. His record, should be open, to criticism. But no, they didn't, criticize the record. These fellows, McCarthy, and Jenner, and their like, they accused, Marshall, of being, a, a traitor, a front man, for communists. With the result, that people, came to Marshall's, defense, on a personal, basis, to defend, his integrity. And certainly, it's, not to say, that Marshall, was a traitor, or a front man. He was not. But whether he was, right or wrong, in China, is certainly, debatable. But the, Republicans, themselves, have raised this, and confused it, and Stevenson, of course, I don't blame him. He says, well, they fouled it up, I won't even talk about it. Eisenhower, for his case, he doesn't talk about Marshall, because Marshall, is his great, and very good friend. Marshall, has been, Eisenhower's, mentor, from years back. The whole fight, during World War II, which would get our, support, Europe, or Asia? MacArthur, on one hand, Eisenhower, on the other. Marshall, always helped Ike. I don't blame, Eisenhower, for not wanting, to go out, and check, too closely, on this man, from a personal basis. I don't blame him. Now, what Eisenhower, chooses to do, is to attack, Atchison, and say, that Atchison, was the one, who withdrew, troops, from Korea, in 1949, and who, made a speech, which, as he said, encouraged the Russians, to come in. But what, Eisenhower does not say, is that, in 1949, under the Unification Act, that new act, bringing all the services, together, General Eisenhower, by law, was the president's, chief military advisor. Truman, had gotten him, out of Columbia, to come back, and be the chairman, the first chairman, temporary, but first, of the joint chiefs, of staff. So, under the law, Eisenhower, actually, was the chief advisor, to the president, who made the policy, of withdrawing troops. I'd like to hear, more about that. I don't say, he's right or wrong, but I think, all of us, should hear more about it. Now, I hope from all this, that you understand, what I mean, by there being, a smoke screen, over foreign policy. The candidates, as I said, are certainly, the most highest type. But they have advisors. They're in political campaigns. Their advisors say, look, get in the White House, the best way you can, with a minimum of trouble. They also raise, that political axiom, they ain't gonna hang you, for what you don't say. So it ends up, whose fault is it? It's our fault. Actually, it is our fault, that we have not had, a fuller exposition, of the issues, of foreign policy. Maybe we can do something, about it, I don't know. But if we get the chance, let's try to. Let's not, like this incredible experience, of Eisenhower, on that TV interview, when people had a chance, to ask him questions, some idiot said, do you have your own barber? And, and, and someone else said, does Mamie pick out, your neckties? Now, here we are, in the middle of a campaign, on television, all over the country, listening, to that sort of rut. So I think, if we'll try, to do something about it, smoke them out, at meetings, don't let them make a speech, just say, make the speech, that long, and give us, that much question period. And I think, if we do that, I'm sure, we'll be performing, the greatest, possible service, to this country, we all love so much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.