Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the opportunity of representing the people of the City of New York at these ceremonies today, and I want to thank all those who have participated in this splendid program. In the light of the national and international anxieties which exist today, it should be a great source of satisfaction to every serious-minded American to know the constant and diligent efforts that are being made to ensure our national strength and our national security. This observance of National Security Week should stimulate in each and every one of us the sense of civic obligation that is a prerequisite of our claim to American citizenship. For in the final analysis, the strength and security of a nation is measured by the attitudes and the actions of its individual citizens. New York is the greatest city of our nation, and it is incumbent upon the citizens of our city, therefore, to set an example that proudly asserts the sense of national duty that is ours. Mayor O'Guardia has issued a proclamation calling upon the people of our city to alert themselves to their responsibilities and their duties in the interests of national security. And I think it is very appropriate that I read his proclamation at this time. Proclamation. Whereas for the past 26 years, the Reserve Officers Association of this city has observed the period of February 12 to February 22 inclusive as National Security Week, and whereas this year the Navy Chapter of the Reserve Officers Association is conducting this observance in the city of New York, and whereas the current unrest and uncertainty which grips the world poses a constant threat to our nation and our traditions of freedom, and places grave responsibilities upon our nation's leaders, and whereas the need for preserving our national strength is recognized by all of our peoples and brings responsibilities of equal import to every community and to every individual citizen, Now, therefore, I, William O'Guardia, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim the period of February 12 to February 22, 1949, as National Security Week, during which the United States flag shall be displayed on all city buildings, and I do earnestly request that every citizen of our city give every cooperation to the observance of National Security Week and give prayerful consideration to the duties facing us all. Signed, William O'Guardia, Mayor. Thank you.