Good evening, this is Gabriel Pressman welcoming you to the first edition of the WNYC Campus Press Conference. Every week at this time, the editors of four college newspapers will interview a prominent person in the news. Tonight, our guest is Dr. George Counts, a professor at Columbia University and the Liberal Party candidate for United States Senator from New York. On hand to interview Dr. Counts are Miss Estelle Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Irvin Chafkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University, Don Himes of the Columbia Spectator, and Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. And now to get the campus press conference underway. Panel members, are you ready with the first question? Mr. Chafkin? Dr. Counts, I wonder if you tell us to start, what in your opinion is the effect of your candidacy on the Democratic candidates for president, the Stevenson-Sparkman ticket here in New York? Yes, Mr. Chafkin, I'm very glad to answer that question. It's a question that's been asked a great many times. And the answer, I think, is this. It is our conviction that the running of a separate candidate, an independent candidate, by the Liberal Party means a strengthening of Stevenson's chances in the state of New York. Does that answer your question, Mr. Chafkin? Well, I'd like to ask further that if Dr. Counts feels that way, why is it that Governor Stevenson chose to endorse the regular Democratic candidate for the Senate, Mr. Cashmore? I think the answer there simply is that he is running on the national ticket and not on the state ticket. And he is a member of the Democratic Party, and I never expected him to do anything else. I see. Miss Siegel, you have a question. I would like you to explain how it strengthens the ticket if Mr. Stevenson is remaining neutral. I don't understand how it would strengthen the ticket. Well, I think it strengthens the ticket in this way. If the Liberal Party were not running its own candidate, why, those who vote for Governor Stevenson would almost have to vote on the Democratic line and with the rest of the Democratic ticket, including Mr. John Cashmore of Brooklyn, against whom I have nothing in particular. But it is a judgment of the members of the Liberal Party that he did not add strength to the ticket. On the other hand, that he would probably cause many not to vote. Here's that ticket, and would switch over to the support of the Republican ticket and Senator Ives. So my conviction is that Stevens will get more votes on the two lines, the Democratic and the Liberal, than he could have gotten on the one Democratic line with Mr. Cashmore running for the Senate. Mr. Himes, do you have a question? Dr. Counts, has the Liberal Party ever run a candidate for a national office? That is, their own candidate. Their own candidate, not in our state. You mean a Liberal Party member. No, no, no, no, no, we have not. We have, uh, we have supported both, uh, or usually we have supported Democratic nominees for the national offices. Sometimes we have supported Republican nominees. I see, well, then why was the Liberal Party formed, I believe it was 1944, why was this party formed if it endorses the Democratic or Republican candidates in national elections? Well, the Liberal Party was formed in the state of New York in 1944, and for the purpose of maintaining the intellectual and the moral level of the candidates that were opposed for various offices. And, uh, it has confined its, well, I wouldn't say that either. I was going to say it confined its, its, uh, interests in a large, in a large major, New York. But in the elections to the presidency and to the Congress, we have inactive from, from 1944 down to this time. Mr. Deutsch. Uh, staying on a national level, Dr. Kantz, just what do you think the main issue between Eisenhower and Stevenson is? Well, I think there, there are various issues. Do you want me to spell that out? Because I come, I come from Columbia University. I know General Eisenhower personally, and I know him pretty well. And I have great regard for him. He's a very fine person. And at the, uh, the Republican convention in, in Chicago, I was pulling for General Eisenhower in that battle at the convention. And at that time, I didn't know for whom I would vote in November. The Democrats had not made, had not chosen their candidate, and so I was uncertain. But, but I, I would, I was, uh, uh, thinking in terms at that time of the forces that seemed to be back of General Eisenhower and that won in the convention. What forces? I mean, the more liberal and the, uh, and the less isolationist tendencies and forces. In the Republican Party. In the Republican Party. Well, what Mr. Deutsch wanted to know, as I understand it, is what you consider the main issue between Stevenson and Eisenhower. I'm getting to that. Yes. And I think it suggests some things that I've said about, about the two factions. At least the two factions in the, in the Republican Party. Uh, the National Committee of the Republican Party set up the convention. That National Committee was undoubtedly supporting Taft. It put on the, uh, as the main, selected as the main speakers. First, General MacArthur. And then, Herbert Hoover. And then, Senator McCarthy. Now, that, that showed, that showed to me. That that group had great power in the Republican Party. But I thought that after the convention was over, that possibly these other forces had triumphed. Now, I'm convinced that they did not. That is, I'm convinced that, uh, that Taft, Senator Taft, I have nothing against him in person, but I disagree profoundly with his policies. He is fundamentally isolationist. I would say, uh, I would say, in his outlook. That is, with regard to international affairs. And you think of that as the prime issue? Well, I would, I would say that, uh, the, uh, the issue of war or peace. The issue of international organization. The issue of building up strength in the free world. I would say that that is the first issue. In this campaign. And, uh, for, and for this obvious reason. Another war. That is, waged with the weapons that are already here and will be here in a few years. Why, it might destroy all of us. And so when I, when I hear Senator Taft saying he couldn't, he can't see why the communist control of Europe would be of a menace to us. I, I, I can't believe that man's living before 1900. That is, he thinks the oceans are still there, you see. But the oceans aren't there. That is, in a sense, in which they were for 300 years. Yes, ma'am. And so, on the, uh, I, I would say that the issue of peace. Is the, is the key. Of strengthening the free world. Of strengthening the United Nations. That is the first issue. I see. Uh, does that answer your question, Mr. Dodge? Mr. Chafkin, uh, you do have a question, I believe. Go ahead, Mr. Chafkin. Well, uh, I wanted to take you back, uh, Dr. Collins, to your own opponent. Here in New York for the moment. And ask you, uh, you've said that, uh, Mr. Cashmore, you have nothing against, uh, personally. Uh, I take it then you're aiming your principal attack against Mr. Ives. Is that correct? Yes, I would say that. Now, uh, isn't the Liberal Party, through your candidacy, uh, falling into the groove of a splinter party here in New York? With a historic, uh, uh, course of electing the opposition, uh, whom we detest the most strongly? Yeah, yeah. You, you can call us a splinter party if you wish. Well, uh, of course, we hope, we hope sometimes the Liberal Party will become the first party. It, it, it might, by working with the Democratic, with the more liberal elements in either one of the old parties, if those elements should get control of that party. Of course, now, in my opinion, neither the Democratic Party nor the political, nor the Republican Party, on the national scale, meets, satisfactorily, the situation. Well, as I understand it, I think, Mr. Chavkin, the point of your question, I hope you don't think that's a pun on splinter, but the, the, the point of your question, uh, is that, uh, in supporting, uh, Dr. Counts, you were wondering whether the Liberal Party, uh, was hurting the Democratic chances to win the, uh, state election. More, more affirmatively, was, uh, giving Mr. Ives a hand to re-election when he seems to be your principal opponent. Well, I, I, I would say that our first objective, at least my first objective, is to strengthen, strengthen, strengthen the Stephenson ticket. I, or I think we, I think we, I think we do strengthen that ticket. At the expense of a Democratic Senator? Uh, at the, at the expense, expense of this particular Democratic Senator. I see. That is, I don't think that he'd have very much strength, speaking, uh, personally, to the, uh, to the administration in Washington, in case Governor Stevenson is elected. On the other hand, if you look at Mr. Ives' record, it is, from my standpoint, it is not a good record. On the international side, it's pretty good. On the domestic side, I think it's pretty bad. Anybody? He voted, he voted, he voted for the Taft-Hartley Law. He voted, uh, uh, against price controls. He opted to, uh, to, uh, demobilize the price controls established during the war, and as soon as he got in. And he's also against the St. Lawrence Waterway, which I think is a very important matter. Did you want to follow that up, uh, Mr. Chappell? Yes, I wanted to ask, on the basis of, uh, your answer to my original question, are you then saying that the role of the Liberal Party is going to be that if the Democrats don't nominate an acceptable candidate, the Liberal Party is going to help, uh, is going to nominate its own man, even though the Republican may win as a result? Well, not, not if, not if we're satisfied the Republican candidate. As a matter of fact, as I have said, we have taken, we have supported, uh, Javits for the Congress. And if, if we could find a really liberal, uh, Republican candidate for any office, we would support him. Well, uh, I think that you might have missed the point, sir, of Mr. Chappell's question. As I understand it, maybe I missed it, too. Uh, it's that you, uh, you wonder whether the Liberal Party will, um, take the stand, if it doesn't like the Democratic candidate, that, uh, it will take a stand that, that will practically mean the election of a Republican. Is that what you mean? Particularly in this case, when it doesn't like the Republican either. That's what's especially significant. Yeah, of course, if the Republicans were putting up a man in this state, like, uh, Wayne Morris of Oregon, we would certainly support him. Well, uh, apparently then, sir, you don't, you don't feel there's much distinction between the Democrat and the Republican. No, I wouldn't say that. On the national, on the national side, uh, I believe, and I think this is, this would be true of the Liberal Party, the Democratic Party at this time probably is the best instrument, or is the better instrument of the two. Yes, sir. Uh, Ms. Siegel. The McCarran Committee has been in the headlines quite a bit lately, and I know you've come out against them. I'd like you to explain what you think is wrong with the methods of the McCarran Committee. Well, I think that the McCarran Committee, although it's an improvement over many of the other committees in its operations, I, uh, I think that the McCarran Committee has made... You're referring to the Judiciary Committee of the Senate with its internal affairs. Well, I'm also thinking of the, of the so-called McCarran Act with regard to immigration. that it seems to me that, that, uh, that Immigration Act is a bad law because of discriminations in, in the McCarran Act against certain, uh, certain, uh, races and peoples in the world. Well, considering the headlines in New York recently, we're more interested in knowing exactly what you think of the committee end of it, the part that is investigating the teachers on the various campuses here in New York. Yes. Oh, you're interested in that. Do you want to take up that, uh, uh, that question? I think you've had a little experience in that line, sir. I'm not the teachers. Uh, you, you were active, I believe, for, for many years. Are, are you still active in the American, uh, is it the American Federation of Teachers? Yes. And the, uh, Teachers Union the whole day? I don't know whether we have time here for that story, but it, it'll show my own position with regard to this matter. Well, I think, General, you've been, you've been very much opposed to, to, uh, uh, communist attempts to infiltrate... That's right. I was, I was elected president of the American Federation of Teachers in 1939, first, on the communist issue. The communists, uh, were, were endeavoring to take over the organization. It was amazing what strength they had at that time. And, uh, I wasn't interested in running for the presidency, but I was persuaded to. And we just won by a hair in that first convention at Buffalo. What year was that, sir? 39. Uh-huh. We call it, we call it the First Battle of Buffalo. And, uh, then we held a, held a second convention in the same city in 1940. And there we won overwhelmingly. Everything. And, uh, that, that, I think, showed, by the way, you might be interested in knowing that that, in that battle, which, uh... Well, you, you mean by you that the anti-communist forces were within the teachers' organization, national organization. That's right. Yes. When I say we won, I mean those anti-communist forces... Among the teachers. ...in the American Federation of Teachers. Well, what Ms. Siegel, though, is interested in, apparently, is the, uh, the recent hearings of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee in New York, at which various teachers in the school system in New York were asked whether or not they had ever been members of the Communist Party. Yeah. And, uh, some of them refused to answer, and some of them were consequently, uh, suspended. Uh, she, uh, you want to know what his reaction is to that? If that's a good way of getting back to the communism. But, uh, but I will, uh, I will say one other thing first. In 1948, the, uh, commission of the American Federation of Teachers, of which I am a member, commission on, on, uh, educational reconstruction, we adopted a resolution to the effect that a Communist Party member should not teach in the public schools. I think that we were the first organization to take that clear stand on the issue. And I do not believe that, uh, that a Communist Party member should teach in the public schools of the United States. Now, I haven't been, been following these recent hearings here of the, uh, of the McCarran Group, because I've been very busy with some other things. Uh, and I don't know just what methods they have been employing, but, uh, I, I do believe that we have to have to take, uh, take action to prevent Communists from teaching in the public schools. Mr. Deutsch. Uh, Dr. Counts, do you think that the loyalty oath as a method of discovering Communists in the school system is effective, and, uh, is it a method of which you approve? Uh, I don't think it's effective. I don't approve of it. Uh, the loyalty oath. The loyalty oath means that the teacher swears that he or she is not a Communist. That's right. A Communist Party member, I think, would take that oath without blinking an eye if that were the instruction, if that were the line to follow. And so I don't, I don't think that the loyalty oath is effective at all in dealing with this situation. I see. Mr. Himes. Well, uh, getting back to this, uh, investigation, uh, the method seems to be to ask a teacher whether or not he is or ever has been a member of the Communist Party, and if he refuses to answer on any grounds whatsoever, he is immediately, uh, expelled from the school system. Now, agreeing that, uh, we might not like to see Communist teaching in public schools or even colleges, if you want to assume that, do you still think that this is a fair way to go about, uh, finding out who they are? Well, I, I think it's well to point out that, uh, there, that there is a law on, on the books here in New York that a public employee who, employee who refused to answer questions by the administrative, city administration, its representatives, is automatically out. And that's, uh, that's, that's the law that they're invoking here in New York to handle these teachers. That's what I meant. Now, you think that is fair, because, uh, in one case, a teacher refused to answer whether he had been a Communist six years ago while he said he hadn't been one five years ago. Now, is that fair? To ask the question? Well, to take such action on, in that case, you're against the Communists themselves teaching, but... Yes. ...that doesn't mean that this person is a Communist. Well, I, I think that a teacher is under obligation to answer a question of that kind. It's serious. If we're blown up tomorrow morning, it might happen. It will be because of the operation of the Communist Party in this country during the war and immediately post-war years. That is, without the Communist Party, Klaus Fuchs could never have, uh, have gotten the secrets of the atomic bomb. So this is a serious business, and a teacher who doesn't know it's serious doesn't have enough sense to be a teacher. All right, Doctor, how about... In my opinion. Panel members, how about getting back to some of the other issues of the senatorial campaign? Uh, Mr. Chavkin. I want to get down, uh, Dr. Counts, to an issue which broke in the newspapers just this morning, uh, which is a local issue, but I'd like your opinion on it. And that is the... You mean this week, uh, earlier in the week? Yes, that's right. Well, this is Monday. Well, this is Monday. But there have been repercussions, uh, and comments from day to day during the week. Uh, and that is the redistricting which was announced just this week, um, by the administration in Albany. Yeah. And, uh, which, uh, there have been accusations, um, such as the 12th district in Brooklyn. Yeah. It looks like, um, small, uh, animals, uh, elongated to, um, unusual degrees. Mm-hmm. Gerrymandering, they call it. Yes. What do you think about that? Well, I'm against gerrymandering. I don't know much about this particular case I've been following. And I, and I wouldn't want to speak on it unless I knew, knew something of the facts. But I am, of course, gerrymandering is a very old business. I think you've got the name from a, uh, Rhode Island senator a long time ago. But, uh, this business of, of redistricting the political area so as to give, uh, one party more, more votes than it would have had under the old. So, uh, it's done so that, so the party in control can get most strength from the votes it has. And you're opposed to one? I am, I am certainly against it. Mr. Deutsch. Uh, well, this question actually. That's what this is. Yes, sir. Mr. Deutsch. This question actually should be asked by the gentleman from Columbia, Mr. Himes, but I'm also very interested in it. In view of the fact that a lot of college papers have recently come out for one presidential candidate or the other, what do you think the place of the undergraduate newspaper should be in politics? Do you think it should continue in this practice of endorsing candidates, or do you think it should keep hands off? Uh, I see no reason why the college paper shouldn't, uh, behave in this field as any other paper. That is, if the, uh, if the editorial staff, uh, takes this position or comes to this conclusion, why, it seems to me it has a right to present editorials in support of the position taken, knowing, of course, that they may be called to account, that is, by the student body. Yes, sir. How about by the president of the university? In the case of Mr. Himes, the Columbia spectator came out against General Eisenhower. Well, no, I don't think the president of the university should step in there and, uh, and take a position, and condemn the paper. In other words, you think? In other words, you think? Yes, I don't see why student papers shouldn't be as forthright in dealing with political questions as any other paper. That doesn't mean that I think that student papers are always right. I don't. But I don't know any paper that always is right. Ms. Siegel? Well, I think that brings us to the question whether you would agree with, uh, Eisenhower and Stevenson, who have campaigned for a lower voting age, because many of the people on the campuses are less than 21. Well, I don't know. I haven't thought too much about that question. In some countries, of course, that is done. And, uh, it, it, it might increase the interest of college students in, in problems of government, and so on and so on. That might be a very good thing. And I, I don't see any particular objection to it, because I, I am of the opinion that by a time a person is 18 years of age, that, uh, he probably is about, about as well equipped intellectually as he'll be in his, in his later years. And so I certainly, I would not object to, uh, to that action. I don't think it would change the, uh, the course of American politics very much, although it is true that the polls show some differences in reaction to national questions, to political questions, as between the younger people and the older people. But you know, by the way, I'd never thought of this before until this is just this minute. Here's one reason why it might be a good idea to put it down. Let's put the voting age down three years, because the average voting age is going up. You know, because the extension of the lifespan. You, I mean, you think it might balance things a little bit. Well, yeah, balance, you see, there are more, more older people in our society today than ever before. So get more young people. And there'll be more tomorrow. And so it might be a good idea to have a few, few more young ones in the political, in the political struggle. Mr. Chafkin has a question. We don't have too much more time, so we'll have to... Well, we started by learning Dr. Count's opinion that war and peace is the principal issue in this election. So let's conclude on the same point. I want to ask a question that I'm sure you've answered countless times. But I think our audience is interested in knowing. How do you think we can get out of Korea, honorably? Now, of course, that question really calls for a pretty long answer, but I'll just say a few words. That question was asked me by a student last summer in the summer school. Actually, this student asked me about the truce. When are the truces going to stop? Or the truce talks? I said they'll keep on as long as they are profitable. That is, to the Soviet. That has been one of the most valuable. Well, Dr. Count's, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I take it you feel that it's a complex situation over there and that we... There is no simple answer, really, to the Korean question. No. But I would want to say this. I don't think we should pull out... Yes, sir. Until that thing is... Well, thank you very much. I'm sorry to have to interrupt this very interesting discussion, but that's all we'll have time for. This has been the first edition of the WNYC Campus Press Conference, a new program in which campus editors interview prominent people in the news. Tonight's guest was Dr. George Count's Liberal Party candidate for the Office of United States Senator from New York. Here to interview Dr. Count's were four college editors, Mr. Stell Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Irvin Chafkin of the New York University Washington Square College Bulletin, Don Himes of the Columbia Spectator, Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. And in the next few weeks, the WNYC Press Conference will have as guests all of the New York Senatorial candidates. We invite you to tune in again next week and every week for the WNYC Campus Press Conference. Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you very much. Thank you.