We present in the public interest a talk on what your city needs for better health by Dr. Harry S. Mustard, new Commissioner of Health of the City of New York. Dr. Mustard. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In the short time I have been Commissioner of Health, that is your Commissioner of Health, I have been carefully studying the kind of protection against disease that the Health Department gives to you, the citizens of New York City. I have found things that are good, but I have also found things which distress me very much. Your city government is a vast and complex machine. There are approximately 8 million persons in this city, with about a million additional transients each day. Your health department has the responsibility for protecting the health of all the people. You can readily understand that this is not only a heavy responsibility, but it is one of the biggest public health tasks in the world. Here, let me assure you that through the years, your Department of Health has established and maintained a record of which it does not have to be ashamed. In regard to some of the other good things that I have found, may I remind you that New York City was the first in the United States to provide antitoxin against diphtheria. It was one of the first to undertake a systematic fight against tuberculosis. It has an excellent past record of work in child hygiene, in providing safe milk for its citizens, in certain other aspects of health work. And this health department of yours has some fine, able workers in it. Doctors and nurses and dentists and specialists of one sort or another. And engineers, laboratory workers and experts in various scientific fields. Give these people a chance to do what they know how to do, and what they know ought to be done. Give them health centers and proper tools to work with. Give them the assistance they need, and they will return to you the finest health service in the world. However, in order to maintain peak efficiency in the field of preventive medicine, we must keep abreast of all new developments and advances. As the city continues to grow, your departments, particularly in the field of health, must naturally expand, because demands for services continue to increase. The war dislocated families, communities, states, nations. This city, with the rest of the United States, is still struggling to adjust to a peacetime economy. But the problems of readjustment cannot be solved overnight. During the war, civilian construction had to be halted. Therefore, we of the health department could not build your much needed district health centers. Personnel of municipal departments were lost to the war effort. Some of those workers have returned. Others have not. Many of our nurses who went into the services did not come back. Those are some of the factors which contribute to the problems we are trying to overcome in your health department, and which must be overcome if we are to attain the peak efficiency that we feel is necessary for maintenance of the public health in New York City. To do this, we must obtain from you, the people, the necessary funds. The mayor and the board of estimate right now are working out a legislative program, which they hope will enable us to receive the money required for health centers, for new equipment, for additional personnel, for essential expansion of our work. I have reported to Mayor Dwyer on those things in the health department that caused me to worry, and which should cause you to demand improvement and make improvement possible. Now, I am reporting directly to you. In the first place, there is more to be done than our doctors and nurses and other workers can do. There are two reasons why we do not have enough workers. One is that the health department budget does not provide large enough sums to employ a sufficient number of workers. The second reason is that, in many instances, the salaries which we are able to offer are lower than those offered by others. Let me give you a few examples of the gaps and omissions which I have discovered. Let me tell you that last year, there were at least 32,000 newborn babies who with their mothers should have received the help and guidance of the nurses of the health department. Did the nurses give this aid? Did they give it promptly? I am sorry to say that about 9,000 of these mothers and their infants were not visited at all, and that of those visits made, many were too long delayed. If this keeps up, we shall eventually find, on one of these delayed visits, that the infant has grown up and now has a baby of her own, or died some 21 years before the nursing visit was made. Were the nurses to blame in missing these visits, or in making them late? They were most certainly not to blame. They did everything that they could, but there were not enough nurses. And while speaking of nurses, let me tell you of some of the other things that had to be left undone, because of the need for about 300 more nurses than the health department has. Let me tell you that there has been no way to avoid turning infants and young mothers away from the health centers, that our health center building program is badly delayed, and that such centers as we are able to operate are terribly overcrowded. Let me tell you that it has been necessary to make serious cuts in health work in the elementary schools, and that only about one quarter of the 250,000 students in city secondary schools can be given the health service that all of them should have from the health department. Let me tell you that many cases of tuberculosis, seriously ill and dangerous cases, are living in their homes because they cannot get into hospitals. There are not enough health department nurses to give them that care and advice which they need for their own good, and for the good of their families and the public. But the dangerous gaps and omissions in the health department's program are not limited to those that arise from the need for additional nursing. There are not enough nurses. There are other needs. Cancer causes one out of every five or six deaths that occur in New York City. Yet, because it lacks necessary funds, the health department is doing nothing to combat cancer. Because it lacks funds, the health department can do little about heart disease. But remember that there are more deaths from heart disease than from any other cause. There are now a far greater number and proportion of old people than ever before, but we have been unable to give their health problems any special consideration. We lagged distressingly in activities that would improve the nutrition of expectant mothers and their unborn children, and of young children in and out of school. And it would do no harm to the public health if by health education we could persuade our middle-aged matrons and their fattening husbands that they themselves should be concerned with nutrition. Our tuberculosis program is antiquated. It is of an old model and patched up. We have not enough workers to give proper supervision of day care agencies. Modern life demands that society provide such places where working mothers can leave their children for the day. But we in the health department are distressed because we cannot be sure always that these are healthful and safe places for children. Our efforts in the field of mental hygiene are not what they should be. These are samples of the gaps and omissions in the health department's program. They are presented to you so that you will know the facts. But there are additional facts you must know, and these briefly are as follows. We must proceed quickly to develop the great advances that medicine and allied sciences have made known to us in the past 25 years. But important to bear in mind in regards to this knowledge is the fact that unless it is applied, it will do no good. It took years, for instance, to develop toxoid for the prevention of diphtheria. And yet, if the bottle of toxoid remains on a shelf in a refrigerator, and the children who should receive it do not get it, the bottle of toxoid is of no value in the world to anyone. Again, it is known that good nutrition of an expectant mother is tremendously important, both from the standpoint of her health and that of the baby which she is to have. But if we do not provide an arrangement whereby this knowledge is carried to those mothers who are not under physician's direction, or are not observing the physician's direction, then the knowledge itself might just as well not have been accumulated. Not only do we have a great amount of new knowledge, but by investigation and research, even more important facts for the benefit of the health are likely to be known in the near future. On one side, then, is this knowledge that will improve the health of the people of New York City. On the other side are you, the citizens of this great metropolis, who demand the benefits of this knowledge. Your health department is the bridge over which much of the benefits of this knowledge must come to you. It is therefore our duty to apply this knowledge in the fields of maternal and child hygiene, in nutrition, in cancer control, in tuberculosis, in mental hygiene, in heart disease, and to apply it in order to be sure that the food you buy is safe, that the drugs you receive are pure, that the places in which you eat are clean, and that generally New York City is a healthful place in which to live. We must proceed, too, quickly, with the building of health centers. For it is in these health centers that child health conferences, tuberculosis clinics, venereal disease clinics, dental clinics, and so forth are held. We must revitalize and modernize our tuberculosis program. In this program, at the moment, we must sit and wait for cases of tuberculosis to come to us, because we do not have the experts and the equipment necessary to go out and find them. We must obtain the best equipment possible, and the best diagnosticians possible, for the discovery of tuberculosis in people who have no symptoms and no suspicion that they have the disease, and yet are headed for danger. We must give to the physicians more aid in the diagnosis of cancer, and we must make it easy for men and women to learn quickly whether or not they have this disease, and what should be done about it. We must extend and modernize our health programs in other ways that I have already mentioned. There is no mystery as to how your health protection may be improved. The answer is simple. The health department must have a larger budget. Your demands for good health service, and your rights to good health service, now and in the future, cannot be met by a Model T health department. Your health department has one great and constant duty to use. This duty is to prevent disease and maintain health with the aid of the physicians in practice, with the assistance of the voluntary health agencies. Your health department can give you the services for which you are now asking in nearly 1,000 letters a day addressed to me. The real decision as to what is to be done, as to whether or not you want to spend the money necessary for good health services, rests with you, the people of New York City. You pay the bill, and it is for you to decide. Give us the money, and we shall give you your money's worth in better health and longer life. You've heard a talk by Dr. Harry S. Mustard, Commissioner of Health of the City of New York, speaking on what your city needs for better health. May we call your attention to another WNYC broadcast of interest to all New Yorkers next Tuesday evening at 8. At that time, Dr. Edward M. Bernicker, Commissioner of Hospitals, will talk on your municipal hospital prices. We take you now to the Brooklyn Museum. This is New York City's own station. WNYC 830 on your dial. WNYC FM 93.9 megacycles. Our state that we have on storm system today. We take that off as much to the city of New York City at 8. Something do you want to be done for? What are your allocation against us? Cool, man. I'll see.ADDYura 2.1 Club,aks Pal, 630 JET