Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our program 1950, midpoint in the 20th century, with a discussion of the resurgence of the East. In your Chairman's personal opinion, it is the resurgence of the East that rates right next to the atomic bomb and the hydrogen bomb, or possibly right alongside of those spectacular weapons, in the important events that have been happening about this time and during the past 20, 30, 40 years. And I am very happy that tonight we have Dr. Alan Burr Overstreet to speak to us on the topic of the resurgence of the East. Dr. Overstreet has come down to us from the Political Science Department of Harvard University, University, and he is also going to be Associate Professor at Smith University. Among the other things which I could say about this very fine speaker is that he has spoken here at Cooper Union Forum before, and we enjoyed him very much. It is a pleasure to present to you Dr. Alan Burr Overstreet. Thank you very much Mr. Fairchild. Speaking here again is a very great pleasure. And from the memories that I have of the question period that we had last time after the talk, I'm going to cut my remarks a little bit short and give you even more of an opportunity to ask the direct question that will pin me down to the specific issue that you want to hear about. Even a casual observer today, I think, seeing the collapse of Chiang Kai-shek China and the rise to power in China of the Mao Zedong forces and the Chinese communists, seeing the successful drives for independence that have taken place in India, in Pakistan, in Ceylon, in Burma, in the Philippine Islands, in Indonesia, and perhaps we might even include Korea, though the case is not altogether clear there, will certainly be aware of some of the enormous changes that are taking place in Asia. I remember speaking about Asia as much as five years ago and startling an audience by mentioning that this might very possibly be the Asiatic century. Today it startles no one. Today the awareness of the changes that are taking place the awareness is an awareness that is pretty widespread. The rise to power and importance of the suppressed peoples, the formerly colonial peoples of Asia, is something that is going on at an accelerated pace. And though it may be decades before they ever take the forefront of the world political stage, it still remains true that they have the greatest potentialities for development from the point of view of population, obviously, and from some of the reports that we get, from the point of view also of their resources, their geographical position, and so on. Now it's no longer startling to point out that Asia is growing in importance. The importance of Asia is born home in the press every day. The fact that Ambassador Jessup goes on a tour of the Asiatic countries, calls together the American foreign representatives, diplomatic representatives in these countries, and carries on top-level discussions with them, the fact that out of these discussions come various half-hidden proposals and suggestions for the organization of some sort of an Asiatic union, some sort of a Pacific union, to match the Atlantic Pact and the Atlantic Union, is something that is of importance to us all. The growth of Asia in importance, has brought with it political problems of an intricate sort, which for the most part we are very poorly informed on in the United States. The issue of our time in simple form can be stated as the issue of whether or not the West, and particularly the United States, will be able to meet the challenge posed by these sweeping changes that have taken place in Asia, and enlist the peoples and the countries of this part of the world in the community of free peoples. And the suggestion is usually pinned down even further, and made the community of free peoples opposed to Russian expansion or Russian domination. The other side of the issue is whether we will fail to meet the challenge, and watch Asia go communist, watch Asia fall under the general sphere of influence of Moscow, or in a much more important sense, watch Asia become so hostile to the Western countries, that the possibility of effective relations, trade relations, and human relations of all sorts, with this part of the world, are cut off. There are those in the world today that are waiting for the collapse of the West. And I am quite certain that if Asia falls under the domination of Russia, or if Asia without falling under the direct domination of Russia becomes hostile to the West, the collapse economic and strategic military of the West, generally speaking, will be a foregone conclusion. Now the issue in talking about Asia would be fairly simple. If we could stay on this very pleasant plane of broad simplifications, pro-communism and anti-communism, pro-Russia and anti-Russia. But actually we can't stay there. Asia doesn't fit the pattern. Asia doesn't fit the pattern that has been given us about European politics. Asia doesn't fit the world. Asia doesn't fit the world. Asia doesn't fit the world. Asia doesn't fit the pattern that has been given us about the building of democratic countries in the world. In Europe, some of the countries of Western Europe and of Central Europe have had an experience of democracy. They can tell the difference between the kind of rule that they may now have in Central Europe, for example, and some of the democratic regimes that they experienced briefly, as in the case of Czechoslovak. But so far as Asia telling that difference, we are faced with a much greater problem. And the question comes up very specifically today whether or not any democratic appeals or the peoples of Asia will be meaningful appeals. Are these the basic problems that they have? Are they problems of freedom, of liberty, of democracy? Or are there other problems that are more acute and more intense for the peoples of Asia? I would suggest that the problem is enormously more complex than the European scene. And it is so complex, obviously, that I cannot possibly attempt to deal with it here in detail. I would merely like to suggest for your consideration some of the possible courses of policy that we might pursue. Some of the things that we might take into account in our thinking about Asia and in our support or opposition to policy in our own country. For under last analysis, the thing that we cannot do directly as individuals is to have an immediate contact with the peoples of Asia. But because we can influence policy here, it seems to me that clear thinking is fundamental on the question of Asia. The complexity of the problem is obvious. The nationalist drives that have appeared in most of the countries of Asia, particularly after the Second World War, are nationalist drives that are now either partly or wholly realized in almost all of the areas, except perhaps French Indochina, and there there is even some partial realization of yielding to the nationalist pressure. In India, in Pakistan, in Burma, in Indonesia in particular, in Korea again I say in a qualified sense, there has been some satisfaction of the nationalist drive. But with the satisfaction of the nationalist drive, as for example in the case of Burma, you immediately find the newly independent government confronted with a variety of problems, internal problems, that are exceedingly difficult to solve, that weaken its position generally, that debase the general level of Asiatic trade, that make it difficult for Asiatic countries to be effective in world politics, that make it difficult specifically for Burma at the present time to resist the announced intention of the Chinese communists to reincorporate a portion of northern Burma, which they claim is theirs by right as part of China. The nationalist drives are drives which we in the United States have looked upon with a great deal of pleasure, for the most part. general public opinion in the United States has approved of the escape of these peoples of Asia from their colonial conditions. I agree with this. I think that any right-minded person must necessarily agree with the escape of any people from a position of inferiority, inferiority patterns imposed by force. And insofar as independence has been achieved, whether it be under dominion status, or the middle position of the so-called republic within the commonwealth of India, or outright independence as in the case of Burma, that independence is in itself valuable. But it immediately runs, of course, into the dilemmas of anti-colonialism in general. For as these countries have gained their independence, and their internal problems have been intensified, and the internal irritations have grown greater, in Burma, for example, in Burma. The possibility of these countries having a high standard of living, an extensive trade, a stable existence, has grown less. Burma used to be a net exporter of rice, a supplier of food to a good part of Asia. Burma, in recent times, has had very great difficulty in having any exports of rice at all, those that have trickled through the lines of the warring forces within Burma, the Karans and the Kachins and the Communists and so on, have been negligible in quantity. As a result, the standard of living of all of the peoples that depended on that rice is thereby lowered. The internal problem in each one of the countries dependent upon that food has been made more intense. On the political level, the dilemmas of anti-colonialism are very great. But while we are in the United States opposed to colonialism generally, and I think rightly, what we frequently fail to realize is that too much of an all-out effort to free colonies without wrecking the consequences, without taking into account what is going to happen, may very possibly result in the weakening of our European allies. This was one of the very real factors that our diplomats had to consider in the case of Indonesia. It accounted in part for our reluctance to support outright independence immediately and without qualification for the Indonesian Republic. It led, I think, to a very successful outcome, an outcome which has granted a very large measure of independence, a very large measure of internal self-control and external control of foreign relations to the Indonesians, without at the same time making so sharp a break as to destroy the economy of the Netherlands. which is important to us politically for our general position in Europe of cooperating countries in this area in the whole economic, military and political picture. The weakening of our European allies is no ground for maintaining colonial regimes. But the danger of weakening our European allies is good ground for trying to achieve through evolutionary techniques similar to those that have taken place in Indonesia. An adjustment which will be mutually acceptable. An adjustment which will not destroy values, which will not destroy trade, which will not lower standards of living even more in the present world. On the other hand, our failure to meet nationalist aspirations, as in the case of French Indochina, has been something that has tended to strengthen the whole anti-Western propaganda of the Communists, has tended to strengthen the appeal of their promises in these areas. Out of our general desire then, to see the successful freeing of colonial errant, we need some sort of adjustment between the extremes of the sharp break that the Soviet Union would like to see, for the sharp break is a disruptive kind of revolution that weakens the West generally, and the retention of those controls that have grown completely outdated and abhorrent to these people. It is difficult in this world to put forward any argument that lies between the extremes at the present moment. But it seems to me that this is peculiarly one of the areas where the avoidance of extremism, either maintaining an extreme position of retaining colonial controls, or the extreme position of immediate independence, is something that is called for by the real situation. We're faced with another dilemma. We're faced with the dilemma of the strong stand. We are frequently urged in the public press in these days to take a strong stand somewhere, to send military equipment and troops, if necessary, to Formosa or wherever else it may be, and take a strong stand so that the Communists will see clearly that we intend to resist their aggression, so that Russia will stop its attempts to expand its control and influence. The difficulty is that in Asia, a strong stand militarily by the United States is in actual fact an exceedingly weak stand, and the Soviet Union knows it as well as the United States. We're we to try to take a strong stand. We're we to try to devote all of our energies, our funds domestically, in a military policy designed to build up simply military strength in a containment policy that was based only on military considerations. We would very shortly find that we ran directly into the dangers of over-commitment and a war possibly in a part of the world where we do not want to fight a war and could not possibly fight a war under any circumstances in any event. These problems are fairly obvious. They've been well discussed, I think, in the public press. But behind these problems, there lie the even deeper and much more real problems of the whole Asiatic scene. The problem obviously of food. The problem obviously of trying to increase Asia's increasingly bad food and population position. The growth of population, the destruction of the normal channels of commerce, the disruption of governments by independence, is something that has resulted in a lowering of food supplies in Asia, which has been stopped in some areas but not yet reversed to the point where there is adequate food by any means. Famine threatens in China today very extensively. Famine exists in China. It exists in India. Famine exists in India. The aggravation of this problem that continues all the time with the growth of population is something that cannot be minimized. For Asia's economy at the moment is geared to these problems of food and population. Between 75 and 90 percent of the populations of Asia are rural populations. Between 75 and 90 percent of these populations get their living by raising food on farms. And yet the food supply is insufficient. The obvious need for the improvement of agricultural techniques, the obvious need for the improvement of supplies of fertilizer, the obvious need for the education of farmers, is something that is epitomized by the experience of Norris Dodd, when he went to India and found that the most primitive agricultural implements were still being used, used at a level of efficiency abysmally low. The character of improvement that has to take place here is something that has very little to do with Russia, that has very little to do with communism. It has to do with the revolution that we have started in the world, for we are in the United States revolutionary. We started the industrial revolution, or at least developed it most extensively in the United States. We have spread it by our commercial activities to the whole world. We are now faced with the consequences of that revolution. Either we must see to it that the peoples of the world are able to have a sufficient standard of living through industrialization and improvement of agricultural techniques, or we are going to be faced continuously with their hostility. The problem of industrialization in any one of the Asiatic countries is a problem so enormous that it cannot possibly be handled by the United States merely ladling out funds. One of our biggest jobs is an educational job. We need to educate those who can be the workers in factories. We need to educate those who can be the technicians. We need to educate those who can be the agricultural experts so that the process of raising the countries by their own bootstraps can actually take place. There can be this sort of internal improvement on a very wide scale with very little expenditure of effort from the West West if we begin to realize that our only economic hope is by cooperative action with these peoples for their improvement. But our hope also lies in the area of trade. Unless we improve the possibility of trade among the Asiatic countries, we are going to be faced with a very real alienation of these countries. At the present time, the industrial centers of Asia are Japan and India. India is a growing one. Japan, though sorely damaged as a result of the war, is reestablishing itself. The question now is whether or not we can reintegrate an industrial Japan with the rest of Asia that will enable the rest of these countries to have a higher standard of living, or whether we are going to insist upon permitting policies to be pursued in Japan, which will result in the curtailment of their economic potential. This is a great reversal of policy in the United States. In the early days, our efforts were to break up the zaibatsu in Japan, to destroy the great monopolies of the families that had controlled the economic life of Japan. Since that time, we have turned around fairly completely, perhaps gone too far the other way, in leaving these great families in existence, in leaving these great industrial combines partly in existence. Let me correct that, for much breaking up actually did take place. But we began to realize, as the process of breaking up these industrial structures went on, that the efficiency of Japanese industry would be undermined if they were broken down to a point where they no longer could effectively compete, where they no longer could effectively engage in adequate production and trade. And so now we are trying to maintain and even build up the level of Japanese industry, not only for the benefit of Japan, but necessarily for the benefit of the rest of Asia. But it carries with it a peculiar political problem. The benefit of Japanese industry is tied directly to communist China. Japanese industry depends, for its cooking coal and some of its other major supplies, on the excellent supplies that are available on the mainland of Asia in China and Manchuria. If these are not available, the expenses of industry would be so great that it would not be possible to carry them on. The question is now whether or not our political purposes, our political objectives, will prevent the possibility of trade being developed between communist China and Japan in a way that will benefit both Japan and communist China and the rest of Asia. Or whether we are going to insist so strongly upon our political opposition to communism wherever it appears, that we undermine the potentiality of Japan's making a contribution to Asiatic welfare. This is no argument for the spread of communism from China, for I am very strongly opposed to it. But this is an argument for a realization that the Asiatic industrial and trade picture is an interdependent one. And you cannot merely say now, let Japan get its supplies and materials from some other area. In fact, you must instead say, how can we solve this without promoting further ideological conversion to communism as a result of the inadequacies of the social and political systems of the countries in this area? Communism has never started a revolution anywhere. Communism has capitalized on those social conditions that made revolutionary situations. If it is possible in Asia to prevent the development of revolutionary conditions on which communism can feed and batten, then it may be possible to prevent a further spread of this ideology. But more is required. There are all the technical problems, the problems of transportation bottlenecks. There are the problems of the building up of the rail systems, the building up of the port facilities, of all of the areas of Asia. There are the problems of the financing of industry and the maintenance of industrial stature in a competitive world which is still very poorly regulated. And there are the great internal problems. The need for social reform. The need for carrying out the sort of reform that has been carried out in Japan. The freeing of the peoples from the restraints of government, so far as their civil rights are concerned. But the freeing of the peoples as well from their economic condition of servitude as a result, principally, of the problem of the maldistribution of land in most of the Asiatic countries. Land reform is necessary in almost every single country. And as soon as you mention land reform and then try to fit this into the normal one side or the other pattern of communism or non-communism, someone will say, but if you engage in land reform, that's socialism. That breaks down free private enterprise. That breaks down private property. Land reform. Actually, it doesn't. But more than that, if land reform does not take place, as it has taken place in part in Japan, as it has taken place in India in part, as it is taking place in virtually every one of these countries, countries to some measure, then the general condition of the peoples within the countries will be precisely that sort of condition that is on the continual downgrade and conducive to being capitalized upon by propagandists. Now, all of these factors along the line complicate the picture enormously. The first thing is, for we cannot merely say we are opposed to socialism, therefore there must be no land reform and there must be just free private enterprise. For in virtually every one of these countries newly independent, some variety of socialism or other is actually taking place. Usually because the government is the only agency at the present time that has any expectation of having the funds or the techniques or the ability to carry out the variety of reform that is necessary. And so in this whole discussion of Asia, we cannot fit our attitudes into neat categories of policy of any sort. It is suggested, for example, that we should put pressure on the Chinese communists today, that we should try to cut off economic relations with the outside world and make it impossible for the Chinese communists of Ma Zedong to carry on trade with outside countries. And the policy of pressure on the Chinese communists is one that would perhaps have some limited value from an immediate strategic point of view of weakening communist China. And it's one that would perhaps please the Burmese, who are alarmed at the threat that the communists pose on their northern borders. It would perhaps please the government of Thailand, of Siam, for they have a large Chinese population, Chinese minority, with which they have over a long period of time had exceedingly bad relations, and which they have kept in a fairly suppressed state, certainly of political liberty, and also suppressed economically in other ways. These countries might be pleased by pressure on the Chinese communists. The pressure on the Chinese communists would alienate the strong Chinese populations resident outside of China in every single Asiatic country, and in Malaya they formed the largest single population bloc, though a minority of the total. It would alienate very certainly India, and it would probably alienate most of the governments, as they are now constituted and as they are now thinking of the countries newly independent in Asia, as a return to an old imperialist policy, an attempt to coerce and oppress and suppress by force and violence. You cannot consider policy then simply by whether or not it is useful in a single area. You have got to consider policy by what its effect will be over the totality of the area. So I suggest that in the development of Western policy generally toward Asia, the first thing that we have to do, and the thing that I'm sorry I cannot take 10 or 20 hours to do this evening, is to detail and know the specific situations of each one of these countries in this general context of the whole Asiatic problem. Each country presents a different series of problems. Nationalism, trade, land reform, political development, social reform. Each country has different pressures, different populations, different immediacies and urgencies that need to be solved in a particular way. In Japan, for example, today, we talk about remilitarization. General Eifelberger has just suggested that there be an army in Japan, an army, if I remember the figure correctly, of 100,000, to serve as a bulwark against the possibility of the Russians coming into this area. We can rest quite assured, I think, that this army would be fairly useless against Russian might. We can rest quite assured that there is more threat from internal communism in Japan than there is from external communism. We can rest assured that the kind of government that will be developed, if the Japanese government can place its reliance upon an army of this sort, which it can command for the repression of social movements within its own country, will be precisely the sort of peculiarly undemocratic and reactionary government, which we least like to see develop in the world. The development of this armed force in Japan, more than that, would actually, to my mind, alienate most of the other countries of Asia. Certainly, it would cause extreme worry in Australia. It would cause extreme worry in those countries which have recent memories of Japanese imperialism, particularly the Philippines and the countries of southeastern Asia. The possibility of building up this army simply as a bulwark against communism is just not there. It will be looked upon as an imperial device. It will be looked upon as something that we can use. I suggest that the far better way of fighting against communism within Japan, and that's the important battle, is to fight against it by social policy, is to fight against it by continuing and making even more real the land reforms that have already been put into action in Japan, by developing and making even more stable the industrial system of Japan, and trying, if it is possible at the same time, to keep it from being a monopoly system that will result in the suppression of smaller enterprises, and result in the destruction of individuality, generally speaking. But social policy can offer something positive in the improvement of conditions to fight against the communist promises. A military force of 100,000 may seem strategically useful to the United States in the potentiality of war against Russia, as you look at it hurriedly in the newspapers. But I would suggest that General Eichelberger is in error if he feels that in the long run, it will be militarily useful in any real sense. For there never will be a war between Russia, Russian communists, and Japan that will be a localized war. There never will be an attack by Russia on Japan that will go unregarded by the rest of the world. There is very little expectation at the present time that there will be any attack by Russia upon Japan. It seems to me, therefore, that the much more important thing to do, from a strategic point of view, is to see to it that our strategy is politically and socially sound, rather than relying totally upon military strength. More than this, in China, it is suggested that we should cut off all relations, that we should not recognize China, that we should refuse to have anything to do with the Chinese communist regime. If we do this, we cut off our nose to spite our face. We remove the one lever that we have that may make it possible to develop a version of Chinese Titoism. We remove the listening posts that we have. We demonstrate the bankruptcy of foreign policy. Foreign policy can break down, to my mind, in two ways. Either by the hostile actions of our opponents, or by our own failures. The measure of the breakdown of foreign policy is the breaking off of diplomatic relations. Where diplomatic relations are broken off, finally. Our observing post is gone. Our listening post is gone. Our possible influence is gone. Our possibility of in any way checking the development toward a complete Russian orientation is that much lessened. This has taken place in Bulgaria. It is something that, to my mind, is not in this particular instance something that we could have avoided, for it was principally caused by the hostility of the Soviet Union and its Bulgarian satellite. But in China, if we can establish any relations at all, relations not designed to build up the military strength of China, but relations designed, if possible, to try to build up China's ability to withstand Russian pressure, pressure, to build up, if possible, China's interest in its own self-development, rather than its development as simply a satellite of the Soviet Union. If this can be done, then we may get something out of the situation. Now again, here is a policy that falls in between the extremes. It's neither going all out to approve the Chinese Communist regime, for recognition, to my mind, does not involve approval. It involves merely a technical device for contact that is useful in the technical process of diplomatic negotiation and pressure, which is part of the whole process of the struggle for the minds of men that goes on in the world all the time. But in this particular situation, we are merely saying that we should be on the scene so that we can exert pressure if the possibilities present. And if the development of Chinese Communist policy is ever more and more strongly toward a Russian orientation, an orientation more and more hostile to the United States, then we will be under the real necessity of recasting our policy to take this into account. Currently, we might get some benefit from contact. We get no benefit from a complete rupture of relations here. I would suggest that the second major aspect of Western policy toward Asia, in addition to the knowledge of the specific situations in the general context, is a clarity on objectives, obviously. For this is what I have been referring to all the way along. Are our purposes politically, our purposes in the world, simply the opposition of the Soviet Union as a military power? Are our purposes simply the opposition of communism as an ideology? Frankly, I think that both of these objectives are important and necessary. The opposition of the Soviet Union as a military power in aggression is a real necessity. The opposition of communism as an ideology is a real necessity. But the danger of policy is that we will be pinned so completely to this particular aspect of it, that we will develop nothing positive to overcome other real difficulties that beset us much more importantly. This sort of a policy of simple anti-Russianism and simple anti-communism is an insufficient one, is a policy which may in the long run very possibly turn out to be peculiarly ill-advised. Toinby, you will remember, points out that most of the civilizations, or at least many of the civilizations of past history that have gone down to defeat in complete oblivion, have been those that have become militarized, placed all their eggs in the military basket, and then dropped the basket by putting too much weight on it, by putting too much effort into the military aspect of existence. The thing that we still have an opportunity to do in this world is to pursue a positive policy that will go beyond the simple military position. To pursue a policy like that of the real intent of the Atlantic pact. A policy to build up the stability of governments elsewhere in the world. To build up their stability as free and independent members of a world community that tries by deliberate devices and organizations to integrate itself increasingly all the time. economic integration and aid in Asia is therefore peculiarly important. Political encouragement is important. The Point Four program which President Truman has proposed is a very valuable suggestion. It would supply invaluable aid, I think. It's a program which in essence is merely the self-starter device, if in its passage through Congress it doesn't become quite sharply distorted from its original purpose. I would suggest that this is one very real area where Americans can determine the future of Asia, the future of the country. by their pressure upon their own representatives in this country. For actually there are at the present time in the whole discussion of Point Four programs for Asia, conflicting forces. Those that want to make it simply an implement for the improvement of American economic opportunities elsewhere. American economic exploitation of the world. Those who want to make this instead something that will permit these countries in Asia and elsewhere, in Africa and South America and elsewhere, to build up their own economies, their own standard of living, their own existence within a cooperative structure. It seems to me that in Congress the actual debate over the nature of Point Four is going to be something that needs to be watched very closely. Are we going to insist upon tying so many strings to aid, that it again is going to be looked upon by Asiatic countries specifically, as something that is an imperialist device? Or are we going to make this aid available, if there are assurances that will be used for the improvement of the conditions of the people in the particular country receiving the aid? More than that, are we merely going to put forward Point Four as a system of sending out technicians to advise, and perhaps other activities of a similar sort? Or are we going to put Point Four into a larger context again? It is a very real possibility in the discussion of any aid programs that we become so concerned with the need for altruism, the need for improvement of conditions, that we fail to see that the actual measure being taken is only one part of a whole picture, and by being improved, may cause dislocations that actually worsen conditions. For example, the World Health Organization has already discovered, in its own Technical Aid to Backward Areas program, that by the improvement of the health of people in a particular area, a desirable objective in itself, you immediately create a dozen other problems. In many areas of the world, the incidence of malaria is as high as 90% of the population. The fact of malaria being a disease that holds them back and keeps them debilitated most of the time is something that cuts down their labor productivity, that cuts down the possibility of their being active workers of one sort or another, or effective workers of one sort or another. When you spray areas with DDT at the present time, you may cut the incidence of malaria to as low as 5%. But if at the same time that you engage in the improvement of health and sanitation, you don't also engage in integrated programs to improve labor opportunities, employment opportunities, you immediately create a more effective labor force with less opportunity, or with the same opportunity for actual employment. And this in its turn carries all the repercussions of the food shortage problem. So that the aid program, as it is thought of, must be a program that goes beyond merely sending technical advisors on health or sanitation, or the improvement simply of agricultural conditions, but a program that as the State Department has suggested it, goes into all of the ramifications of these interrelated areas, and tries to make it possible for each one of these countries with outside aid to do as much as possible. Our positive policy then needs to be a pro-stability policy. It needs to be more than that. It needs to be more than that. It needs to be more than that. It needs to be a pro-reform policy in every one of these areas. For unless we engage in a policy which will to the peoples of the area supply them with some stake to defend, the blandishments and promises of pie in the sky will always seem better than the immediate hardships of existence. We have got to engage generally then in the encouragement of the policies that are developed by India, by Burma, by Indonesia, by these various other countries in the direction of internal social reform. More than this, our policy I think has to be a policy of reassurance all the way along the line. In Asia, propaganda is peculiarly important because sensitivities and sensibilities are peculiarly acute when it comes to the question of imperial control. Old-style discredited imperialism must not appear anywhere along the line in the policies that we actually create. If we give the impression of imperialism in Korea, for example, by maintaining an unpopular government, a repressive regime, and encouraging it in its repression, we may then very possibly undermine our policy in those other parts of Asia that are watching what goes on in Korea. We built up a great reservoir of goodwill, to use Wendell Wilkie's phrase, by giving the Philippine Islands their independence. We can destroy that reservoir of goodwill by giving Korea independence under a government which we insist upon, which is unpopular and in the most part fairly undemocratic in its control. If we insist upon building up an army in Japan simply for strategic purposes, without any regard for what the rest of Asia thinks of it, we will destroy the possibility of reassurance. If we insist upon the recognition of Bao Dai in French Indochina, something that has been played up fairly extensively in the press recently, as a very desirable step, Bao Dai is a great leader, we hear in the press. When actually Bao Dai, the emperor of French Indochina, is a man who has, the former emperor, now head of the Vietnam state, is a man who has virtually no national support in Indochina, and depends for his existence solely upon the arms of French troops and French legionaries. We need to consider what we are doing to our general policy when we pursue these local policies. For otherwise, the Soviet Union can precisely achieve its objective. The insistence on the disruptive revolution, the total revolution that makes the complete break with the West, undermining the Western interests, undermining Western strength. It is not pleasant in the general frame of mind that exists in the United States to say that we must appease. Yet I suggest very strongly that we must appease revolution and reform in these countries, wherever it has the prospect of being positive, of being something that leads toward the independence and stability of the remaining free Asiatic countries, rather than leading toward reactionary regimes. The lines are fine, and it's hard to draw. And every specific case has to be looked at as a specific case. But unless we think in these terms, we undermine a pro-stability policy. And the other thing that we need, most importantly, is a change in American attitudes. A willingness to accept diversity, wherever that diversity still tends toward maintaining a free and cooperating world. A willingness to accept socialist government, if socialist government is the only answer in Burma, in India, in Indonesia. A willingness to accept it, as we have accepted socialist government in Britain, without losing the British ally, the British friend. Because otherwise, the basic problems in most of the Asiatic countries probably will not be dealt with, and the revolutionary forces will be strengthened from the fear that the people will have of reactionary control. We need, in our thinking about Asia, to have an awareness of the interrelatedness of every single one of the problems. If we insist upon Formosa as a strategic outpost, we lose friendship. We lose support. The eyes of Asia watch every American move. No action goes without notice. And though illiteracy runs as high as 95% in many of the countries, by word of mouth, you may rest assured, there is a very wide spread of knowledge of every American action in the area. And I would suggest, too, that one of our greatest needs in the United States, in thinking about the resurgence of Asia, and how we can adjust our policy to meet its challenge, is a willingness to be part of a cooperating world community. A willingness to abandon our past insistence upon unilateral action, action by the United States alone. If we try to impose a Marshall Plan, if we try to put a Marshall Plan into effect in Asia simply as an American device, with the sensitivities about imperialism that exist in the area, we may rest fairly assured that there will be extensive resistance to this sort of measure. There are agencies that exist now that are not subject to any Soviet veto in the United Nations and in the specialized agencies of the United Nations, that we can work through, that we can aid. The United Nations has already developed its program of technical assistance to backward areas, which applies to Asia. The Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East has done excellent work in discovering precisely what the problems are in particular areas. If we in the United States are willing to show our community spirit, our cooperative spirit, by putting our strength behind these existing projects, and asking that they be expanded even further, so that American aid can be a community project, then I think that we will be able, perhaps, to avoid the charge of imperialism that would undermine our policy. The problem of keeping Asia free is far more than mere strategy, far more than military power. It's also far more than the United States can possibly handle alone. The problem is one of our real sincerity in improving the conditions of peoples. Do we really believe in welfare and expanding economy? Or do we believe instead in an economy of scarcity and making profits out of scarcity? This is a challenge that we have to meet in our own domestic economy, and it's a challenge that we have to meet in the policy we developed in Asia. Sincerity in the improvement of Asiatic countries is the only thing that is going to keep Asia on our side. It's a policy that has to be one of education, in cooperation, in Asia and in the United States. For we in the United States have a very great tendency not to want to cooperate for fear that someone else might possibly have control over the funds involved, or for fear that someone else might possibly have a possibility of influencing something that we might want to vote against at a given moment. We have a choice to make. Either we are part of the world and we cooperate in its general improvement and welfare, or we are not part of the world and we should build up our defenses for the war and the mutual destruction that will inevitably result from being not part of the world. There is revolution in Asia today, and again, we started with our industrial revolution and its development. The problem that faces us is very simply, what kind of a revolution will it be? What direction will it take? Will it be hostile or will it be friendly? To answer this, we will call for the most skilled diplomacy that the United States can possibly offer, for the best informed public opinion that the United States can possibly develop, for an awareness and an attention of American people to problems of foreign policy consistently in the years ahead, and the avoidance of what I would call loose thinking of the sort that has appeared in various popular magazines and in Congress and elsewhere, recommendations for vigorous military action when we know from the situation that military action will solve none of these basic problems. On the solution to our treatment of this problem depends a great deal of the survival of the United States in the world. There is much more than is immediately apparent in the Asiatic problem. For it's not simply an Asiatic problem. The resurgence of Africa is next. Its course will be shaped by our treatment of the problem of Asia. Our treatment of the problem of Asia can only be successful if we develop positive policies and live up to them all along the line and prove that we are members of a cooperating world community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Overstreet. Now, for those of you who would like to ask him a direct question, would you please come down here to the left of the platform right here and use the microphone. Others may write their questions and I'll be happy to read them for them. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I thank you very much again, Dr. Overstreet. Now we have some questions for you, sir. You stated you wanted some. We have one right now that it's labeled a $64 question. It doesn't have a great deal to do with the resurgence of the East or of Asia, but it has some interest. In your informal discussion, Dr. Overstreet, that is, in your discussion with instructors and educators, do you find a larger percentage lean towards capitalism? Or do you find a larger percentage lean towards communism? Or do you find a larger percentage lean towards communism? And can a man be called intelligent if he is for one or for the other? Now this has nothing to do with the subject. But nevertheless, we all get those questions all the time. Now what do you think about it, Dr. Overstreet? Mr. Johnson, this is the best kind of question. It has nothing to do with the subject, but it gives me a wonderful opportunity for another short-spin. And what do you think about it, Dr. Overstreet? Mr. Johnson, this is the best kind of question. It has nothing to do with the subject, but it gives me a wonderful opportunity for another short-spin. Lean toward capitalism or lean toward communism? Instructors in my acquaintance? And how do you think about it, Dr. Overstreet? And how do you think about it, Dr. Overstreet? Mr. Johnson, this is the best kind of question. But how do you think about it? Mr. Johnson, this is the best kind of question. It has nothing to do with the subject, but it gives me a wonderful opportunity for another short speech. Lean toward capitalism or lean toward communism? instructors in my acquaintance, I'd say most of them were fairly confused liberals. I'd say that a great number of them today lean toward social action by the state. I'd say that a great number of them today are equally enormously alarmed at the excesses of social action by the state which result in the suppression of individuality. Frankly, to answer this question honestly, you would have to say that most of the instructors and educators of my acquaintance lean toward neither but want to get the best of both and that actually what you are talking about is a situation that is gray and not black or white. You cannot in this world have a state that is totally unresponsive to the necessities of its society. You in New York City are very much concerned over the question of your public officials supplying you with enough water in this city. This is socialism. This is state action. And it's a desirable kind of state action which is not resulting yet by any means in the suppression of individuality on any wide scale except for those that are engaged in the car washing business. And in the interest of the greater sacrifice, I think that that's understandable and necessary. I'd say in answer to this that you cannot lean toward either. You have got to realize today the responsibilities of the state to its people and you have got to realize the limits beyond which state action cannot go without developing the kind of police state that exists in the Soviet Union. There you have a direct perversion of state action on behalf of the people which has resulted in the destruction of individual freedom, has resulted in the state jacketing of minds. The compromise has to be made between the two. We have got to deal with our social problems. If we can deal with them privately, personally, I think it's fine. If we can deal with them through private enterprise, that's excellent. But we all know that most of the problems can't be dealt with through private enterprise. But many of these problems require state aid, state regulation, state assistance. After all, the state, through the postal service, is one of the greatest aids to business in the United States at the present time. And I'm not in favor of ending that aid in returning the control of the postal system to the princes of Torn and Toxis, who originally started it as a private monopoly in one of the North German states. It seems to me that actually what you have got to realize is the existence of a mixed economy. What you have got to realize is the responsibility of the state and the importance of individual dignity. On any specific policy, that will be the endless discussion of politics. How far do you go this way? How far do you go that way? But it is in the totally gray area in between the black of the commissar or the white of the yogi that we have to operate. Thank you. Thank you. Don't go away. There are a few others up there. Back to overseas. Don't you think that our blundering policy in the State Department, you may not think it's blundering, but this gentleman does. Don't you think that our blundering policy in the State Department and its relation to world problems has unfortunately been caused by allowing various religious pressure groups to influence our foreign policy. And we think they do this because these religious groups are not so much interested in their spiritual forces as they are in backing and being aligned with what he calls reactionary, political, and economic ideas. Do you find that too far off the subject? You know. This is another short talk on a different subject. Let's take it as it goes down the question. I don't think that the policy of our State Department has been blundering by any means. As a matter of fact, I am currently a very strong supporter of most of the major measures of the policy of our State Department as we see them and know them in public information. I think that actually we have an outstanding, a distinguished Secretary of State. We have a Secretary of State who, among other things, has some Christian spirit, which I think a very desirable aspect of a Secretary of State. We have a Secretary of State who also knows a great deal about the world situation in its real form. And I suggest that the policy that has been developed with his aid and assistance through the Marshall Plan, through the general development of the Atlantic Pact, the strengthening of European countries' economic aid and assistance, has been a policy which, in its major outlines, has been valuable. Therefore, first of all, I doubt whether it is blundered. On a totally different topic, which is the second half of the question, which is whether or not various religious groups have an undue influence upon the State Department, I would necessarily say no. The major influence upon the State Department is what the American people think and articulately express as their thought. When there is no articulation of public opinion, the State Department may very possibly be swayed by pressure groups of one sort or another, whether they be religious of one sect or religious of another sect, or whether they be economic of one sort or another. But it seems to me that to try to say that the State Department is in the grip of any religious group today is as much of a fallacy of thinking, as much of a failure to understand the basic nature of the American democratic process as anything could possibly be. It suffers from all of the same racist assumptions translated into the religious area that the Hitler regime suffered from in earlier days. I suggest very strongly that our foreign policy as it is developing is a foreign policy that takes into account the need for building up pressure. What I have for building up economic strength, for building up the ability of the West to withstand pressure of communism generally. What I have in mind as a greater danger to foreign policy is the influence of those technicians, the military minds, both in and out of the Pentagon, and it seems to me that the ones outside of the Pentagon are frequently more military than the ones inside it, but the military minds that would pursue simply military policy without paying very much attention to the fact that military policy alone is never going to be successful. Communism is an idea that has an appeal. The only way you can counter that is with something that appeals more and more immediately to those who are struck by appeals at all. You cannot cut the throat of an idea with a military force. You can oppose it with a constructive economic and social policy. Thank you very much for that frank answer, Dr. Overstreet. Now, here's a gentleman who has a question. Yes, sir. I want to ask Dr. O'Knell, your few suggestions about gaming Asia are too far and it's too difficult to get. For instance, you cannot go away now from Korea. You're in Libya today. You're here today to the communists. You cannot go and desert trance in India and China. You have to support them both. But I think there is another way that are mediate and that we will not interfere with the politics at all. Something that we can do for the people from India where they are starving now. So many are starving. Why not send them here so many so much goods, potatoes, eggs, and butter. Why not send it to these people and let them enjoy and give it to them and let them see that we don't count anything for our words. That's all right. I'm not altogether certain that I get the hell of a question, but I think I'll definitely pick up a very interesting portion of it that is certainly a topic of current discussion. That is, the sending of our surplus good to India, to India, for example, where starvation is rampant. Wouldn't this be a desirable policy? It would be, were it possible. It would be, if we had the shipping, if we had the finances to engage the shipping, if we had the possibility of bringing this about in any way that would be meaningful. But the actual settlement of the food problem in Asia is not something that is going to be solved by the sending of a temporary surplus that the United States has at the moment. It may be helpful, and if we can give help in this direction without financial exhaustion, fine. But, in the long run, the food problem of Asia has to be solved by improving the agriculture of Asia. It has to be solved by making available to Asiatics more food from their own lands and more food for their own normal processes of trade. I would suggest that, generally speaking, our policy may very possibly be one that would try, especially through international agencies, such as the International Children's Emergency Fund and other similar agencies, to hit crucial points of starvation or malnutrition with what supplies we can now send. But beyond that, for a long run policy, we have to engage in developing a sound agriculture in Asiatic countries. Ladies and gentlemen, a man just stated that we seem to have ships to send arms and men around, but we don't seem to have them to send food in. It's a sound point. The question is raised, how many Americans who are worried about the fact that we are using our shipping for sending arms or not using it, keeping it in mothballs or covered with various plastic equipment to keep the weather off of it, how many of those Americans have actually written to express their opinion to their congressmen to see to it, that more emphasis, again, is placed on using the ships to send food, using the ships to send other equipment. I would suggest, too, that it probably is more important in the long run to use those ships immediately to send crucial food and at the same time to send the technicians to the countries for immediate aid and bring the technicians for training from the countries for training in the United States if it's possible or wherever it may be possible. I think that our ships can be put to much better use, as you suggest. Thank you, Dr. Harris. The other question? Yes. I would like to know, how can we keep up relations with the present government in China when they're definitely expelling our convuls and they don't want to have any relations with us? Well, how can we keep up our relations when we seem to be unwanted in some of these places? One thing in China that very definitely makes it difficult, obviously, is the attitude of the government toward any Americans that are in the country. But there are still Americans in China. They are unmolested if they are making a contribution to the development of the Chinese state, that is, in education or some similar activity. Now, it seems to me, again, that we probably will find that the Chinese communists will make it impossible for us to send any aid, to send any American officials of any sort, if we insist upon maintaining a policy designed to destroy China militarily, if we insist upon maintaining a rival regime which has the expectation of coming back into power. It seems to me that the only course to pursue in China is to recognize that China needs supplies, China needs aid and educational assistance, technical assistance, and it will be able to get that aid only from the United States. The amount of funds involved in the Russian loan to China is insignificant, negligible, negligible from the point of view of the total need of China. The needs of China are so great that I doubt whether any non-politicalized aid from the United States would be rejected by the Chinese government. The fact that the Chinese, though they have made the usual propaganda comments about the recognition offered by other countries, have nevertheless engaged in establishing diplomatic relations with other countries of the West, suggests that it may very possibly be something that could be pursued in the case of the United States. If it can't be pursued, all right, then we're stopped, granted. But let us at least try to pursue it until we see that we can go no further because they are sending our people out of the country. Thank you, sir. And here's another question. Yesterday, Fred Allen defined a diplomat as a fellow who goes abroad promoting diplomacy while his government at home is busily promoting militarism. It seems that we're also abroad promoting democracy while at home we're not practicing it very well. How can we convince the people of Asia or Europe, for that matter, of our sincerity if we can still practice second-class citizenship? Shouldn't that be part of our foreign policy, too? It's an excellent point and I agree thoroughly it should be part of our foreign policy. It seems to me that today you cannot possibly think of foreign policy and domestic policy in completely separate categories. I've implied this along the line. Clearly, we have a responsibility to demonstrate by precepts, by action in our own country and by our acts overseas that we are really sincere. and this is a central point of policy for the United States in the whole world. If we insist upon maintaining restrictive covenants, discriminatory conditions in the South or in the North or in the West, for they exist in all parts of the United States and not just in the Negro South, for example, then we are going to undermine the respect that other countries will have for the United States and we are particularly going to undermine it with those colored peoples of the world which constitute, in the words of Ralph Linton, most of the world. All right, sir. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. I hope this doesn't sound too dull after these lusty questions on communism versus capitalism. That's all right. You go right ahead with any question you want. But what briefly has been the measure of land reforms in the various eastern countries since the end of the war? The extent of land reforms is something I can't possibly detail here. Generally speaking, in Japan, a land reform has been initiated involving the redistribution of land, the breakup of large landed estates, the handing over of these estates under conditions of purchase and compensation to the original owners, but with the purchase costs defrayed over a long period of time so that the farmer has more possibility of being able to engage in the purchase and not go bankrupt by committing himself to too great a financial involvement. This land reform has not by any means been completed. In many instances, the economic status of the farmer has been so poor in Japan that he could not even engage in the original purchase necessary. In other instances, it has been successful. It can be pushed a good deal further. So far as land reform is concerned in India, the government is developing at the present time various policies, again, of breaking up land holdings in some areas so that they can be devoted to farming where they have been kept out of farming, and in other areas of grouping together by cooperatives and other devices land holdings and individual private farmers so that the area of the farm that is being farmed will be an economic one rather than these very sharply divided small areas. In virtually every Asiatic country in general, you find some approach one way or another to the basic question of land reform. In some areas, it involves breaking up farms. In others, it involves grouping them together. In some, it involves merely removing the control of the landlord that used to take in the past anywhere from 30 to 50 to even 80 percent of the produce that the tenant farmer turned out on this farm, leaving the farmer only 20 percent or 50 percent for his own use. And now, what they are trying to do is to make it possible for the farmer to get, if he's a tenant farmer, a major portion of the produce that he actually raises and only a just return for the owner of the land or in some areas actually expropriating the owner of the land but by a compensatory device, making it something that will not bankrupt them completely. So by techniques of evolution that vary from state to state, there are approaches. They can be pushed further if there is encouragement for them, generally speaking. All right, sir, thank you. Good evening, Mr. Schaefer. Could we apply Emerson's statement to China to have a friend? You must be a friend. Did I hear that correctly? Could we apply any such statement to China? Could we apply Emerson's statement to China to have a friend? You must be a friend. I think that, Mr. Schaefer, you could apply that statement to the whole world. I would even go so far as to say that after a period in which I foresee for 10 or 15 years in the future of a plateau of tension between the United States and the Soviet Union, we may actually someday, if some of the Russian leaders change their mind on their basic expectation of the collapse of the West, have opportunity to apply that statement to the Soviet Union and again, get along in a cooperative world. Today, I think it's impossible. Today, I think that you cannot do it from the attitude that the Russian leaders have clearly shown. And I think that it would be folly to engage in any attempt to appease at this moment. But ultimately, we are going to have to return for success of any of our policies to the basic idea of to have a friend be a friend. All right, thank you. Good evening. Professor Overstreet, can you explain to me the terminology I was going to ask you about these checkers that were speaking about getting 40 and 50 percent interest in Southeast Asia, as Jacoby talks about in his agrarian unrest. in Southeast Asia. But I believe you've answered it fully. But I was going to ask you about the term Christianity as applied to the secretary of state or the domestic policy or the international policy of a country. Now, you have Christian nations like England and they ran down the opium and they had the European wars in China. you know what I mean? They made these people they made these people sick or so. I'm not quite sure I know what you mean at this point. Now, let's try to pin it down. Mr. Fairchild, what's your idea on this? You go ahead, sir. I haven't got the question here. You're going to have to pin it down. Are you referring to... Yes, I can tell you very briefly as I understand it, you said our secretary of state was a very Christian point of view and that he was a very fine Christian gentleman. He comes along and says Christian nations have started wars over opium and opium smuggling. Do you think necessarily a Christian point of view is going to be good for this? It's a very good question. If you put the worst face on Christianity, just as if you put the worst face on any religious belief, and most of them have at base the same idea of love thy neighbor one way or another, you can get something bad out of it. Or you can look at some particular state, whether it be run by Christians or Mohammedans or Confucianists or Buddhists, and you can say that the policy of that state has been bad, therefore Mohammedanism is bad or Buddhism is bad or something of the sort. This, it seems to me, misses the whole point. I referred to the Secretary of State as a Christian gentleman, obviously, for his comment on the Al-Jahis case. I think that his comment is one which shows fine spirit, not too good political judgment as to what he was going to be subjected to, but nevertheless, a fine spirit of the Sermon on the Mount, very definitely, of not turning one's back on one's friend as long as there is still a case in litigation or even when that friend may have been convicted. His guilt for conviction, if that actually finally takes place after appeal, is something that is quite different from the issue of friendship. There is something that is quite different from turning the man down and abandoning him. If we, in our general attitude toward punishment, abandon people, we make it quite certain that those people cannot possibly see the error of their way. It seems to me that this particular gesture, and I regard it as a fairly minor but an indicative one, this particular gesture comes from a very sound heart, a heart that is in accordance not only with Christian principles but with principles of friendship, Emerson's principles, with principles of getting along with other people on some basis other than eternal hostility, suspicion, hatred, dislike, animosity, which so characterize the world today. unless we have more of this, even though it may be politically ill-advised at certain moments, I suggest that our society is going to be at each other's throats in a way that will be of no value to any. Thank you. And here's another question. With regard to Japan, you point out that it would be foolish to have a Japanese army of 100,000 since they really couldn't resist aggression if they had to. And now, take Western Europe, for example. Most experts agree that Europe won't be self-sufficient. By 1952, they'll be in the red about $2 billion to $3 billion. On the other hand, everybody knows that with the limited American aid we have at present, if Russia should decide to attack Western Europe, Western Europe would not be able to resist Russian aggression either, just the same as Japan would. Now, it seems to me you invite the communists to come in because on one hand, you take the economic support away by shifting it to armaments, and on the other hand, you don't have enough armaments to hold the Reds back if they should decide to come. So that in the end, I think you're going to end up with something very undesirable and that we didn't ask for in the first place. What I'd like to know is why the devil didn't they follow up the economic Marshall Plan 8 and go all the way through, all the way through with it? In other words, put the full emphasis on it instead of shifting it to a limited military aid, which won't be in effect if the Russians should decide to go ahead. It's a rather good question because it throws into very sharp contrast just what our dilemma is in the United States. We want to save money. We want to cut the budget down. We want to have financing on a sound and not a deficit basis. We want to save pennies here and save pennies there and dollars and millions and billions of dollars. And to do it, we propose effectively moving increasingly out of the position of bearing the costs of aiding Japan economically, of aiding Japan militarily by occupation forces. Well, I think that that's probably a fairly good idea. But as you suggest, substituting for that, a military force of 100,000 in Japan will tend to disrupt the internal economy by the diversion of monies in Japan to military activities. It seems to me that this is fairly useless. If Russia is going to attack anywhere, it's going to be a world war. Russia has not yet attacked anywhere by the device of overt military aggression. Russia has made its attacks in Czechoslovakia and elsewhere by the internal weakness of the country. One of the greatest blunders of American statesmanship was when Secretary Burns saw some Czechoslovaks applauding a Russian speech. You'll find this on, I think, page 143 of his book, Speaking Frankly. Saw some Czechoslovaks applauding a Russian speech and decided personally to cut off financial and economic aid to Czechoslovakia at that point. And that was before Czechoslovakia had fallen to Russia. Wherever we increase the internal weakness of a country, one way or another, we damage the possibility of that country withstanding communism and standing up against communism both externally and internally. Wherever we increase its internal stability, we increase the chances of that country not falling to a communist revolution, either internal or external. Doctor, this gentleman has been waiting a long time, very patiently, to get in one very short question here. May I suggest respectfully that we cannot have unity amongst the Western powers if the one or the other are more selfish than the other. When England recognizes the Chinese communist government, it's because of her selfish purposes of Hong Kong and that's her reason because she has historically done so all the time. When the United States wants to recognize, she hesitates because she has real reasons. When they have no unity, how can we have real unity and how can we ever conquer the communist idea? Well, I'm not sure that the question can really be answered because there are always selfish interests. It's quite true. All I hope is that in the development of foreign policy generally, when the question of the selfishness of interest is at stake, that it will be the most enlightened kind of self-interest that we will develop rather than the kind of self-interest at the cost of someone else that has been traditional in imperialism and colonialism and Asiatic exploitation in the past. It seems to me that the possibility of enlightened self-interest is something that dictates aiding Asia to improve its conditions and this, I think, is the only policy that will help us to avoid war. Can you take one more question now, Dr. Overstreet? Just one more question now, Doctor. Secretary of State Acheson has stated that Russia intends to annex Manchuria, Mongolia, and Sintiang. He also said that the recent Sino-Russian treaty has secret enslaving clauses. Do you see any indications that his statement is true? Do you know anything more about this problem? I think that the statement is a peculiarly unfortunate one. Anyone must recognize that the statement was made principally for propaganda purposes during the negotiations that were being carried on between the Chinese communists and the Russian government. The statement overstates the case. There may very possibly be an expectation that the Russian government has plans of expansion in one area or another. There may very possibly be information that there are secret codicils of one sort or another. There are secret provisions in the treaties reached between China and Russia. If this is the case, the evidence has not yet appeared. Partly, I think that we have to watch closely to see that we don't condemn the statement, which is made for an obvious propaganda purpose, which is made also for another purpose, simply because it is an overstatement. For actually, it seems to me that the main purpose of the statement was to try to pry loose whether the information as to whether or not there really were any such secret agreements. This is all part of the process of diplomacy. This is all part of the process of finding out what's going on. And I think that in this particular case, it was an ill-chosen device because it had a backfire, a boomerang, that was more discouraging than encouraging in international politics generally. Thank you very much, Dr. Alversky. Thank you.