Denoting the spot from which George Washington made the first public reading of the Declaration of Independence. The Continental Army was fighting, but they had no idea what they were fighting for. And until this reading of the Declaration of Independence, they didn't know. And that clarified and crystallized the struggle for independence. And now the program is in progress. Now your chairman. The anniversary of the reading of the Declaration of Independence to Washington soldiers on this spot. 175 years ago, this program is being offered by the Grand Lodge, free and accepted Masons of the state of New York. In honor of George Washington, who was a Mason and a member of Fredericksburg Lodge, number four of Fredericksburg, Virginia. The posting of the colors by the U.S. Army, the U.S. Navy, the United States Marine Corps, the United States Air Force, the Masonic War veterans of the state of New York, youngest of the veteran organizations of this state, the anthem. The Star-Spangled Banner will be sung. By Miss Lucy Monroe. Miss Monroe will be accompanied by the New York City Fire Department band, led by George F. Griegel, honorary deputy. Miss Lucy Monroe. Thank you, Captain Witherspoon. Ladies and gentlemen, won't you please sing with me? Oh, say can you please, by the dawn's early light, What the proudly we hailed, that the boy had set me in, Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the miracle's eyes? Our ramparts we have, where so gallantly streaming? And the rocky trees clear, the bombs bursting in air, Give forth to the night that our flag was still there. O'er the możliös we are now, by the export of the commandý We will again, by the love of the moon, my great stars, the bread-spangled banner yet prohibit. yet faith O'er the end of the day and the hope of the brave And now your chairman, Captain Witherspoon. Thank you, Miss Monroe. That was something that we shall never forget. The salute to the flag will be led by Commander General Robert W. Caldwell, the Commander General of the Masonic War Veterans of the State of New York. Commander General Caldwell. Ladies and gentlemen, join me in pledging allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The invocation will be given by Dr. William F. Rosenblum, Grand Chaplain of Grand Lodge of the State of New York. Dr. Rosenblum. Our God and God of our fathers, we thank thee for the privilege and inspiration of this assembly. May the lesson of this day remain deeply impressed on our minds as we recall the scenes in which our ancestors participated. And the words of independence written by the authors of our liberties and read to his truth by the father of our nation 175 years ago, this day, have new meaning for us now. grateful for the promise of peace in the Far East. Let us not forget that eternal vigilance is the price of our freedom. Let us rededicate ourselves then to our way of life, to our nation under God, and be prepared to make every sacrifice to the end that wherever our destiny is at stake, for our life, liberty, and happiness in danger, we shall not yield but stand firm. Above all, let us remember that victory is achieved not alone on the field of battle, but in the everyday places of life, our cities and states, our homes and our pursuits. Let us then, as Americans, live in amity and unity here, whatever our creed, our origin, our calling. Thus, united, we will not only preserve our own future, but have the power and the courage to resist aggression everywhere. I set an example for all the world to follow until universal peace shall be firmly established for all the children of men. Amen. Excerpts from the Declaration of Independence, which was read on this spot by an officer of George Washington to the soldiers in 1775, 1776, will be read by Commander Adams, the direct descendant of the Vice President of the United States, the first Vice President, and by Captain Maurice Witherspoon, a direct descendant of John Witherspoon, the signer of the Declaration, and then President of Princeton University, Commander Charles Adams. The Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress, Philadelphia, July 4, 1776, When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another and to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal station to which laws of nature and of nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind and requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to affect their safety and their happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dedicate that government long established should not be changed by light and transient causes, and accordingly all experience has shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer while evils are sufferable than the right to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object, evidence they design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty to throw off such government and to provide new guards for their future security. Such has been the patient suffering of these colonies, and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former system of government. the history of the King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in their direct object the establishment of an absolute tyranny over these states. To prove this, let the facts be submitted to the candid world. He has refused his assent to laws, the most wholesome and necessary for the public good. He has forbidden his governors to pass laws of immediate and pressing importance unless suspended in their operation till his assent should be obtained. And when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them. He has refused to pass other laws for the accommodation of large districts of people unless those peoples would relinquish the right of representation in the legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidable to tyrants only. He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depositories of their public records for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures. We, therefore, the representatives of the United States of America in general Congress assembled, appealing to the supreme judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in name and by authority of the good people of these colonies, solemnly publish and declare that these United States are and of a right ought to be free and independent states, that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British crown, and that all political connection between them and the state of Great Britain is and ought to be totally dissolved, and that as free and independent states, they have full power to levy war, conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and do all other acts and things which independent states may of a right do. And for the support of this declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. You have just listened to a reading of excerpts of the Declaration of Independence by Commander Charles Adams, a direct descendant of the first vice president of the United States, and by Captain Maurice Witherspoon, a direct descendant of John Witherspoon, the signer of the Declaration of Independence and the president of Princeton University at that time. And now, friends of the air, those assembled here, we're going to have the happy opportunity of hearing from our beloved mayor, Vincent Impeletteri, the mayor of the city of New York and beloved by all of us, Mayor Impeletteri. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege for me as chief executive of our city to participate in the ceremonial of the Grand Lodge, free and accepted Masons of the state of New York, marking the 175th anniversary of the reading of the Declaration of Independence here at historic City Hall. To my right, under the windows of the west wing of City Hall, there is a plaque erected by the Sons of the Revolution on November 25, 1892, stating that near this very spot, in the presence of General George Washington, the Declaration of Independence was read and published to the American Army on July 9, 1776. historians tell us that George Washington's ragged little rebel army was encamped at that time on the northernmost fringe of the city and their reference was to what is now the rear of this building. The population of the city of New York at that time amounted to 10,000. Before that historic day, which we commemorate at these ceremonies, and before that historic document, the Declaration of Independence was proclaimed to the world, Washington's army was fighting against terrific odds. And the hopes for victory seemed far off indeed. It was the Declaration of Independence which clearly and boldly stated for them the ideals and the principles of freedom for which they were fighting and which, in turn, imbued them with the zeal that carried them on to final victory. When the Grand Lodge of free and accepted masons of the state of New York asked Lee to hold commemorative exercises here in City Hall Plaza on the 175th anniversary of the reading of the Declaration of Independence, it was a great pleasure for me to accept their invitation to participate in this program. George Washington was a member of the Masonic Fraternity, as were many of the other founding fathers of this great democracy. It is my extreme pleasure to extend the city's official welcome to State Masonic Grand Master Richard A. Rowlands who shares this platform with us this morning. Thank you very much. Thank you. And now we have the most worshipful Richard A. Rowlands, Grand Master of the State of New York, who has come down from Schenectady today to be with us and to reply to the greetings of the Honorable Mayor Vincent Impeliteri. Grand Master Richard A. Rowlands, Grand Master of the State of New York. The Honorable Mayor, friends, ladies, and gentlemen, you know, Mr. Mayor, I like to think of those men who signed that Declaration of Independence. They risked their lives in doing that because they knew well that they came over here to be relieved of oppression and persecution. They knew full well that the great republic, the monarchy, if you please, of England, if it dominated this country, would string them up upon some of these trees such as was done to Nathan Hale. I like to think of the boldness and the fearlessness of men who realize and want freedom more than life itself. Mr. Mayor, you were born on the other side. This country offered you a great opportunity as it offers all citizens. Three of my grandparents were born on the other side. So you can call me a foreigner if you please because I am only two generations removed. But we have a great responsibility we of this generation. It's only 175 years ago that this great document was signed and declared. In fact, I come from a Masonic lodge in Schenectady that is 177 years old. And I always like to wonder what that country must have been, 177 years ago. But we have a great responsibility. These men who signed that document who desired freedom and would die for it have laid a foundation. They've given us a tradition upon which to build. They've given us a country that is open to all mankind irrespective of race, creed, or color and in which there is every opportunity. Now the lesson I get today and the thought I would like to leave with you is that sense of responsibility that you have as citizens, as individuals, not to sit back and let somebody else assume that responsibility. But each of us as individuals must carry the torch which these men who signed the Declaration of Independence gave us. It was more than a document. It was a way of life. This country is only 175 years old. It's the youngest form of government in the world today. And yet this country is the most powerful and the most wealthy country in the world. And as such there are petty jealousies and we must guard this freedom which these men have given us. Mr. Mayor, I thank you for your cordial welcome and your gracious greetings. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As the band plays patriotic airs, the Honorable Mayor Vincent Impeletere and the Grandmaster of Masons of the State of New York will place a wreath under the plaque marking the spot where the Declaration of Independence was read 175 years ago to Washington soldiers who were encamped on these grounds which was the outpost or the outskirts of the City of New York at that time. Mayor Impeletere and Grandmaster Rowlands are leaving at this time to place this wreath. We will come back here for the benediction and the recessional. Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeletere and Mr. Rowlands Captain Witherspoon and Mr. Adams the direct descendant of John Adams Mr. Witherspoon in the costume of the Supreme Court judge or shall I say the President of Princeton like his ancestor the sixth President who was also a signer of the Declaration of Independence and the young Mr. Adams dressed in the colonial costume of John Adams first Vice President of the United States. It was under this window in City Hall the nearest location that can be ascertained that the Declaration of Independence was read for the first time in public in the presence of George Washington on July 9th 1776 to rally the American troops. The troops up to that time were fighting they were doing their best to fight against tyranny and taxation from abroad without knowing exactly what it was all about. They knew there was a cause but the cause had not crystallized and from the moment under the reading of the Declaration of Independence they had a charter of freedom inspired by God himself which could never be prevailed against no matter what the power may be that may plan to do so. And in that document the greatest human document taking its inspiration from God and not from man we have that fundamental principle of man's inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness and inferentially his loyalty to the great country that extended and founded the opportunity for its expression. We have seen that Declaration of Independence finally permeate all the governments of the world in one form or another. The idea hasn't completely crystallized in all parts of the world but that like everything else is merely a matter of time because the humanities have thoroughly awakened to their proper realization of the relation to man himself through the Declaration of Independence and its international quality is only a question of time until every nation enjoys the same privilege under God that we Americans have enjoyed since the valorous days of George Washington and that handful of ragged soldiers we might call them because of the very poverty of their fight marshaled as they were on the upper limits of New York City just beyond Chambers Street in the upper reaches of the ancient city. And now the mayor of the city of New York Mr. Rowlands Mr. Adams Mr. Witherspoon are returning now after having placed the wreath from the under the tablet in the window here in the west wing of City Hall when President Truman visited City Hall some years back he posed for a picture from the window which is right over this bronze plaque at City Hall they're returning now to the rostrum and Mr. Witherspoon or Captain Witherspoon will take up the order of program Mr. Witherspoon and the Grand Master of Masons in the state of New York have just finished placing a wreath below the plaque that marks a spot where the Declaration of Independence was read by an officer of George Washington to his soldiers 175 years ago and now we are going to have the benediction given by Dr. Cornelius Greenway Grand Chaplain of Grand Lodge of the state of New York who comes over from Brooklyn today to give this benediction for us Dr. Greenway Our Father we give thee thanks for the privilege that has been ours to rededicate ourselves to the principles that were bought and sealed at the price of blood sweat and tears of those who made possible for us to live in this land whose flag is full of stars help us to keep this land a great land land where men and women can live with no fear in the heart everyone sitting under his own fig tree with no fear about their security help us to keep this land what it ought to be Amen We are going to ask the color guards before we play the recessional to retire their colors The color guards who have honored us this afternoon are from the United States Army the United States Navy the United States Marine Corps the United States Air Force and the Masonic War veterans of the state of New York They are now retiring their colors as the fireman's band of the city of New York under the leadership of George F. Briegel honorary deputy plays the recessional Thank you all for coming and thank you for listening in to this program which honors the reading of the Declaration of Independence 175 years ago to Washington's soldiers on this spot Thank you Captain Witherspoon Today's ceremony at City Hall bringing to our attention the fact that the first public reading of the Declaration of Independence took place in front of the Continental Army on this spot which was then the common because the City Hall was not started until 1803 and has been the residence of the government of the City of New York since 1811 It is just another instance of the wonders of your great city New York New York City played a great part in the history and the making of the American nation and the succoring and building up of the Continental Army and strengthening the fight against the tyranny that was the reason for the American Revolution we would do well to recapture ourselves we of New York our tremendous relation to this revolutionary scene and the fact that so much of its important events so many of them happened right here in the City of New York below the old city which at that time by a stretch of the imagination went to Canal Street but really not beyond Chambers Street The government of the United States was founded a few blocks from this spot at Nassau on Wall Street where George Washington took oath of office and now since the removal of the post office we can stand here on the City Hall steps and gaze into the porch of St. Paul's Church the actual building where George Washington and the United States Congress met for the first time and prayed to God for his leadership and inspiration in carrying out what they considered was a frightful experiment on their part to rebel against a great and powerful nation in order to establish an independent and free one and with this history and this background New York can again take bows for being the great and wonder city New York that is all from City Hall we return you now to the studios and join with the program in progress WNYC the voice of New York City and to the the
