Your city station now presents transcribed another important report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, will discuss with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is the Commissioner of Welfare, Raymond Hilliard, who is the Chief of the Emergency Welfare Unit of Civil Defense. And now to introduce this, the fourth of these reports on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. This evening we will discuss an aspect of civil offense that in point of numbers at least may affect the largest portion of our population in the event of enemy action. If several atomic bombs were to be dropped in New York City, it is possible that millions of people would almost immediately be in urgent need of either food, shelter, clothing, or all three. The dislocation caused by the destruction of homes may be followed by the enforced separation of families whose members might lose track of one another. Mass evacuations to safer areas might also be necessary. Commissioner Hilliard, the Chief of our Emergency Welfare Division, was brought to New York City from Chicago over two years ago because of his outstanding achievements in giving assistance to large numbers of people. He has been in charge of disaster relief in the Mississippi and Wabash flood areas. At present, almost half a million patients are being helped by the Department of Welfare every month. We are indeed fortunate in finding in our own official family a man who is so well acquainted with the techniques of giving assistance on a large scale. Commissioner Hilliard, the Civilian Defense Committee, has assigned to the Department of Welfare a major role should disaster strike this city as a result of enemy action. Will you please tell our listeners just how the Emergency Welfare Division will progress in this here direction? Well, we're practically out of the planning stage, Commissioner Wallander. However, should an emergency confront us right now, we could meet it, I feel certain, with the facilities available to us at present. The people we are now helping have the same problems that bombed-out persons will have, that is, the need for food, clothing, and shelter. We are always ready to furnish these necessities on a large scale, and in a short time we'll be able to handle even the most extreme situation. Well, I'd like you to give a theoretical... I'd like to give you a theoretical situation right now, Commissioner. Suppose 2A bombs, as destructive as those tested at Bikini, would have been dropped on New York City, one in Manhattan's Lower East Side and the other in Queens. You'd have approximately 2 million persons affected in a total area of about 30 square miles. What would the Emergency Welfare Division be able to do for these bombed-out civilians? First of all, we expect every resident of New York City to be familiar with the location of the emergency welfare center nearest to his home. Including our regular welfare centers and the special locations soon to be announced, there will be 47 such centers throughout the five boroughs. They will be easily accessible and plainly marked. Commissioner, suppose the bomb is dropped at night or on a weekend? We have more than 8,000 employees in our City Department of Welfare. Now, with our staff living in every section of the city, they can be assigned to centers near their own homes and will be able to report to their posts quickly. Consequently, in case of a disaster or an alert, every emergency welfare center will be in operation in time to serve our civilians. Well, you are ready to move then, aren't you, Commissioner? Yes, I feel sure we are, that we'll be able to meet all civilian needs for food, clothing, shelter, to give information and advice on personal and family problems arising from enemy action, to set up registration lists of displaced persons, and, if necessary, arrange for the evacuation of civilians from this city. Well, that's quite a big order, I'd say, Commissioner, and can the Emergency Welfare Division handle it alone? Obviously not, Commissioner Wallner, but we will be working as part of the master plan, and the other city departments will also be doing their share. For instance, the Board of Transportation and the Department of Marine and Aviation will help us out with mass evacuations. The Department of Health will give inoculations if needed. The Department of Markets and the Department of Purchase will stockpile food and clothing for us. And the Board of Education will make available buildings for emergency welfare centers and for reception centers. We'll have plenty of help, I think. How about the number of your employees? Will the 8,000 you have be enough? Well, luckily, Commissioner, we're getting help in that direction also. The Welfare Council of New York City has pledged its support in enlisting additional staff. We have also accepted the offer of personnel from the American Women's Volunteer Services, from the Salvation Army, and from the American Red Cross. Well, Commissioner Hilliard, suppose the large numbers of families are bombed out and all of them come to the emergency welfare centers at one time. What then? We will have ample supplies of food and clothing on hand, or these will be quickly procurable. If mass feeding is necessary, we will have one of our own central kitchens now in use in the institutions managed by the Department of Welfare. If they cannot handle the burden, we will use mobile canteens and call on the restaurant chains with central commissaries. If food and clothing are obtainable in the stores, but people have no funds, cash will be issued to tide them over the emergency period. Well, that would take care of food and clothing. But what about shelter? Housing may be a big problem. Not may, Commissioner, but starting off as we do with a housing shortage, we'd better say it will be a big problem. However, we will have listings of available furnished rooms, vacant apartments, hotels, lodging houses, and if necessary, we will use institutions and reception centers until more permanent arrangements can be made. What about the registration service you mentioned before, Commissioner? Well, we'll keep a record of both the old and the new addresses of every person who comes to us, and other city departments and private agencies will notify us of the new locations of displaced persons. That should be a tremendous job in itself, shouldn't it? We know it, and people all over the city, all over the state and the nation perhaps, might even say all over the world, may be moving around. But one of the most important factors in keeping up civilian morale is the knowledge of the whereabouts of loved ones, both family and friends. We want to make certain that every member who may be separated from his family finally rejoins his relatives. Well, Commissioner Hilliard, you're going to be registering these displaced persons, and you're going to keep a record of all them, and what other records besides these will you be keeping? Well, the records will be forwarded to us from all the hospitals, the casualty stations, the morgues, the police report centers, and members of our own staff will be in these locations to keep channeling in the information and to keep it current. We'll be able to furnish complete details as to the current address or extent of injuries of every reported person. What about these police report centers? How do they tie in with the Emergency Welfare Division, Commissioner? Well, our workers, Commissioner Wallander, stationed in police report centers, will pass on to the emergency welfare centers and to our headquarters all reports of conditions in the local area. In that way, we will be able to shift staff where they are needed most to anticipate emergencies and rush additional food and clothing if the supply seems to be insufficient for any particular section. What about children separated from their families, Commissioner Hilliard? We all know the terrible tragedy that befell war-torn countries in the last war. Thousands of lost children, ignorant of the whereabouts of their parents and other relatives, many not even aware of their own names, wandered from place to place looking for food and shelter. What do we do in that case? Well, I think we have learned from that terrible experience, Commissioner Wallander. There is a special section in the Emergency Welfare Division that will devote itself solely to the care of children separated from their families. These children will be housed and fed and kept in groups. If mass evacuations are called for, we'll be able to keep track of them. There will even be a special registration section for them. If you recall, we have already recommended that all children be fingerprinted or issued tags so that they may be identified if they're lost or if they should get separated from their families. Yeah, I recall that plan, Commissioner Hilliard, and I do know that you've been working along that line, but you've been talking about civilian dislocations. What if your own setup breaks down? Well, we've anticipated just about every contingency we could think of, Commissioner Wallander. For instance, we have a central headquarters. We also have two alternate headquarters, three in all, so that at least one will be functioned if another one is knocked out. Suppose telephones are out. How will you keep in touch with one another? Station WNYC, over which we're talking right now, has formulated plans for shortwave radio communication and for the use of walkie-talkies. There are, of course, other alternatives to every part of our setup. We should be ready and functioning in any emergency. I'm sure that you will, Commissioner. What advice would you give to patients who may be bombed out of their homes as a result of enemy action? The Emergency Welfare Division will be prepared to care for every New Yorker who may lose his home. Food, clothing, and shelter will be available immediately after the disaster. Our division will arrange for the removal of individuals and families to other locations if future events make mass evacuations necessary. There are a few points, however, that I do want to emphasize. First, every person should familiarize himself with the location of the emergency welfare center which is nearest to his home. Within a short time, the addresses will be announced and each building will be plainly marked by a sign. Second, even if emergency welfare services are not needed, every person should register his change of address with our registration section if his home is destroyed by enemy action and he has to find new living quarters. After any disaster, there will be many calls concerning the safety or the whereabouts of those living in this city and we want to be able to answer all inquiries promptly and accurately. In the event of an emergency, such calls will probably be made only through official channels because usual means of communication may not be available to civilians. And third, as a precaution, each child should know its full name, its address, and the names of parents or grandparents if possible. However, if a child does become separated from its family, a report should be made immediately to the nearest emergency welfare center. And remember, above all, that the emergency welfare centers will be staffed by specialists who will have at their disposal all the resources of the city. Well, Commissioner Hilliard, it looks like the emergency welfare division will be able to meet any kind, any of the food, clothing, and shelter needs of the civilian population from New York City in the event of enemy action. Thank you for joining our program here this evening. You've been listening to the fourth in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his transcribed report this evening was Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare and Chief of the Welfare Unit of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.