which is merely a strip the planes will land and take off on after all these seats are removed. The problem of getting you in here and to make it convenient for hundreds of thousands of people was a real job. And I want to take my leave tonight by thanking those who were responsible. The engineers, the directors, and all the magnificent staff that I have that have worked out every detail, together with those that have put up the tents and all other mechanical agencies that were engaged in this work. The tents, as you might have noticed, the red tents, I mean, were development of the war and there is no center pole. They stand up there on a cantilever system that is of great importance to the future use of tents in connection with emergency matters. I'd like to take this particular moment to thank Tom Compier, who stands on my left, who is the director of this international exposition, and all the members of his staff. If I were to go through all of the individuals and call them by name and tell you what particular part in this operation they played, it would take hours. But suffice it to say that I salute Mr. Tom Compier, who directed this operation, the air operation, and his very efficient staff. Together with the staff of the Mayor's Committee, those attached to the General Office, and to the Chairman personally. I have issued a statement that reads as follows, which I wanted to give you before you read it in the press, if the press has space for it. The greatest air demonstration in the history of world aviation is at an end. The International Air Exposition of New York's International Airport, Idlewild, has been an outstanding success in every respect. Sixty percent adverse weather reduced the attendance, but this was a risk that always is a factor in such outdoor exposition. The people have had an opportunity to review the nation's great air services. The people also had an opportunity to witness the fine cooperation and coordination of the city's services, as well as the police, fire, sanitation, hospital departments, board of transportation. There also has been fine assistance from citizen cooperation. As Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, which sponsored the International Air Exposition, I want to express my sincere thanks to all who have made the event such an outstanding success. I also wish to express my personal gratitude to the Air Force, the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Army, the Coast Guard. As always, they demonstrated their service to our beloved country. Further expressions of gratitude go to the British Royal Navy and the British Royal Air Force, who participated in the exposition so successfully. Assistance and cooperation also was given by the Canadian Air Cadet League, the United States Civil Aeronautics Administration, the United States Civil Air Patrol, Al Williams, the famous flyer, and owners of civilian planes and helicopters. All of us, I know, feel a greater sense of security as a result of this great demonstration of air power and availability. In these disturbing times, it is good to know that the air power of the nation is on guard and ready for any emergency. All of us, grateful to Mayor William O'Dryer, whose personal attendance and assistance were so valuable and inspiring, he was ably assisted by the members of the Board of Estimate and the members of his cabinet. and to the people of New York and vicinity and other visitors from far away, the Mayor's Committee wishes to express its thanks for their support and cooperation. It has been a privilege to serve them. The next phase of the Golden Anniversary Commemoration will be the Golden Anniversary Exposition at Grand Central Palace, August 23 to September 19. This will be worthy to stand beside, side by side, with the New York at Work demonstration and the International Air Exposition. Finally, our thanks and deep appreciation to the newspapers, to the reporters, photographers, and editors, the newsreels, their editors, cameramen, the radio station, the managers and commentators, and the television station, their managers and cameramen, who gave so wonderful, such wonderful coverage to the exposition. On opening day, combined, they gave the International Air Exposition the greatest coverage in word and picture reported, recorded, in our country's glorious history. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We will now have the mask band take over for a few numbers while we conclude and close our final ceremony. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The End The End The End The Mitchelman steps up, salutes smartly. The Admiral steps up to him and pins on the wings of gold as the photographers record the scene. The Midshipman James E. May, Manhasset, New York. The crowd gives a big hand to these young men from the New York area. By the way, the Admiral and all five of these Mitchelmen are in Navy whites. Most of the naval personnel here... Mitchelman, Frederick M. Nizzich, Hartford, Connecticut. Most of the naval personnel here are in khaki. Once again, the young man steps up and the Admiral pins the wings of gold on him. He salutes sharply. Mitchelman, Robert P. Smith, Orange, New Jersey. The gentleman from New Jersey receives as great a hand as the Mitchelman from the New York area. And now on with the musical portion of the program. Volunteersen a B. May, Manhasset, triste,ensional,Qué hark, hark,sil***き and the filled with the Boys' In-Angers! Ray, Another one host, Arrow, lab therefores with the C brands cią and now Mayor Dwyer stepping up to all five of the midshipmen with the five young midshipmen who have just received their wings from Admiral Litch and in just a moment Admiral Ewing who is with the mayor will take over as chairman Admiral Ewing this concludes the ceremonies in connection for the presentation of wings to five new naval aviators the band will pick it up from here until the air show begins, thank you very much it's regrettable indeed that Police Commissioner Wallander is not with us because Commissioner Wallander at this time is indisposed but he founded the aviation wing of the police department and his duties have been taken over by acting Commissioner Mulligan and as we heard from Mr. Whelan the police arrangements and the various city departments have cooperated beautifully in maintaining the integrity of this party here at Idlewild and the huge crowds of people that have come here to enjoy the aviation spectacle the United States Navy has prepared for today one of the greatest shows ever exhibited in the field of aviation and you've just had the privilege of hearing the ceremonial award of the wings to the five young midshipmen from Jacksonville Florida awarded by their Admiral awarded by their Admiral in the presence of the Mayor, Commander Ewing and the distinguished ranking officers of the United States Navy and now while we're waiting for the air show we take this occasion to thank the musical organizations the United States Navy Band, the Air Force Band, the police fire and sanitation and their distinguished band leaders for the musical part of this program and the police glee club and we conclude the ceremonies here now at Idlewild and return the program to the studios in the Municipal Building but come out to Idlewild, it's the greatest spot in the world this is the Municipal Broadcasting System is our 가을 쏟고 여러분들TV are ever been able to meetings the was hibernate and Idlewild to keep you safe as long as this part it says