The following program is transcribed. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What are the social responsibilities of business? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the social responsibilities of American business. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the obligations of business to the community and to workers, investors, and to consumers. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Harry A. Bullis, Chairman of the Board, General Mills, John L. McCaffrey, President of International Harvester Company, and Clifton W. Phelan, Vice President of American Telephone and Telegraph Company. May I say for our radio listeners that this discussion of the social responsibilities of business is presented before a general session of the Convention of the National Business Teachers Association in Chicago. Now these social responsibilities of business apparently embrace obligations to the consumer, to the community, to the employee, to the investor, and to society as a whole. Uh, McCaffrey, uh, how would you state the responsibilities of business to the community? Well, I think, uh, Dean, that business has responsibility to the communities divided into four classifications. Number one, it should be a constructive economic force in a community. Number two, it should take part in all community activities. Number three, to cooperate with the educational institutions in the community. And number four, to keep the community informed of its business. Well, how can a business be a constructive economic force in a community? What do you mean by that? Well, number one, I should say that it must earn a profit and stay solvent so that it can continue to provide jobs, pay a payroll, meet its taxes, and so forth. And to be forward-looking. And by research and good management, try to enlarge its business and its output so that it may give more and steadier jobs, pay a bigger payroll, and help the community itself grow. How far should management go in trying to keep a community informed concerning its business, McCaffrey? Well, number one, I think they, uh, should recognize the natural right in the community to know what goes on within its business. Number two, keep the public officials and others informed on the possible changes in business which may affect community planning. Number three, keep the community informed of labor or other situations which might interfere with continued production or continued payroll. Number three, keep the community informed of the company's contributions to the community and of any activities undertaken which will help to build the community. And lastly, to encourage groups or individuals in the community to visit and become familiar with the company's operations in every respect. Do you go along with the point of view that's developed here, Bullis? Yes, I think, Dean, that, uh, McCaffrey has stated the problem very well. I'd like to say that, uh, each business should be a good neighbor in the community in which it is located. And I believe that, uh, modern, uh, major executives of business are trying to do that. They have their associates and their executives, uh, participate in anything that is good for the community. And they particularly recognize that, uh, schools are an important part of the community and they're trying to help the school situation. Keeping the community informed, I think, uh, that teachers are the ones who can do as much as anyone else to keep communities informed because they see more of people in the communities possibly than anyone else. And insofar as our company is concerned, I'd like to issue an invitation to every teacher who feels he'd like to come to our place of business and ask any questions, he or she, that they'd like to know about our business. We haven't any closed doors. We haven't any closed doors. And we'd be glad to see you. We'd be glad to tell you anything that you want to know as to what makes our business take... Thalen has something to say on this. While we're in the process of issuing invitations, I'd just like to say this, and this is on the subject of, uh, keeping folks in the various communities informed, we have an exhibit now that is, uh, going around the country called Looking Ahead with the Bell System. And that exhibit, uh, deals with such subjects as our new method of, uh, dialing toll calls from coast to coast by operators and our new method of transmitting long-distance conversations by radio relay also takes a look into the future and, uh, concerns itself with, uh, customer dialing of long-distance calls at the present time to nearby points and some other new features of our business. I mention that here this morning because, uh, that exhibit, uh, within the next two or three months will be in Chicago. It will also be in St. Louis. It's, uh, presently in, uh, Pennsylvania, in, uh, Philadelphia, and will soon be in Pittsburgh. And I hope that any of you that get an opportunity to come in and see it will do so. I think you'd get a kick out of it. Along that line, uh, Dean, I should like to have the teachers know that we have a school of our own right here in Chicago. Naturally, of course, it's a school teaching people about our own business. But we do have that school, and we have graduated from that school some several thousand of our employees. And, uh, along the line of invitations, if you ladies or gentlemen are interested in taking a look at an industry school, you're also welcome to come there. We'd be glad to have you. Well, Dean, uh, well, we're inviting people around and, uh, in connection with the, uh, International Harvester Company, the American Tell and Tell. I would like to say that General Mills would be happy to have any of you, uh, call at our Betty Crocker Department in Minneapolis and see Betty Crocker and her assistants. Call at any one of our 30 or 40 or 50 plants around the country or participate and call upon any of our radio shows. Now, if you have three million listeners to the Northwestern University reviewing stand coming into your plants, don't blame me, gentlemen. But let me ask you a somewhat different question here, if I may. We're talking about the responsibilities of business to the community. Now, here's a specific question, uh, McCaffrey. Let's say that you develop a plant in a community, and people come in to that community as your employees. They build their homes in that community around that plant. And you then reach a, uh, situation where you find it no longer profitable to keep that, uh, plant open. And you'll close its doors in their face. What are your responsibilities under that kind of a situation to the community? Because lots of communities are built around these, these plants you gentlemen operate. Well, Dean, unfortunately, we've had an occasion of that kind just recently. It was a question where the product that was made in the plant, rather the market for the product that was made in a certain plant in Auburn, New York, moved away from that vicinity, and it became no longer economic to run the plant. So we had to close the plant. The first job that we did, uh, in order to help the community was to give them just as long notice as we possibly could. As a matter of fact, we gave them two years' notice of the closing of the plant. Uh, number two was that we then arranged to pay every employee in that plant a separation allowance, which cost us in the neighborhood of a million dollars. Uh, number three was we tried to provide jobs for all of those who could move from that locality to another plant. And number four, and the final thing that we have just done, we've offered the City of Auburn that plant, which has a very high value for one dollar, provided they can have a proper setup to take the plant over and get some other industry to move into the town so that their community will not be deprived of employment for the people who were formerly employed in that plant. Have they taken you up on that one dollar offer? Not as yet. They're trying to arrange a group who can take it and who will properly operate and properly handle the plant. How do you feel about the, uh, Phelan, about the community responsibilities in a situation of the sort we're discussing here? Well, I might say that, uh... Do you ever close up the telephone? I was just going to say, we've never had the experience of closing up a telephone exchange, except perhaps for an hour or two during a sleet storm or some emergency of that sort, or a fire. However, we do have this kind of an experience. We have technological changes in our business, just as everyone else has, the most common of which is the conversion from manual operation to dial. We do a lot of advanced planning on that, too, just as Mr. McCaffrey has, anticipate those changes several years in advance, and do everything we can to provide jobs for our people. The fact that we've been quite successful in that, I think, is indicated by a figure or two. We're now about 72% dial operation in the Bell system. A few years ago, eight or ten years ago, we were in the neighborhood of 50 or 55% dial. Actually, we have twice as many operators on our payroll now as we had then, due to the fact that as we've converted the dial, kept the cost of the service down, our volume of business has increased, we've been able to put on more people, and at the same time, in the vast majority of cases, take care of those who are already with us. Did you have a point here, Bullis? Well, Dean, I'd like to emphasize again that in our company, when we're located in a certain community with a plant or a sales office, we try to be a good neighbor in that community. We try to have our plant headed or our office headed by some executive who becomes a distinguished citizen of the community. We try to have open houses. We try to participate in everything going on in that community. Well, let's move on to a consideration of the responsibility of business to employees. What do you have to say about that, Phelan? Well, I would say this. It seems to me that the average employee looks and strives for the same sort of thing that all of us in this room look and strive for. They expect to live in reasonable comfort. They hope to be able to educate their children. They hope to be able to meet the various emergencies with which they're confronted as they go through life. They hope to be independent in their old age. They hope to get a maximum amount of satisfaction out of their job. I think that the overall broad responsibility of business is to help employees meet all of those basic desires. Well, those basic desires imply, certainly among other things, a fair wage, a good wage. How do you define a good wage? I agree with you. Those basic desires do imply a good wage. They also include many other things. I think perhaps the best definition of what we consider a good wage in our business is to tell you what our basic wage policy is. And that policy is to pay wages in the various communities in which we operate that compare favorably with the wages that are being paid by other business concerns for work requiring comparable skills. But I think that the employees also look for more than good wages, if you would like to have me say just a word. I wish you would. I wish you would. On that subject, I think that we have a responsibility to provide good working conditions, including such things as paid holidays, paid vacations, to help the employees meet emergencies, as I mentioned, through good benefit and pension plans. I think, too, that we also have a definite responsibility, commensurate with the employees' ability and with business conditions, to provide opportunity for advancement. I think perhaps one of the most important things that the business ought to do, I sometimes think that this isn't emphasized quite as much as it should be, is to try to develop more in the way of real job satisfaction on the part of the employee. And I think one way we can do that, and I'm sure we'll discuss this more later on, is to do a good training job with the employee, so that they know how to perform their particular job, so that they also have a good basic knowledge of the fundamental policies and objectives of the business and the reasons behind those objectives. Bullis? Dean, I'd like to emphasize what Mr. Freeland said. In our company, we think that the employees, who are our partners and associates, want three things. First, naturally, they want a compensation, a wage or a salary, which will allow them and their families to have the proper standard of living, to which they are entitled. Third, they want security. They want something in the future after they retire, therefore we have retirement systems, we have health associations, we have all that. But third, is something that we think is almost as important as that, that Mr. Freeland brought out. They want to belong. They want a sense of belonging to our organization. We believe that the employee has self-respect and self-confidence in our company. We try to treat our employees not as pickets in a fence or as cogs in a machine, but as partners and associates. And so we emphasize this third thing almost as much as we do the other two. McCaffrey? I'd like to add to that that employees also expect, and particularly in a business like ours, to have a safe place to work. Our businesses, Mr. Phelan, Mr. Bullitt's business is a little different from ours, and the question of safety in plants like ours is also something that every employee is entitled to have. Now we're talking about these responsibilities to employees before a group of teachers, gentlemen, who are concerned with business education, I take it. Whose responsibility is it to prepare your employees for the kind of job they do for you? How about that, Bullitt? Do you rely on teachers, or do you undertake to do it yourself? No, I'd like to say something about that. I'd like to say that we believe in business, that we're pledged to the constant improvement of products and services, and to, of course, developing and bringing out new products and new services. But two teachers, it seems to us, are dedicated to the highly important task of improving and developing what we consider in business the most single product that we have in America are young men and young women. How we in business strive to make and to sell goods at the lowest price to as many customers as possible. And new teachers are providing the best possible training within the school life of the individual student, no matter how limited or how long it may be. In other words, we businessmen aim to create jobs, and new teachers build men to fill those jobs. And that's some of the reasons. Those are some of the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, why business is doing all they can to bridge the gap between education and industry. I would just like to add this to what Mr. Bullis had to say, because I think it's very important. I have a philosophy that to a lot of people who work for a living, this is perhaps the most important thing that they look for. And I mentioned before, that is a chance for advancement, an opportunity to have ability and merit recognized. I mention this as a matter of interest right now. We regard our business, the telephone business, as being very much an up-from-the-ranks business. Practically all, if not all, of the people at the top of our business are folks that started in the business. I thought I'd take just a few seconds to tell you about an advertisement that we're going to run a couple of months from now and, in effect, give you an advanced look at it. It's going to be called up from the ranks. It's going to contain the pictures of 17 telephone company presidents. Those are the presidents of our various operating companies. It's going to indicate that each one of those folks have 34 years service in our business. It's going to show that seven of them started in as office boys or clerks. Six of them started in as linemen or installers or students of one kind or another. And four of them began in minor engineering jobs, all in salary ranges of between, say, $10 and $20 a week. And I bring that out because it ties in with what Mr. Bullis said, and that is this. The folks that you provide us with and the folks that you train, the good material that you give us for business, those same folks, and I wish you would tell them this, have plenty of opportunity. I realize that it's an old platitude, the statement that there's plenty of room at the top of a business, but it certainly is true. I'd like to develop a little bit further what Mr. Bullis calls bridging the gap. You know, we're all pretty prone to criticize each other about the things that we do. And I, perhaps some of you ladies and gentlemen, thought we were a little facetious in this invitation to come and see us. And very frequently, I hear people criticizing teachers about what they do, and very frequently, I hear teachers criticizing industry about what it does. My own notion of that is that neither one of us know each other very well. And I think if we could get together, and if you could come in, and if you could relieve your mind of some of the questions that you have in your mind about industry, and we can relieve our minds of some things about what we think you do, I think we'd all get along very much better together. We have a program in our company of inviting various teachers and various college professors to come in and open the door. And again, I want to emphasize that this bridging the gap only means knowing each other better. In talking about the responsibilities of business to employees, how do you gentlemen feel about pensions, old-age pensions and benefits? What do you do on that, anyway? Well, I think the best way for me to answer that question, speaking in terms of the telephone industry, is to tell you about what we've actually done. We've had a benefit and pension plan in our industry that started back in 1913. As a matter of fact, we'll celebrate our 37th birthday on the 1st of January in a couple of days. That plan provides for sickness benefits, for accident benefits, for death benefits to the dependent of a deceased employee, for disability pensions, and for service pensions. Perhaps the best way to give you an idea of how it works is by an actual example. Take a telephone installer or a lineman, for example. Say someone that is about 40 years of age and has been in the business for perhaps 10 years, if that, and is getting, we'll say, $80 a week, if that employee is taken sick, he would get 13 weeks full pay and 39 weeks half pay. Then ultimately, as his service in the business increased, he would get up to a maximum of one year's full pay. If he should die, his wife would get a year's salary, which in the particular illustration that I used would be something in the neighborhood, a little over $4,000 a year. When he retires on pension, say at age 65, although under our plan he could retire earlier, when he retires on pension, his company pension plus his Social Security, based on present wages and also based on the present Social Security law, would be roughly $145 or $148 a month. So I think that gives you some idea how our particular plan works. Well, Dean, ladies and gentlemen, on January 1st, Donald Mills will have finished the first 10 years of our pension system. In our organization, we believe that pensions are as much an element of cost as the cost of power or labor or depreciation of buildings. And we think that just as buildings wear out, human beings wear out. So we have what we think is, along with American Tell and Tell and the International Harvest Company, a very fine pension system. And we do believe that business must see that its associates and its employees are in some way taken care of after they retire, probably by a combination of a private system and a governmental pension system. I think we all agree on that. and I think the finalization of the whole story on security is that the employees are entitled to all the security that the business can afford. Well, now, is this attitude you take toward pensions typical of American business generally, do you think? I think it's pretty general all over the country, and it's becoming more accepted now every day by even the smaller businesses. It's been pretty general in large businesses for a long time. To what extent should this be discharged by business or by the federal government? I think the answer to that question is how much you can afford in business and how much you can afford in government. You, gentlemen, support the notion of the theory and philosophy behind the Social Security Act, I take it? Well, I'd like to say a word on that. Certainly we do. I think we're somewhat disturbed about the fact that at present we believe that the government doesn't have much of a financial background or actuarial basis on the pension system, but that's something that'll be figured out. Of course, this great national economist, Sumner Schlichter, and others are advocating that the government take over and operate the entire pension systems for all employees, all workers, and that there be no private pension systems. That probably won't take place for some time. But in the interval, we do believe that employees must be given pensions and probably by both private business and government. We've talked about the responsibilities of business and also about the responsibilities of government in connection with providing for emergencies and providing for old age. I think that business should also give an opportunity to its employees to help themselves in all of those respects. For example, in addition to the benefit and pension plan that I mentioned, that we've had in our business for 37 years, we also provide opportunities to the employees to save by three or four different methods. One is a payroll deduction savings plan. Another is a payroll deduction insurance plan. Another is the purchase of government bonds by payroll deduction. And another one that has been effective now for some time is the purchase of stock in the company on a payroll deduction basis. McCaffrey? McCaffrey? We've spent a good deal of time here on two particular people in this business. One is the community and the other is the employee. You know, Dean, there are two other people that we must consider in business. One, of course, is the stockholder who really owns our business and the other is the customer who really runs your business. I don't know that we have time to spend very much time on those two. What concern do you have for your stockholder? How do you help him? Well, number one, the stockholder, of course, is entitled to see that the business makes a profit and then he has a proper return on the money that he invests. If that isn't true, before very long, you'll find that there's no opportunity for expansion in anybody's business unless they can have a return to the stockholder because there won't be any capital available for that purpose. Well, Dean, in regard to the stockholder relations, since 1939, General Mills has been having regional stockholder meetings all around the country every two years. Briefly, our annual meeting is at Wilmington, Delaware in August. It's pretty hot in Delaware. Not many stockholders come. So every two years in the fall, we go out to the stockholders and we hold regional stockholder meetings in 12 or 14 different cities and we tell the stockholders what's occurring. Our major officers go out and we tell them about it. we believe that the stockholder is rather the forgotten man of industry and that we must tell him and her what's going on in their own businesses. When you talk about these stockholders, how many people are you talking about anyway? In our company, we have over 12,000 stockholders and our regional stockholder meetings we think touch on the average of 5,000 or 6,000 of these stockholders directly. Well, on this matter of stockholders, I think it's also of interest, in addition to commenting on the number of stockholders to register the point that speaking for our business and I'm sure this is true of International Harvester and General Foods, that the stock is very widely held. We have in our business, for example, at the present time, some 825,000 stockholders. The average holding among those stockholders is about 30 shares. No particular individual owns more than about one-third of 1% of the stock and many of them have had their stock for a good many years. It seems to me that is very fundamental because it indicates that American business is owned by large numbers of people, generally speaking, in small quantities per person. Say a word, Bullis, about your responsibility to consumers. All right, Dean. of course business has a direct responsibility to consumers for more goods, better goods, and cheaper goods. And we do have more goods, better goods, and cheaper goods. But today, I think that in business there's a new social consciousness that's coming up and that philosophy says that responsibility does not end when the consumer buys the goods or services, no matter how high the quantity or how low the price. And I think that we find in business today that the accent is carrying out a fully rounded account of corporate good citizenship with all that that name implies. And we find service to the consumer emphasized along the line of the other tangibles of merchandising. And briefly, it means that business thinks that what is good for the consumer is good for business and what helps business helps the consumer. In other words, the consumer is the ultimate test here of what is good for business. Well, gentlemen, in conclusion, may I say that we have discussed the responsibilities of business to the community, to employees, to consumers, to investors, and to society as a whole. You have heard three distinguished representatives of American business set forth these responsibilities. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Responsibilities of Business to Society. In the last few weeks, the reviewing stand has discussed two other subjects dealing with business, How Big Should Business Get, which analyzed the current controversy involving the growth of monopolies, and Should Prices Go Down Now, a subject close to the pocketbooks of all of us. Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Harry A. Bullis, Chairman of the Board of General Mills, Incorporated, John L. McCaffrey, President of the International Harvester Company, and Clifton W. Phelan, Vice President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Next week, the reviewing stand will evaluate the job the public schools are doing in developing ethical and moral values. We'll ask the question, Are We Educating the Spirit in Our Public Schools? Our guests will be Harold C. Hunt, General Superintendent of the Chicago Public Schools, William Van Till, Professor of Education at the University of Illinois, and Harold G. Shane, Professor of Education at Northwestern University. We invite you then to listen next week for Are We Educating the Spirit in Our Public Schools? Don't miss this interesting item. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Bill O'Connor speaking. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. We sinds we Moscone everywhere. Weattform of Education and mobile we孩子 at the University of Illinois. internal we have ordered to create our indicate where we live in building and to Buenos Elliott was right and we told the monsters who have our weapons in building