Our city station now offers a special United Nations Day presentation. Here is Dr. Herman Newman, Music Director of the Municipal Broadcasting System, to introduce the program. This is United Nations Day, and we are happy to present a special edition of Hands Across the Sea, in cooperation with that great and vital American organization, the National Federation of Music Clubs. Your master of ceremonies for the program is my very good friend, Dr. Sigmund Spaeth, popularly known as the Tune Detective. Dr. Spaeth is chairman of the Radio, Television and Motion Picture Committees for the National Federation of Music Clubs. And it's a pleasure to have Dr. Spaeth with us. Thank you very much, Herman Newman. I'm delighted again to be permitted to act as master of ceremonies for this program on United Nations Day. And I have two very fine young artists to present to you, and also some very interesting speakers, in the course of the next 45 or 50 minutes. Our first artist is Claudette Sorrel, S-O-R-E-L, who is the young winner in the piano competition, the Young Artist Contest of the past biennial in Salt Lake City of the Federation of Music Clubs. And she has since that time become a well-established artist in her own right. She is still very young. I won't give away her actual age, but I might say that she has given three town hall recitals, the first of which was at the age of 13. So she's just getting into her 20s now. And she has played with all the leading orchestras of the country. She has given recitals in many other cities. She not only was the prize winner for the National Federation of Music Clubs in the last contest, but she has won a number of other prizes, including the one of the RCA Victor recording company. In fact, she is the youngest artist to record for RCA Victor. So I think I will let Miss Sorrel's playing speak for itself and simply tell you the numbers which she will introduce, representing the music of various countries. That's what we're emphasizing in this program this morning. So first of all, two short pieces by Brahms, who is, of course, German, but wrote music that is worldwide in its significance. That is what we feel about all great music, that it transcends nationality. And so for her opening numbers, Claudette Sorrel plays the intermezzo in E major and the capriccio in D minor of Brahms from his Opus 116. Miss Sorrel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brahms, a composer of worldwide significance for all time. Miss Sorel is going to play two of his etudes, B-flat minor and A minor from his opus 104. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. Miss Sorel. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End In connection with that little piece by Edward McDowell to a water lily, which Claudette Sorrell just played for us, I might have said that McDowell represents not only America, but he also has a Scottish background. It's of course a Scottish name, and so he represents, you might say, the British Isles on this program as well as the United States of America. He wrote, as you wrote, as you wrote, which is characteristic of Scottish music is quite common also in the United States of America, which is quite common also in McDowell's music. Now then we have another American composition, this time by Abram Chasen's, a contemporary American composer, who has written for the piano and many of his pieces have also been orchestrated. He is himself a concert pianist, he is a concert pianist, he is a concert pianist, and he is a concert pianist. He is a composition called Rush Hour in the Rush Hour in Hong Kong by Abram Chasen's. Rush Hour in the Rush Hour in the Rush Hour. Rush Hour in the Rush Hour. Rush Hour and the Rush Hour, witnesses, and his job at Sprint bowling på Zorales's, a appointments washed commercial circle. Rush Hour in the Rush Hour,ES CR vit Kris Arizona, Rush Hour in the Rush Hour. Su Basination by Er drawing in the Rush Hour in the Rush Hour. To conclude this group of piano pieces played by Claudette Sorrell on our United Nations Day program of the National Federation of Music Clubs, I'm very glad to announce one more and very important composition. This incidentally is Sigmund Spaeth acting as Master of Ceremonies. Miss Sorrell is going to conclude her group with the finale of the B minor sonata of Chopin. That is not the sonata with the funeral march, it's the other one, but a very brilliant finale which will be familiar to many of our listeners, I'm sure. And let's think of Chopin not merely as a Polish composer, which of course he was, and a great patriot as you remember, but he was also distinctly Parisian. He combines Poland and France very beautifully and remarkably. And so I think it is fitting that this group of piano solos should conclude with typical Chopin played for you by Claudette Sorrell. I'm finally staying in Spanish called trying to figure out the garden with collection of a wonderful food since their moments as possible. We'llראates our family as tall, as a trumpet ben andrine fam, that is a very valuable The End The End The End The End The End The End The End And with that brilliant finale to Chopin's B minor piano sonata, Claudette Sorrell concludes her group of piano solos on this program of United Nations Day, presented by the National Federation of Music Clubs, under the general chairmanship of Sigmund Spaeth, who is acting at the moment as Master of Ceremonies. of the National Concert and Artist Bureau, known as NCAC, right here in New York. She is filling many professional engagements, and I predict that her career, which has already been spectacular in its success, will go on to much greater heights as the years go by. Thank you, Ms. Sorrell. Now I have the pleasure of introducing to you a lady who has done a very important piece of work for the National Federation of Music Clubs. She is our official observer of the United Nations, and she has taken that work seriously. It is a comparatively new position and a very important one, and she reports to us what is going on, and she is chiefly responsible for such a program as this that we are giving you today over station WNYC. I'm going to ask Margaret Sullivan, who is also known as Mrs. Edwin Sullivan, don't confuse her with the movie and stage star, although you might if you saw her in person. But I shall ask Margaret Sullivan, Mrs. Edwin Sullivan, to introduce our speaker of the morning, whose speech has been recorded for us, a very important man in the United Nations set up. And so I will leave it to Mrs. Sullivan herself to introduce him. Margaret Sullivan. Thank you, Dr. Spaeth. His Excellency, the Honorable Benjamin Cohn, is a former diplomat and an ambassador with a background of great international stature. He is an excellent linguist, a man responsible to inform the world of the United Nations and to acquaint public opinion of the accomplishments of their agreements. Ambassador Cohn recognizes that music is a highly specialized form of knowledge, that through it we may gain factual knowledge of the histories and cultures of all nations, as well as the valor of their peoples. Because the musical masterpieces through the century have recorded them, I deem it a very great pleasure to present to you a recorded message from His Excellency, the Honorable Benjamin Cohn, Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations Department of Public Information. To all those of you who are now listening to this splendid concert prepared by the National Federation of Music Clubs, as a contribution to the acts commemorating United Nations Day, I address the warmest and sincerest greetings of the United Nations. We believe that at all times we have been blessed by the friendship of those who are trying to speak among themselves beyond and above the barriers of political differences, of religious disagreements, of conflicts of interest. Among them are those who speak the universal language of music. For no matter whatever may be the pattern of culture from which the forms of musical expression have arisen still in the sounds of all the instruments individually, in the sound of the human voice, in the sound of the orchestral groupings, we find a way of expressing the inner emotions of the human being, which might not be brought forth as clearly and as movingly through any other medium of human expression. For no matter what may be the natural soul of each people, but as the formal manifestation of those common emotions which move mankind towards better understanding, towards a close knitting together of all common spiritual hopes, towards a meeting of the of the minds of the minds of human beings, in order to create a better world, in larger political, social and economic well-being, and also at peace within all the members of the human family. I wish to thank those of you who are now inspired by the sounds of the music created by eminent composers of so many nations. I want to thank you for having come to commune with us in this great anniversary of the most beautiful and transcendent hope ever written into an international compact, the Charter of the United Nations. Thank you for having me. Thank you for having me. Thank you for having me. Thank you for having me. Thank you for having me. Thank you very much, Benjamin Cohen, for that beautiful contribution to this extra edition of Hands Across the Sea, the musical program sponsored by the National Federation of Music Clubs on United Nations Day, coming to you over station WNYC, New York's Municipal Radio Station. This is Sigmund Spade, picking up the program again at this point and introducing to you our singer of the program. This is a young soprano whose name you may not have heard, but I think you will hear it many times in the future. Her name is Iris Fribrock, F-R-I-B-R-O-C-K, of Swedish descent. In fact, she has spent the past year mostly in Sweden where she has been singing with great success in Stockholm and elsewhere. She has appeared at Carnegie Hall as a winner for Washington State of the contest sponsored by the Associated Concert Bureaus. She is actually a Seattle girl, a graduate of the University of Washington, both in music and in drama. And I believe that she is especially fitted to sing a group of songs representing different nationalities and again with a worldwide significance such as we are emphasizing on this program. Miss Fribrock is going to be accompanied at the piano by Virginia Gerhardt, another young American artist, and her opening number will be a Norwegian song by Edvard Grieg. The Norwegian title is Langs an O, meaning by the Brookside, words by a poet named Vigne. And I have great pleasure now in introducing to you Iris Fribrock with Virginia Gerhardt at the piano singing her opening song, Langs an O. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was the opening song of a group given us by Iris Fribrock. It was the song by Grieg, Langs an O, a little nature study in the Norwegian language. Now she will sing a Schubert song, Franz Schubert, of course, representing Austria and you might say Germany as well. Im Abend wrote, describing the beauties of the sunset. This is to be sung in German by Iris Fribrock with Virginia Gerhardt at the piano. piano. piano. piano. Wenn das Wort, das in der Ruhige bliebt, in mein stilles Fenster singt, dann kann ich sagen, Ehre sein an dir und mir. Nein, ich will ihm Buse treuen, deinen Himmel schon allher. Und das Herz, ehe es zusammenbricht, trünnt noch Glut und schlürt noch Licht. Trünnt noch Blut und schlürt noch Licht. Und folgen Schubert, die Iris Freiburg hat uns geschrieben, er wird uns eine American-Song von Samuel Barber, einer unserer contemporaneinigen Schubert. Die Titel ist Sure, On This Shining Night. And the words are by James Agee, the well-known playwright and literary celebrity. Sure, On This Shining Night, by Samuel Barber, sung by Iris Freiburg. Sure, On This Shining Night, by Samuel Barber, sung by Iris Freiburg. Sure, On This Shining Night, by Samuel Barber, sung by Iris Freiburg. Of stunning shadows round, Kindness must watch for me beside the ground. The nightly, dear, I stand on the north, And it's here, all is here, High summer hours in the north, High summer hours in the north, High summer hours in the north, Hats on home. Sure, On This Shining Night, by Samuel Barber, sung by Iris Freiburg. Sure, On This Shining Night, by Samuel Barber, sung by Iris Freiburg. The nightly, Wandering for a moon of shadows on the stars. And after that contemporary American song by Samuel Barber, Sure, On This Shining Night, Iris Freiburg will sing for us a typical French song, Debussy's C'est L'Extase L'Angereuse, Literally meaning it is a languorous ecstasy, One of the Ariette Oublie, Words by Paul Verlaine, And again, you might call it a nature study. Definitely French in its character, And you might say fairly modern French, At least creating the impressionistic school That has become so familiar to all of us. Iris Freiburg, singing Debussy. The Chainsaw's C'est L'Extase L'Angereuse, Is the L'Avue. The Chainsaw's C'est L'Extase L'Extase L'Amereuse, The Chainsaw's C'est L'Avue. The Chainsaw's C'est L'Extase L'Amereuse, We will sing while greater youth Oh, le frais, le frais murmura, sur la gazouille et ses heures, c'est l'heure et le table, la crie d'énervogité expire. Tu diras, sous l'eau qui vit, le roulis sourd des cailloux. Cet homme qui se l'amante en cette plante dormante, c'est la nôtre, n'est-ce pas la mienne? Tu diras, sous l'eau, une ombre tione, par ce tien du choix. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...