This morning, WNYC has its microphone set up in face of the platform, where in just a few moments, with President Truman heading the cast, United Nations officials will dedicate the first of the buildings which will form the permanent home for the United Nations, close here by the East River in New York City. WNYC will attempt to bring you, in these few moments, before the actual broadcast of the ceremonies, some of the color and pageantry which surrounds a wonderful occasion like this, because this is actually the fourth birthday of the United Nations. In just a few moments, we hope to bring you the first address. We see some cars arriving beyond the platform. We're not able to make out yet just which dignitaries are arriving. But until we can point them out, we will tell you something about the color here. And we should like to take this opportunity to remind you that this is not only a tremendous occasion for the United Nations, it is also a very big occasion for WNYC. WNYC, because this has been, WNYC, has been bringing you the United Nations almost every day of their meeting. We usually broadcast their ceremonies at 11 in the morning, and again at 3 in the afternoon. We're speaking to you directly from the sixth floor of the temporary home of the United Nations, here at 42nd Street and East River Drive. And right on our left is a very majestic Secretariat building, 39 stories high, which I should say is about three-fifths finished. It's a very beautiful structure. We'll bring you more of a description of that later on. Perhaps you can hear in the background the mass bands of the United States Police Department, Fire Department, and Sanitation Department under the direction of Chief Bregel. As a further description of what's going on here, this blue bunting characteristic of the colors of the United Nations is on every hand, and a very majestic signal of the flag is right behind the platform, the flag of the United Nations. We also have wonderful platforms built up for the television cameras, for movie cameras, and for still cameras, so that this will get complete worldwide coverage. And now a WNYC staff announcer, Everett Ball, who was formerly with the United Nations, is going to take over to tell us something about the very distinguished audience here, since in this case the audience is just about as distinguished as the speakers themselves. Thank you, John. First, I'd just like to describe briefly what you would see if you were here by the East River today, which has incidentally turned out to be somewhat sunny, although there is still a good deal of clouds in the sky. The blue bunting, which is draped not only over the dais, with the great emblem of the United Nations, a map of the world looking at it from the top, with a cross, a laurel wreath beneath, but bunting is draped on all the adjacent buildings, on the special platforms which have been raised for the press, for the cameramen, for the television cameras, for the band, and also bunting on all of the flagpoles going up to First Avenue on the sloping ramp, which 42nd Street forms at this part. Further, the bunting is hung over the great staircase, which goes up to Tudor City in the background. As you know, 42nd Street's street slopes steeply from First Avenue down to the East River, and today this street is filled with thousands of chairs. Those chairs are now filled with distinguished visitors, guests, and public. At the bottom of 42nd Street, the full General Assembly is meeting. The chairs are arranged for the full delegations of the 59 United Nations. Then on the dais fronting them is the President's platform, three chairs in which soon we expect to see Figueroa Lee, Secretary General of the United Nations, the President of the Assembly, the current Assembly, Brigadier General Carlos Romulo of the Philippines, and the Executive Assistant Andrew Cordier. Today, we see that Governor Dewey has just arrived and is taking his place in the second tier of seats on the dais, seats in which shortly we expect to see President Truman and other dignitaries who are to speak here this afternoon. In the audience, which is six floors below us here, or rather in the Assembly itself, we see Mrs. Roosevelt wearing a bright red hat and fur piece over her shoulders. It's a windy day. We see just behind her standing the Chief Delegate of the Argentine, Jose Arce. Delegate of Poland, Dr. Julius Katsuki is shaking hands with somebody we can't make out just who. Over on the left side, by the sidewalk, seated in the street, is the colorfully dressed Yeaman delegation in their black robes with gold embroidery and white turbans in which is wrought gold braid. Forms quite a colorful part of the scene. To our left, we see the band, which you may be hearing at the moment. Above that is a newly painted silver and green crane on which is hanging a great block of marble, the cornerstone which is to be put in place here today. Incidentally, in that cornerstone will go a copy of the Charter of the United Nations, a copy of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, and a copy of today's program. In that program, which I have at my hand here, there is a photograph of the Secretariat Office building, which is now in the process of being built and arises immediately in front of us. As you know, the south and north sides of this building are grayish-white Vermont marble, pure, unadulterated face, rising 39 stories above the ground, and I understand the building itself goes down three below. On the north, on the west side and the east side, the walls are practically solid green glass. From our place here, we can see through the building into the east river, which is now glittering in a fair goldish sunlight. The Secretariat Office building is 505 feet high, 287 feet long, and 73 feet wide. It contains 13,500 tons of steel and 5,200 heat-absorbing glass window units. The buildings will have 50, rather 500,000 square feet of space for offices served by 20 high-speed elevators and a pair of escalators serving the first five floors. If you haven't seen this building yet, it would be well worth your while making a trip over to the east river and 42nd Street to get a view of it. It's quite impressive. Also at night, when it reflects in its west wall the lights of Midtown Manhattan. We return now to John Savage for further details. We've had a description of some of the very distinguished members of the audience here this afternoon, but one of the interesting aspects this afternoon is that Miss Jeannie Anderson, who is the ambassador to Denmark and who is on her way to Washington as America's first woman ambassador, is stopping over here in New York to attend the United Nations ceremonies. Now, we told you that we were on the sixth floor of the temporary building facing the platform, and we're going to attempt to try to picture for you just exactly where we are located. We are, as a matter of fact, in the Saudi Arabia delegate's office here on the sixth floor, and we have a wide window overlooking the entire pageant here this morning. And just a few moments ago, it was interesting to note that one of these sightseeing boats which travels around Manhattan Island was giving its customers quite a little more than they had bargained for for their money because they pulled up right alongside the east river and were able to look over here and see the very distinguished gathering, as well as could be seen from that distance. Since this is the United Nations' fourth birthday, it's very appropriate that we tell you something about the accomplishments of the United Nations today. Many people believe the United Nations is their only stay against threat of atomic war. And one of the things that are going to substantiate that belief is that there will be two documents put inside the cornerstone for future generations. The documents are the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the United Nations Charter. Many political writers have remarked that one of the biggest achievements of the United Nations has been the rise of a nucleus of men to world leadership. Now these are men such as Ewa, Jessup, Ramulya, and Bunch, names familiar to the world, not through any previous affiliation with power, but because they typify what members of the UN Secretariat call the United Nations spirit. We've just had some more arrivals of dignitaries here. I don't know who they are. Did you get their names over the PA? We haven't heard yet who they are. They've just driven up, and they will shortly be walking around to take their place on the platform facing the thousands of people here. And the stand has room for 10,000 people to witness these very historic ceremonies. Now, as we mentioned earlier, we have Governor Dewey on the stand, and we're telling about some of the distinguished members of the audience. Perhaps you can hear in the background the other representatives of the radio, who are sharing this booth with us. And as a matter of fact, the office work of the Saudi Arabia delegation is going on behind us, too, which you may be able to pick up from time to time. As for things further that the United Nations has done, in a constructive manner, in the South Pacific, fighting has been halted in Indonesia, and the United Nations Commission has worked out an agreement between the natives and the Dutch. Since this will be the permanent headquarters of the United Nations, let's turn back once again to Everett Ball for a brief story in the few moments remaining before the actual beginning of activities here. And now we hear the sirens coming from our left, far up on the East River, and we can see a whole corps of motorcycle policemen crossing behind the Secretariat building. And behind the corps of policemen, all with their sirens screaming, we see the official delegation bringing the President of the United States to this fourth birthday assembly. I don't think we'll have time to go into this story of the permanent headquarters, so we'll attempt to describe for you just as what is happening as it happens here, and as this first carload of Secret Service and police cars arrive here in the United States. The band is playing in the background. It's really a very colorful, very exciting spectacle now. And we have, yes, let's open the window. Let's see if we can pick some of this up over our own microphone. Perhaps you can hear the sirens off in the background as hundreds of motorcycle policemen, some with sidecars, all of them arrive with the chief executive of the United States here. The audience in the assembly here this afternoon, not only in the general meeting of the assembly, but the other members of the audience who have been invited to view this spectacle, a thing which I think no one will ever forget. The audience does not as yet see the president, but they're all waiting for this opportunity when he will take his place and lend his official presence to the dignity of the occasion. We have also, just as a side note, four Jeeps carrying cameramen who have been traveling right along with the president and with the cars of Secret Service men. I think we can make out the car that he's in now. And they're driving up behind this tremendous pageant, which is up behind the platform where the meeting is to be held. And they're disembarking back there. We won't be able to tell just when the president arrives himself until they arrive around in front. There are, I'd say, around 20 or 30 cars in the motorcade, which is driven up here so far. And behind that are several buses full of the press who also are covering it from their vantage point. They have come up, the official Washington news reporters, who follow the president everywhere he goes, and they have come up also to describe this tremendous event. The television cameras and the still and motion picture cameras, which are over on our right, are all set for the time when the president arrives. And we see above us now a police department plane, which is circling overhead to keep an eye on things. And, of course, there are hundreds of policemen all over the place, as well as Secret Service men, making sure by a series of three or four passes for each person that only those get in who are entitled to do so. Now, I don't see the president yet. You make him out anywhere ever. No? Not yet. He's driven up in his car as the mayor of New York. Mayor O'Dwyer is with President Truman. Right now we have all these cameramen who have come around in front, and they're going to record on film the arrival of the president and the mayor just before the beginning of this historic event. And now the policemen are driving off down toward the southern end of Manhattan Island, the motorcade. A very inspiring spectacle as we look left, and we're able to make them out coming up way uptown. But still the president hasn't arrived. The audience is watching carefully for the first glimpse. Governor Dewey is already on the platform, as I think we mentioned. We have now a whole series of military men, admirals, generals, and generals in the Air Force, who are coming to take their places in the audience this afternoon. The police plane is circling back and forth overhead, as we mentioned earlier, and things have pretty well come to a halt here until the arrival of the president, when the ceremonies will actually begin. It's certainly an impressive sight here right on the East River, and to take it in, we see a tug coming over. I'm sure not unofficial business, but just because they all happen to be as interested in everyone else in the goings-on this morning at 42nd Street and East River Drive. They've driven up, and the water is not too far, as a matter of fact, from where the platform is, and they're able to come rather close alongside. Can you make out the president yet? He hasn't shown up yet. Well, there must be a certain amount of official greeting that is done before the president actually arrives on the platform. You can perhaps hear the motorcycles and the motorcade of the New York City Police Department driving off in the background after they have... There they go. After they have brought the president and the mayor down to the new permanent home of the United Nations. This is certainly turning out to be everything that was said about it and was hoped for because although it's not a sunny day, it is a very nice day for this time of year, and occasionally the sun does break out, causing the cameramen to change their lenses every now and then. The motorcade is lined up in order opposite us and is preparing to leave now with the flags of the city of New York and the United Nations and the United States and the state of New York, all of them being carried as this motorcade drives off. Very impressive sight. The whole thing is impressive. I think that's the one word that describes this meeting this morning. And one of the most impressive things is to look down six floors below us in the audience and see all these various representatives and delegates in their first outdoor meeting. You understand, this is the first time that the United Nations has had an outdoor meeting, so naturally it's the first time that WNYC has brought you the outdoor meeting since WNYC has been bringing you the meetings of the United Nations and will continue to do so on the regular sessions. Until the actual arrival of the president, we would like to say that the arrangements by the police department for bringing the president here were magnificent. They certainly did a wonderful job, as they always do, with a visiting dignitary. And now we see that on the back of the platform, on the left side of the platform, Harry S. Truman, the president of the United States, is now walking out to shake hands with Governor Dewey and to receive the applause of the crowd. And now let's hear some of this band music welcoming President Truman. weights and gives us a real time during the That, of course, was hailed to the chief in the honor of the President of the United States, who is now taking his place. Let's go back once again to Everett Ball, who will tell us about, I think we have Trigville Lee and General Romulo, and they are taking their place on the top dais. Is that right? Yes. Trigville Lee is just sitting down at his place to the right of Brigadier General Carlos Romulo of the Philippines, who will call the meeting of the General Assembly in 42nd Street in the sunshine and open air. We'll call that meeting to order in just a few moments. All the distinguished visitors and speakers have taken their places. All the chairs are filled on the dais. We see a delegate of Pakistan, Sir Mohamed Zafrullah Khan, sitting on Governor Dewey's right hand. I believe Representative Chyna is two seats away from him. I'm not sure. Could that be Mr. Vyshynski speaking to... Yes, it is. It's Mr. Vyshynski seated on the left of the mayor. There's some discussion between Mr. Lee and Executive Assistant Andrew Cordier. Cameras are flashing. At the six, seven-foot ferns below the dais, we see probably 100 or 200 cameramen taking photographs of this impressive event. There are at least 10,000 seats in the block of 42nd Street to our right, and a grandstand erected in the baseball park just across the street for further seats for the public. I believe we might toss in here to Everett before the ceremony begin that listening over the earphones, we're able to hear quite a bit of the conversation as these dignitaries get ready for the actual broadcast, which I guess should be any moment. Until that does happen, in front of the platform, about four or five deep are photographers from all over the world, from newspapers and news agencies from everywhere in the world, taking pictures of this very distinguished gathering, which is backed by the flags of all the United Nations beautifully assembled behind the actual platform. Now, so far, there has been no move to begin the actual program. Perhaps we'll be able to tell a little about what will occur here. President Truman will be actually the last to speak, and when he has completed his address, the cornerstone ceremony will take place with Secretary General Trigvili performing the ceremony. Lee will put copies of the United Nations Charter, the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights, and a copy of today's program that was given to all the members of the audiences into a steel box, which will be sealed by soldering, and that box will be placed inside the cornerstone. We described for you this green and silver crane, perhaps the most beautiful crane ever to be used in such a ceremony like that, and we can make out the cornerstone, hanging, waiting for the beginning of that ceremony, which, as we said, will come at the end of the speeches by the dignitaries. After the ceremonies, President Truman will be guest of honor at a luncheon given by Mayor O'Dwyer at his official residence, Gracie Mansion, and WNYC will bring you a description of those ceremonies, too, coming to you from Gracie Mansion. We'll be on the air with that at 1.15. Another thing we might mention before the ceremonies begin is that this is just business as usual, you know, for the United Nations, the main political committee. And now let's take you to General Romula. Of the General Assembly is now in session. America! They're up there on the side. They're up on the side, way in the back there. Some of them. Right in the back. America has given much to the United Nations. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the greatest American of our time, was one of the founding fathers of the United Nations. His concept of the four freedoms defined in terms of mankind's need for indivisible unity, the basic human aspirations now embodied in the charter of the United Nations. The United Nations, for each part, had, from the outset, chosen the United States of America as its permanent home. In December 1945, the United Nations Preparatory Commission recommended that the permanent headquarters should be located in the United States. On February 14, 1946, the General Assembly meeting in London voted to establish the interim headquarters in New York City and the permanent headquarters in a suitable site in Fairfield or in Westchester County. In the meantime, the City of New York, under the able administration of Mayor William O'Dwyer, went to great trouble and expense to provide a temporary home for the United Nations first in Hunter College and later in the New York City building in Flushing. During the second part of the session, which was held in New York in October 1946, the General Assembly reopened the question of the choice of a site for its permanent home. The cities of New York Philadelphia, Boston, and San Francisco were considered. Finally, on December 10, 1946, Mr. John G. Rockefeller, Jr. made his generous offer of a donation with which the greater part of the permanent site was purchased. this generous act was matched by the City of New York, which donated additional land and undertook the improvement of the area adjacent to the headquarters. Upon the recommendation of President Truman, the United States Congress, in one of the most heartening evidences of its bipartisan policy in support of the United Nations, granted a loan without interest for the construction of the buildings. The first allocation of $25 million from that loan was made available by the Congress in 1948 after agreement between President Truman and Governor Thomas Dewey. Thus, did the United States government, by the symbolic act of giving the United Nations a permanent home on American soil, yield a bit of its sovereignty to the world organization. This ground, a part of America, now belongs to the world. It is dedicated ground. Upon it will rest the visible structure of the United Nations, the instrument by which humanity hopes to attain peace and the blessings of peace. two priceless documents, the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are to be encased in the slab of granite that is to be the cornerstone of that visible structure. One could wish that other documents, hardly less historic and universal in their appeal, might receive the same reverential treatment. I refer, among others, to the resolutions of the General Assembly of December 14, 1946, of November 4, 1948, and November 19, 1948, calling for the control of atomic energy and the prohibition of atomic weapons and other weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The resolution of November 3, 1947, condemning all forms of propaganda for a new war and encouraging the dissemination of information designed to give expression to the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace. And the Mexican resolution of November 3, 1948, appealing to the great powers to renew their efforts to compose their differences and establish a lasting peace. These solemn declarations, repeated each year since the birth of the United Nations, bespick humanity's insatiable yearning for peace. I make them again today on behalf of all the plain and humble people of all lands and pray that their voice may be heard before it is too late. Stone and steel alone will not give permanence to the home of the United Nations. The edifice that shall rise on this site will stand as a symbol of man's hope for a better life in a better world. only so long as the nations gathered under its roof shall work together in unity and understanding. Stronger than steel, more durable than granite, goodwill is the real cornerstone of the United Nations. We shall have failed in our supreme duty to mankind if we do not make the permanent home of the United Nations the house of peace. In 1861, a great president of this republic addressed a nation rent by civil war in these words. We are not enemies but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. the mystic cords of memory stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched as surely they will be by the better angels of our nature. Lincoln's words bear a timely significance for us today. truly we must not be enemies. We cannot afford to be enemies. Out of the ancient wisdom of the East has come the saying all men are brothers, members of the human family. There may have been a time when we could have brushed this aside as a naive sentiment, an idle expression of idealism. But that time is no more. With the terrible weapons which human ingenuity has recently fashioned, war has become a luxury we can no longer afford and peace a necessity we cannot do without. the iron circle of war and peace is broken. Brotherhood is no longer an outmoded tenet of religion but the very price and condition of man's survival. The United Nations is the last sacred temple for the rediscovery of human brotherhood. we must remain at peace with one another or die. I thank you. You have just heard an address by Ambassador Carlos P. Romulo, President of the United Nations General Assembly given at the laying of the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. The Honorable Warren R. Austin, Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee, will now address us. Senator Austin Bowles. Mr. President, this occasion calls to mind many conferences and consultations in which I have participated as chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee. Now all this effort comes to fruition. The home of the United Nations rises impressively on the East River site in New York. There are two points that may add to an understanding of the achievement marked by this ceremony. First, that men and women of good will have demonstrated their interest in the United Nations by substantial acts of generosity. Second, that this home-building enterprise has been carried out by unanimity among the members of the United Nations. It was difficult to arrive at agreement on the general location and the specific site for the headquarters of the World Organization. We are grateful to Mr. John D. Rockefeller Jr. for his magnificent benevolence which decided this emotional controversy and acquired this site. His practical and generous idea was enthusiastically accepted. Mayor O'Dwyer, the members of the Citizens Committee, the officials of the City of New York have acted promptly, generously, and with a vision to support the United Nations home-building enterprise. They provided $20 million to build the approaches and made a $2 million grant to start the work. in every way, they, together with Empire State officials under the leadership of Governor Dewey, facilitated the headquarters agreement, even to the extent of waiving taxes on this valuable property. Next, we face the infinitely difficult problem of obtaining plans for the building. A board of designs composed of 12 celebrated architects from 12 countries, representative of all the regions of the earth, commenced meetings in March of 1947. From some 50 basic schemes and about 100 secondary designs, they reached unanimous agreement hand on the blueprints which are now taking form in the buildings under construction here. This concurrence by these architects of many countries was a milestone on the road to Accord. No less than statesmen, they had strong opinions and vital differences to harmonize. they did it, unanimously. They presented us a unique house of the nations, having more windows surface than any other building in this city. While its facades on the north and south are of marble, both the east and the west sides are open to the light, a happy symbolism of the hopes of peace loving people everywhere. Not only did the architects reach unanimous agreement, but the members of our headquarters advisory committee and the general assembly itself decided every important question by unanimous agreement. Now having achieved unanimity on the plans for our United Nations home, we determinately seek agreement on security and well-being for the members of the household. So these structures are not merely buildings to house the workers. They are an instrument for harmony. They are a symbol in steel and marble and glass of unanimous effort and agreement in the cause of peace and world progress. As we dedicate the cornerstone on this anniversary, we rededicate ourselves to the high purposes for which these buildings are erected. We realize that in order to achieve these purposes, men of goodwill must continue to demonstrate their confidence and continue to harmonize their differing views in the search for universal accord. You have just heard an address delivered by Ambassador Warren R. Austin, chairman of the headquarters advisory committee of the United Nations in the open-air dais here on 42nd Street. His Honor, the mayor of New York City, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. President of the United Nations, Mr. President of the United States, Governor Dewey, Mr. Lee, delegates and distinguished guests, I am proud to be the mayor of New York City at a time when this building is being dedicated to its great purpose. We of New York City worked hard to induce the United Nations to select this city as its headquarters. No event of greater importance has ever happened in the history of our city than the selection of this permanent home. This city of eight million people is the product of the brain and the brawn of men and women from every corner of the earth, of every race, of every creed, of every color, of every national origin, of every alien culture, habit, and prejudice. Their united effort has produced no tower of Babel, but this city, a monument to the success of man's ability to get along with his fellow man. In the long run, as we have proved, the basic unity of human beings, the basic likeness of human beings is more vital, more important, than these differences. Of course, we have not yet wiped out all injustices. The process is difficult, but we are making headway to better standards, better standards of living, and a better way of life. when we look back into history, we see civilization springing up where men are brought together into association with each other, and we see it disappearing as this united effort is broken up. Two terrible world wars have been fought in our own generation. The futility of war as a solution of anything is obvious. We are beginning to realize that progress and improvement in international relations becomes possible when representatives meet in peaceful association. The closer the association, the greater the possibilities for improvement. of war and the wars are to be forever abolished, the men and women of this world must devote their hearts and minds to the task of bringing the family of nations together and settling by discussion and calm consideration the differences which warfare never dissolve. the differences which exist among the various nations and races of the world have always been overemphasized. They're more superficial than real. The base upon which all nations rest and depend is the human being. He is common to all nations. His basic needs, ambitions, joys and hope are the same the world over. It is our sincerest hope that here at the United Nations headquarters this great truth will be demonstrated day after day. We are not impatient with the United Nations because it has failed immediately to solve all the problems of the world. We know that progress is a slow process. We know that the chosen representatives of the nations must devote their minds and their hearts to the task of bringing the human family together. May the efforts of the United Nations be crowned with success. May it grow into an enduring establishment for world peace and world security. With the help of God, it will. Thank you. you have just stood an address by his honor, the mayor of New York, William O'Dwyer, dedication of United Nations headquarters. The Honorable Thomas Dewey. President of the United Nations, President of the United States, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It's a very great pleasure to participate in this ceremony in which the cornerstone laying of the United Nations headquarters is attended by the President of the United States. If tasks of this kind were his only duties, I might even envy him his job. But in truth, his responsibilities are such that no one should envy him and all should wish him very well indeed. It's a great pleasure to welcome here to the State of New York not only the President of the United States, but delegates and representatives from all the nations of the world who are taking part in the most important labor of all, preserving and building the peace. It's important that we be here because in this, which is now the most cosmopolitan city in the world, we find the fairest meeting ground for the associations, the views, and the aspirations of all the peoples of the world. It has been my privilege to aid in procuring the extraordinary but necessary legislation of our state, and something more than a year ago to assist in influencing the successful appropriation of the money to build the building. Everyone here has done his part in one way or another. but none of us would be here today if it were not for the action of one great and good man whose generosity and quick action saved the United Nations for New York and New York for the United Nations. We are all profoundly indebted, as are the peoples of the world, for the very existence of this building here to the generosity of Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. At this cornerstone laying, it seems appropriate that we should also pay tribute to the permanent staff as well as to the delegates here for their labors in our common cause. It's not always pleasant to be uprooted from your home and transported thousands of miles to a strange city. It is often affirmatively unpleasant to sit through many hours of debate which often rises to abuse and to keep tempers in hand, to subordinate everything to the cause of justice and peace. It's fair to say that people of every nation owe to the delegates who have labored here their gratitude in bountiful measure for peace to the extent they now enjoy it. There are many weary miles and millions of weary hours of drudgery ahead. But from a fragile beginning, through perilous tests, the United Nations has weathered every storm. It is stronger today than ever before. It is my hope, and I know the hope of all of you, that these mighty buildings here will symbolize the growing might of the United Nations in the best cause of all, the cause of peace and goodwill on earth. Governor Thomas E. Dewey. This program, dedication of the United Nations headquarters, is coming to you over WNYC, AM, and FM. The President of the United States. All the members on the dais stand, as does the audience, as Mr. Truman comes to the speaker's roster. President Romulo, Mr. Lee, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished representatives and fellow guests. We have come together today to lay the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. These are the most important buildings in the world, for they are the center of man's hope for peace and a better life. This is the place where the nations of the world will work together to make that hope a reality. This occasion is a source of special pride to the people of the United States. We're deeply conscious of the honor of having the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in this country. At the same time, we know how important it is that people of other nations should come to know at first hand the work of this world organization. We consider it appropriate, therefore, that the United Nations should hold meetings from time to time in other countries when that can be done. For the United Nations must draw its inspiration from the people of every land. It must be truly representative of and responsive to the peoples of the world whom it was created to serve. This ceremony marks a new stage in the growth of the United Nations. It is fitting that it should take place on United Nations Day, the fourth anniversary of the day the charter ended into effect. During the four years of its existence, this organization has become a powerful force for promoting peace and friendship among the peoples of the world. The construction of this new headquarters is tangible proof of the steadfast faith of the members in the vitality and strength of the organization and of our determination that it shall become more and more effective in the years ahead. The charter embodies the hopes and ideals of men everywhere. Hopes and ideals are not static. They are dynamic and they give life and vigor to the United Nations. We look forward to a continuing growth and evolution of the organization to meet the changing needs of the world's people. goals. We hope that eventually every nation on earth will be a fully qualified and a loyal member of this organization. We who are close to the United Nations sometimes forget that it is more than the procedures, the councils, and the debates through which it operates. We tend to overlook the fact that the organization is the living embodiment of the principles of the charter, the renunciation of aggression, and the joint determination to build a better life for the whole world. But if we overlook this fact, we will fail to realize the strength and power of this great organization. We will fail to understand the true nature of this new force that has been created in the affairs of our time. The United Nations is essentially an expression of the moral nature of man's aspiration. The charter clearly shows our determination that international problems must be settled on a basis acceptable to the conscience of mankind. Because the United Nations is a dynamic expression of what all the peoples of the world desire because it sets up a standard of right and justice for all nations, it is greater than any of its members. The compact that underlies the United Nations cannot be ignored, and it cannot be infringed or dissolved. We in the United States, in the course of our own history, have learned what it means to set up an organization to give expression to the common desire for peace and unity. Our Constitution expressed the will of the people that there should be a United States. And through toil and struggle, the people made their will prevail. In the same way, I think, the charter and the organization served by these buildings expressed the will of the people of the world that there shall be a United Nations. This does not mean that all the member countries are of one mind on all issues. The controversies which divide us go very deep. We should understand that these buildings are not a monument to the unanimous agreement of nations on all things, but they signify one new and important fact. They signify that the peoples of the world are of one mind in their determination to solve their common problems by working together. Our success in the United Nations will be measured not only in terms of our ability to meet and master political controversies. We have learned that political controversies grow out of social and economic problems. If the people of the world are to live together in peace, we must work together to establish the conditions that will provide a firm foundation for peace. For this reason, our success will also be measured by the extent of which the rights of individual human beings are realized. And it will be measured by the extent of our economic and social progress. These fundamental facts are recognized both in the language of the charter and in the activities in which the United Nations has been engaged during the past four years. The charter plainly makes respect for human rights by nations a matter of international concern. The member nations have learned from bitter experience that regard for human rights is indispensable to political, economic, and social progress. They have learned that disregard of human rights is the beginning of tyranny and too often the beginning of war. For these reasons, the United Nations has devoted much of its time to fostering respect for human rights. The General Assembly has adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on Genocide. Other important measures in this field are under study. I am confident that this great work will go steadily forward. The preparation of a covenant on human rights by the Human Rights Commission is a task with which the United States is deeply concerned. We believe strongly that the attainment of basic civil and political rights for men and women everywhere without regard to race, language, or religion is essential to the peace we are seeking. We hope that the covenant on human rights will contain effective provisions regarding freedom of information. The minds of men must be free from artificial and arbitrary restraints in order that they may seek the truth and apply their intelligence to making a better world. Another field in which the United Nations is undertaking to build the foundations of a peaceful world is that of economic development. Today, at least half of mankind lives in dire poverty. Hundreds of millions of men, women, and children lack adequate food, clothing, and shelter. We cannot achieve permanent peace and prosperity in the world until the standard of living in underdeveloped areas is raised. It is for this reason that I have urged the launching of a vigorous and concerted effort to apply modern technology and capital investment to improve the lot of these people. These areas need a large expansion of investment and in trade. In order for this to take place, they also need the application of scientific knowledge and technical skills to their basic problems. Producing more food, improving health and sanitation, making use of their natural resources, and educating their people. To meet these needs, the United Nations and its agencies are preparing a detailed program for technical assistance to underdeveloped areas. The Economic and Social Council last summer defined the basic principles which should underlie this program. The General Assembly is now completing and perfecting the initial plans. The fact that the Economic Committee of the Assembly voted unanimously for the resolution on technical assistance shows that this is a common cause which commands united support. Although differences may arise over details of the program, I fervently hope that the members of the United Nations will remain unanimous in their determination to raise the standards of living of the less fortunate members of the human family. The United States intends to play its full part in this great enterprise. We're already carrying on a number of activities in this field. I shall urge the Congress, when it reconvenes in January, to give high priority to proposals which will make possible additional technical assistance and capital investment. I should like to speak of one other problem, which is of major concern to the United Nations. That is the control of atomic energy. Ever since the first atomic weapon was developed, a major objective of the United States policy has been a system of international control of atomic energy that would assure effective prohibition of atomic weapons and at the same time would promote the peaceful use of atomic energy by all nations. In November 1945, Prime Minister Atlee of the United Kingdom, Prime Minister McKenzie King of Canada, and I agreed that the problem of international control of atomic energy should be referred to the United Nations. The establishment of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission was one of the first acts of the first session of the General Assembly. That commission worked for three years on the problem. It developed a plan of control, which reflected valuable contributions by almost every country represented on the commission. This plan of control was overwhelmingly approved by the General Assembly on November 4, 1948. This is a good plan. It is a plan that can work. And more important, it is a plan that can be effective in accomplishing its purpose. It is the only plan so far developed that would meet the technical requirements of control and would make prohibition of atomic weapons effective and at the same time promote the peaceful development of atomic energy on a cooperative basis. We support this plan and will continue to support it unless or until a better and more effective plan is put forward. To assure that atomic energy will be devoted to man's welfare and not to his destruction is a continuing challenge to all nations and all peoples. The United States is now and will remain ready to do its full chair in meeting this challenge. Respect for human rights, promotion of economic development, and a system for control of weapons are requisites to the kind of world we seek. We cannot solve these problems overnight, but we must keep everlastingly working at them in order to reach our goal. No single nation can always have its own way, for these are human problems, and the solution of human problems is to be found in negotiation and mutual adjustment. The challenge of the 20th century is the challenge of human relations and not of impersonal natural forces. The real dangers confronting us today have their origins and outmoded habits of thought in the inertia of human nature and in preoccupation with supposed national interests to the detriment of the common good. As members of the United Nations, we are convinced that patience, the spirit of reasonableness, and hard work will solve the most stubborn political problems. We are convinced that individual rights and social economic progress can be advanced through international cooperation. Our faith is in the betterment of human relations. Our vision is of a better world in which men and nations can live together, respecting one another's rights and cooperating in building a better life for all. Our efforts are made in the belief that men and nations can cooperate and that there are no international problems which men of good will cannot solve or adjust. Mr. President, Mr. Lee, the laying of this cornerstone is an act of faith, our unshakable faith that the United Nations will succeed in accomplishing the great tasks for which it was created. But faith without works is dead. We must make our devotion to the ideals of the charter as strong as the steel in this building. We must pursue the objectives of the charter with resolution as firm as the rock on which this building rests. We must conduct our affairs four square with the charter in terms as true as this cornerstone. If we do these things, the United Nations will endure and will bring the blessings of peace and well-being to all mankind. You have just heard an address delivered by the President of the United States, the Honorable Harry S. Truman, at the laying of the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in New York City. The cornerstone ceremony. Mr. Trigvali, Secretary General of the United Nations, will be escorted by Mr. Wallace K. Harrison, Director of Flaming. The Secretary General Trigvali has left his place on the dais, is now going down the steps over towards the great crane, which is on the high platform here at the base of the tall secretariat building. As you can hear, the band has started again. It's a very colorful scene. The wind has blown away. The clouds, which were here earlier, bright sun, is now filtering down, and the flags of the 59 United Nations are blowing in their coast ranks at both sides of the dais. In the river, just behind, we see tugs, the usual commercial flatboats, iron ore barges, occasional jaunty yacht will come past. Seagulls are flying, and all in all, it's a very impressive and very colorful ceremony. I think we could break in here, Everett, while this ceremony is taking place before us, while we attempt to describe the actual laying of the cornerstone. I was out during some of the speeches looking through the other part of the building to the vast crowd that's assembled here today. There are some 10,000 of them. President Romulo, President Truman, members of the General Assembly, distinguished guests, and all friends of the United Nations. It is with the profound sense of the historic significance of this occasion that I proceed to dedicate the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations, the charter of the United Nations, begins, as you know, with the word we, the peoples of the United Nations. In the name of the peoples of the United Nations, I know, I know, place for deposit in the cornerstone to be preserved for all time, an exact copy of the original charter signed at San Francisco. of the United Nations, may the United Nations charter be the foundation for a strong and true structure of world peace as the building that rises high above us here today. with the charter of the United Nations. I also place for deposit in the cornerstone a true copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December the 10th, 1948. This declaration sets a standard for governments to which men and women of every race, language, color, and belief can appeal whenever their rights are violated. It is a standard by which they can rally the support of the opinion of mankind for the fuller realization of the rights that are here declared. Finally, I place also in the cornerstone a copy of the program of this ceremony of dedication. Mr. President, the cornerstone will now be lowered into place. The point at which it will now rest marks the south side of the permanent headquarters buildings when they are all completed. to... for the ones to large wanna be good. They're going to resist theet. Thank you. The great block of marble is slowly being let down by this crane and will be put into place. We expect to hear further remarks from the Secretary General as soon as the cornerstone has been let down. We notice that President Truman is passing very pleasant remarks with Governor Dewey, at least they are both smiling and joking about something. Here off in the distance, the horn of tugboats. The scene across the river here, as you probably are aware, is of a commercial district. There are a lot of tall factory buildings and smokestacks. High up on the flank of the Secretariat building, this solid wall of unbroken marble is a scaffolding with some of the workmen in the building watching the site. It makes an excellent picture. I am sure you will probably see that reproduced in some newspaper. the cornerstone has been put into place. You hear the applause of the audience. Mr. President, we have been able to proceed so far as this in the building of the permanent headquarters only because of the devotion to the United Nations, of thousands of men and women in every walk of life. There are so many people I have it in my heart to thank. I cannot name them all. Beside me is Wallace Harrison, the Director of Planning Who stand there now. The Director of Planning whose genius is responsible for so much. Over there, and over there, are the workers. The workers who are swarming around the girders, the marble and the glass of this building only an hour ago. And who will return to their uncompleted task when this ceremony ends. There are many, many others here, and some who are not here. The architects and engineers and consultants. The other members of our headquarters staff and the secretariat. The contractors, the city officials, Mr. Rockefeller, and of course Ambassador Austin and the members of the headquarters advisory committee. Mayor O'Dwyer and Governor Dewey. To President Truman, I wish to express the gratitude of the United Nations secretariat for many things that the United States as the whole country and he as its president have done for the United Nations. Since we came here to New York in 1946, he has really been the champion of the United Nations. And his name, together with those of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Cordell Hulls, will always be connected with the United Nations. And this building and the order to come are closer to his name than to any other person in the world. Mr. President, we are especially grateful for the strong words of support for the United Nations that he and the other speakers have brought to us on this United Nations Day. The world needs words of inspiration and of faith in the United Nations by the statesmen of the great powers and the other member nations. Such words are not meaningless. They count for much. Throughout history, they have rallied humanity to great causes. The world needs acts as well as words. Acts of statesmanship and courage by the member governments in support of the United Nations. I believe profoundly that only the success of the United Nations can prevent a terrible world war and achieve lasting peace. The United Nations has not yet succeeded, nor has it failed. It is an unfinished structure. Many years will be needed to complete it. The United Nations will succeed if the peoples of the world, acting through their governments, insist upon unwavering support for the United Nations Charter, both in acts and in words, and upon using the machinery of the United Nations to its full capacity, not only part of the time, but all the time. We shall have peace in proportion to the amount of hard work and strong faith the peoples of the world give to making the United Nations work. Mr. President, it should be our purpose. It must be our duty to make every day in the year the United Nations Day until the peace of the world is made secure. Mr. President, it should be our duty to make every day in the year the United Nations. You have just heard Mr. Trigvillie, Secretary-General of the United Nations, laying the cornerstone for the United Nations Secretariat building, here at 42nd Street and East River in New York. I'll pass you over now to John Savage. We'd like to remind our listeners that WNYC carries the regular meetings of the United Nations at 11 in the morning and again at 3 in the afternoon. So this is a big birthday for the United Nations and also for WNYC. May we also remind you that President Truman, after these ceremonies have been completed, is going to leave for Gracie Manchin to be the guest of the Honorable William O'Dwyer Mayor of the City of New York. WNYC's microphones will bring you the ceremonies at that time. We should be on the air at 1.15 in just about 10 minutes from now from Gracie Manchin to bring those ceremonies to you. We've been speaking to you from the sixth floor of the temporary building here where we have our equipment set up in the office of the delegation of Saudi Arabia. And we were able to face the platform and bring you the entire ceremonies attendant upon this cornerstone laying. To our left is the very beautiful Secretariat building. To our right is the entire audience here attending the ceremony. General Romulo is now bringing the ceremonies to a close. He has just adjourned the entire meeting. President Truman shakes hands again with Governor Dewey and prepares to leave for Gracie Manchin. Today we heard Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, the President of the General Assembly. After him, talks by the Honorable Warren R. Austin, Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Governor of the State of New York, the Honorable Thomas Dewey, and President of the United States, the Honorable Harry S. Truman. Then came the actual cornerstone ceremony, as done by the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Trig-Villie. We'll remind you once more that we'll be on the air within a few moments from now from Gracie Manchin. And in the meantime, we'll return you to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.