Radio's microphones are now in Brooklyn Museum and the occasion is the first day of issue of the commemorative stamp of the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Long Island. This took place, of course, in what is now part of Prospect Park and the stamp is a purple three-cent stamp issued which shows Washington on a height watching the evacuation of the American army. You'll all see it and now the Honorable Edward J. Quigley, Postmaster of Brooklyn, is presiding and presenting the regular order program. Postmaster Quigley. The radio, the band, and the Glee Club will repeat the Star Spangled Banner. Oh, say can you see, bright the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, from us bursting in air, gave proof through the night that a flag was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave? O'er the ramparts we watched, O'er the ramparts we watched and the war was still there. Thank you, Mr. McCosier and Mr. Orlando. Now for energy and cooperation and dynamic effort, or for constant and steadfast interests and ever late to sponsor and support those necessary legislative items for our country and our community, I am presenting to you the man who spearheaded our campaign for our commemorative stamp in honor of the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn. And though many of us have helped, this is the man who got the stamp, the Honorable Victor L. Lanfuso, Congressman Brooklyn, New York. Mr. Quigley, Mr. Quigley, Reverend Clergy, and distinguished guests on this platform and distinguished guests all over this grand auditorium. Brooklyn is known throughout the world as the city of the Dodgers. But we who are gathered here today know that having a fine baseball club is the least of our accomplishments. As a matter of fact, General Pearson and distinguished guests, I'm going to let you in on a little secret. We do have a very fine baseball club, but those bums couldn't lick a three-cent stamp if it weren't for the spirit of the people of Brooklyn. The borough of Brooklyn, with its three million people, is larger than any one of 26 states in the Union. And its delegation in Congress is the largest and finest in the United States. Although Brooklyn has made a tremendous contribution towards the development of our great nation, it has never once practiced sectionalism. Perhaps that is the reason this historical event has been delayed so long. I have recently learned, however, that one man, the late Charles Higgins, dedicated his life that the Battle of Brooklyn or the Battle of Long Island, as some people call it, be given its proper place in history. This great citizen of Brooklyn on August 27, 1920, the 144th anniversary of the battle, dedicated a monument to liberty on the site where this, our first and the greatest battle of the Revolutionary War, was fought. Had this battle been lost, Washington's army would have been captured and the Revolutionary War would have been over before it even started. Were it not for this victory, too, you, ladies and gentlemen, gathered here today might all be British subjects today. And I, perhaps, since I was born in Italy, might be serving in the House of Parliament in Italy instead of serving in the halls of Congress with such distinguished representatives as our great representative from Brooklyn, who took time off to be here, the Honorable Eugene. Now, after 175 years, comes this well-earned recognition by the issuance of the Brooklyn stamp. But for the stamp, this great event in our national history in time would be completely lost, as it was completely lost and forgotten until the Brooklyn Eagle ran that great series of articles. For, my friends, it is not the deeds or acts of men that last. It is the written record of these deeds. And to Postmaster General Jesse Donaldson goes a credit, and I am sure the heartfelt gratitude of the people of Brooklyn for making this historical event and recording it in history in a manner which will never be forgotten. And we are indeed grateful to Assistant Postmaster General Osborne Pearson, who is here today for carrying out the directive of the Postmaster General and the President of the United States, because the President of the United States had to approve of this stamp, and doing it in such an excellent manner that the best stamp that ever came out of Washington is now the Brooklyn stamp. And history will also record that in Brooklyn, we have the finest newspaper in the world, the Brooklyn Eagle. It was this newspaper that made the public conscious of the historic background of Brooklyn. But we are not surprised in this, because in the final analysis, the press is good or evil, according to the character of those who direct it. In Mr. Schroth, the owner and publisher of the Brooklyn Eagle, and in Mr. Wilson, the editor, we have the exemplification of honest reporting and community consciousness. Last, and by no means the least, we in Brooklyn are proud of our great Postmaster, Edward Quigley. He has taught me a great deal about the Post Office in the few months that I have been a member. And it was he who provided the spark and the inspiration for me to make my very limited contribution towards this time. In conclusion, I congratulate the great people of Brooklyn for their great spirit. And I offer to them and to you my unswerving allegiance that our country may always remain the land of the brave and the land of the free. Thank you. Thank you very much, Congressman Anne Fusso, not only for your deeds, but your very, very lovely expressions. If I could divert for just a half a second, I'd like to acknowledge one little particular phase of this program. As you look up on this platform and see the fascia and the palms and the color design, I'd like to acknowledge to Mr. Daley one of the nicest jobs that I've ever seen done. I think Mr. Daley's here, but I wanted to say so so that you'd all understand his efforts. And I'd like to digress a half a second in acknowledging to the representatives of various states in the Union that are here. We're proud of the fact that you're here, but I take a personal pride in saying that there's one particular representative who comes from Connecticut representing that state. He's the mayor of Stanford, Connecticut, and he's my brother. Will he take a bow? Thank you. Now enriching our program beyond our wildest dreams is the presence on our dais of the governor of Maryland. His busy schedule will take him away from us as he moves on to Providence, Rhode Island in a very short time. I mean, today. It is not for me to extol the Marylanders. I prefer our eloquent historian, Jamie Kelly, to tell you why we're eternally indebted to them. It's my duty and my privilege to present him to you, grateful for his participation today and honored immeasurably just to meet him. And I'm quite sure you'll also enjoy him. The Honorable Theodore McKeldin, Governor of Maryland. Thank you very much, Mr. Quigley and Mrs. Quigley's very charming mother that I see in the audience here and the very great general back there, Crittenberger, how honored we are to have him in the audience. Not all the distinguished guests are on the dais. I come from Maryland. We are a small state. We are one of the 26 that's much smaller than the borough of Brooklyn. We only have 2,300,000 people. We were founded by Catholics who came to get away from religious persecution in England. They came into the Chesapeake Bay area. They saw a beautiful river, so beautiful that they could think of only one person, quite as beautiful after whom to name it. That was the Blessed Mother. They called it St. Mary's River. When they finally landed on the mainland, they named that too after the Blessed Mother. They called it St. Mary's City, the first capital of Maryland. They brought with them not only Catholics but members of the church to which I owe my spiritual allegiance, the Episcopal Church. They built, when they landed, not two churches but one church. The Catholics worshipped in that church at one hour. The Episcopalians worshipped in that same church at another hour. And then our forebears of Maryland, the Catholics, did something that had never been done before in the history of the world. More than 300 years ago, they passed an act concerning religion, known now as the Maryland Act of Religious Toleration, in which they said let whosoever will come to Maryland, Catholic, Protestant, or Jew, and worship God unmolested. As a result of that, we are known as the Maryland Free State. It's a glorious name and it's a blessed heritage. A mature appraisal of the events now 175 years old of the Battle of Brooklyn confirms the judgment of the historian Thomas W. Fields that it was an hour more precious to American liberty than any other in history. The Battle of Brooklyn has also been adjudged of more significance in the Revolutionary War than Gettysburg was in the war between the states. These are stupendous statements well supported. How fitting it is that states whose troops won glory on that day should take note of the 175th anniversary of the battle. As Governor of Maryland, I am privileged to participate and to recall, not boastfully, but in due humility, the achievement of our Maryland forebears. On that occasion, few in numbers and weak in resources, the men of the American Revolution survived the perils of their day. In the intervening years, the American nation and the American ideal have surmounted dangers of the utmost gravity. But always these victories on the field and in the realm of the spirit have been followed by dire threats. These have taken various forms, but essentially the battle has been and is one for freedom. Freedom from physical coercion or moral pressure. Freedom to be ourselves and to express ourselves without domination by foreign power or regimentation. It is a continuing fight from which no generation is exempt. We too must face the inevitable struggle which is sometimes military, other times political or economic or social. In our day, the struggle is on all these fronts. Today, men of Maryland and other states, engage in the self-same struggle, that of wresting freedom from the oppressor and securing it against aggression and treachery. Let our generation proudly and gratefully salute the heroes of 1776 and may we prove worthy to emulate them. applause I think the governor has added another page to the history of Brooklyn and to Maryland by his very illustrious tour. I'm indebted to you, Governor McKeldin, and I thank you for coming here today with your very charming wife. Now, I highly value and I warmly cherish the distinction and honors that have been bestowed upon me during my public life. The people have been more than generous in their regard and opinion of my efforts to be a good postmaster. that no man can competently perform without team play. And exemplifying that team play as he administers the tremendous office of the assistant postmaster general is our guest of honor. I have found he possesses with vision, imagination, and enterprise. They seem to be written all over. Now, I know you'll like him as every man in the postal system can certify. The Honorable Osborne A. Pearson, Assistant Postmaster General, will address you and officially present the department albums of the new stamp to our borough, the Honorable Osborne A. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It is indeed a genuine pleasure for me to be here in Brooklyn today to participate in this ceremony by commemorating the issuance of a special stamp on the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn. On behalf of the Post Office Department, I bring the most cordial greetings of the Postmaster General, the Honorable Jesse M. Donaldson, who has given concrete evidence of the high esteem in which he holds the good people of Brooklyn by approving the issuance of this stamp. Each year, the Post Office Department receives between 400 and 500 requests for stamps to commemorate statehood anniversaries, historical events, and famous men and women. In a normal year, it is only possible to approve 10 or 12 such commemorative stamps, making it necessary to turn down many worthwhile subjects. and I am particularly happy that the Postmaster General was able to approve a commemorative stamp for the event which we are celebrating here today. At a time when greed and hatred, intolerance, dominate lives of so many people of the world, it is proper and well that we in America pause today to commemorate one of the important events which have made our land one of liberty, freedom, and equal opportunity. In the years that have gone by since the Battle of Brooklyn, we as a country have traveled upward and onward. We are a living testimony that the aspirations and sacrifices of our forefathers were not in vain. For today, we are at the threshold of a new era in human liberty and relationships. And may the same courage and determination carry the peace-loving peoples of the world through this trying period so that human beings everywhere may live without fear and enjoy the freedom we know in this great land of ours. Under the able leadership of our own great and beloved president, the Honorable Harry S. Truman, and our other outstanding statesmen of the free world, I feel confident that our precious heritage will be preserved and that communist-dominated nations will eventually realize that it is impossible to conquer freedom-loving, freedom-cherishing people of the world who simply want to live in peace and harmony with their fellow human beings. The stamp we are issuing here today fittingly portrays General Washington on his white charger evacuating his troops from Brooklyn, which was done under the cover of darkness without one loss of life. This clever strategy enabled General Washington to carry on the struggle which led to the final glorious victory at Yorktown. The spirit of those men fighting for the freedom of their native land and the courage they displayed behind the lines was one of the brightest chapters in our American history. And I personally am very happy that it was possible for your government to give postal recognition to those gallant heroes and these outstanding historical events. A commemorative stamp does more than pay the revenue for transporting the mail. It eventually finds its way into practically every home on the land to convey a message, to tell a story more vividly than mere words of our accomplishments, historical events, wonders of nature, and famous Americans. We have placed an initial printing order of 110 million Battle of Brooklyn stamps to be placed on sale here at Brooklyn today exclusively. However, in the next few days they will be available at post offices throughout the country and I am sure it will prove to be one of our most popular issues. I am most happy to be on this platform with your fine congressman, Honorable Victor L. Anfuso, and I might say that he has been most interested and used his efforts in obtaining appropriate postal recognition for this great event. Congressman Anfuso is a member of the Post Office and Civil Service Committee and has done a great work for the Post Office Department and the Post Office employees. He is a great fellow, a real friend, and is doing a good job in Congress for the people he represents and I am very happy to be here and be able to participate in this memorial event with him. Your Postmaster, the Honorable Edward J. Quigley, has worked most diligently for this stamp ever since he has been Postmaster and he deserves a lot of credit for bringing the request to the attention of the Post Office Department and the Postmaster General. Mr. Quigley is to be congratulated on the fine arrangements he has made to appropriately observe this anniversary and I'm sure that we all agree. Now it gives me a great pleasure to present a special album containing an autograph sheet of the Brooklyn stamp to the Borough President, the Honorable John Cashmore. The Assistant Postmaster General is now presenting the album to Borough President Cashmore and the cameras are clicking and this historic event is taking place. It marks the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Long Island and a purple three-cent stamp commemorating that great event. Great, why was it great if it was a defeat? Because it was one of the greatest military masterpieces in the history of retreat of an army that had lost a battle and because it lost that battle it won several others that finally won us our freedom and independence. When the overzealous English crossed over from Long Island another way and landed in Kipps Bay a very wonderful American lady, Mary Murray who had a wonderful sense of hospitality especially when it might be adapted to patriotism gave a grand party and entertained the English and when they saw the food and the wine and all the other grandeur of the Murray home on Murray Hill they said, oh let's postpone the war a day and that's what they did and because of Mrs. Murray's hospitality General Israel Putnam and his army crossed over the East River and up into Harlem and established themselves on Harlem Heights. It is commemorating this event as George Washington stands on a height here in Brooklyn watching the retreat of the American army to New York City a height that was right there at Montague Street where the seven chimneys of residents stood at that time from that particular point now which now has a magnificent promenade recently opened by the city of New York and with a magnificent view of that same New York Bay that helped to evacuate the American army while all these things are tied together in the great borough of Brooklyn and the Honorable John Cashmore borough president of Brooklyn should feel very happy indeed that the borough is so signally honored today by the government of the United States and the issuance of this stamp and now the assistant postmaster general I will convey to you and to the people of Brooklyn the sincere feelings of the post office department the government of the United States the postmaster general and the president of the United States the Honorable Harry S. Truman thank you applause and now your chairman of postmaster Quigley of Brooklyn I didn't know if the photographers were going to take up one and a quarter minutes but we do need photographers for Jamie Kelly's history and I hope for your newspapers and I don't know if there's anybody here going to sell one but I happen to land in one of them now to proceed with our program to say more than one word about our splendid borough president would be repetitive if you talk about borough president Cashmore you just say one word Brooklyn you repeat it Brooklyn Brooklyn Brooklyn Brooklyn he breathes and lives Brooklyn his every word in action is Brooklyn he too knows the value of this stamp as it spreads its message around the world as he fought long and hard to help us obtain it I'm indebted to the borough president for his cooperation and his energies on our behalf I want to thank the assistant postmaster general Osborne Pearson for honoring this borough by presenting to borough president Cashmore and Jamie Kelly this historic album in honoring him Mr. Pearson you're honoring Brooklyn himself because they call Mr. Cashmore Mr. Brooklyn I present the honorable John Cashmore applause Reverend clergy postmaster Quigley former postmaster sitting in the rear Francis J. Sinnott applause distinguished guests and fellow Brooklynites today today is another great day in the greater city's greatest borough the borough of Brooklyn when I heard congressman and few so speak about the Brooklyn Dodgers I couldn't help but think Brooklyn has its own flag you'll see it right there in the rear Brooklyn has its own flower for Scythia we have the greatest botanical garden in the city of New York we have the greatest highways we have the greatest school system we have the borough of churches where three faiths are able to get along with peace and happiness and harmony and contentment then you'll see the greatest anniversary day parade in the borough of Brooklyn is ever held in the United States and I could go on and tell you so many things about Brooklyn but we have in Brooklyn eight other men like Victor and Fuso we have nine congressmen all with seniority intense Brooklynites and when I take a look at this stamp I realize the importance of it because just a few weeks ago we opened our own war memorial and today we have for the benefit of almost 750,000 school children another chapter in their history which I know will go in their warehouse of memories because if you will take George Washington Ed a lot of people complain about the services of the post office that when the peace negotiations were signed between England and America and they were signed in France Washington didn't know about it until two months after it was over I'd like to speak about our post office it's one of the ten greatest in America here we have a business of over 23 million dollars a year and around the Christmas holidays that's expanded to 18,000 and here you'll see the social end of it our glee club see one of the great bands of the state of New York the post office band of Brooklyn and then you stop to realize that our post office is practically the only post office in the United States of any size that's operated without a railroad all our deliveries are done by foot and by truck and even our shipments to New York take over a hundred trucks a day that's why I say Brooklyn is the greatest city's greatest borough and Charlie Horowitz who represents Mayor of Proletary will know that when we're arguing in the board of estimate we only have two votes but we'll take second place to none and so I say this to you ladies and gentlemen this is another chapter in the right direction for our borough there are so many people interested in Brooklyn but now they'll be given a chance to the four corners of the world to see on an envelope or a package the great stamp of Brooklyn and so on behalf of the three million people Ed I want to congratulate you our congressman our postmaster and even the man who helped design this Eugene Craig of the Brooklyn Eagle and we hope that we've only started to build up Brooklyn let's make it the greatest in the world instead of in the city of New York thank you thank you borough President Cashmore now here's a man who might challenge any city in the world to match for sincerity and purpose rich in his love for his borough and rich beyond the wealth of India to bring to Brooklyn the honor and glory we justly deserve there are scientists and artists and scholars and builders ventured from this town to many heights of fame not only for themselves but Brooklyn this man knows and preserves for all posterity everything they've ever done I'm proud to know him proud to what he's done for this occasion and pray he'll continue with us for many years enriching our lives with the energy he gives out James A. Kelly Deputy County Clerk and Historian of Brooklyn Mr. Postmaster honored guests Reverend DeFleje and my fellow Brooklynites it is a great pleasure to have the opportunity to congratulate all of those who have any part in having made this day possible not alone Congressman Anfuso who came in and did a wonderful job in bringing out the stamp but I would also like to include every member of the congressional delegation who have in their own way done everything possible to make this day possible I remember back in 1946 when we were about to hold the celebration of the 300th anniversary of the birth of Brooklyn at that time Ed Quigley asked me if it could be possible to include a Brooklyn stamp we tried at that time and we failed at that time in the early days of this year when 1951 dawned upon us the idea of a stamp for the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn we appealed again and we were informed after many appeals that only four stamps were coming to Brooklyn and then when the Brooklyn Daily Eagle carried on that series of articles in August retailing and relating all the events of the several days preceding the battle and following with the two days succeeding the battle Congressman Anfusa walked in and sat upon the desk of the Postmaster General until he finally agreed to give us the stamp so today we are really celebrating for that occasion but he paid a tribute to Gene Keogh Eugene Keogh was the first congressman that I appealed to back in 1946 to strike a stamp with the name Brooklyn on it we celebrate two events today not alone this stamp and that which it depicts but also we celebrate that title which has been placed officially upon that battle for the first time that title which has been asked for by historians for almost a hundred years the testimony before the British Parliament by the British generals who took part in this battle every one of them mentioned Brooklyn but some place along the line it was completely forgotten and the children in school even in my day were taught to call this the Battle of Long Island this entire battle was fought within the limits of the old town of Brooklyn and no other title should ever have been placed upon it because it is the custom and has always been the custom to designate battle sites by the name of the places in which the battles have taken place Dr. Stiles the great historian of Kings County devoted an entire chapter of his book to it as did Peter Ross Ostrander and the late Charles Higgins who was mentioned by Congressman Anfuso in his talk here this afternoon Charles Higgins who devoted his life to the recognition of that battle site and succeeded in carrying through to a successful conclusion the establishing again on the site of a replica of the old stone house I'm very sorry that the governor of Maryland left here had it not been for the men of his state for what they did on that eventful day you would not be assembled in this great museum to do honor to your borough and to the successful amphibious withdrawal which was engineered by General Washington yes we lost the battle the men in the line lost the battle against overwhelming odds the untrained farmer boys of America against the best troops that Europe up to that time had turned out and against the best troops that Germany could send here yes they were beaten on the field of battle because the British succeeded in carrying out their well laid master plan of completely encircling the American army but for one small point in that battle when the British British on the morning of the 27th of August came through to what is today Carroll and Nevin Street on the edge of the Gowanus Swamp where was located Freak's Mill they burned the mill it was at that psychological moment that General Sterling ordered the Marylanders into the battle and the Marylanders drove them back from that site now remember and take this into consideration there was just one half mile more for the British to go in order to capture the entire American army including General Washington the Marylanders threw them back and on two successive occasions drove them beyond the stone house of Gowanus and dislodged General Cornwallis on that occasion but when the smoke of battle had lifted 256 of their dead broken bodies were found around that old stone house the charge of the light brigade Balaclava and the other great battles of history pale into insignificance compared to what those boys of Maryland did on that eventful day remember those men didn't come from Baltimore and the rest of Maryland on that occasion in any train or a modern airplane in order to join the fight here they marched every step of the way and then threw themselves into the battle with fanatical zeal their behemoth charges are unsurpassed in history and after the battle smoke had lifted on the following day in the mud and the grime of the swamps of Brooklyn their bodies were hurled unceremoniously into the fifteen trenches that had been dug upon a slight rise on the old Van Brunt farm today on 3rd Avenue between 7th and 8th street that is your location and for almost 80 years those graves were forgotten until the state of Maryland paid for its own monument which stands today in Prospect Park far away from the place where their sacred bones are laid and until 1895 when that monument was raised and when there was a small amount of money left over they paid for two plaques one that went upon an old house on 5th Avenue and 3rd Street and the second one a sidewalk plaque on 3rd Avenue between 7th and 8th street which we remember as children a coal yard was later established on that site and after the coal yard was established the trucks entering and coming out of the yard broke up the plaque and after a few years all traces of it disappeared forever it was not until 1943 when the American Legion raised the funds to place upon a small building on that site a bronze plaque again commemorating the Marylanders I say to you there is no place in all America more sacred not even that tomb on the gentle slopes of the Virginia hills where rests the immortal remains of the father of our country he lived to enjoy that which these men died to make possible the freedom of America the tomb of the unknown soldier in Arlington is not more sacred nor as sacred as the place where the relics of these brave Marylanders today are entombed entombed you would scarcely recognize the site not as any burial place not as any God's acre there they have been for 175 years in that unrecorded up to a short time ago place these men who made possible this amphibious withdrawal if it had not been for them there would have been no amphibious withdrawal the entire American army would positively have been taken because they could have followed through behind Washington's secondary line of defense oh I sometimes get fed up much as we do for Brooklyn much as we talk about Brooklyn what is Brooklyn losing and what has it lost I'm proud of the title which has at last been placed upon this battle because in 1945 we saw with pride our great Navy Yard heralded as the greatest and the largest Navy Yard in all the world and in 1945 that name was taken from us today the glorious Brooklyn Navy Yard that had 75,000 people employed there during World War II is just a number and in this year in January of this year the last remaining name upon the Navy records of a cruiser the cruiser Brooklyn which was launched in the Brooklyn Navy Yard in 1936 is no longer part of our Navy in January 1951 that cruiser was sold to the Chilean government and is now in South American waters that's why I take pride in hailing the title of the battle as much as what has been done about the stamp and the celebration of that stamp today we are very thankful to every one of the organizations that helped us in this because it was not alone the congressman but many organizations in this borough that importun the postmaster general and the post the office department to make this stamp possible but our job is not finished our job will never be finished until that site on 3rd Avenue will be established one day not as a local cemetery not as a small god's acre but as a national monument these men did not die for Brooklyn they did not die for Maryland they died to bring into existence this the greatest nation in all the world thank you thank you Mr. Kelly for your deep interests and I know your sincerity now just prior to the benediction we will have the recession of the colors proceed military music military music military music the colors are now receding from the sculptor court of Brooklyn Museum at the request of the chairman today the Honorable Edward J. Quigley postmaster of Brooklyn the pageant of the stars and stripes passing in procession over the heads of the huge assembly here in the sculptor court creates indeed a beautiful sense of pageantry this turnout today was one of the most remarkable yet held in Brooklyn a place that have seen many remarkable assemblies and the enthusiasm for the issuance the first issue of the stamp commemorating the battle of Brooklyn which up to now has been identified in history as the battle of Long Island has certainly been responded to most thoroughly by the people of Brooklyn the assistant postmaster general presented an album of the stamps to the Honorable John J. Cashmore for a present of Brooklyn and the stamp itself is a purple one a three cent stamp on the long type showing George Washington on a height which is possibly about Montague Street watching the evacuation of the American troops to Manhattan and the famous retreat of General Israel Putnam and his army to Harlem Heights where they establish themselves again in another famous mansion the Jumel Mansion which still stands on Harlem Heights when we walk through Prospect Park which was the scene of the Battle of Long Island we come to a little pathway which has a stone marker there and it shows us the spot where a great tree was thrown across this passageway a roadway at the time possibly a cow path and this tree itself did its part in blocking the English army these facts are all interesting and a marvelous recapitulation of the reason why America today is the land of the free and the home of the brave and now Postmaster Quigley public theme music active andemi everything I got to you and got to you okay I got to you Where the graves of wrath are stored He has blues of the faithful lightning Of his terrible swift sword His truth is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah His truth is marching on I have seen him in the watch fires Of a hundred cycling camps They have built at him an altar By the evening doos and dams I can read his righteous sentence By the dim and flaring lamps His day is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah His truth is marching on And then come the cherubim And then the seraphim And all the other angels The moon and all the clouds and stars The whole last heavens go to Bethlehem tonight Not everybody I'm not going The archangels They're starting They're starting So soon Why we're not nearly ready Is my halo bright Is mine Is my rope just brought this white Is mine Oh hurry Hurry We can't be late My wings Are they quite strange We must join the procession Goodbye Goodbye Very small We'll be back by morning And we'll tell you all about it Goodbye We'll be back by morning We're sure We'll be back by then Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah The honor at theように Love is truly marching on Amen Amen If you kindly remain standing, and give me one more privilege to digress in this program. To you students, I want to pay it a high tribute. Today, you've enjoyed making history. I hope as you grow older as we are, you'll remember this day with the same pride we have in you. Now in Brooklyn, we have the distinction of a double benediction. And we declare no civil ceremony should ever be held without God. We need him always. Dr. Maxwell Sachs, chaplain of the Jewish Post Office Welfare League, will present the first benediction. Almighty Father in heaven, it is with a sense of aesthetic appreciation of American values that we have assembled here today. Not only to celebrate the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn, but also to add a symptomatic touch to the event by symbolizing it with a postage stamp reminder to all men of all creeds in the acceptance and for the honor of America and its significance. Grant, O God, that we be worthy of equal opportunity extended to us. That fine concept of freedom which permeates our land. Individual opportunity to survive. May the Lord bless thee and keep thee. May he shine his countenance down upon thee and be gracious unto thee. May he lift up his countenance unto thee and grant thee peace. Amen. To close these very lovely ceremonies, the final benediction by Dr. A. Edward Saunders, Archdeacon, the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island. Unto God's gracious mercy and protection, we commit this nation and the heroic dead who so valiantly died that this nation might live. And in the name of God we pray that a blessing may be upon the nation now in this day of anxiety and concern and that his finest blessing may be upon all here and now present in the name of Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Thank you. From the bottom of our hearts, the ceremony is closed. The microphones of your city station have brought you the magnificent ceremony from the sculptor court of Brooklyn Music, museum rather, which marks the first day of issue of the commemoration stamp on the 175th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn, for after ever after to be known as the Battle of Brooklyn and no longer as the histories quoted as the Battle of Long Island, which is too general a term for the historical significance of the great history of the Borough of Brooklyn. The band and choral group of the post office in the Borough of Brooklyn presented the program and the magnificent presentation of the Battle Hymn of the Republic. The Honorable Edward J. Quigley, Postmaster of Brooklyn, acted as chairman and carried through the general order of program. The Assistant Postmaster General presented to Borough President John J. Cashmore, a book of the first issue of the commemoration stamp of the Battle of Brooklyn. That is all from the sculptor court of Brooklyn Museum. We return you to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Haunted Hospital with the Nationalmid� iTunes and the center of the Gallery of Brooklyn. CloseCreate Altosaur Thank you.