The Northwestern University reviewing stand. Should the government subsidize the arts? The United States has come of age in cultural matters. It is time for the government to support the arts. Encouragement, yes. Support, yes. Subsidy, direct subsidy, no. Yes, partly. It should contribute to the financing and eventual endowing of not-for-profit organizations such as well-established symphony orchestras, opera companies, fully accredited colleges and music schools and art schools. Yes, most men take it for granted that they are born human. This isn't true. Men have to become human. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, should the government subsidize the arts? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the role of the arts in American life and culture and the means of giving them support. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Rudolf Gantz, president of the Chicago Musical College. Harold Hayden, professor of art in the college at the University of Chicago. Lee Mitchell, professor of dramatic production and director of the University of Theatre at Northwestern University. And Eliseo Vivas, professor of philosophy at Northwestern University. Now gentlemen, in considering this question of subsidizing the arts, what do you mean by the arts? What do you include, Mitchell? Drama, music, painting, sculpture, architecture, and literature. Dance, too? Well, I think of that as a part of drama. And poetry? Of literature. Well, now, why are the arts important in our national life, Hayden? Well, we see it said that the arts are the measure of a nation's greatness, that the arts are the hallmark of civilization, that these are the humane arts, and that they are filled with human values. The arts flurries for every people are sensitive, where they're tolerant, where they're upright, where they're vigorous. We make all these virtuous statements about where the arts are. I think they are, to some extent, a chance for people to really enjoy the everyday experiences of living. But I wonder how universal this appreciation and enjoyment is of which you speak. Are we talking about a minority thing, Vivas, when we're talking about the arts, the fine arts? Well, we may be, depending upon the situation in which we find ourselves, we should be talking about a majority, because that ought to be the decidable condition. If you do not have art in a nation, I go back to what I said a minute ago, you don't have human beings, really. The art makes the human being. It teaches them to think and to feel, and to recognize the values of the society. Art is a language. We've often heard that said, too. With this language, you can communicate with other lands in your own time and with other ages. You can communicate with the whole past. I should say anybody who enjoys a sunset or who can enjoy the song of a bird is on the threshold of enjoying art. Being European-born, I can easily say that the other countries know all about our money. They don't know enough about our culture, and subsidy from the government will make a majority someday out of the minority we are speaking of. Well, are you suggesting that the arts are at a low ebb in America, Doctor? No. They have been growing in my branch, which is supposed to be music. It certainly has grown so enormously that we could say in 50 years, music has accomplished in our country what the old countries did in hundreds of years. And isn't it interesting, though, in passing, to note that this achievement has been accomplished without the kind of subsidy that I understand you're supporting? Yes, but the moment has come where the rich men cannot support music as they used to. As we all know, there is such a thing as federal tax. Now it's up to the state or the municipalities to help in a local way and for the federal government to take part in the subsidies in proportion to the others. I think Gantz is right about music, and probably the same thing would hold for the theatre. But I'm afraid that in literature the situation isn't as cheerful, as nice as it is in music. I think in the last 15 years there has been decided decadence in the productivity of good literature and poetry. I would agree with Vivas speaking for the painters and sculptors. There, in my view, these painters and sculptors are themselves supporting their arts in our nation. They are employed at other things than their art in order to be able to continue their art. They truly subsidize the arts. I don't see how government support would remedy the condition that you describe. The condition I describe, Mitchell? Well, perhaps not. I have suspicion that the condition is a very serious sociological one, and it manifests itself in the arts. This is something that I don't fully understand. I don't think anyone understands it. Well, now when you say it's a very serious sociological condition, spell that out a bit, Viva. Well, I mean that it doesn't depend upon the artist himself. He wants to do the best he can, but if he doesn't live in a culture in which he can think clearly in his own terms as poet or as fiction writer, his poetry or his fiction is going to be second class, as I think the present situation indicates. I suppose partly the terror that we're living on of another war, an international situation. There are a number of factors of that sort, but I mean by sociological factors. Well, now how—I want to come back to that point you're making later. I'd like to know now, though, how these arts are supported in America. I take it we have no subsidy, Dr. Dunn. In music, Congress had made the first step. The renewal of the amusement tax on concert and operas sponsored by non-profit organizations is no doubt the first step. They are helping. Metropolitan Opera Company is able to produce new works without being afraid that the cash register is empty. And the same thing holds good for the New York Philharmonic, for instance. There's a good deal of support in the foreign museums, libraries, and public buildings. The difficulty is in support of the living art, or the development of it, I should think. And, of course, there's state support in some instances, because we're not talking entirely of federal support. And speaking of living painters and sculptors, the survey showed recently that they could count on only an average—200 at the top of these artists could count on an average of $173 a year from museum purchases. You can't support a family on that. There is a little break in the situation in the form, for instance, of resident artists in universities, isn't there, Hayden? Yes, that's, again, slight, though. And, of course, these people are busy, many of them teaching, as well as working in studios and lecturing. A resident artist at the University of Wisconsin is in the Department of Agriculture. He travels all over the state speaking to whoever wants to hear him. How did this WPA art project work out? When was it? Back there between the wars. Yes, yes. The result of depression. 35 to 40, was it? 43, they finally liquidated the project. How did that work out, Mitchell? Well, its purpose was to support people, to feed people, and it did that. In drama, I don't see that it had any permanent effect upon the dramatic art in this country, or upon the development of audience taste. It may have been different in music. Although, out of the nearly 30 million people who saw the plays in the first two or three years, the record seemed to show that about half of them entered the theater for the first time. And I can remember that happening in Chicago, when people were in the theater who thought they were in the ballpark, and crumpled peanuts and talked during the play. But I think it was a wonderful thing that they got there, and let's hope they came back. There was one thing they did that I think is important, although it didn't result in a permanent contribution to the art history of the country, and that was in keeping the artists alive. That was essential. I know my own experience with friends, painters in New York, for instance, who were practically starving and ready to liquidate themselves as artists, who were able to stay. The good many of the painters today that are important were people who were sustained through WPA. I used to be in the National Committee for the WPA Music, and I know that there were quite a number of very good symphonic organizations doing the work. They were supposed to rehearse only. Well, you can't ask people to rehearse for years. So they began giving concerts. And today, I should say how happy I am to see members of that WPA orchestra here in Chicago, now being in the Chicago Symphony as permanent members. They were prevented from giving up their profession through the WPA, and have become excellent people here and in other orchestras. We ought not to minimize what these projects did for art in this country. They actually did represent the greatest single program for bringing art into the daily life of the people and ever undertaken anywhere. Were there any political influences that work in that WPA project, Vivas? I don't know of political influences in the sense of influences either from state government or from governments or from the federal government. But there were politics in WPA art projects and plenty of them. Although on the higher levels, this was not true. No word of censorship ever came from the White House. No propaganda was put out in the works. You see, I think we are blessed with the fact that no member of the cabinet is doing any musical composition. So there was no influence on that part. And during the years of WPA Symphony Orchestra, more American young composers were performed than could have been possible under other circumstances. Do you think the painting, Dr. Gantz, has suffered because Churchill was a painter in England? Yeah, it was a dangerous affair. Do you think music has suffered because our president plays the piano, Doctor? Yes, but I'm so glad I can talk about that because I never heard him. I see. Well, now, is this subject we're talking about wholly academic? Should the government subsidize the arts? Is anyone thinking about it seriously? Has anyone thought about it seriously? What are the current legislative proposals in this direction, if any? The principal proposal is the Murray Bill, which came before Congress in October. The purpose of that was the establishment of a National Arts Commission. And there are several others of slightly varying kinds. Now, Mitchell, what would the function of this Arts Commission be? Would it be a subsidizing agency, do you know? Well, the chief disadvantage of it, as I see it at present, is to supervise the establishment of an arts center in Washington. It would be, if it worked out with an opera house, ballet, and theater, a very fine thing, but of course it wouldn't have much effect on the country as a whole. For the last 25 years, the late Dr. Damroche, Olin Downs, and Tibbet had been in Washington from time to time to try and bring about the creation of the Ministry of Fine Arts, the Secretary of Fine Arts, or Secretary of Fine Arts and Letters. And I know that there has been one man in the house who knew something about music. And we all had hopes that he might bring about some proposition which would be accepted, and then they didn't realize it. Since 1910, there has been a commission on fine arts, which consists of seven men, just one sculptor, one painter, both three or four architects, and their job is purely advisory, just advising various government departments. Now, isn't there a bill, Mitchell, in the house now to amend that act to incorporate for broader purposes under the National War Memorial Arts Commission? Yes, somewhat, although as I see it, the bill for the National War Memorial Arts Commission is a variation of the Fine Arts Commission bill, and gives it a slightly different title and a larger function. Well, now this program that you impute to Dr. Damroche is more nearly in line, I take, with what we're talking about here today. He was proposing a federal department, which I take, for the purpose, I take it, of subsidizing, in part at least, the arts over America. There are precedents for that kind of an organization abroad, aren't there? Yes. Tell us about some of those. Well, even in our country, we have local support in Baltimore, in San Francisco, in St. Louis, 50,000, 100,000 in San Francisco. The city buys 10 concerts from the symphony orchestra. We have state support in North Carolina. I mean, the beginning is here, and we are only imitating Europe by asking now for a federal subsidy. And what plans in Europe would we be imitating, doctor? For instance, the opera in Paris, which is state-supported and municipality-supported. And that's why they can give any performances they want to, because they know the money is there. They don't have to go to the public and bow down to some of the lower offerings. Now, is that the kind of program you want in America? Yes. On the other hand, I think I would rather nominate the Great Britain, Great Britain's program, which has two organizations to sponsor it, the Arts Council of Great Britain, which promotes the arts within Great Britain, and the British Council, which exports British art. And this avoids the official control that the French seem to have and that the Russians seem to have and some other countries have, which I think is really very bad. Britain is a small country, and the system that works there might not be at all applicable in a country this size, with as many states and centers of government. Am I right in saying it has been impossible to have a collection of exhibitions of Frank Lloyd Wright, Frank Lloyd Wright, yet in Rome there was an exhibition of all his works in Rome, not in the United States, because he is a progressive person. There was no room to do that here. Now, if you were to establish an aid program of some sort for the arts, how would that work out, Hayden? How much money are you talking about? To whom would it go? Well, now, I have a suggestion that comes from Mexico and probably is out of order. There, it seems, their budget for art and for education is bigger than their budget for armaments. Are you suggesting that we follow that, President? My notion is that we could start very quietly with about $10 million a year and work it up to $100 million, and for a country of this size, that's not any too much. That's a good beginning. In England, the drama is subsidized at about the cost of one musical production in this country. Who would receive this aid anyway, Dr. Gans, if it were given? Well, such as I said before, well-established organizations and fully accredited schools are institutions of higher learning. That would be a very good idea, but you would have to also give it to the artists, Dr. Gans. I think you would have to give it to the creative artists. What you think enough is mostly the propagation of already available art. Where are the institutions? Today, radio stations and organizations commission composers, which is very fine. They commission also Europeans, which is not so necessary. But they are commissioning now people to write certain works. Certainly, that is a difficult thing. The only commissioned work that ever was extremely successful is Aida. They gave ready $10,000 and said write an opera for the opening of the Suez Canal, and it happened to be one of the most marvelous and successful utterances in music. Painters and sculptors don't have these big established institutions, and they don't get such big commercial commissions. They need something more direct, and I propose what they do need is payment for the use of their works of art. Sometimes this will be a commission for a public building, but quite often it could be, as in England, a hiring fee, a rent fee for works circulating in an exhibition. Well, that wouldn't help the poet and the writer. The poet and the writer needs to be subsidized at the creative level, and whether people will read immediately in the hundreds of thousands what he produces or not. Now, the Mexicans subsidize the creative level. The person teaching, say, a poet, I know this is true of the Mexican painters, a person teaching poetry might be given a generous leave of absence, and his pay continue in return for the production of poetry. It works with painting in Mexico. Now, I think it should be pointed out that you gentlemen are talking about two quite different things here, if I follow you. Dr. Gans is suggesting that we subsidize institutions, symphony orchestras, colleges... Yes, because every institution, every accredited musical institution has a department of composition of creative work. For the purpose of spreading this to the people. Is that the idea? Yes, naturally, the subsidy in institutions like those I mentioned meant, like Chicago University, for instance, says it costs us so much to teach everybody. It costs us so much per student. And that's where the help should come in to make it possible for people to study slowly and carefully, and with many years of studies to make it possible for the institutions as we are so degree conscious at the present time. Is it fortunate that poets do not have to have degrees? Now, that broadens your program a little bit. Yes, sure. But Vivas and Hayden here are emphasizing the importance of helping this struggling artist who's living on bread and water in an attic. Part of the subsidy ought to go to create the institutions that will, say, exhibit American art across the rest of the world. And therefore, we create the institutions by subsidy. Almost everywhere in Europe, the government's support of art is through the support of existing organizations and institutions. Now, the policy of the Arts Council is to support organizations already in existence. And the individual artist is aided through that. And through rent, hiring of his works of art. Ten pounds for an oil painting, five pounds for a watercolor. What would you do for a poet, Hayden? Would you hire his poetry and put it in your shelves for a while? Vivas, I'd like an answer from you. I should think an organization... Well, pardon me. Go right ahead, Mick. I don't see why an organization whose business it would be to supervise that or look after it. There are organizations of letters in this country that could support it. What does a poet want? Publication? No, the poet wants, first of all, to be able to write poetry. And he needs for that leisure. He doesn't... He needs to be free from having to work himself to death physically at some job. And that means giving him a way of wasting his life, if you will, so that he can have his imagination to write. That would be putting money into his pocket somehow. And the only way I see it is through the expansion of the present technique of fellowships. Well, now, this begins to spell out what you men are thinking about when you talk about subsidizing the arts. Now, I said earlier in the discussion, I was going to go back to a point that Mr. Vivas made, and I'd like to do so. I wonder if this isn't a sociological problem, primarily, rather than an economic problem. Don't you think that's the case, Vivas? Not, Mark Bernice. In other words, you can't confer taste on the great American public by a subsidy of $100 million. That's what I'm talking about. You can create it. Well, you can create it in part, but you have to have the feeling, and that is a long job of education and of change of cultural conditions. You have to, and by culture here, I don't mean culture in the eulogistic sense. You have to have a need felt for it. Now, it's already beginning, it seems to me, in music. And you have a perfect right, Gantz, to be optimistic about music. But I think that, and perhaps the theater too, Mitchell, you have a right to be optimistic about. But I doubt very much whether that holds for painting and for literature, particularly for poetry. Now, may I say that the best poetry in the country being written today is esoteric, it's for a minority, it's not understood by the majority, and it's very unlikely that the majority could ever be brought to like that kind of thing. This is what we're producing. Now, isn't that true, if you come right down to it, of a lot of painting, and for that matter, of a lot of music, speaking of a lot of theater, aren't you talking about a minority thing here? I think we believe in these arts, though, enough to believe that if people have a chance to experience them, take them tolerantly and freely into mind, these arts will survive. The good things will keep alive, and the bad things will drop out of their own weight. There's a tremendous amount of controversy wherever you have any vitality in art, and tremendous differences in taste and opinion. And of course, you run into that, and an increased degree is the amount of art increases. We sometimes say, what is there left of Napoleon in connection with Beethoven? Let's say, of Napoleon, we know so little at the present time. He appears once in a while in a movie or in a play, and then walks out again. And yet, the Ninth Symphony of Beethoven is played all over the world. It was played in Tokyo a few months before the war started and sung in Japanese. Universal. I'm happy to see that there is a general interest in art now. The city council out of Los Angeles has taken an interest, and one of the members has discovered that what he took to be a hammer and sickle is really a traditional symbol on a sailboat sail, representing island class. This, I think, is a revelation. That you feel important to the United Nations. That council learned a great deal about modern art by the hard method of attacking it. I continue to suggest the possibility that what you gentlemen are attempting to do here is to spread what I might call a minority culture, a culture in which you believe, into which you're dedicated, at public expense. It's an affair of quality... Millions of people who have no interest in it, who feel no need for it, and who are living happy, full lives without it. Now, that's inflammatory enough. Now, Mark Bernie, I wonder whether they are living full lives without it. If they are, I'm totally wrong in what I said throughout this discussion. They're not living full lives without it. Why not? And the nation is not living a full life without the artist. Why not? Because people are not conscious until the artist makes them conscious. This is the way that you become conscious. The artist teaches you to see, to feel, to get the values. Let me give you a phrase that I picked up recently reading an old essay of Van White Brooks. He says of Walt Whitman that Walt Whitman was the man who brought this nation for the first time to consciousness, focused the consciousness of America. This is what the poet does in poetry. What the musician does through feeling in music. What the painter does visually and what the man the theater does too in the drama. And this is the essential thing. This is what I mean by becoming human. You are not human until you get this thing worked out and be conscious of it. And why are we so afraid of experts in art? When it comes to atomic energy, we trust the experts and believe them when they say this will mean a new and broader and more wonderful life. Well, the answer to that one is not so difficult. You can prove, at least to those who want to have it proved, a physical equation, but you can't very easily convince me that some of the things you like are good. At the same time, I thought your argument was that if you ever had a chance to hear what the arts can do or see, you would be convinced. Well, partly, not altogether. I do not believe in the slogan give the people what they want, give the people what they should have. Yet there, there, to pursue this argument with Vivas a bit, there are countless people who can appreciate the beauty of a sunset. There are people who live close to the soil, who appreciate the streams, who appreciate the great prairies that are America. And you could go on and on and on. Isn't that our indigenous culture? They're not esoteric, they're not informed, they don't know why, but they do have that enjoyment and those appreciations. The traditional role of the artist has been to make them see these very simple things ten times as clearly by the refinement of such experience in works of art. Let's just say, a statement made by Paul Hindemith, one of the great men of creative music today. After having lived in the United States for many years, he said, I have come to the conclusion that music is meant for more people in these United States than we ever thought possible in Europe. And are you firm in your belief, Doctor, that a subsidy of the sort that we're talking about would be helpful in spreading that kind of culture? Absolutely. Mitchell, are you still firm in your belief that it would be unwise to attempt to spread it this way? Yes, we can all agree that art is a good thing. Being for art is like being against sin. Everyone agrees to it, but direct subsidy involves too much politics, I think. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Should the Government Subsidize the Arts? We wish to thank our guests for today, Rudolf Gantz, President of the Chicago Musical College, Harold Hayden, Associate Professor of Art in the College, University of Chicago, Lee Mitchell, Chairman of the Theater Department in the School of Speech, Northwestern University, and Ediseo Vivas, John Evans, Professor of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, are we losing our good neighbors to communism? Our guests will be George Blankston, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, J. Fred Rippey, Professor of American History at the University of Chicago, and Felix Stonovicius, Counsel for Uruguay. We hope you will be with us next week as we explore this question, are we losing our good neighbors to communism? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you.