Every year, between $200,000 and $250,000 is being expended for the benefit of the people of the theater, and what is called the Actors Fund of America. It includes the women who are the cleaners and who have subscribed to this fund, the scrub women, from the scrub women to the stars, from the poorest person in the theater up to Catherine Cornell and Gertie Lawrence, and all of them have come along and said, here's my few dollars. Then, too, every producer in New York City of any play, and every manager in New York City of any theater that has a live actor in it, I don't mean picture houses, I mean the legitimate theater as we call it, the so-called legitimate theater, in every instance that theater will have a drive made at its audiences during next week. Everybody in the theater is doing it, and of course, the fine thing about it is the fact that it's a very unusual gesture. For the mayor to take any particular set of people and honor them in this way. And here is one of the greatest mayors that New York ever had, Vincent Impeletteri, saying to me, All right, John, next week you can call it Actors Fund Week of America, and I'm issuing a proclamation that makes it exactly that. John, as mayor of the city of New York, I am very much impressed with the story that you have just given us, about the reason for the existence of the Actors Fund. I, as mayor of the city of New York, have already issued a proclamation which I will turn over to you today, designating next week as the Actors Fund Week. I think it's important for those of us who hold the reins of city government to cooperate with any worthwhile endeavor. This is certainly one of those endeavors that the city government is proud to get behind. Throughout the year, frequently I have reasoned to call on the Actors to give the city assistance in rendering their splendid services for the benefit of all the people of the city of New York. Whenever I have had the occasion to call upon the Actors to cooperate with the city government, they have always responded generously and willingly. So it's only natural that I, as mayor of the city of New York, am today proud to reciprocate their kindness. Now may I make one more gesture, Mr. Siegel. I am very proud to bring down here a document which is inscribed and scrolled so that it's rather a pretty thing, which has been gotten through the happy meeting of all of the directors of the Actors Fund of America who have unanimously accepted his honor the mayor as a life member of that institution. And while I'm taking from him a little document, I am very happy to hand him in turn one that makes him a very important man in the eyes of the theater world. These are not easy to get, but I'm proud now to say, Mr. Mayor, you are now a lifelong member of the Actors Fund of America. Thank you very much, John Golden. I'm very proud and happy to be accepted into the membership of such a distinguished organization as the Actors Fund of America. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor.