We take you now to Everglades City, Florida, to the site of the new Everglades National Park for the dedication addressed by President Harry S. Truman. Today, the President of the United States dedicates the Everglades National Park, an immense area of land at the south tip of the Florida Peninsula. The Everglades National Park will be turned over to the United States by Governor Caldwell of Florida. Secretary of the Interior Krug will accept the park. Senators Pepper and Holland of Florida will also speak. Presiding at the ceremony is Mr. John D. Pennekamp, Legislative Chairman of the Everglades National Park Commission. Mr. Pennekamp. Mr. President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to present Florida's senior senator, and long as stalwart advocate and supporter of the Everglades National Park project, the Honorable Claude Pepper. Mr. President, Governor Caldwell, Mr. Secretary, and distinguished guests and friends. Today, amid these scenes of enchanting interest, the President of the United States and the Governor of Florida rededicate to nature and to the people this vast area which has ever been nature's majestic own. Hereafter and for all time, it belongs only to nature, to nature's God, and to the American people. For today, this primeval expanse, containing vast areas where white man has never set foot, becomes the 28th National Park, the Everglades National Park. It will be the only such tropical park in all the land. Here, more than a million visitors soon will come each year to enjoy this marvelous museum of nature. They will see the crocodile, the giant manatee, the alligator, the white-tailed deer, and 700 varieties of aquatic creatures. They will see the white egret, the roseate spoonbill, the wood ibis, the flamingo, the heron. And they will see the world's tallest mangrove trees, and 14 miles of virgin beaches, a constellation of sparkling lakes, streams, bays, and inaccessible swamps in this river of grass, the Everglades. We wish to express our profound thanks and gratitude to the President of the United States, not only for all that he has done to make this park possible, but for the inestimable compliment of his personal appearance here today. And our thanks to the Secretary of the Interior, without whose sympathetic assistance and wise counsel it could not have occurred. To the National Park Service, to the Governor and to his Cabinet, to the Legislature of Florida, and others too numerous to mention, who by their uncouring service have brought at long last to the people of this state and this nation, this tropical monument of nation. Now then, to the people's federal government, and to the National Park Service, we happily commit the protection and care of this rare and beauteous treasure for the health and happiness of all the American people. May it long be a comforting refuge to those who seek inspiration and satisfaction at the holy sacred shrines of nature. Thank you, Senator Pepper. Our next speaker has made monumental contributions to the Everglades National Park as Governor of Florida and as our Senator, the honorable Specialist Pollack. President Truman, Governor Caldwell, Secretary Krug, ladies and gentlemen. The presence here of the President of the United States and the Secretary of the Interior to dedicate the Everglades National Park shows clearly the importance which the Federal Government gives to this newest of national parks, the nation's only subtropical park. Mr. President and Secretary, the thousands of Floridians, both officials and private citizens, who have, through the years, worked together to make possible the grants of state land and state money by which the creation of this park was made possible, are deeply grateful to you for your unfailing interest and assistance, as well as for your coming here today. Aside from the public and civic agencies which have functioned so effectively in Florida in the long effort to create this great national park, I feel that this is the appropriate time to call public attention with gratitude to the big parks played by two great organizations, the Florida Federation of Women's Clubs and the National Audubon Society. The club women acquired, 31 years ago, the Royal Palm Hammock, and preserved it against the destruction which occurred in most of our other stands of native Royal Palm. As a result, the Royal Palm Hammock, recently deeded to the Federal Government as part of this park, brings to the park the most majestic Royal Palms in our nation, along with many other native subtropical trees. The Audubon Society supplied the supervision, the equipment, and the wardens by whose efforts, beginning in 1901, many species of the incomparable bird, animal, and fish life of the park region were safeguarded and, in some instances, literally saved from extinction. The thousands of Florida club women and the tens of thousands of thousands of audubon members throughout the nation have every right to feel happy today that their devoted efforts have borne such good fruit. I sincerely hope that the National Park Service, which now begins its patient labor of years to safeguard this immense wilderness and, at the same time, make it subject to visitation and enjoyment by millions of citizens, will have the continuing ardent support of these two great organizations, as well as the sympathetic interest and backing of lovers of nature everywhere and of the world. Thank you, Senator Holland. Thank you, Senator Holland. There is a high distinction at this time to present the man whose direction and resourcefulness draws its presence. The governor of Florida, the Honorable Millard F. Caldwell. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished guests, in making this formal presentation of what may well become the nation's most popular and unique national park area, it is fitting that due recognition be accorded by the people who have supported those who have been responsible for the accomplishment. It is not possible within this brief moment to identify all of the individuals, groups, and organizations whose interests and whose efforts have been unceasing to this end, but they must know that their services are appreciated. Among those who have labored effectively and are entitled to a special mention are the President of the United States, the Secretary of the Interior, and the other Federal official, Ernest Cole and his association, the Everglades National Park Commission, Florida's delegation in the Congress, and the members of the Florida Cabinet. It is worthy of note that ten sessions of the Florida Legislature and five of Florida's governors have unstintingly supported the effort. The State of Florida has contributed more toward the creation of this national park than any other state of the nation has contributed toward the establishment of any other national park. We have given hundreds of thousands of acres of state-owned land and two million dollars in cash to the Federal Government to assist in the park's creation. We are confident that the marvelous attractions of the area together with the operating plans of the park service will result in the bringing of a multitude of visitors to Florida and redound to the mutual benefit of the nation and of the state. And now, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary, in presenting this area to the nation, Florida wants you to know that it is given in token of our desire to be ever closer bound to the Commonwealth of States and to further cement the goodwill of all of the people of the nation. We leave its future in your hands, confident that it will be administered with the same wisdom and progressive good judgment which has characterized your administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of the Interior, the Honorable Julius A. Krug. Mr. President, Governor Caldwell, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, as Secretary of the Interior, it is my pleasure to accept, on behalf of the Federal Government, this world-famous area as a generous gift to the nation from the people of Florida and formally dedicate it as Everglades National Park, the 28th in our great system of national parks. I cannot pass up this opportunity to express the thanks and appreciation of the federal government and, I think, of the people all over the country for the unselfish and persistent efforts of the many civic organizations and the thousands of Florida citizens who have assisted in making this dedication possible. I had hoped to name those organizations and those individuals, but I find the complete list almost endless, as it includes the many, many public-spirited, conservation-minded people of your great state. I want you to know, however, that never, in my experience, have I witnessed such complete all-out cooperation between private and public organizations and between public servants and private citizens, all motivated by the same vital national purpose. All right. Every member of your congressional delegation has joined in this great fight. Your able governor has devoted much of his time and energy to its leadership here in your state and in Washington, and your state legislature has demonstrated remarkable statesmanship in keeping important state responsibilities in proper perspective, perspective to the broader interests of the nation as a whole. Without making a formal speech at this historic occasion, I wish to emphasize that the Federal Government and the Department of the Interior appreciate their new responsibilities and will carry forward, arm in arm with you, the work remaining to be done. To the end, that these beautiful Everglades will become not just another reservation of public land, but as it should be, a new and brilliant gem in our exciting chain of national parks, with its unusual attractions second to none. In this endeavor, we are fortunate to have a national leader who really understands conservation and who really loves our national parks. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Mr. Chairman Pennecamp, Mr. Secretary of the Interior, Governor Caldwell, Senator Holland, Senator Pepper, distinguished guests and the ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you what a great pleasure it is to me to be here with you today. You know, I have a White House down in Key West, and it's very conveniently located for this occasion. Not often in these demanding days are we able to lay aside the problems of the times and turn to a project whose great value lies in the enrichment of the human spirit. Today, we mark the achievement of another great conservation victory. We have permanently safeguarded an irreplaceable primitive area. We have assembled to dedicate to the use of all the people for all time, the Everglades National Park. Here in Everglades City, we have the atmosphere of this beautiful tropical area. Southeast of us lies the coast of the Everglades Park, cut by islands and estuaries of the Gulf of Mexico. Here are deep rivers, giant groves of colorful trees, prairie marshes, and a great many lakes and streams. In this park, we shall preserve tarpon and trout, pompano, bear, deer, crocodiles and alligators, and rare birds of great beauty. We shall protect hundreds of all kinds of wildlife which might otherwise soon be extinct. The benefits our nation will derive from this dedication will outlast the youngest of us. They will increase with the passage of the years. Few actions could make a more lasting contribution to the enjoyment of the American people than the establishment of the Everglades National Park. Our national park system is a clear expression of the idealism of the American people. Without regard for sectional rivalries or for party politics, the nation has advanced constantly in the last 75 years in the protection of its natural beauties and wonders. The success of our efforts to conserve the scenery and wildlife of the country can be measured in popular use. The national park system covers but a fraction of one percent of the area of the United States. But over 25 million of our fellow countrymen have visited our national parks within the last year. Each citizen returned to his home with a refreshed spirit and a greater appreciation of the majesty and beauty of our country. These are the people's parks owned by young and old by those in the cities and those on the farms. Most of them are ours today because there were Americans many years ago who exercised vision, patience and unselfish devotion in the battle for conservation. Each national park possesses qualities distinctive enough to make its preservation a matter of concern to the whole nation. Certainly this Everglades area has more than its share of features unique to these United States. Here are no lofty peaks seeking the sky. No mighty glaciers or rushing streams wearing away the uplifted land. Here is land tranquil in its quiet beauty, serving not as the source of water but as the last receiver of it. To its natural abundance we owe the spectacular plant and animal life that distinguishes this place from all others in the country. Our park system also embraces such national shrines as Jamestown Island, the Statue of Liberty and the battlefields of Yorktown and Gettysburg. However, these historic places, as much as the scenic areas, also need to be protected with all the devotion at our command in these days when we are learning again the importance of an understanding loyalty to our national heritage. Our parks are but one part of the national effort to conserve our national resources. Upon these resources, our life as a nation depends. Our high level of employment and our extraordinary production are being limited by scarcities in some items of our natural wealth. This is the time to develop and replenish our basic resources. Conservation has been practiced for many decades and preached for many more. Yet only in recent years has it become plain that we cannot afford to conserve in a haphazard or a piecemeal manner. No part of our conservation program can be slighted if we want to make full use of our resources and have full protection against future emergencies. If we waste our minerals by careless mining and processing, we shall not be able to build the machinery to till the land. If we waste the forests by careless lumbering, we shall lack housing and construction materials for a factory, farm, and mine. If we waste the water through failure to build hydroelectric plants, we shall burn our reserves of coal and oil needlessly. If we waste our soil through erosion and failure to replenish our fields, we shall destroy the source of our people's food. Each conservation need is dependent upon the others. A slashed and burned forest brings erosion of the uplands and fills downstream reservoirs with silt so that water power is lessened and irrigated farms lose their water supplies. Eroded farmlands contributed to devastating floods. Uncontrolled rivers mean lost electricity. Farms without water and perennial increasing flood danger. To maintain our natural wealth, we must engage in full and complete conservation of all our resources. Full conservation of our energy resources can be accomplished by continued construction of dams, hydroelectric plants, and transmission lines. By greater use of natural gas. By research for more efficient methods of extraction of coal and oil. And by exploration for new reserves. In forests, conservation can be achieved by adhering to the principle of sustained yield and forest management so that timber is harvested each year just as other crops are. This should be true for both privately owned and publicly owned forest lands. In farmland, conservation can be achieved by expanding and intensifying the many soil conservation practices developed by our agricultural technicians to sustain productivity. The area of irrigated land can be expanded materially by new reclamation projects. Rangelands in the west can be protected by the control of erosion and by the enforcement of safe limits on the number of grazing stock. In minerals, we can come closer to the proper balance with increased efficiency in extraction and with scientific exploration of new reserves. When ores contain several minerals, we should extract all the useful products and waste none. Despite a bounteous nature, this country has never been self-sufficient in all minerals. We have always imported minerals to meet these deficiencies and we must continue to do so. In water, we need to prevent further dropping of the water table, which in many areas is dangerously low. Surface water must be stored and ground water used in such a way as to cause the least depletion. Although the water level is high now here in the Everglades, there has been damage from a lowered fresh water table and during the war fires raged through the glades. Fires fed by dry grass, which should have been covered by water. The battle for conservation cannot be limited to the winning of new conquests. Like liberty itself, conservation must be fought for unceasingly to protect earlier victories. There are always plenty of hogs who are trying to get our natural resources for their own personal benefit. Public lands and parks, our forests and our mineral reserves, are subject to many destructive influences. We have to remain constantly vigilant to prevent raids by those who would selfishly exploit our common heritage for their own private gain. Such raids on our natural resources are not examples of enterprise and initiative. They are attempts to take from all the people just for the benefit of a few. As always in the past, when the people's property has been threatened, men and women whose primary concern has been their country's welfare have risen to oppose these selfish attacks. We can be thankful for their efforts as we can be grateful for the efforts of citizens, private groups, local governments, and the state of Florida, which joined in the common purpose and have made possible the establishment of the Everglades National Park. The establishment of this park is an object lesson and an example to the entire nation that sound conservation depends upon the joint endeavors of the people and their several governments. Responsibility is shared by town and state and the federal government, by societies and legislators, and all lovers of nature. No man can know every element that makes a nation great. Certainly the lofty spirit of his people, the daily cooperation, the helpfulness of one citizen to another are elements. A nation's ability to provide a good living for its people in industry, in business, and on the farm is another. Intelligent recognition by its citizens of a nation's responsibility for world order, world peace, and world recovery is still another. The wise use of our natural resources is the foundation of our effectiveness in all these efforts. The problems of peace, like those of war, require courage and sustained effort. If we wish this nation to remain prosperous, if we wish it still to be the home of the free, we can have it so. But if we fail to heed the lesson of other nations, which have permitted their natural resources to be wasted and destroyed, then we shall reap a sorry harvest. For conservation of the human spirit, we need places such as Everglades National Park, where we may be more keenly aware of our Creator's infinitely varied, infinitely beautiful, and infinitely bountiful handiwork. Here we may draw strength and peace of mind from our surroundings. Here we can truly understand what that great Israelitish psalmist meant when he sang, He mecketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside still water. He restoreth my soul. You have heard the President of the United States who spoke in dedication ceremonies of the Everglades National Park. In this ceremony, the park was presented to the United States by Governor Miller F. Caldwell of Florida and accepted by Secretary of the Interior crew. Senators Pepper and Holland also spoke.