Radio's microphones are now at the plaza in front of City Hall. Presentation of medals of valor and certificates of commendation by the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. To the members of the Department of Sanitation for conspicuous acts of bravery outside the actual line of duty and meritorious service in their all-around service to the people of the City of New York. In just a few moments, as soon as the ban concludes, Commissioner Mulrane, who will act as chairman, will introduce a regular order of program. It's been a busy day for Commissioner Impella. I beg your pardon for the mayor. We just left him at the Hotel New Yorker where he addressed the Associated Public Works Association. And now Commissioner Mulrane. The Department of Sanitation ban will now render the national anthem. Forrest ходing 90 years later, we will launch the Lakitu by C politically bottles and I'm sorry. And now, Commissioner Mulrane. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow members of the Department of Sanitation. First, may I take this opportunity to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for taking time out on your busy day to join us in honor of the men who have brought distinction to the Department of Sanitation. May I say to those who won the awards that will be presented here today, it is a genuine pleasure for me as Commissioner to recognize your fidelity to the public trust. I'd also like to extend the appreciation to the members of your families who are here today to witness your receiving the awards you won under such gallant circumstances. The bravery displayed by our nine Valor Award recipients is but another indication of the varied services Department of Sanitation personnel renders the people of this city. These men saw the need for immediate action. Despite great personal risks, they did their job. They risked their lives as a matter of course. Considered another facet to the difficulties, the difficult job they perform every day. In addition to conveying my deep appreciation of the courage displayed by the winners of the Valor Medals, I also wish to congratulate those who have won the Safe Driving Awards, and the Department members who have achieved certificates of other meritorious acts. Together, the men we honor today form the backbone of what I feel is the greatest municipal street cleaning organization in the world, and one of which I am very proud to be the head of. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the acting mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletieri. Commissioner Mulrane, members of the sanitation department, members of the families of the sanitation men that we are honoring today, ladies and gentlemen, as acting mayor, I feel very proud today to pay my respects to the sanitation department men who have distinguished themselves far beyond the call of duty. The job of a sanitation man is not a dramatic job. It's not the type of job that catches the front page notices every day. When a sanitation man does something beyond the call of duty, it's an unusual affair. It's not as spectacular as the killing of a hold-up man by a police officer. It's not as spectacular as the saving of the life of a child by a member of the fire department. But nevertheless, the work of the sanitation man is just as important, not in the dramatic sense, but in the everyday life of our city. The sanitation man is a vital cog in the machinery of keeping the people of our city well and happy and clean. Because without a clean city, you cannot have a healthy city, and the sanitation man is in large measure responsible for that. I am, of course, happy to present awards to fellow city servants who have risked life and limb to preserve the well-being of our citizens. It is no more than fitting to here acknowledge many other meritorious acts performed by members of Commissioner Mulrane's forces. Every recipient of these honor medals that I will shortly bestow is a long-time worker for the public good. Day after day, the sanitation man makes his arduous rounds, performs the immense job, and it is a tremendous job, of picking up and cleaning up after some 8 million New Yorkers, and that doesn't include the approximate million people that come in and out of our city every day. The sanitation men have to clean up after them, too. All too often, unfortunately, the work of the average sanitation man goes by unnoticed. So besides honoring sanitation men who have won the city's esteem by spectacular acts of courage, far above the call of normal duty, and besides paying tribute to the men who have rendered excellent service by their careful, safe operation of valuable equipment, I am happy to pay tribute to one of our city's most faithful servants, the sanitation man, all 12,000 of them. Commissioner Mulrane is indeed fortunate in having at his command the force so ably represented by the stout-hearted gentlemen who stand before me at this moment. So may I, Commissioner Mulrane, personally congratulate you, congratulate the men in your department, but particularly to congratulate these honor men who stand before us this morning. I know that in bestowing these medals, it not only gives me a great deal of personal pride and satisfaction, but as the chief executive of this wonderful city, I know that I speak for all the people in my city when I say to you, speaking for them, that you have the thanks, the appreciation, and the love of all the people who make up the citizenry of the great city of New York. Thank you and congratulations. Thank you. And now, Commissioner Mulrane is conducting the mayor down to where the men are to receive the awards and the citations will be read as each man receives the award. Rostrom here. Michael P. Nuno, foreman, District 76, Richmond. On August the 11th, 1949, without regard to personal risk or danger to life, Michael P. Nuno, foreman, ran into a burning building, searched through the rooms for occupants, and pulled out an aged couple, one of them partially blind, and the other suffering from rheumatics, or both legs. This was a tree-alarm fire, and the building was completely burned out. We are presenting another medal to this hero at this time. Edward C. Nugent, Medal of Valor. Would Mrs. Nugent kindly step forward? Donated by the Association of Classified Employees of the Department of Sanitation, Local Number 750, American Federation of Labor. Awarded to Michael P. Nuno, foreman, District 76, Extreachment for Meritorious Deed, Involving Extreme Poisonal Risk, An Unusual Initiative. We are busy recording this event, whereby Michael P. Nuno received a double citation from the Mayor and Commissioner in the presence of the huge crowd here in front of City Hall. Apparently, Mrs. Nugent is down there with the Mayor, and the photographers are asking for a photograph with Mrs. Nugent joining in the picture. She's holding the medal now that has been pinned on the breast by Mayor Impelet Terry, and every bit of the courage and bravery that sanitation man Nuno displayed is certainly rewarded here at this moment in front of City Hall on this beautiful fall day. These men parading through the neighborhoods as they do, cleaning up after, well, the essential services and sometimes the carelessness of our citizens, they have very often an opportunity to observe a hazard such as a fire. And in this particular instance, rather, you've heard the citation whereby sanitation man Nuno entered this building and performed the act of bravery in rescuing the child in the burning building. This is one of the hazards, particularly in the older neighborhoods and the older parts of the boroughs. All right, boys. And now the citations continue. John E. Boygan, sanitation man B, District 10, Manhattan. On October the 19th, 1949, John E. Boygan, sanitation man B, without regard to personal danger, apprehended an armed criminal who had just assaulted and robbed an occupant of an apartment. The criminal was running out of the building while a woman was screaming and pointing to him. When Boygan's attention was attracted, he ran after the criminal, following him up the elevator steps, caught him and searched him and found weapons and stolen articles on his person. While the criminal put up a struggle, he was then turned over to a detective. George Hadrum Gould. On October the 20th, 1949, George Hadrum Gould, sanitation man B, witnessed a fire on a top-floor apartment and was informed the child was trapped there. Without regard to personal danger or risk of life, he entered a smoke-filled apartment searching for the child, but was driven into the hall by the intense smoke and heat. He tried to enter through another room and by placing a wet blanket over his head and gropel along the wall, he located the crib, removed the child and carried him to safety. Drum Gould suffered buoyant as a consequence of his brave deeds. The mayor is now pinning the medal on George H. Drum Gould. Lewis J. Mastrangello, sanitation man B, District 42, Brooklyn. On October 20, 1949, Lewis J. Mastrangello, sanitation man B, without regard to personal danger and risk of life, raced into a buoyant building upon hearing that a child was trapped in the second-floor buoyant apartment. He made several attempts to enter the dense, smoke-filled building and finally, by crawling on his hands and knees, groped around until he located the nine-month-old child in his bed. He grabbed the child and carried him to safety. His clothing was scorched and burned as a consequence of his brave deeds. Samuel Ruggiero, sanitation man B, District 39, Brooklyn. On March 9, 1950, Samuel Ruggiero, sanitation man B, was attracted by a woman screaming that a four-and-a-half-year-old child was trapped in a buoyant basement apartment. Without regard to personal danger or risk of life, Ruggiero, who was 61 years old, broke down the locked door of the finished-off basement apartment, searched the smoke-filled apartment for the child, carried the child to the backyard and handed him over the fence to safety. Ruggiero then collapsed from smoke poisoning and was taken to Cooney Island Hospital. James R. Robinson, sanitation man B, auxiliary field force, Manhattan. On May the 7, 1950, James P. Robinson, sanitation man B, heard screams of a man overboard in the East River. Regardless of personal risk and the fact that it was high tide and he could not swim, Robinson removed some of his clothing and impulsively plunged into the river, seized the drowning man and held him to him against the wall of the dock while he shouted for help. When they were both pulled up on the dock, he applied a physical respiration until he arrived at the police department and the ambulance from Bellevue Hospital. Robinson was treated at the hospital for submersion and exposure. Edward W. Galpine, section sanitation man B, district 46, Brooklyn. On June the 4, 1950, Edward G. Galpine, sanitation man B, was one of the victims of a holdup in a bar and grill. Without regard to personal danger or risk of life, Galpine knocked the gun out of the hands of the holdup man who had killed one of the patrons and shattered another person. Galpine then knocked down the criminal and grappled with him until he was completely subdued and turned him over to the police. The photographers are still busy with the pictures of Edward W. Galpine. We all remember that particular case when he really broke the spell of the holdup at that time. The two men have since been convicted who were involved in the holdup in that saloon where a fine young man who was about to become a police officer lost his life. Vincent Senna, Sanitation Man C District 42 Brooklyn and Albert J. Pantesco, Sanitation Man C District 63 Queens. On February 4, 1950, Vincent Senna, Sanitation Man C and Albert J. Pantesco, Sanitation Man C, without regard to personal danger, assisted in the rescue of three adults and four children from a Boydland apartment. Disregarding the shooting flames issuing from the windows of the Boydland building, Pantesco and Senna formed a human ladder and handed the fire victims down the fire escape from the second floor to the first floor and to the sidewalk. And at the same time, shouted to tenants to go up to the roof to prevent being overcome by smoke poisoning and possible injury. It's an interesting commentary that Vincent Senna, as well as being a hero, is also an excellent musician. He plays the drum in the Sanitation Band. So he has an extra service there too. ...in Hattonborough East. Kindly step up here. This man will accept the award for the 398 men who have received commendations in the past year. There's a terrific list of commendations here after considering all the merits by the Merit Board. Jerry Capone, Seaman, Garage Five, nine year Safe Driving Medal. This man will accept the reward representing 997 Safe Driving Awards for 1950. That's all right. There's also 11 men in there that get those awards but will get no civil service credit for the act. There are 62 employees of the Department of Sanitation so far, previous to September 15th, who have taken their place in the Armed Forces. Look at that. That's it. There are eight men who died in the line of duty with the Department of Sanitation in the complete list of memorial notices in the program today. This work has its risks as well and eight men gave their lives to the sanitation work of your city, which is indeed a great complement to the Department of Health of the City of New York and the general health of the city. Since if this material is not removed promptly, we all know the consequences that happens to the neighborhood and the environment if there is any letdown due to weather or any other condition whereby there is a delay in its removal. And yet, no matter what the circumstances may be, the Department of Sanitation men have to meet them and overcome them, whatever they may be, to keep up this very important contribution to the general good health of the people of the city of New York. And now, at Mayor Impeleteri's request, the various men are lined up here for a picture, a group picture, with Commissioner Mulrane and the mayor. And the cameramen are having their innings taking this picture and recording it. It is indeed a proud moment for Commissioner Mulrane to stand here and see the men of his department acknowledged for their fine service to the city. It is indeed a most difficult service, and as the mayor pointed out, not always the most dramatic service in the world. But it might be very dramatic indeed if we didn't have the work of the Department of Sanitation to maintain the high health standards of our city by removing the things that we are through with after the general day. Whether it's refuse from the house, the cleaning of the attic or cellar, food, preparation or whatever it may be, this all drops then into the lap of the great housekeeper of the city, the Department of Sanitation. And now, Mayor Impeleteri has concluded the ceremony here in City Hall of the awards. He's going back to the stand, and we do not wish to conclude this ceremony as yet for fear that the mayor may have something further to say or Commissioner Mulrane. We'll just wait a moment now. For the benefit of those who tuned in late, may we say that the awards were being given out of the city. The awards were being given out this morning in front of City Hall by the mayor of the city of New York to the men of the Department of Sanitation who performed outstanding service to that department, very often outside of the actual line of duty. The presentation of medals of valor and certificates of commendation. The ceremony took place in front of City Hall. Well, that's all we have to bring you now from City Hall because now the procedure is the men are passing in review, and the mayor salutes them and Commissioner Mulrane and the relatives and friends and distinguished citizens who have come out to honor the men of the Department of Sanitation. That is all from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. testing system.