The ancient land of Palestine, the cradle of religion as we know it in the modern world, the Old and the New Testament, forms a contact with the equally ancient city of New York, but not quite so ancient in the history of things, when the mayor of Tel Aviv, Mr. Israel Rocha, is received today by the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Mr. Whelan is now just discussing a few preliminaries, and in a few moments when our guests are seated, you'll hear the familiar voice of Mr. Groveray Whelan, who generally escorts our guests. And now Mr. Whelan. The police police club will render the star-spying Obama. Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh, say can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed As the twilight's last gleaming Both cross-stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight All the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the ramparts we watched And the home of the brave The Police Glee Club will now render with the soloist Or patrolman Cosman of the Police Glee Club Hak Tikba the Hope, Palestine National Anthem Oh, say is that star-spangled banner yet wave And the star-spangled banner yet wave The star-spangled banner yet wave And the star-spangled banner yet wave And the star-spangled banner yet wave The star-spangled banner yet wave And the star-spangled banner yet wave And the star-spangled banner yet wave The star-spangled banner yet wave Mr. Mayor, may I ask the President of the Jewish National Fund of America Judge Morris Rothenberg To present the Mayor of Tel Aviv Judge Rothenberg Mr. Chairman Mr. Mayor Mr. Impelitari Mr. Joseph Mr. Roca Mr. Hartsfeld Ladies and gentlemen It's a pleasure to respond With a brief word of greeting To our honored guests But firstly Permit me to express On behalf of the Jewish National Fund And its constituent organizations At whose invitation Our guests of honor Have come to this country Our sincere appreciation To Mayor O'Dwyer And to Acting Mayor Impelitari During the absence of the Mayor And to you, Mr. Whelan For the courtesy extended By our fair city To Mayor Roca Mrs. Roca And Mr. Hartsfeld And for the privilege Of joining in this tribute Which is being paid to them I think it is but an additional evidence Of the sympathetic attitude Of Mayor O'Dwyer And his associates Toward the efforts Which have been made In recent years In the solution Of the tragic and aged problem Of Jewish homelessness And in giving to the Jewish people A rightful place in the world Where they may live in peace In security And in dignity The Jewish people Will never forget The great part Played by the United States Under the guidance Of President Truman And Secretary Marshall In the realization Of those ideals Through the decision Of the United Nations We shall also ever be mindful Of the great helpfulness Of Mayor O'Dwyer In the successful outcomes Of the deliberations In the United Nations I am sure I voice Not only the sentiments Of the organizations I have the honor To represent here today But also those Of countless citizens Of our fair city In saying That we rejoice That Mayor Roca And Mrs. Roca And Mr. Hartsfeld The distinguished Palestine labor leader Have come to our shores For a visit Mr. Roca Is not only The mayor of Tel Aviv He is a symbol Of that great Pioneering spirit In modern Palestine Which made it possible In less than 30 years To create On the site Which formerly Was nothing but Sand dunes The largest And most prosperous City in Palestine A city teeming With commerce And industry And growing By leaps and bounds It was that same spirit Which enabled The pioneers In Palestine To transform A land Which had lain Waste and desolate Throughout the ages Which was nothing more Than a stony wilderness When the pioneers Came into that land Into a country Of modern civilization I feel certain That Mayor Roca And Mr. Hartsfeld Will find That the American people Fully understand The great Jewish Achievement in Palestine And wished the Jewish state Every measure of success I'm sure too That during the early Struggles of the American colonists For independence They understood That a people Who survived Centuries of cruel Persecution We all understand Who witnessed Six million Of their own Flesh and blood Fowly done to death In the Nazi Gas chambers And who despite All their sufferings Across the ages Retained their cultural And spiritual integrity Such a people Will not surrender Its hard-earned freedom To intimidation Or to terror But will make Whatever sacrifices May be necessary Firmly to establish Themselves on their soil Mr. Chairman We wish Our honored guests A pleasant And useful visit In our country I'm sure they will Find renewed Courage and inspiration To go forward With their heavy Tasks Of state building From their contacts With the American people And the evidences Of sympathy For the Jewish cause Among them As well as From the example Of the growth And the progress Of this country Nurtured as it was On the principles Of liberty And democracy Thank you Judge Rothenberg It's a great privilege To present To you at this time His honor The Mayor of the City Of New York The Honorable William O'Dwyer Thank you Distinguished guests Most distinguished guests Guests that we have Been reading about And sympathizing with For so long How can I Adequately express The welcome Of New York City To all three of you To Mr. His honor The Mayor of Tel Aviv To his sweet lady And to Mr. Hartsville You know Mr. Mayor You and I Have our troubles We had hoped That when The day Would come That we would Have the privilege To welcome you Sir That we'd meet you At the battery That's down here A ways And bring you up To City Hall Along Broadway In one of the most Celebrated visits In the history Of the city And we planned it We hoped That it would happen That way And now see What happened However I have a great Privilege And a pleasure To extend The official Greetings Of the city Of New York To you Our most Distinguished Visitors To the Honorable Mayor Roca Mayor of Tel Aviv Who By all The standards Is one Of the Outstanding Personalities Of the Greatest Urban Center Of Jewish Palestine Today And to you Mrs. Roca And to you Mr. Hartsfeld A very Hearty Welcome To our City I am Especially Happy To welcome You Mayor Roca At this Friendly Season Of the Year Although We'll have To eliminate The snowfall Of the other Day From that Consideration It is still In that Spirit of Friendship That we Welcome You At time Which provides Joyous Expression To the Spirit of Brotherhood And brings Into focus The realization That we All Have a Common Bond In the Service Of humanity This Bond of Fellowship Is an Indelible Influence In the Lives Of Americans And Particularly New Yorkers Who are Representative Of so Many Fates And so Many National Extractions I can't Think Of a Better Demonstration Of this Feeling Than the Message of Goodwill And friendship That was Sent to Leaders Of the Roman Catholic And Protestant Fates At Christmas By the Synagogue Council Of America Issued In behalf Of all The Rabbis And Synagogues In the United States I would Like to Quote Part of That message Which I Feel Symbolizes The Spirit To which I Refer Quote It has Been One Of the Heartening Manifestations Of goodwill Between Our Respective Fates That Christian Leaders Have Made it Accustomed To express Greetings On the Occasion Of our Holy Season At This Christmas Tide When the Christian World Dedicates Itself To Goodwill It is Our Reciprocal Privilege To greet You And Through You The Members Of the Christian Community End Of quote We Greet You Mr. Mayor As a Leader And Representative Of a New And Honorable State We Greet You Personally As a Man Who Has Dedicated Himself To The High Purpose Of Enlisting Encouragement And Material Assistance For a Liberty Loving People In Their Struggle For The God Given Right To Decent Living Conditions In a Troubled World Eu Let's Off To To 꼭 To Do To To To To To To To To