moves of Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! The persons who will be most closely associated with Mr. St. John in Brooklyn are the members of the staff. Expressing their welcome today is Mrs. Odette G. Leary. Mrs. Leary is branch librarian of the Wal-Quickman branch and is president of the Brooklyn Public Library Staff Association. Mrs. Leary. It is a great honor for me as chairman of the Brooklyn Public Library Staff Association to bring me the greetings of the staff, Mr. St. John. I'm sure most of the people here know that a library is made up of three important elements. Books, buildings, and last but not least, the staff. The staff members are the people who build up and develop the book collection, making it of more value to you through the many friendly services of the library. Each and every member of the staff plays his part in bringing the books and information to the people of the great borough of Brooklyn. Books must be ordered, selected, catalogued, processed, and put upon the shelf for your ready use. Buildings must be cleaned and kept in repair so that the books may be properly housed and that people in the community may have a place to read and to study. We, the members of the staff, feel that we are a team working together to bring you friendly service. With this in mind, Mr. St. John, we welcome you as a new captain of our team. We offer you our loyalty and cooperation. With... Sorry. Under your aim of leadership, we shall continue striving to give Brooklyn better and better library service. Welcome to Brooklyn, Mr. St. John. It is axiomatic in the history of our municipalities that wherever greatness has been achieved by civic institutions, there has existed friendly and considered support of civic government. This building, for example, is a memorial to our former borough president, the late Raymond V. Ingersoll, who made his genuine interest in libraries felt. We have today in Brooklyn a borough president who is interested in libraries and who is always willing to respond with good counsel and practical assistance when he's called upon by the administration. At the same time, no one can speak more representatively nor more authoritatively for our borough than can its president. We are delighted, therefore, that he is with us today to welcome Mr. St. John to Brooklyn. I take great pleasure in presenting to you the president of the borough of Brooklyn, the Honorable John Cashmore. Thank you, Dr. Schaefer. Reverend Clergy, Mayor O'Guire, President Davenport, distinguished guests, fellow Brooklynites. It is only natural that in formally welcoming a new chief librarian, we should take stock of the system which he is going to supervise. Our library system in Brooklyn is close to our hearts because in it, young and old, rich and poor alike, can find the means of improving their minds and enjoying themselves during leisure hours. In such institutions, we have the opportunity of cradling culture and refinement. For people with developed minds make good American citizens. And American citizenship is something we cannot be too proud of or emphasize too much. While we realize there is much to be desired, Mayor O'Dwyer and his administration has made a very serious effort to improve the facilities of the library. In spite of the need for increased funds for schools and hospitals and welfare and other services which must be maintained, the library budget has been almost doubled during the past four years. As of July 1st of this year, the mayor's budget will show allowances of nearly $2,150,000 for the Brooklyn Public Library. Today, the library has over 1,400,000 volumes and a circulation of more than 5 million. But figures tell only part of the story because there are countless additional services the library provides. Mr. St. John is fortunate that his predecessor, Dr. Ferguson, had surrounded himself with a group of faithful and loyal employees. They are a splendid professional staff with excellent schooling, most of whom regard their positions not as jobs but as a calling. They like to do the work. They like to please people. They are loyal and faithful to their tasks. And we are all very, very proud of them. Those of us who are familiar with the budget realize that a great majority of these employees could find employment elsewhere at greater salaries. For 19 years, Dr. Ferguson occupied the office of Chief Librarian. Upon the occasion of Dr. Ferguson's retirement, the Board of Trustees of this library spent a great deal of time to find a man who could carry on Dr. Ferguson's good work. And as you and I know, the Board of Trustees is composed of a group of men who give unselfishly of their time and energy and serve without compensation. Very often they are subject to criticism, unjust and thoughtless, but like good soldiers, the members of the Board remain at their posts and continue their services. The only reward that comes to these trustees is the satisfaction of knowing that they are doing the best possible job under difficult circumstances. And that Brooklynites, old and young, are being benefited. The Board, this Board of Trustees, finally decided upon Mr. St. John as the Chief Librarian because it was felt that he has the necessary training, background and experience to head one of the world's largest library system. And so, Mr. St. John, I assure you that you have the good wishes of all of the people of our borough. And that we appreciate the fine and the constructive work that the Board of Trustees and the staff members are doing. And we know that under your leadership, the good work that has been done here in our public library system will be continued. And so we all hope and pray that you will be with us for many, many years. And if at Borough Hall it can be used in any way, please remember that the door will always be open to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker needs no introduction as a man, as a lawyer, as a leader in municipal government. This occasion, however, is one devoted to the cause of libraries, their administration, and the things that libraries handle books. I therefore wish to introduce our fellow Brooklynite as a scholar, a student of history, and biography, one whose interests have led him to acquire detailed knowledge of such historical events as the Lewis and Clark Expedition, and of such periods as that of another man interested in politics, Andrew Jackson. We are pleased and honored that he has accepted our invitation to speak today, and it is with special pleasure that I present to you the mayor of our city, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Schaefer, Mr. Davenport, St. Jean, Reverend and distinguished guests and friends. If I didn't know that this was going to be quite such a nice party when I left City Hall today, I'm glad I came. It isn't often that we have an opportunity over the river and City Hall, to gather for a few moments and discuss nice things. we're always in trouble with things that aren't so nice. There's always somebody screaming that we haven't done the right thing or that we didn't do anything at all. And it's easier on the nerves to look around at this beautiful plaza from the porch of this delightful institution here. And on an occasion when so many people interested in books and libraries and culture have found it pleasant to come here to welcome the new chief librarian, Mr. St. John, I certainly am happy, Mr. St. John, to join with the trustees and the friends of the library in that welcome and to ask a great power that guides all of us to keep you happy and healthy and make your work in this library fruitful. I was interested in Mr. Davenport's reading of that scroll that he presented to Mr. St. John on one point, a point which again was picked up by Mrs. Leary, and that is that the library is a place showing a house, a building, a place, a repository for books. It's that. It's a place where books are stored and kept in good order and made available to the public. It's that. And then a big point was made on the staff. Well, believe me, I join with them in pointing again to the troubles that our library system have in holding members of their staff under circumstances where they could do much better elsewhere than they can in New York City. And many a time, John Cashmore and the other members of the board, myself, have struggled and worried about where to get the money to try and make the lives of those who've given themselves so unselfishly in the libraries decent living ways that will keep them from worrying. We've done some, but I'll be frank to tell you, Mr. Davenport, the trustees, and to you too, Mr. John, we are not happy. We don't feel that we've done enough for them. And if the occasion does come, that will receive priority one. If it comes, but getting money is a tough day, I don't know when it will come. See, the point that was made, that the library was made up of those three units, it seems to me that one was left out. What the library actually means to the people, not to the children of today or the grown-ups of today, but to the people, because the children of today will be the grown-ups of tomorrow, and the day will come when they too will be replaced by other children and other grown-ups. The library means to me more than anything else. The answer to the question that went through my mind sitting here on this porch, looking at the automobiles going by, which we have taken for granted, looking at the beautiful monuments and the plaza, which we have taken for granted, looking at all the buildings which we have taken for granted, just as if they were placed here the day the world was made, when we know, as a matter of fact, that there was a day not so long ago when you didn't have a thing here for what nature gave. In this building, if we begin to ask questions as to how we came here, what is it that I am speaking through today that carries my voice over hundreds of miles, perhaps, and then through a million homes, how it came that this automobile came to help us, how the airplanes affect our lives, back to the sewing machines, to the cotton machines, back to the wheels that went on the wagons, back over history not too long ago, two or three thousand years ago, back to a time when the shepherds were gazing up into the heavens, trying to find an answer from the stars, back to a time when life was finished, to a time when communications were not what they are today. And the answer to a question, how far have we improved in our day with all of the educational systems that we now have, with all that has been written by the poets of the ancients, by every play that came out of Athens in the Dalek of Athens, by every poem of Ovid, by every speech of Cicero, by every speech of Democritus, by every future great who threatened the waters of the inland ocean. And one day, that game fellow who dared to go through the gates of Hercules into the outer ocean. And again, the day when, with the appliances of curved glass, the astronomers were able to fix firmly in their places in the heavens the guiding stars, the winds that blew, the knowledge of the earth that changed so slowly, the man and his three caravels that dared to cross the mountains. It brought us here. It gave us what we're looking at today. The philosophers who wrote, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, struggling to determine the relationship, the proper relationship between man and his neighbor. You rights to me, my obligations to you, and our common rights to a creator. The philosophers of the dark ages, the religious philosophers that followed, Aquinas, and after that, Sidney, Locke, and there you have Thomas Jefferson struggling with the basic principles upon which our democracy is found, something that we today enjoy. Children, ladies, gentlemen, in this building, this library, we have an atmosphere of the thinkers, of the poets, of the scientists, of the philosophers, all housed here, inviting every one of us to sit at the feet of our preferred grave, giving us again the clarity of that thinking, the poetry of that vision. It guides to make us live. When we look around the world after 3,000 years of all that thinking and recording, we see the things that happen throughout the world, the cruelties that have happened to people in our time, the diabolical systems by which we form our programs of destruction, the ease with which we walk by in our own city and see human beings denied of their rights because of bigotry and discrimination, we must come to the conclusion in this sacred building that we have a long way yet to go before we can lay claim to the pristine civilization of the thinkers who are housed in this library. So it is, Mr. St. John, to Davenport, to the ladies and gentlemen of your staff, Mr. St. John, my compliment, my help as far as I can get it. May this institution prosper, grow, may the babies of today come to it as well as the grown-ups all their days. May they drink in the wisdom not to have it on their lips for idle repetition but very deeply in their hearts so that they will know the real message of human love is containing them. a great joy to be with you today, ladies and gentlemen, and to welcome Mr. St. John. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, at the installation ceremonies of Francis R. St. John as chief librarian of the Brooklyn Public Library. We return you now to the studios in the municipal building. This is municipal broadcasting system. Information, please., safety, support, no Clyde公an is apart of this Truth officially六 One is fromigan