Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. It's a police safety program brought to you each week in cooperation with his honor of the mayor and the police commissioner in the interest of highway safety by members of the Police Safety Bureau. Good morning, good morning boys and girls, good morning everybody. What's the matter Mr. Piano, what's the matter with you? Oh my goodness. I know what's wrong. I forgot to sing the theme song. Well, I'm very sorry. So go ahead and let's get started. So be a little bit careful. You cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful. You cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful, make. Be safer and safer. You're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful. And take it easy. Don't be in a rush. There's the theme song. Now I can start off with the program correctly. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, boys and girls. Yes, we started the program off the right way. Well, now let me see. I've got some papers here I want to see. Now, what can we? I've got to find something to talk about in our safety studio this morning. Hello, Mr. Narrator. Oh, good morning, Jim Alert. How are you this morning? Fine, thank you. Say, well, I hope you don't mind, but... What are you trying to say, Jim? You don't have to be afraid to tell me anything. Well, it isn't something I want to tell you. Well, is it something that you've done? No, not exactly. It's something I want to do. Something that you want to do? What is it? What do you want to do? Tell me. Well, you see, I have a friend, a fellow I know from school. And I brought him up here this morning. Oh, you have him here. Well, you know, Jimmy, you know the rules. We just can't have company on this program. Yes, I know, but this is a special case. Well, all right. Where is he? Well, I told him to wait outside while I asked you if he could come into the safety studio. Oh, he's outside. Well, now that he's really outside, I suppose he can come in. So you go ahead and call him, Jim. Well, you see, I wanted to talk to you first because he's a problem. Your friend has a problem? What's the matter with him? Well, he never looks where he's going. His name is Louie, but I call him No-Look Louie. No-Look Louie. That's a terrible name. Yes, I know, Mr. Narrator, but he does terrible things. He crosses streets without looking to see if cars are coming. He doesn't pay any attention to traffic lights. He walks like someone who is blind. Well, Jimmy, you go ahead and call him in. And let's see if we both can teach him some of our safety rules, eh? All right, Mr. Narrator, and thanks. You go ahead now, Jim. Go over there, fine. While Jimmy's gone over there, I'm going to look over some of these papers here and see if I can get something to talk about. No-Look Louie. That's a terrible name to give to a person. Louie! Louie! Louie! Jimmy's calling Louie out there. I guess he wandered off someplace, Mr. Narrator. I'll go look for him. All right, you go ahead and see if you can find him, huh? Mm-hmm. Say, these papers here, let me see now. Uh, say, Jimmy. Jimmy, did you find your friend yet? Uh, well, sure, sure, Mr. Narrator. And here's my friend, no-look Louie. Hello, Louie. Hello, Mr. Narrator. Oh, ouch! Say, what's the matter with you? You stepped on my foot. Oh, I'm sorry, Louie. I didn't watch what I was doing. Hey, will you please come in and sit down for a minute? And, uh, we'll be right with you. I have to find something first. I'm looking for here some of my papers. Okay, but you're clumsy. Say, Jimmy, come over here. Yeah. Now, you listen very carefully. Mm-hmm. I don't want Louie to find out anything when I... Because I want to talk to you. You come over here to the coat rack, and he will hear us. Uh, what's up? Yeah. You see, I stepped on Louie's foot. But why? Why? Why? Well, while you were out, I had an idea. So, so we'll both play a little trick on him, you see? We'll show him what can happen to him if he don't watch out what he's doing. You understand what I mean? Mm-hmm. And, and this is what we'll do. Santa, come tell me. Did you want to tell me? Oh. Do you understand me now? All right. I understand. All right, fine. Oh, here it is. Here's what I found. Here's the paper that I was looking for. Say, Louie, you come over here by the microphone, and let's have a talk. Well, what should we talk about? Well, say, well, here's something. What do you think of our safety program? Hmm? Oh, uh, so-so, I guess. But, uh, oh, oh! Hey, Jim, you, you almost knocked me over. Oh, I'm so sorry, Louie. I, I just didn't look where I was going. Okay, but, but watch it next time. Now, Louie, uh, since, since you are our guest today, we are going to have something on the program that you would like. So, uh, have you a suggestion, a favorite song, or something like that? Hmm? Well, well, since you asked, uh, there is a- Oh, oh! Say, what's the trouble? What's the matter with you guys? First, you step on my foot, Mr. Narrator, and, and then Jim almost knocks me over, and now both of you push me. Say, say, why don't you look where you're going? Look where we are going? Should we? Should we, he asked. Of course you should. Well, that's what I keep telling you, Louie. Louie, well, what do you mean? That's what I keep telling you. What are you talking about? Well, let me explain, Louie. You see, before you came in, Jim Alert told me that he was very much worried about you. Oh, I can take care of myself. Well, of course, that's what you think. But you don't realize how important it is that you should look where you are going. I don't know what you're talking about. What does that have to do with you pushing me around? Well, Jim and I decided that the only way to teach you the necessity of looking around was to show you what happens when people don't look. Oh, so you shoved me on purpose. Wise guys. Oh, no, just a minute, Louie. Please, don't get angry. Of course, we did push you around on purpose. But we only wanted to show you that you can, can get hurt when you do not look. Jim Alert called you no-look Louie because you never obey the safety rule to look. Now, of course, we didn't really hurt you. But suppose that Jim and I had been in automobile and we pushed you. Hmm? Then it would have been serious. Oh, I suppose so. But I'm not afraid. Nothing's going to happen to me. See, that's what you think. That's what you keep saying. Nothing will happen to you. And that's what a lot of people think. Nothing will happen to them. But accidents rarely happen to those other people. Accidents? Well, who's going to have an accident? And besides, what does that have to do with you pushing me around? That's what we're trying to explain to you, Louie. That you have to be more careful or you may hurt yourself or hurt somebody else. Say, Louie, we pushed you a few times and you said, why don't you look where you are going? Yes. Yes. Well, right then you admitted that it is important to watch. Yes, and we didn't want to hurt you, Louie. But we do want you to understand. Oh, I get it. Okay, so you had your little joke. Well, what happens next? Well, now, just for the fun of it, let me explain to you the safety rule. And let's see how many of them that you don't obey. Perhaps we can figure out just why you don't. Now, here's the safety rule. Before you cross the street, it's very important that you should think. And if you are thinking, you will look. And the first thing you will look at will be the traffic light. And if the traffic light is green, I mean green facing you, then you have looked at the traffic light. And you know that the traffic on the street that you are about to cross has been stopped. Now, before you step off the curb, you should also look. First, you should look to the left. And if you look to the left, you will find the traffic usually approaches from your left side. And then you should look to the right. Now, because you look to the left and look to the right, that doesn't mean that you've finished your looking. Because you must always look to see if there are any cars coming. Now, Louis, which rule do you think that you break more than any other? Well, I guess I don't look to see if a car is coming. Well, why don't you look to see if cars are coming? Oh, I don't know. I don't think. That's it. I just don't think. Well, I think I know why you don't look, Louis. You know, I've watched you. And sometimes when you cross the street, you're daydreaming. Oh, say, say, that's right. Sometimes I imagine I'm a big league baseball player. Or something like that. But I don't daydream all the time. Sometimes I worry about my troubles. You worry? What do you mean you have troubles? Yes, well, I'm not very good in certain subjects at school. And if I don't get good marks, my mother won't let me play after school. She makes me stay in the house all day and study. But, Louis, instead of worrying about your troubles, you should work harder at your studies. Besides, if you worry and you daydream while you're crossing the street and you don't look, you could have such a bad accident sometimes that you run the chance of never being able to walk again. And then you really have trouble. Hmm. I guess so. You know, the whole thing is that you don't think about your personal safety. Now, let's have a little game. I suppose you were an explorer. You wouldn't just march along into the jungle and not pay attention, would you? No. You'd watch your step. If you didn't watch your step, you'd get lost. Or a wild animal might attack you. Or you might even fall into a trap. Now, if you like to daydream, or you like to imagine that you're a baseball player or engineer on a train or something like that, if you want to imagine that you're different people when you're crossing the street, for goodness sake, here's an idea. Here's a good idea. Just imagine that you're in the jungle. Pretend that the automobiles, the cars that are on the street, they are wild animals. Lines or tigers. Roar. And remember that if you don't look all around before you step away from the safety of the curb, that a line will come charging out at you. Of course, here's another game. You can pretend that the curb is a fort, and that you're safe when you're in the fort, when you're on the curb. And the corner crosswalk, that could be a narrow trail of safety. And you could also pretend that if you were going across the street in the middle of the block, that you know that you would be stepping into a wild jungle, with lions and tigers all around, and that you might get lost. Say, that sounds like lots of fun. I didn't know that safety could be fun. It sure can be, Louie. Say, say, Mr. Narrator. Yes? I want to play jungle when I cross the street. But I want to do it the safe way. So would you please tell me again the looking safety rules, so that I'll try to remember them now? Well, all right. You know that you must always look. And of course, if you must look, you must always think. See, you must always think as you look. Because some people look, and they do not think. You know, it is possible to look and not see. Oh, I'll remember that, Mr. Narrator. It is possible to look and not see. That's true. Say, at the beginning of the program, you asked me if there was a song I'd like to hear. You were just kidding, weren't you? But I'd like to hear one. Of course, I'll try and sing a song for you, Louie. And I think I have a song that fits right into this little game we've been playing today. And I'm sure that you will enjoy it. This song is called Look, Walk, and Cross. It's the piano. Ah, that's fine. Look, walk, and cross with safety. That is the safe thing to do. Look, walk, and cross with safety. That is the safe thing for you. And for you, you should look, walk, and cross with safety. And tell your ma and your pa to look, walk, and cross with safety. And they'll know how safe you are. See that, Louie? Even in little songs like that, we can make up little songs that make a game. And they're called Look, Walk, and Cross. Did you like it? Oh, very much. Thanks a lot, Mr. Narrator. And thanks, Jim Alert, for telling me those looking safety rules. I'm sure they're going to help me now. And that idea of yours really was swell. Well, the idea for pretending that crossing the street is like walking in a jungle. When you make a game out of safety, it's easy. Well, so long, fellas. So long. Well, so long. Now, I think from now on, I'm going to call you Always Look, Louie. That's true. Just a minute now. I'll go with you. And say goodbye, Mr. Narrator. Goodbye, Jim. Goodbye, Mr. Narrator. Goodbye. I'll see you next week. Well, that's fine. Goodbye, everybody. Well, it's time for us to close the safety studios today. And we're going to say goodbye to all you boys and girls. But we'll be back again next Saturday morning with another safety program. Mr. Piano and I'll be here. And we may have Mr. Stingham safety policemen next week. So we're going to invite you to tune in to this police safety program. In the meantime, remember this. You don't have to be a hospital patient. You should also be a patient pedestrian. And here's something else we want you to remember. You've been listening to the police safety program brought to you each Saturday at this time by your city station in cooperation with his honor, the mayor, and the police commissioner in the interest of highway safety. This script was written by Lee Francis. Thank you.