The End Four men. Two Protestant ministers, one Jewish rabbi, one Catholic priest. Four men made a bid, and a grateful nation will remember this night for all time when the bid was four hearts. Four men made a bid, and a grateful nation will remember this night for all time when the bid was four hearts. A program in memoriam. This script, originally presented by NBC, was adapted for radio by Father Timothy Mulvey, from the book Faith of Our Fighters by Elwood C. Nance, published by Bethany Press, St. Louis. In tonight's all-star production, presented in recognition of Memorial Day, Alexander Scorby is featured as the narrator. And now the municipal broadcasting system proudly presents, The Bid Was Four Hearts. The End You were sleeping those cold February nights, citizens. You were sleeping quietly. And while you were sleeping, citizens, the big gray shadows were out on the water. Convoy, they call it. Convoy moving slowly in the night. Convoy moving into the cold, black stretches of the North Atlantic. Moving north. Convoy moving slowly up into the great sea lanes where the icebergs that thunder loose out of the Greenland fjords came drifting south, like wallowing white mountains. Convoy stepping cautiously over gray waters that are treacherous with submarines. Below the deck of the troop transport Dorchester, four chaplains are sitting in officers' quarters. Then suddenly, there's a knock on the door. Is this the chaplains' quarters? Step right in, Jimmy. Oh, boy, it's nice to walk down here. You know, if you ask me, chaplains this North Atlantic ain't so hot. Now I'm standing up there on the deck looking for submarines, and what do I get? What do you get, Jimmy? I got my nose frozen. Oh, by the way, gentlemen, I'd like you to meet our new orderly. Jimmy, this is Chaplain Good. How do you do? Glad to know you, Jimmy. And this is Chaplain Fox. And over here, Chaplain Fulton. How are you, Jimmy? Glad to know you. Ah, pleased to meet you. Oh, uh, by the way, uh, I got the auto fixed up nice, Father Washington. But, uh, what I want to know is who follows who in a church service. Well, I'm saying mass at 7 o'clock, Jimmy. Yeah, I know that, Father. Well, if you don't mind, Jimmy, you can arrange the altar for Protestant services after Chaplain Washington says mass. Is that agreeable to you, Chaplain Good? Perfectly all right with me. I'm holding my service at 6. If it doesn't make any difference to Chaplain Fox. No, none at all. Yeah, well, uh, just let me get this straight, huh? Uh, uh, in other words, Chaplains, first, uh, first is the Jewish service at 6 o'clock with no cross, and the order turned around, right? Right. Yeah, and then, uh, then it's the Catholic service at 7 o'clock with the cross, and the order turned around the other way, right? Right. Yeah. And then it's, uh, the Protestant service, where, with the order turned around the other way again, and that's right, right? And, uh, you know something, Chaplains? This would be a heck of a lot easier for me if you'd only get together sometimes. The convoy moved steadily to the north, and now that they were approaching Greenland, the escort destroyers were beginning to tighten their screening lines. The destroyers were getting nervous now, and a certain skipper was getting nervous, too. Blackest pitch out there tonight, Jackson? Yes, sir. Any other reports? You mean, uh, about the subs? Yeah. No, sir, nothing. But we're running into high seas, sir. Sure we're running into high seas. What'd you expect with a wind like that? Let's see the chart. All right. Here you are, sir. Mm-hmm. Getting pretty close to Greenland. Yes, sir. Not close enough to suit me. What do you mean, sir? Right now, Jackson, we're riding deep in Germany's North Atlantic submarine zone. When you've got a wind like this in your face, a submarine can do funny things. And these were the sounds that night. The large sounds of wind and waves. The small, friendly sounds of lifeboats swinging on the davits. The muffled gray sound of boots keeping vigil on the bridge. And then the night gets very quiet on the North Atlantic. It gets very quiet in a dark cabin. Chaplain has time to lie in his bunk and remember. Chaplain Poling was remembering that night. Chaplain Poling, they call me. Chaplain. Chaplain. Somehow in this dark room, the memory of that first fear comes back to me now. I remember how you looked at me, Dad, when I, your young minister, opened the door that day. What's the matter, Clark? Dad, I'm no good. I'm a failure. What's the trouble? A man is dying now. And I... I can't help him. Did you try? Yes. But I... I just couldn't help him. Come over here, son. Maybe you tried too much, Clark. What do you mean? I mean... Did you give God a chance? Well, I... Now, you go back. Do you hear me, son? Go back to that man. And remember... You're nothing but an instrument in God's hands. I'll never forget that, Dad. Never. An instrument in his hands. That's all you are, Clark Poling. Dear God... Help me always to be your instrument. And watch over Corky... And Thumper... And Dad. Watch over Betty... And all of us tonight. And... Four men in a room... Had time for remembering that night. And always the memories ran straight to home. A young rabbi was remembering that night. Chaplain Good, they call me. Funny. Lying here in this room, I wonder why. And yet I don't wonder why. I know the reason. I suppose the reason could go back to a day in French class. I'm thinking of you now, Therese. My lovely wife. I remember how you looked that first day I spoke to you. Back at Easton. We were just kids. Mind, uh... Mind if I sit next to you, Miss Blacksmith? Oh, no. I forgot my French book. I thought maybe I might look on with someone. I, uh... I see. This is the, uh... Second time you forgot your French book, Mr. Good. I know. I... I might forget it tomorrow, too. Yes, we were very young. But even then, Therese, I know I wanted to be near you. Always. I wanted to be happy. I guess that's it in a nutshell. Wanting to be happy. Everyone wants to be happy. Everyone. Everyone. Oh, God. My father. Look down on us tonight. Look down on Rosalie. And Ruth. And Ethel. And my wife, Therese. And God. Help us all. Help all men to find... ultimate happiness. Yes, there was time for remembering... aboard a troop transport. And while men were remembering... the convoy was moving north. Another day came. Another day passed. That night, four chaplains... sat around a table discussing a problem. A very, very serious problem. Well, after all, chaplains, we did promise to give the fellows an entertainment. That's right, Foley. So the problem is, what are we going to do? You got any ideas, Washington? How about a quartet? Oh, it's not a bad idea. Oh, you can sing, Fox, can't you? Well, you know. And you can sing, Chaplain. Good. I'll be honest with you, Foley. No, I can't. I'll only spoil everything. Oh, nonsense, good. You don't have to worry about a thing. I'm warning you. You can play on the white notes. You can play on the black notes. I'll still sing in the cracks. Well, gentlemen, if we all sing in the cracks tonight, the fellows will never know the difference. Quiet, fellas. Quiet. Quiet. All right. Now, it's master's ceremony. It's master's ceremony, so now it gives me great pleasure to introduce to you our fourth chaplain. All right, all right. Shut up now. Now, the chaplains, fellas, the chaplains are going to do us the privilege of singing the quartet in four parts. It is. All right. Now, before they begin, fellas, me being a mess of ceremony, it's up to me, you know, to tell a little story. Quiet. Take them away. Quiet. Now, this happened back in boot camp, fellas. You remember the way Butch Brannigan used to play the piano? Yeah, we do. Yeah, yeah, sure. Well, Butch knew everything on the piano, see? There was nothing that Butch couldn't play. Butch's reparatory had everything from jingle bells to shoot the sherbet to me, Harvey. Right? Sure. And Butch also used to sing some funny songs, too, see? Until a chaplain didn't like them songs that Butch was singing. So he walks up to Butch, who was playing the piano, and he says, Young man, do you know the Ten Commandments? And Butch looked at the chaplain, scratched his head, and he said, Hey, you got me there, buddy. Yeah, but if you whistle a couple of bars, I think I'll be able to follow you. Yeah, but fellas, fellas, Butch is okay now, see? He made his Easter duty, didn't he, for the watch? Okay, so here they are, fellas, the four chaplains. We'd like to dedicate this to someone you fellows left behind. Let's go, chaplains. Sweet Rosie O'Grady My dear little Rose She's my steady lady Most everyone knows And when we get married How happy we'll be I love sweet Rosie O'Grady And Rosie O'Grady loves me Those were the sounds that night, citizens. They were happy sounds. And there was silence, too, later. The silence that always returned in the night and left a man alone with his remembering. Chaplain Fox was remembering that night. Chaplain Fox, they call me. They weren't too sure of me the first time they saw me. I remember how they looked when they asked me the questions. You're a Methodist minister, hmm? Yes, sir. George Fox, born in Lewiston, Pennsylvania 1900, is it? Yes, sir. Born 1900. Don't you think you're a bit, uh, well, old for Army service, sir? Oh, I... I don't think so, sir. It's quite a rigorous life, you know. Yes, I suspect that, sir. I, uh, suppose you also know that a chaplain's life will be far different from, uh, shall we say, the congenial surroundings of a parish in Vermont. I quite understand, sir. Uh, I wonder if you quite understand. Well, I... I think I understand war, if that's what you mean. Oh, you do understand war, hmm? Yes, sir. Hmm. So many people think they do. Well, uh, I was engaged in active duty with the Second Division in World War I, wounded in combat, sir. Oh. Received a Purple Heart, a Silver Star, and the Croix de Guerre with palms. Uh, yes, palms. I, uh, also have a son who is a Marine in this war, sir. Why, of course, yes. You see, I think I do understand war. You laughed when I told you that, Mary Elizabeth. Oh, yes, sir. I'd like to see the sun shining again in Gilman, Vermont. Lord, I'd love to see it again, the sunshine and the hills and Mary Elizabeth and Wyatt and you, my wife. I'll be a great day, Lord. so when this old fox can come home to all these cubs again. You were sleeping, those cold February night citizens. But while you were sleeping, there were hearts that were remembering and eyes that were watching. wind's coming up, Jackson. Yes, sir. Let's see the chart. Right. Here you are, sir. Mm-hmm. Five to seven Beaufort scale. Five to seven. Let me see. That would be roughly... Roughly a 32-knot gale, Jackson. Yes, sir. We'll be running against it all the way in. No doubt, sir. Jackson, what would you do if a submarine suddenly pulled up along your port side? Well, I... I guess I'd run for it, sir. You'd run for it, huh? With a 32-knot gale hitting you in the teeth, you'd run for it. Where would you run? With a submarine patrolling us and a 32-knot gale, sir? I'd run for kingdom come. The big gray ships were still moving north, and the slow procedure on the high seas was being written on the log. But there were some things that were not written on the log. Jimmy, the chaplain's orderly, was shining candlesticks that afternoon when somebody knocked. Come in. Oh, what can I do for you, Sergeant? Uh, I was looking for one of the chaplains. Well, the chaplains is busy. What do you want? It's about a letter I wrote to my girlfriend. Your girlfriend? Yeah. Well, for crying out loud, what do you want the chaplains for? Well, it's kind of... Oh. Well, I get you. You mean you want a little help, sort of? Yeah, that's right. I don't know spellings for good. Oh. Well, why didn't you say so in the first place, eh? Here, give me the letter, and I'll give it the okay for you, Sergeant. Here you are. Yeah, I happen to know a little something about this sort of thing, me being an orderly. Hey, look out. Don't get that envelope dirty. Yeah, I'll wash my hands. Hey, you know, Sergeant, being a chaplain's orderly, you get to know how to handle these minor details. Yeah, in fact, two more weeks hanging around these chaplains here, and I'll be able to give out with assignment myself. Huh? All right. Okay, where's the letter? Here you are. And be careful now. It took me three hours to do it. Yeah, all right. Uh, where's the... It's on the other page. Oh. Oh, here we are. Uh, dear Toots... Toots, Sergeant? Is that her name? Well, that's what I call her. Oh, now, Sergeant, you know that Toots has no name for a self-respectful dame. She was baptized, wasn't she? I guess so. Well, baptism is a sacrament, in case you don't know it, Sergeant. Yeah? Yeah, sure. So you call her by a baptismal name. See? Okay. Okay. Uh, now, what is her, uh, baptismal name? Marcella. Marcella. Oh, that's a nice name, Sergeant. Yeah, I'll write it for you, huh? Uh, and they are Marcella. Hey, uh, just for the fun of it, how would you spell Marcella, huh, Sergeant? You got me. Yeah, here. Uh, dear Toots, how you feeling? I'm fine. I hope you were the same. About getting married when I get better. Hey. You gonna marry the same, Sergeant? You bet I am when I get back. Is she a good girl? Sure, she's good. All right, all right. Keep the shirt on. I'm only trying to tell you, Sergeant. The only kind of girl we're coming home to is a good girl. Yeah, the chaplains will tell you that. Yes, the chaplains will tell you that. The chaplains will tell you many things. And in the quiet hours, the chaplain has time to tell himself something. Chaplain Washington, they call me. The altar boys call me Father John. There was a time when I thought I'd never get quite used to being called Father. Seems like only yesterday. I was lying flat on that marble floor, clothed in white linen and the cincture. I remember exactly how it was. The chill of that marble creeping into my body, the cincture tight around me, where my heart beat as I waited for the pressure of the archbishop's hands. lying there that morning in the sanctuary. I tried to realize what it was going to mean. And what has it meant? Being a priest. Not many things being a priest. It's the babies I've washed clean with your baptism, O Lord. The boys and girls I've fed with the bread of life. The young men and women I have made one in the lasting bonds of your marriage. It's the weary heads and hands I've touched with the strong oil of your extreme unction. O gentle Christ, thanks for all this. And especially thanks for her. Mom. Mom. I see your lovely face in this dark room. And I'm remembering a morning long ago in the kitchen and I was trying to break the news to you. What seems to be troubling you, John? Mom? Would it make much difference if... if... Well, I mean... You mean you want to go away to be a priest? Yes. Sure, and didn't I know it all the while? It would mean a lot of work and worry for you, Mom. I mean all the kids at home and everything and, well... John, what greater blessing could I work and worry for than to see you someday a priest? I used to dream about seeing a son of mine a priest. I dreamed... Oh, I guess I dreamed it a thousand times or more. Even when you were that small, John. John was thinking that it would be a great day. John sitting there with your father in the front pew with the candles lit and the incense floating like a white cloud over your head with the altar boys in their red Cossacks and the grand organ filling the church. I was thinking that would be the great day when I could look up and say, there he is. There he is. My own father, John. That's the way you said it, Mom. Oh, God. Look over a little house tonight on South 12th Street. Look over my mother and all mothers and you, Mary, my heavenly mother. Help me to be a good priest. The convoy moved slowly into the dawn. It moved cautiously all that day against high seas. And when night settled down again on the North Atlantic, four chaplains were tired. So they relaxed around a table. They said casual things. It's your deal, polling. They weren't thinking about the gray waters now. I'll pass, Washington. They were merely looking at cards. I'll bid four clubs. And making small, pleasant calculations. I guess I'll pass. And then? Hmm. Let me see. I think I'll bid four hearts. Stand by! Calling all ships. Calling all ships. We got a contact. It's good. Good. Acknowledge. Dorchester. This is the Dorchester. We got you. Come back. To all ships. To all ships and convoy. Zero, three, five. Bearing, zero, three, five. Wind velocity, seven. Increase the maximum. Over. Now hear this. Now hear this. All hands alert. Submarines contacted. Gun crews in position. All hands prepared for emergency. Stand by. You hear the words. Stand by. You forget a bridge game. You forget the overturned chair. The sweater you left lying on the edge of your bunk. You forget the hundred details like the letter you were writing and the shoe you were shining. Yes, you may even forget your life jacket. You're just one among hundreds who run out onto a cold deck. And you stood there, staring out into the dark, waiting. The The Doesn't look so good, Jackson. No, sir. How many did they say? They just said submarines. Must be a pack of them. The gun crews ready? Yes, sir. The men are lined along the deck, waiting. Yeah, waiting. That's the part I don't like. What's that, sir? The waiting. It's like being in a dark room. You don't know where you're going to be hit. The bearing is 035, sir. Yeah, it could be any angle. With a wind like this, those subs can patrol us for 48 hours and call a shot at any angle. What's our position? We're out of line, sir. Yeah, I thought so. Well, it's the best we can do. Can't walk a straight line with a high C's like this. What are we making? Three knots, sir, roughly. Three knots. Running out of formation at three knots. You know what this means, Jackson. I'm afraid I do, sir. Dorchester's going to be easy pickings if any sub decides to operate tonight. So you waited like a man in a dark room. You kept staring out over the rail. Into the dark. You just couldn't believe that out there under those wild, cold waters, men were waiting for you, timing you, measuring you. You waited an hour. You waited two hours. Then, gradually, you relaxed. You breathed again. You were normal again. After all, someone could be mistaken. Could be a false alarm. You took one more look over the rail. Then you walked slowly back to your quarters. Watched some of the fellows for a minute. Walked over to your bunk. Sat down. Ran your fingers through your hair. Searched for a cigarette. Found it. Lit it. Then lay back on your bunk. Yes, probably was a false alarm. Torpedo! Torpedo! Torpedo! Like a live, bubbling, murderous fish. It was coming. Torpedo! Stand by! Like a tiger shark, it had spotted you. Here it comes. Here it comes! Here it comes! All right, citizens. Let it be said quietly. Let it be said without the noise and confusion of men jumping over the side of a stricken ship. Let it be said without the shouting of boys as they watched the cold sea coming up to meet them in the dark. Let it be said only the Dorchester was gaping with a wound from which she would never recover. Right now, it's getting more quiet. The lifeboats are pulling slowly away. The Dorchester is settling slowly. Four chaplains strapped in their life jackets are standing on the deck of that stricken ship. Are you okay, Poland? Fine, Washington. How about you, Rabbi? So far, so good. And you, Fox? I'm all right. Well, she's going fast. All the lifeboats are gone. Got most of their fellows over the side. Wait. Wait a minute. Look at this kid. I can't die. I can't die. Take it easy, son. Where's your life jacket? I lost it. I can't die. Chaplains, I can't. He lost his life jacket, Chaplains. Look. Over there. Three more kids without their life jackets. Son. Listen, son. Now, pay attention to me. Yes, sir. Can you swim, son? No, sir. None of us can swim. We're afraid, sir. Afraid to go over the side. I see. And no life jackets. Well, Chaplains? Yes, you're right. Yes, of course. It's the only way. I'll take this, lad. Father, if you and Poling... And this boy's mine. Yes, son. Quickly. Stand up straight now. All right, lad. Now, raise your arms up. No, no. Higher. Higher. You're going to be all right. You're going to be all right. My name is Fred Benkler. Quartermaster. On board the Dorchester. My address is 526 Pennsylvania Avenue. Brooklyn, New York. My name is O'Keefe. Merchant Seaman. All of us, we saw it. We saw the four chaplains give their own life jackets to men who didn't have any. And when our lifeboat drifted away, we saw the four chaplains kneeling together on the slanting deck. They were kneeling like that when the ship went down. Yes, the bid was four hearts. It was the complete, the ultimate bid a man can make. The bid was four human hearts. What will be our bid tonight, citizens? Will we be honest with ourselves for one moment this night? Will we search our individual hearts and come up with the beautiful answer, the answer we know is right? Will we sit at the broad table of this, our beloved land, and play the game according to the rules of him whose bidding was one bruised and broken heart on the four-pronged table of a cross? What say you, player on the north? What say you, player on the south? What say you, players on the east and west? Will we look tonight into the eyes of our fellow man, whoever he may be, and bid a portion of old pride? Or stale prejudice? Or ancient hate? Or will we remember that night of February 3rd, 1943, when a ship went down 90 miles south of Greenland? Will we remember that moment when the ship was poised for the final plunge? That moment when the miracle of man's love for his fellow man converted her slippery deck once and forever into a great altar, from which four men offered their gallant souls to God? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? Will we? In recognition of Memorial Day, the Municipal Broadcasting System has presented The Bid Was Four Hearts. It was adapted for radio by Father Timothy Mulvey from the book Faith of Our Fighters by Elwood C. Nance, published by Bethany Press St. Louis, and originally produced by NBC. In tonight's All-Star production, Alexander Scorby was featured as the narrator. The four chaplains were played by Joe DeSantis, John Larkin, Bert Cowlin, and Philip Wolfe. Anne Seymour was the mother, and Ronnie Liss was heard as Jackson. The part of Jimmy the orderly was played by Larry Haynes, who enacted the same role in the original production. Fritzie Colehagen was heard as Teresa. Those were Jay Winberg and Arthur Lay, production assistant. The Bid Was Four Hearts was produced and directed, by Jerry Sandler. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
