Now for the special feature presentation of the American Art Festival, the Symposium on Photography, we take you to the Museum of Modern Art. As another feature of the first annual American Art Festival, your city station now presents from the auditorium of the Museum of Modern Art, a panel discussion on the topic, What is Modern Photography? The moderator for the symposium will be Edward Steichen, director of the Department of Photography for the Museum of Modern Art. Participating in the discussion will be the following top-ranking American photographers. Margaret Burke-White, Walker Evans, Jean Milley, Lisette Modell, Wright Morris, Homer Page, Irving Penn, Ben Shan, Charles Sheeler, and Aaron Siskind. And now to begin our discussion, here is our moderator, Edward Steichen. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow photographers. I would first like to pass on a salute to WNYC. In case there are any out-of-towners in this audience, I want to tell them that WNYC is a municipal broadcasting station owned by the city of New York. And we're very proud of it. And we're proud of the fine music they give us every day. And I want to give a particular salute to its magnificent engineering staff for the quality of the music they give us over at EFM. Now the next plug will be for the museum. The museum of modern art, as you know, or should know, is the only museum in the world that has an honest-to-goodness department of photography. A department that is in exactly the same footing as the other departments in the museum. A great many museums render something like lip service to photography. But here we are encouraged to go all out. We have the backing of all the directors of the departments and the trustees. When we first opened the department, under my own direction, I sent out a preface which went something like this. Photography is a potent factor in increasing our knowledge and shaping our concept and understanding of contemporary life. I believe its confidence, its influence cannot be overstressed. And then in particular, I stress the importance of photography as an art, as a vital modern means of giving form to ideas. It is the artist in photography who, beyond his own creative achievement, establishes standards, produces new influences, and new uses of the medium. Our first large exhibition was called In and Out of Focus, with following paragraph as a preamble. Any rational opinion or evaluation of the scope and significance of today's photography must be based on an informed approach, exploring the various tendencies, directions, and phases in contemporary photography. All of the exhibitions that we've had to date have been more or less along those lines. And this symposium tonight is in the census carrying on that same idea. Ordinarily, photographers like little children to be seen, not heard. Tonight, we are going to hear from them. They are going to have to explain their misdemeanors. We don't pretend that this is a complete picture of photography. For instance, take the field of magazine photography. If we were to give that really adequate coverage, we'd have to mobilize the entire society of magazine photographers and bring them out here. Which would be a special problem all of its own. Those seeking pat answers that they can put in their little hands and take home as to what photography is all about are going to be disappointed. But I think those of us who are attracted to the medium because it's sturdy and young and has elbow room, lots of elbow room, are going to be satisfied with what's coming. We're going to present the speakers alphabetically. And I want to start off with a bang. In the first issue of Life magazine, Margaret Burke White opened up a new chapter in photojournalism. In that issue, she set a swift, hard pace for herself, began establishing a series of precedents that has made her an outstanding ace among aces. Somehow or another, she managed to turn up with her camera in any corner of the globe that is in the midst of some cataclysm or dynamic shake-up. She went gallivanting over enemy territory and air corps bombers and was torpedoed at sea. Mud, cold, rain, dirt, and stench are things she has taken in her stride to record men, places, and events for her magazine. Whether she points her camera at misery or magnificence, it is always done with a passionate interest and deep conviction. Margaret Burke White. Hello. Thank you, Mrs. Seidman. You said we would confess our misdemeanors, but you also said we only had five minutes. By the way, five minutes is enough for all nine. There are so many aspects to modern photography, but there's one that interests me above all others, and I've given quite a lot of thought to it. It sounds quite simple. It's to tell the truth. Now, of course, we all know the old saying that the photograph never lies, and all of you photographers who are here or who are listening, I'm sure, have taken lots of pictures which have told good lies, and often there are very good reasons for doing this. But I'm not talking about intentional lies. If the photographer is going to tell the truth in his photographs, he has to know what the truth is, and that's not always so easy to decide. Sometimes it takes a lot of soul-searching, and it always takes a lot of research. But I think that's a very important part of photography. With the world in the confused state that it's in now, I think anyone who is in a position to throw light on even a small corner of it is in a position of great importance and very great responsibility. I think I never felt that responsibility more keenly than on my most recent assignment, which was to South Africa. I knew it was a great opportunity because I knew there was a very important story to be told. As we all have heard, this is a country where the situation of discrimination between black and white is most acute. It's a country with about 10 or 11 million population in which the 2 million who happen to have white skins manage to keep 8 million people who are unlucky enough to have black skins in a state where they have no vote, where they have very little choice of job, where they're not given much chance to get an education, where they're barred from skilled trades, and where life is very difficult for them if it can be called life at all. Well, how to show all that? How to make up my mind about it? Of course, it was natural to begin in the gold mines because all life there is centered on getting gold out of the ground, and that meant really beginning at the bottom because under Johannesburg, the mines go down to the awesome depth of two miles. The pictures of this miner that we showed tonight were taken at a depth of 6,300 feet, which meant not only more than a mile underground, but it meant 1,000 feet below sea level. But even then, I found that gold mines in Johannesburg didn't look so very different from coal mines in Pennsylvania, except that the miners wore fewer clothes, and my miners looked hotter, but I think the photographer was pretty hot too at 1,000 feet below sea level. But I decided that it took something more. It seemed to me that it wasn't only the work these people did that was important, but the lives that they lived when they weren't working. And that wasn't quite so easy to find out about it. But it wasn't impossible to find out about it. I found out that the men lived behind barbed wire and were locked in at night and had to sleep on hard cement floors, 40 to 100, in a single windowless room, and had to live without their women because it would have cost the company a little more for housing if their families had been brought there. And I found out a great many other things too, and of course tried to take pictures to show this, and it wasn't always so easy to get them. But I decided that it wasn't just the single picture that counted. It seems to me that if a photographer knows the truth, he thinks of it in terms, perhaps, of a mosaic. And when you're getting permission to do something, you don't show that whole mosaic that's in the photographer's mind. He shows one single piece of the mosaic, and usually it isn't too hard to proceed step by step. And the finished mosaic should know the truth if the photographer has decided what the truth is. I decided, too, that it isn't necessary to go to far corners of the earth to find the truth, like South Africa or India, for example. In fact, it was in India that someone made a remark to me that pointed that up quite strongly. I was taking pictures in a Mohammedan college, and I was rather shocked to find that in spite of India and Pakistan's new freedom, there was still segregation of women. The co-eds were coming to class in some of these colleges in Vales, and I found that pretty shocking. Of course, that's something that is dying away now. And I spoke of it to a group of students after class, and one of them turned to me, and he said, you talk about your equality and democracy, but how can you say that you have democracy in America when you do not give equal rights to Negroes? Since then, that was in 1947, great strides have been taken. Of course, the trend started much earlier to give equal citizenship to Negroes. Yes, and I've been glad to take pictures in Southern colleges which are now beginning to admit Negroes. I think that we can find the truth in our own country, our own back door. We can find it in the good things as well as the bad things. Both must be shown. The important thing is that in photography, our tools grow, and our whole conception of what we can show keeps growing. And as we grow, our pictures improve, and we grow to be bigger people and can show more in photography because photography is as big as life itself. Thank you, Margaret Burke White. The next figure that I brought into this picture is not present. It's Harry Callahan. It's Gogo. I bring him into the picture because he presents a face of photography that is not represented here at the table. Harry Callahan is one of the important younger photographers who takes the antistigmat lens into his confidence as he probes and searches into the realm of pattern, texture, and design. He's continually exploring both himself and in the realms of places, people, and things, their contrasts, and relationships. Callahan is no respecter of standard technical formula or codes. His unerring sense of pattern is an integral part of his photography and not a thing by itself. What may look like an abstraction actually stands for an intensification of reality. Our next speaker is Walker Evans. After living with the museum's collection of photographs for three years, I find the intrinsic merit and the aliveness of a photograph is put to a severe test. In the frequent handling and consideration I have had to give to the photographs in our collection, a Walker Evans photograph always remains a particularly stimulating experience. His photographs are a visual demonstration of the Goethe reference to das Ding an sich, the thing in itself. He pins down incisive images of people and places, salts them down with a sprinkling of the Humpty Dumpty of things. Personal opinions are in evidence, but facts, unrelieved and unretouched, are the order of the day. He has, he's one of the group, this panel, who was awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship. Walker Evans. Please forgive me for reading. A novice can't be expected to play without the music before him. I felt sure that someone tonight would call his paper is painting an art. What is modern photography is really too much of a subject for me. I'd like to be allowed to abuse my privileges to a certain extent. I don't see how anyone can be interested in a photograph that isn't either original or daring or beautiful or somehow of unalloyed coinage. and I choke on the word modern used in connection with these qualities. All photography is the product of a modern invention. And we all know that some of it is festering with attitudes and states of mind that were valueless in the time of Alcibiades. There are photographic styles that are recent and very interesting, but I'd hesitate to call any of them modern. We have to remember that in the 1920s and somewhat before, modern meant our tonality and cacophony in music, abstraction and various distortions in painting, incommunicable subjective imagery in poetry, in automatic writing and prose. Yet we were stimulated by Schoenberg and Stravinsky, Brock, Modigliani, Crane and Stein because they were artists, not because they were freaks trying to traffic in something called modern. In photography, I do feel that a good picture usually shows a relation to its period. Atje, for example, gives you a feeling that he belonged very much to the Paris of his days and Brady seems rooted in the American atmosphere of his. Probably there is only a remote connection between my points here, but think how much each of these men has contributed to current photography. Brady is doubly interesting as a forerunner. His studio portrait lighting has turned up in recent fashion photography, and his beautiful straight field reporting style is still imitated. As for Atje, I suppose Sean could produce a comparable photographic poetry of the streets if he set out to do it, but Atje's sustained performance can still serve as a model. I think his use of dawn lighting was partly a matter of convenience, but it's nonetheless influential. I seem to be approaching the ultimate twist of our subject title into what is not modern photography, but I think I can hold myself to one obvious point here, which is that the camera work that's strained after modernism just after the First World War is distinctly not now modern photography. It's as excruciatingly dated as Francis X. Bushman's profile. We're allowed by the prospectus tonight to bring analysis to the subject, and under cover of this, I'd like to close with a theoretical note about the motivations of the photographer. It seems that sights or images or objects become a very active challenge to a man who works with cameras. He feels impelled to attack them and in a sense to bag them. Sometimes he's a collector. Sometimes he's Hamlet looking for a cure to paralysis of the will. Sometimes he's the little boy who's never gotten over the stories of Teddy Roosevelt in Africa after big game. In any event, in his more indiscriminate moments, he is the slave of his craft to such an extent that he may think, can't I ever go out into the street without seeing things? He goes on, though, and incurably. The last thing I should want to do is to speak a sentimental apologia for him, but it's quite another thing to feel the impact of those working in this medium who are born artists. Thank you, Walker. Thank you, Walker. As I said, these papers are all placed alphabetically. I was afraid that you might think that we were deliberately forcing contrast. This one concerns Louis Forer, Louis Forer. In the last few years, a lyricist with a camera has been wandering the highways and byways of New York. Soul-searing sadness and tender love whisperings, crackling gaiety continually appear in the front of his camera as if by magic. In the world of today, it is a heartening experience to know and to know of young Louis Forer. I quote his statement. Quote, Photography determines the entire pattern of my existence. Half of my existence, of that existence, is concerned with the saleable commodity. The remaining half constitutes uncompromising passion that manifests itself in a search to grasp and hold that fraction of a second that often holds the answer to the complexities of life. Nothing is too unimportant for me to observe. The wild desire to see and record all things and the unlikeliness of my achieving them has resulted in my persistent use of the camera. I carry it almost constantly. From its prints, I extract the examples that life itself teaches. To me, this symposium is the combined focusing of ideas. Tonight, one cannot help but feel again the pure spirit of an American place. John Mealy. John Mealy is a fervid, restless, and exuberant experimental, experimenter, and innovator of methods and techniques at a time when scientists and sportsmen were all agog with the information and measurements revealed by Edgerton Germershausen's stroboscopic sequence pictures. John Mealy was prompt to realize, ooh-hoo, that's for me. In a short time, he had developed this stroboscopic technique into a new and creative medium. The crisp, flickering interruptions of a Martha Graham dance gesture could evoke the unfoldings of the petals of a flower. His photographs of the musical festival at Prada's would indicate that Mealy is again opening new doors. Mr. Mealy. There is no such thing as modern photography. There is photography and there is the lack of it. I can only tell you what I consider photography to be based, as it were, on my own experience. I am concerned in my own pictures with movement because life is movement. Only death is stiff. A person sleeping still breathes. A person thinking, though seemingly immobile, projects a sense of organic agitation which can be even more strenuous in physical exercise. When a photograph does not express movement, it ceases to represent life. It becomes, to me at least, meaningless. In motion pictures, we express movement by actually recording it. In still photography, we express movement by arresting it. By arresting movement, I mean creating an image which retains all detail very sharply regardless of the nature or speed of the movement. I do not see any virtue in blurring. Blurring in a photograph is a virtue only by accident. Every week, along with some 60-odd million Americans, I look through a certain picture magazine. Page after page will roll by before I actually make a stop. Being a photographer, the first thing I do is to look for the credit line. Sometimes I might even whistle. Shoo, shoo. Invariably, I ask myself the same question. What is it that makes this one photograph more compelling than the score I have so casually passed by? What does this picture have which makes me wish I had taken it? The answer is always the same. Timing. To compel interest, to create impact, a photograph must reveal an instant which has more meaning to us than if we had actually ourselves witnessed the whole event. I repeat, for this, to me, is the heart of photography. To create impact, a photograph must reveal an instant which has more meaning to us than if we had actually ourselves witnessed the whole event. I will give you an example from my own experience. I was assigned to cover the first Lewis Walk at Fight which took place in Madison Square Garden during the winter of 1947. I think it was the 5th of December if you want to be exact. In handing me the assignment, the editors were very explicit. bring back a picture of the knockout, they said. Everybody expecting Walker to go down. As it turned out, everybody had guessed wrong. Actually, it was Joe Lewis and not Walker who went down. And very likely for me, he went down twice. I could hardly believe my own eyes when I saw Lewis fall for the first time and was so utterly unprepared that I missed it completely. Fortunately, as I said, Joe obliged and when the second knockdown occurred, I was ready for it and caught it dead on. You may possibly have seen this photograph which covers the ring and a fairly large section of the audience behind it. The action shows the split second when Joe Lewis is hitting the canvas. Now, the eye could not quickly perceive and the spectators could hardly realize the impact of this sudden happening which was reflected not so much in Lewis' awkward falling form but in the variety of feelings on the spectators' own faces. The majority of the spectators were certainly not conscious of what they were doing, feeling, or thinking at that particular moment. But looking at the photograph in retrospect, we are able to discern, for instance, who among those present are wholly unconcerned or too slow to react and who were shouting, the ones who are twisted with anxiety and those who are shocked rigid by what is happening. Each face tells its own peculiar story and by a thousand accurately recorded details, we are now able to reconstruct almost at a glance this overpowering mass emotion which is released by the spectacle of a public fight. This, then, arresting movement, capturing the precise instant which can create by means of a snapshot an enhanced meaning for a whole event or human action, constitutes, in my opinion, the true timeless province of photography. Thank you. Thank you. John Mealy. Thank you. John Mealy. Our next subject, with a lovely shock of white hair down my left, claimed to be too frightened to express her, read her own words and I had to promise that I would read them for her. And that is Lisette Modell. Most of the earlier photographs that came under the heading of candid photography, candid photographs, were little more than silly or ludicrous snapshots. When that term is applied to the photographs by Lisette Modell, it takes on new meaning. Camera eye in itself is impersonal, but to the camera's eye is added her own very personal, keen, and searching eye, continually probing and poking beneath surface appearances. Her satire is sometimes subtle and acid. Again, it is lusty and boisterous. On occasion, she pictures human grace and dignity with an epic grandeur. And this is Lisette Modell's statement, with instructions to be read with emphasis. Two tendencies dominate the field of photography today. One full of artificial subterfuges, glamour fantasies, and hysterical drive for what is called shock appeal. The other striving for sincerity, realism, realism, and truth. I have often been asked what I wanted to prove by my photography. The answer is, I don't want to prove anything. The photograph proves to me. I am the one who learns. I am the one who learns. Why do you photograph these ugly people? To me, these people are not ugly. They are vital personalities. That is why life has marked them so sharply. Why do these people look so serious? And why not? These photographs cannot be published. They say too much. I am concerned when they don't say enough. These are everyday conflicts. The camera is a means of detection. It shows not only what we already know, but can explore new aspects of a constantly changing world. New images surround us everywhere. They are invisible only because of sterile, routine, convention, and fear. To find these images is to dare to see, to be aware of what there is and how it is. The photographer not only gets information, he gives information about life. What is more, the information is given on a mass scale. The camera works fast, so does the photographer. Within the second, he has to see and feel, to understand and to select, to react, and to act. movement and expression unseen before is stopped. The moment is captured that never was and never will be again. Speed, the fundamental condition of our day's activities, is the power of photography. The modern art of today, the art of the split second. Thank you. Wright Morris. Um, you come up here, Morris. I think you'll probably do a little bit. Wright Morris is the literary man in this group. Poet and novelist, he has produced two notable books, The Inhabitants and The Home Place, published by Scrivener and Sonny. In these, his text and his photographs work together as a unit. The pictures do not illustrate the text, and the text does not illustrate the pictures. They are one. Let me read to you what Lewis Mumford had to say about Wright Morris' home place. Quote, I began the home place on my own home place in Dutchess County, and I finished the book in Iowa, not far from the scene of Wright Morris' double barreled work of art. The stuff of which he has composed his book is so genuine it almost hurts. Wright Morris' writing has the density of an experience that has been lived and relived in the mind until the depth of a lifetime can come forth in a single casual episode. As for his photographs, they are as poignant in feeling as they are skillful in technique. Morris makes the rubbish left by the past lives or the grass a human foot has walked on more poignant with human experience than most photographers are capable of making of the human face. In Wright Morris' home place, we have one of the most original works of art our generation is likely to see. Wright Morris. Somewhere in Walden, Thoreau says, if you stand right fronting and face to face to a fact, you will see the sun glimmer on both its surfaces like a scimitar and feel its sweet edge dividing you through the heart and the marrow, and so you will happily conclude your mortal career. Be it life or death, we crave only reality. If we are dying, let us hear the rattle in our throat and feel the cold in the extremities. If we are alive, let us go about our business. This passage illuminates, for me, the business of photography. It is not a definition, but it is as close to a definition as I care to get. What the photographer feels when confronted with the fact is what the beholder should feel when confronted with the photograph. A shock of recognition. There is no definition that will substitute for this. Men have always wanted some litmus test or some species of art-sensitive Geiger counter that would settle for them once for all the perplexing problems of art. Happily, there is none. We have to front this fact ourselves, face to face. Photography begins, I think, with this shock of recognition. A man, with or without a camera, face to face to a fact. The camera can come along later, or the fact may be lost. On the ground glass, it may look like something else. We seem to be born a race of interpreters. The man who buys a camera sees the world through the eyes of the camera as others see it through art, literature, or some photographer. The last eyes we use, if ever, are our own. The word genius, by and large, is the term we reserve for those men who, with eyes of their own, look about them and report on what they see. As I believe that a man's self may divide him from his subject, self-expression is not a fruitful use of photography. The personality of the photographer, if that is his subject, belongs in front of the lens, not behind. The camera itself, then, the apparatus, is just one more thing, in my opinion, that can separate us from reality. Not long ago, I received a photograph on which I found the following information. 4x5 speed graphic, 2A flash bulb, fast pan film, 1 100 second at F11. Did this machine take the picture? I'm inclined to think it did. It not merely did, it was expected to. I have not as yet been asked what typewriter it is that writes my books, but I am always asked what camera took my photographs. It has led me to the opinion that when a man picks up a camera, he loses sight of both the subject and the photograph. The glimmer that he sees is the play of light on the chrome surface of some gadget, and the sweet edge that he feels is the one that cuts through his pocketbook. I doubt if any subject is less academic than the one we have under discussion. What is photography? Whatever it is, and wherever it is, I think it is becoming a public menace. The word shoot, as photographers use it, is both accurate and prophetic. And the word candid, like the button passed out to initiates at some political convention, seems to permit the bearer to shoot anything in sight. He invariably does. His favorite hunting grounds are those usually marked private, keep out. And his favorite game is somebody's private light. If the camera has widened our horizons, it is narrowed to the point of strangulation, the still point on which we all stand, our privacy. The conception has grown, largely through practice, that what is private is meant to be exposed. And there is, at the root, something suspicious about privacy. Like certain pests, rewards are now posted for men who shoot it down. And the pelt, if rare, can be sold on the market for a pretty good price. If this is art, it is also politics. It has a good deal to do, in my opinion, with that latest vanishing American, the uncommon man. Photography is still magic. Perhaps that is the gist of it. There is about this tool, like the alchemist's stone, something that bewitches the minds of men and makes its user a force for evil or a force for good. The man with the camera, like the man with the plague, is carefully kept out of certain places. But where he should be absolutely forbidden, he is let in. There is no closed season, apparently, on our privacy. The photographer, more than other craftsmen, is engaged in an endless wrestle with the devil. With every snap of the shutter, he tells a big lie or a small truth. That terrible myth that the camera does not lie in our time has come home to haunt us. It not merely lies, it lies inexhaustibly. It were better to say that it seldom tells the truth, and that it is in our public life the number one liar. Ten years ago, when I was off hunting myself, a man at my back, standing at the edge of a cornfield, fired a hail of singing buckshot over my head. He missed me, but he hit what he was aiming at. He was aiming at the fellow who would invade his privacy. Thanks to this man, I was brought face to face with the fact that I would rather have avoided. The one that lies, I think, at the heart of photography. Because I believe a great photograph, by definition, is the invasion of some kind of privacy, whether it is a chair, a child, or the war dead scattered on some beach. How can this invasion be justified? I have no answer. I am not sure that an answer exists. The presumption under which I labor is that I am something of an artist, and that these are the materials with which I work. But I notice that I work less and less. that there are more and more photographs that I do not take. I believe that privacy is so rare in our time that it has about it something holy. And I ponder the right of any man to look in upon it. To reduce, that is, our dwindling supply of this commodity. If a man feels that he must, let him first know what he is about. He can acquire this knowledge, in my opinion, by turning to the photographs of Walker Evans, where there is revelation, boldness, and always great delicacy. If he can meet and sustain such standards, let him work. If he cannot, let him hold his peace. The things that interest me photographically are those that speak for themselves. Sometimes I feel that everything visible does. I confine myself, however, to the language that I think I understand, that which is spoken by houses and the things that are handled by men. Manhandled, as a rule, and worn out. These things are a species of photographs in themselves. The tool that bears the imprint of many hands, the bed that holds the impression of many bodies, and the house that wears, like an album, the look of the inhabitants. Upon these things, as on a photographic plate, man has left the impressions that I find both revealing and eloquent. They may need a witness, but they do not need an interpreter. As I am a writer, I use these photographs in relation to words. I have, that is, a form problem. I want the photograph to exist by itself. I want the words to stand by themselves. I do not want illustration, that is, from either medium. The solution I have found has been dictated by these terms. It seems to me that the problem of photography text, a frontier that invites many crossings, is at root a simple problem of integrity. One medium should not slyly corrupt the related one. It should be a marriage of independent minds, and not an arrangement by which one mind enters a permanent slavery. On my way here tonight, I read that anybody, anybody, can take a good picture. Better, that is, than those you have in your pocket right now. It has been the purpose of the industry to make it easy to take pictures, but this makes it hard, it seems to me, to take photographs. As a matter of fact, however, I look forward to the automatic camera, the one that dispenses, that is, with that dud the cameraman. The human element is always unreliable. Why not let some foolproof gadget aim the camera, then shoot it off? If anybody can do it, certainly some gadget can do it better. And until that occurs, I am afraid we will lack photographers. We will go on asking, what is photography? It will not be clear until then, I think, that though good pictures can be taken by cameras, photographs are what you get from photographers. Thank you. Thank you, Rad Morris. Thank you, Wright Morris. Definitions of documentary photography vary. Like so many words, this one has taken on meanings beyond those given in the dictionary. In spite of an uninformed insistence that the image documentation deals with exclusively is slums and filth, documentary photography does usually center around the general theme of human relations and of how people live. In the work of photographer Homer Page, this documentation of what we are like and how we live also begins to reveal and express some of the whys in these human relations, in these human questions and equations. Homer Page, like the previous speaker, Wright Morris, have both received and worked on Guggenheim Fellowships. Homer Page. I have felt some responsibility to talk a little bit tonight about the new directions that young so-called documentary photographers are taking. I think these directions are important. They will become more important as time goes on. In general, I think there has been a trend away from the old documentary standby of objective reporting toward a more intimate, personal, and subjective way of photographing. I think specifically there are two trends that seem to me to be very important. One trend has a positive note to it. It records life as healthy, vigorous, and even sometimes humorous. It does this without being insipid. I think it's something new and welcome in this field, which has been criticized so often for photographing despair and deprivation. I think two people particularly, Ruth Borken and Natasha Matsumoto, are important here, are very representative here. Photographs are easy to look at. Many of them make you want to laugh or at least smile to yourself. And all in all, they leave you with a feeling that all is not lost in this world of art. The other trend leads off, I think, in the opposite direction. It's an attempt to get at new kinds of realities. Realities which the clear, explicit images of much of the former documentary work were unable to record. For this reason, I think many of the people who are important in this trend are breaking up their images. They're concerned, I think, not so much with the what of life, but with the why. They ask questions rather than answer them. In this regard, I think Louis Farr is a very good and very representative photographer. For example, his work, although we've already spoken of it, my own impression of his work is that it's probing, it's disturbing to me, and strangely poetic. I think that he brings the old reality to you through new eyes. And his images are, to me, quite exciting. It does leave me restive and wondering. He has captured a certain amount, it seems to me, of mystery in his images, and there's room in them for your mind to roam and explore. I think now both of these trends, although quite dissimilar, are healthy. The first is overtly so, and the second, because it records the turmoil and perhaps the confusion that we all feel to some extent in this world today. I think they'll gain support from other young photographers as time goes on. As a matter of fact, the people I mentioned are representative. There are many other people who are working in these directions. And I think that as time goes by, they will become valuable additions to the growth of the documentary idea. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Homer Page. Next here, from Irving Penn. Irving Penn is one of the most versatile photographers among professional illustrators of today. I am of the opinion no other photographer has been able to so regularly and consistently produce the feeling of elegance so characteristic in a Penn fashion photograph. Penn's series of portraits of artists, actors, writers, and musicians have produced vigorous discussions and arguments, pro and con. But I believe Penn's Cusco photographs, all made in an old fashioned tinted photographic gallery in Peru, represent its finest published achievement. They constitute a remarkable document and a revelation of the timelessness and human dignity of the people. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. Penn. has anyone working in a visual medium been able to communicate so widely. He knows that in our time it is the privilege of the photographer to make the most vital visual record of man's existence. The modern photographer, having as have most creative people, the urge to communicate widely, is inevitably drawn to the medium which offers him the fullest opportunity for this communication. He then works for publication. He has become in fact a journalist. He communicates the look of a war battlefield or the look of a movie actress. He informs his readers of the new twist of a hip line in a best collection. He studies the tribal rights of African natives and then publishes his documents in a small edition book. Or he makes a photograph that sells soap. Whatever vehicle he chooses, for the modern photographer, the end product of his efforts is the printed page, not the photographic print. The technical limitations of his medium are the limitations not of the sensitive photographic materials, but the limitations of the reproduction process by which the printed page is made. The modern photographer works within these technical limitations. He even uses them to his advantage. He is not surprised and saddened by the published result. He has, to a great extent, pre-visioned it. The craft of the modern photographer has two aspects. It is first mechanical and chemical. The camera has in fact become his appendage. He uses it easily as he uses his hand. His relationship to the chemistry of his technique is not very different from the relationship of a good cook to the raw materials of a dinner. But it is in the second aspect, in the human and emotional realm, that the modern photographer has become especially skilled. His personal evolution has heightened his ability to experience people and objects. When language is inadequate, he fills the gap with a gesture, a grunt, or a caress. He finds somehow a common ground. The modern photographer is not at all a snob. He brings equal interest and devotion to the problem of photographing a queen, a chair, a fashion model, a soldier, a horse. He finds something of himself in everything and something of everything in himself. The modern photographer is very conscious of the time element in the viewing of his work. He knows that his communication must be made quickly. He knows that his picture may as often be seen hurriedly in a dentist's waiting room as in a soft chair after dinner. In consideration of this time element, the modern photographer has learned the economy of means of the graphic artist. He has digested this economy and has made it an almost instinctive part of his craft. The modern photographer has found many of his roots in the simple and communicable journalistic statements of Daumier, Lautrec, Goya, and Posada. Since the modern photographer is by motivation a journalist, his communication and sympathy go out rather to the man who reads the magazine in the dentist's office than to the man who walks through a museum of photography on Sunday. The modern photographer does not think of photography as an art form or of his photograph as an art object, but every so often in this medium, as in any creative medium, some of the practitioners are artists. In modern photography, that which is art is so as the byproduct of a serious and useful job soundly and lovingly done. Thank you. Ben Sean, like Walker Evans, was one of the original group of Roy Stryker's FSA photographic unit. And his contribution there represents one of the peak attainments in modern in documentary photography. He has on occasion used his photographs as notes for his paintings, but the photographs have an inherently intimate and concrete quality in themselves. Photography is an auxiliary and complementary medium in the work of the significant modern painter, Ben Sean. I wish you could see this wonderful doodle here. I also wish my name were Albright. You know, I look over these few notes I made here and everything has been said, but everything. All I've got now is a terrible feeling of frustration and jealousy. Margaret Bourke-White tells glowingly about South Africa. I wish I could have been there. I've never seen Joe Louis even knocked out once. Knocked down. God! And then the worst of it, I feel like an interloper here, you know. I'm not really a photographer. I've taken some photographs. I haven't taken any in 12 years. I've been there and when Mr. Steichen called me, I protested. And then I remember that a few weeks ago I had taken my camera and gone down to see that festival at San Gennaro. So that qualified me again as a photographer. My beginning was in a way really the best that anyone could have. Walker Evans and I lived together and I thought, should I ever want to go into photography? I tell you, I rather look down upon a little bit. But should I ever want to go in for it? I've got the very best teacher in the world, I thought. Well, my brother gave me a camera and I said, if I can get something in a magazine off the first roll, can I have the camera for good? And he said, yes. And I got something in a magazine off the first roll. By the way, I've never gotten a cent for anything. I'm virgin. Well, anyway, when I got the camera and I had, I asked Walker for instruction and he was busy at the time on several occasions. And then Walker got a wonderful opportunity to go to Cuba and I got desperate. And he said, I've got to have this conference with him and find out all about photography. And as he was rushing off of his bags, he said, F9 on the sunny side and F45 on the shady side. 20th of a second. I've been working that way ever since. The film is faster. I discovered to my horror when I was out in Ohio and Roy told me I better take a meter. And it said something about 200 and I thought it was the temperature. You know, it was really very hot. But I had one roll developed and I found that I was, what would I have been doing, overexposing? I guess overexposing. So I didn't, I just took that into consideration and used the same formula, except I speeded up a little bit. But nine on the sunny side and F45 on the shady side. Well, what is modern photography? What is modern photography? I don't know. I think it's photography. I think it's photography taken now as photography. In 1935 was modern photography then and became old hat. Oh, wait a minute. Only if it was, if it was bad. If it was good, it's timeless. That's all I'm saying. Now, I can sit here for an hour now and talk about what is bad photography, but I can't tell you what is good photography. I don't know. I think we once started to write a book, Walker and Evans and I. It was to be called How and What Not to Photograph. You see, on that same theory that you know what's bad, it's awfully hard to tell what's good. I do know one thing, you see. I think of photography, to me it's a very simple business. It's a matter of communication. It's a matter of communication in human terms and mostly in human subjects. And I have set this very simple problem for myself of showing humanity in those terms that interest me in the clearest way, perhaps in the most facile way. I work with a Leica because I can carry it around easily, or I worked with a Leica because I could carry it around very easily. I worked with an angle finder. Well, I still do if I'm to take even a facade of a building without a soul showing. I work with an angle finder. That's my habit, you know. I always feel somebody's looking over my shoulder or something. It's kind of a guilty feeling about it. And because I think it is a means of communication, I have probably a very slight interest in what is called print quality. I have found a picture taken at, what is it, F64, will reproduce on a 60-line screen about the same way as one taken with a Leica or another miniature camera and blown up to that size, that the textural qualities do not reproduce in the mass publications or reproduce so slightly that, for me, the effort was not worthwhile. Well, the one other thing that has disturbed me, probably, I have been asked about photography. I've talked at some schools about painting, but they rather I would talk about photography. I said, all right, I'll talk about photography. And the immediate question is, how did you get that, you know, this know-how? Of course, Mr. Morris said it so much better, but I must say something, tell something that I did. I was asked to contribute something to that U.S. camera, and nobody asked me why I got up at this hour, why I photographed these particular people in this particular background, why I wanted people to see those people. They asked me how I did it, and by God, I told them how I did it. I gave them a set of impossible conditions, and they printed them. And if you... Well, I have... You know, in a symposium here a few months ago, Mr. Ritchie defined symposium as really a drinking bout. There isn't anything here that would justify that definition, but I... Did... I did, and I would like very much to hear some exchange of ideas. So if I have spoken less than five minutes, I now surrender it and hope that we can get into some kind of a symposium. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ben Shan. Some of the very, very young photographers that I meet today seem to be under the impression that photography was discovered about the time they took it up. And they are astonished to find out that a painter whose work they admire was also recognized as one of our finest photographers even before World War I, when Sheila began his memorable series of photographs and paintings of old Pennsylvania houses, barns, and interiors. They are also unaware that in 1927, Charles Sheila inaugurated an era and a deluge of industrial photography with an astonishing series of photographs of the Ford plant. He is currently exploring and prowling among the canyons and scrapers of the New York City. He continually comes up with new dimensions and new horizons, both in photography and in his paintings. Charles Sheila. Before reading another one of those papers, I'd like to remark very personally that I wish Ben Shan's name began with Z. He is now in the book, and he is now in the book, and he is now in the book, and he is now in the book. Otherwise, he is all right. Well, this has been on ice for some time, so here it is. Do you realize that of all the discussions of the question, is photography art, were laid end to end, that they would extend from here to nowhere? In the meantime, photography is promising as a child, and there are high hopes for it in its adulthood. Those of us who have been intrigued by acquaintance with a camera are happy to see the application of photography in constantly increasing fields. As a means of personal expression, it is only limited by the caliber of the operator. The marked progress in optical correction, as well as increased speed of lenses, has in these recent years greatly enlarged our acquaintance with the visual world. Man has produced an eye which, in this respect, is better than his own. With this and other greatly increased facilities at the disposal of the photographer, he is more and more free to move around in the larger world which has been offered to him. With the increase in his vocabulary, it is his responsibility, as well as his privilege, to endeavor to extend the field of application. It is true that increased facilities are not an unmixed blessing. With something gained, there is the danger of something lost. There seems to be a too prevalent idea that the sheer weight of numbers is a virtue which, with the help of a miracle, can only result in better photographs. It is easy to forget that we only take out that which we have put in. Gone are the days, we hope, when it was thought to be desirable to offer an apology for photography being the unique medium that it is, by the dismal failure to disguise it as of the graphic arts. There is a tendency to think that painting and photography are converging roads, that photography is a shortcut to an equivalent in painting. This could only bring us back to the brome oil, which hoped to be a crayon drawing. Why make the same mistake again when there are so many new ones that can be made? There is a tendency in current abstract photography to disguise the source, nature, by using unidentifiable forms. This is to encroach upon the field of painting. The searching eye is capable of discovering in nature a combination of forms which, when recorded and presented in a print, have astonished those who have missed the seeing. This can be abstraction with a credit line to nature. All nature has an underlying abstract structure, and it is within the province of the artist to search for it and to select and rearrange the forms for the enhancement of his design. It is also within the province of the photographer to seek the same underlying abstract structure, and having found it to his satisfaction, to record it with his camera, with an exactitude not to be achieved through any other medium. The result is an image which has passed through a lens, and having been projected upon a sensitized emulsion, makes an inalterable record of the things seen. Thank you, General Schiele. Our next guest is among those not present, Ms. Frederick Summers. In Summers' work, the acid-bite peculiar to some modern anastigmat lenses is carried to the ultimate in objective precision. It is a poet's statement, but it is given emphasis by the peculiarities that he has found in the precision. In his landscapes, all resemblance to the usual pictorial tourist folder picture is gone. I'll quote a paragraph from Summers' statement. Any well-made photograph is unavoidably witness and the presentation of its subject matter. But that a photograph to be really alive must necessarily extend its documentation to the poetic and speculative motives involved in making the photograph. A searching poetic statement of the conscious and unconscious motivating forces must be an inseparable aspect of the organization of the photograph. Our next platform guest here is Aaron Siskind. Come up here. In his earlier photographer, Siskind began being noticed as one of the younger documentary photographers, who according to the records of the time made pictures representing certain aspects of the Simi side of life, which then came to be known as the Ashcan School, by people who want their photography slick and pictorially cheerful. In recent work, his centered around rather precise, dynamic, and realistic rendering of objects, surfaces, textures, and patterns. His work has been shown on several occasions here at the museum, and he has at a one-man show at the Egan Gallery and in several museums throughout the country. Aaron Siskind. I want to try to make a very limited and personal statement in an attempt to describe as precisely and as exactly as I can what I think my photographs are. In that way, perhaps we can have a sort of an equivalent to examine. When I make a photograph, I want it to be an altogether new object, complete and self-contained, whose basic condition is order, unlike the world of events and actions, whose permanent condition is change and disorder. The business of making a photograph may be said in simple terms to consist of three elements. The objective world, whose permanent condition is change and disorder. The sheet of paper on which the picture will be realized, and the experience which brings them together. First and emphatically, I accept the flat plane of the picture's surface as the primary frame of reference of the picture. The experience itself may be described as one of total absorption in the object, but the object serves only a personal need and the requirement of the picture. Thus, rocks are sculpted forms, bits of shattered glass clinging to a window frame, a totem. The top of a tenement newel post, a terrible mask. Seaweed bothered by a wave, a figure with its convoluted gut and plain view. A section of common decorative ironwork springing rhythmic shapes. Fragments of paper sticking to a wall, a conversation piece. A shadow on a fence, an image of violence. And these forms, totems, masks, figures, shapes, images, must finally take their place in the tonal field of the picture. And strictly conform to their new space environment. The object has entered the picture in a sense. It has been photographed directly. But it is often unrecognizable. For it has been removed from its usual context. Disassociated from its customary neighbors. And forced into new relationships. What is the subject matter of this apparently very personal world? It has been suggested that these shapes and images are underworld characters. The inhabitants of that vast common realm of memories that have gone down below the level of conscious control. It may be they are. The degree of emotional involvement and the amount of free association with the material being photographed would point in that direction. However, I must stress that my own interest is immediate and in the picture. What I am conscious of and what I feel above all is the picture I am making, the relation of that picture to others I have made, and more generally, its relation to others I have experienced. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our remaining guests are not among those present. Mayor is Fr tortures street  And the individuals from the roots. There stands recorded in Ouija's two books, Naked City and Ouija's People, a fantastic procession of human foibles and emotions. If photography did not have Ouija in the United States of America, we would surely have to invent him. And I've picked out some quotes from some of Ouija's sayings. To me, a photograph is a page from life, and that being the case, it must be real. Don't forget, above anything and everything else, to be human. Think. Feel. When you find yourself beginning to feel a bond between yourself and the people you photograph, when you laugh and cry with their laughter and tears, you will know you're on the right track. One doesn't just go up to strange men, women, children, elephants, or giraffes and say, look this way, please, laugh, cry, show some emotion, or go to sleep underneath a funeral canopy. They would have called me crazy and called a cop, would have called a wagon with the guys in white, and I would have wound up in the psychopathic ward at Bellevue Hospital in a straitjacket. Pictures are different. The photographer must be on the scene at the split second of occurrence. Here's my formula, dealing as I do with human beings, and I find them wonderful. I leave them alone and let them be themselves, holding hands with love light in their eyes, sleeping or merely walking down the street. The trick is to be where people are. All one needs to do is to be on the spot, alert, and human. I think the secret is knowing what you want. I worked for years. Then there were no more gangsters, no really good murders, so I got a job with Vogue doing fashion photography. They always sent a girl along to see that I didn't steal the silverware. So I got tired of fashions and went to Hollywood. I've appeared in five pictures as a street photographer, the greatest bit of casting since Lassie. To fill an important gap in this symposium, I'm going to read a few excerpts pertinent to the topic. from the writings of Edward Weston. These are mainly excerpts from the recent book published by Virginia Adams and the Houghton Mifflin Company of Boston, entitled, My Camera on Point Lobos. Photography as a creative expression, or what you will, must be seeing plus. Seeing alone means factual recording. Photography is not at all seeing in the sense that the eye sees. It is not seeing literally. It is seeing with intention, with reason. An idea just as abstract as could be conceived by sculptor or painter can be expressed through objective recording with the camera, because nature has everything that can possibly be imagined by the artist, and the camera controlled by wisdom goes beyond statistics. I do not know any formal rules of composition, nor do I recognize any boundaries to subject matter. Subject matter is everywhere. It may be an old shoe, a cloud, or my own backyard. I do not attempt to copy nature or present factual records. I depart from literal rendering to whatever extent is necessary for the presentation of my response to the subject. I control each step of the photographic process in order to carry out accurately my original vision. I am not a technician and have no interest in technique for its own sake. If my technique is adequate to present my seeing, then I need nothing more. Photography has long been considered a mass production medium from the standpoint of unlimited duplication of prints, but that is a factory job requiring standardization beyond the scope of the individual who uses photography as a creative expression. But the mass production of duplication, not the mass production of duplication, but the possibility for mass production of original work, I have long felt one of the photography's most important potentialities for the artist. Unlike other mediums of expression that demand greater or lesser expending of time for the realization of an original vision, the actual making of a photograph is accomplished, so to speak, in a moment. Not as a writer makes notes for future elaboration into a story, not as a painter makes sketches that will later be worked into a picture, not into the idea, the suggestion, but the whole picture is made on the instant. So nearly do conception and execution coincide that they may be set to be simultaneous. Until a photographer has achieved disciplined coordination, he cannot have full command of his medium, and his work will be governed to a greater or lesser degree by the accidental. When he has achieved discipline, the quantity as well as the quality of his work will be limited only by his ability to see, by the quality and quantity of his vision. Artists, fine ones, don't copy nature, and when they do record quite literally, the presentation is such as to arouse connotations quite apart from the subject matter. The camera recording nature exactly can yet be used to convey an abstract idea. Peppers are reproduced in seed catalogs, but they have no relation to my peppers. I am not a reformer, a missionary, a propagandist. I have one clear way to give, to justify myself as part of the whole, through my work. Here in Carmel, I can work, and from here I send out the best of my life, focused onto a few sheets of silvered paper. Edward Weston is a very sick man. His trouble has the same disease that Eugene O'Neill is suffering with. In spite of that, he's taken up color photography with lusty energy, and he's... we showed some of these color photographs in the exhibition of color photography we had here. I would like to feel that I have your approval in sending a telegram tonight. Edward Weston. Edward Weston. And giving him our warm salutation. Now, the fun can begin. you probably recognize by this time why so many completely variable factors have been brought into this panel. now I hope we can sick them at each other. Your age, such a thing. I'm going to ask them to answer the papers or ask any questions that may occur to them to see if we can't carry this further. from the auditorium of the Museum of Modern Art, you've just heard a panel discussion on the topic, What is Modern Photography? Moderator for the symposium was Edward Steichen, Director of the Department of Photography for the Museum of Modern Art, and the noted American photographers participating in the discussion were Margaret Burke-White, Walker Evans, John Milley, Lisette Modell, Wright Morris, Homer Page, Irving Penn, Ben Sean, Charles Sheeler, and Aaron Siskin. This has been another feature presentation in WNYC's first annual American Art Festival. We return you now to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.