We are happy to present one of America's great statesmen and governor of one of the most important states in the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Philip LaFollette, speaking on the problems facing the world today. Governor LaFollette. Ladies and gentlemen, this world of ours seems like a pretty confused place. Scarcely... Strikes, disturbance, unemployment. A general restlessness seems to pervade the very air we breathe. And in the midst of all of this, a good many of us feel rather lost, not knowing just where we are or where we should turn. For generations, we have had a few simple but fundamental principles to guide us along the highway of life. You and I and our fathers before us used to know that if we followed these simple rules of life, we generally found a safe harbor for ourselves and our families. We were taught that hard work, being industrious and thrifty, was the only sure way to prosperity for both the individual and for nations. We were taught to respect our neighbors' rights, that he might be required to respect ours. We were taught to honor our fathers and mothers and to respect the wisdom of age. Basic principles like these were the signboards that told us the right road to take as we went through life. Now today, we are confused because we have lost our way. How can we tell our young people that the way to succeed is through hard work when hundreds of thousands of our youth cannot even get a job? How can we preach thrift when even the experts cannot tell us with any certainty where we can safely invest our savings? Now does this mean that all the rich wisdom of the past is no longer true? Does this really mean that we can be prosperous either as individuals or as a nation? Not by working. That somehow or other we can have more by having less. I, for one, am convinced that it does not. It is true that real and fundamental changes have taken place in the world in which we live. Changes to which we must adjust ourselves. We are living in a different kind of a house than did our grandparents. But we are still the same kind of people. The fundamental problems we face today are to apply the same basic principles of human experience but to change conditions. The principles have not changed. But the conditions under which we live have changed and changed tremendously. In a pretty short time, America has changed from an agricultural country to an industrial nation. Our grandfathers, yours and mine, most of them lived on the farm. They got nearly all of their living right off their own land. They were not dependent on other people in order to have enough to eat or a place to live. Today, that is change. Every one of us, in order to eat and live, must depend on each other. A generation ago, people could work, each pretty much unto himself alone. Today, in order to live, we must be able to work together. Just look around you and see what one can see with one's own eyes. If labor is on strike, capital cannot work. If capital is on strike, labor cannot work. If the people in the city cannot buy, farmers in the country cannot sell. If farmers go broke, factories have to shut down because the farmers cannot buy. The old saying, let everybody paddle his own canoe, does not work anymore because we no longer travel in our own canoes. If the past ten years has taught us anything, it ought to have taught us that we are all in the same boat. Worker, farmer, teacher, doctor, merchant, dentist, all of us are tied together. We can only be prosperous if all of us are prosperous. And if one great group are broke and out of work, it will only be a question of time until the rest of us are also in trouble. So, if we are going to head in the right direction, we must get a few fundamentals clearly fixed in our minds. One of these, I think, would be this. Let's get out of our heads the idea that you and I, the average man or woman, cannot see and solve our problems. Somebody wants to find an expert as somebody who knew more and more about less and less. Now, the expert does have his place. But he should be on tap and not on top. Because the expert sometimes cannot see the forest because of the trees. What we need more than anything else today is the good practical experience of common sense. More people who know from experience and practical experience and less people who know only from books. Another thing we need, we must be able to apply our common sense to the problems that we face now. In this very year, 1938. Not to problems we faced in 1838. Now, to get down to brass tacks. And to give you a concrete illustration. Let's take the Republican Party. Now, the Republican Party has lots of good common sense. But their trouble is that they think we are still living with the Indians. They have their feet in 1938. But their heads are in 1838. Now, let's take the Democratic Party. They have a program that deals with the problems of today. But that program violates in vital essentials the common sense of human experience. If you'll let me, may I put it another way. The Republican Party, with lots of common sense, has its eyes on the past, but not on the present. But it can't see the future. America must have, and America will have, a program that not only faces today, but it must be based on the fundamental experience of the human race. We must have a program that is based on two principles. First, a program that recognizes that many of our problems are beyond the power of the individual. That just as we must work together, so we must be able to act together. First, that we must face many vital questions collectively instead of individually. Second, that in our collective action, we must preserve and foster the individual instead of stifling him. Otherwise, we shall destroy his initiative, his self-respect, and thus, eventually, by injuring many individuals, eventually undermine the vitality of the whole nation. Can all this be done? Can we act together? And can we, at the same time, foster and protect individual initiative and self-respect? Not only can we do it, it is actually being done. May I give you two concrete illustrations out of the experience of the state from which I come. In 1910, Wisconsin was the first state to recognize that industrial accidents were no longer an individual problem, that industrial accidents, the loss of a hand, of an eye, or of a life in industry, were no longer within the control of either the individual worker or the individual employer. So, it became a problem that we had to face and solve collectively. So, Wisconsin enacted a workman's compensation law, the first one in America. This law had two primary objectives. First, to provide cash benefits to those that were injured in industry, instead of the old worn-out system of personal injury suits. But there was another great objective. We also saw that it was just as necessary to foster individual initiative. And so, our law provided that each factory should pay more or less depending on whether that factory did a good or a poor job in cutting down on accidents. We thus provided a collective solution to the problem of industrial accidents. We, at the same time, fostered, instead of undermining, individual responsibility. Now, in 1938, 25 years later, we can really see the results. Today, a worker in Wisconsin industry receives the highest cash benefits for his injuries than in any other state in America. Now, that is fine. Now, that is fine. It's a great accomplishment. But now, get this. The total cost of workman's compensation for business and industry of Wisconsin is less than in any other industrial state in America. Let me repeat that. The workers in Wisconsin get more, but it costs industry and business less in Wisconsin than in any other state. Why is this? Because fostering individual responsibility has given Wisconsin the best safety record in the United States. Here is another example. In our unemployment insurance, the Wisconsin law requires each employer to have a separate fund. Instead of pooling all of our resources into one common pot, where it often becomes a race as to see who can get into the pot first, instead of that, each employer in our state has a separate account of his own. If each individual employer does a good job in stabilizing his work, then that employer gets his just rewards. If he does a poor job, he pays the penalty with his own money. In other words, the employer who does a good job gets his just deserts. But the employer who does a bad job is not permitted to share in the funds of the employer that's done a good one. Thus, our law, while it has only been in operation for two and a half years, has gone far enough already so that we can see beneficial results and almost the same results that came from workman's compensation. The experience is improving. This law will pay for itself and more for exactly the same fundamental reason. It is based upon the need for collective action on a common problem, but at the same time encouraging instead of discouraging the creative initiative and the responsibility of the individual. I use these two concrete illustrations to show that we can supply the simple fundamental teachings of age-old experience to the problems we face in this modern world. And when we do, we get just as fine results for both the individual and the state as we did in the old world of our experience. And if I may say so, that is the great question of our time. How to protect the welfare of all of us without sacrificing the welfare of each of us. How to protect the welfare of every cent? You and I are睡 in advance. And we are none of us without agreeing with the welfare of all of us. Now, our mina amidst a stigma that's человеч at all who has committed, in the wealth of our descendants as we've already been in this dy also Nurul. other one. Before we have even begun to pay for the last war, we are spending money at the rate of billions of dollars preparing for another one. These events are not accidents. Great things do not just happen. They have a cause. If you and I are to guide our destiny, we must deal with causes and not with effects. We who believe in the right of individuals to religious, political, and economic freedom can preserve these precious privileges only by understanding what. Then the parents have to use discipline to see that each one of the mouths get at least a share of what there is. What is true of a family is also true of a nation. If a nation has plenty, then it is free. If there isn't enough to go around, then the nation, just like the family, will be obliged to use discipline in order to see that whatever there is is shared with reasonable equality. Democracy can exist only where the standard of living is high. Dictatorship will always come if the standard of living. If the standard of living goes too low. If you believe in American ideals and principles, keep your eye on the standard of living. If it falls, watch out. If it rises, be secure. What decides then whether the standard of living will rise or fall? If the rise or fall of the standard of living will carry with it will carry with it the rise or fall of democracy, then you are and I are profoundly interested in that. And what keeps the standard of living high? Just one fundamental thing. And that's this. How much real wealth do we produce? The only wealth there is comes from the labor of men and women applied to our natural resources. If we want more wealth, it can come alone from enabling our men and women to be at work producing real wealth. So may I suggest one or two rather simple but fundamental elements to any sound program for the preservation of American democracy. The first would be this, that we consciously and constantly keep in our minds that in order to preserve and to protect American principles, the only certain way is by increasing our production of wealth. Second, that we can only increase our production of wealth by putting and keeping all of our resources, both in terms of human beings and in terms of natural resources, at productive work. Again, let me appeal to our common sense. How can we produce enough wealth for a high standard of living with nine or ten million of our men and women unemployed? Men and women who walk the pavements have no chance to contribute their energy to the production of wealth. If we want an answer to the problem of raising the American standard of living, and with that, making democracy more secure in America, then we must face and face squarely the problem of unemployment. If our economic system is not now so organized that it can find a useful and productive place for men and women who want to work, well then, my friends, that economic system must be changed until it does restore the age-old God-given right of men and women to live from the honest sweat of their own brow. There just isn't any other way out from that simple elemental proposition based on the experience of the human race. Third, let's provide for the old and the young as generously as our circumstances will permit. That again is in accord with the experience of the race. Fourth, this cannot be done by each of us alone. Our change conditions require that we act collectively to solve these problems. But let us arrange our collective action so it fosters and protects the responsibility, the initiative, and the self-respect of each individual and group, instead of smothering and destroying them by the grab-bag philosophy of getting something for nothing. And lastly, how to do these things instead of talk of them. I think the answer is this, that there is now arising in America a new and powerful political movement, profoundly faithful to American democracy, but equally determined that the form of democracy shall not be used to stifle its substance. Believing in the eternal right of the individual, but recognizing that the individual can only be saved by saving all of us. True to the practical experience of human experience, that there is no way to real prosperity, other than restoring to all people the right to do the work by which alone prosperity can be created. And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, a movement determined not to accept another war as a fake and false substitute for solution of our own problems here at home. Ladies and gentlemen of New York, you have given all America renewed hope and faith. Under the fearless and able leadership of your mayor, you have gone to work to solve the concrete problems right before you. As we learn how to use local government and state government, not as a nest for subservient and spineless politicians, but as instruments to work out our practical day-to-day problems, so shall we learn how to use the vast powers of our national government to solve our national problems. The old frontier may be gone, but a new one is here. It is on that wide front where mankind is battling to solve the problems of the machine age. The pioneers of today are blazing new trails to the solution that will give mankind the greatest material security and the fullest opportunity for spiritual richness yet known on this earth. Greetings from Wisconsin to the state and the city of New York. Thank you, Governor LaFollette. Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented an address by one of America's great statesmen, Governor Philip LaFollette of Wisconsin. Governor LaFollette spoke on the problems facing the world today. At this time, we wish to call your attention to a new series of programs starting Wednesday, March the 2nd. This new series is arranged with the cooperation of the New York University Division of General Education. The speaker this Wednesday will be Father John P. Boland, Chairman of the New York Labor Relations Board. Others invited to participate in this series include United States Senator Wagner, Arthur J. Altmyer, Chairman of the Social Security Board, and Francis J. Perkins, Secretary of the United States Department of Labor. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End New York City's own station, WNYC. The End
