There's a team. The Scouts play volleyball, but outdoor life is an episode. The Scout program of service statistics in their own backyard supports the aims of the Girl Scout headquarters. This is Ed Sullivan. The United States have been awarded a congressional public service as unique in the words of the report. Citizenship, community, millions of American girls since it was based upon democratic methods and pretensions of loyalty and service make Girl Scouting one of the bulwarks of the American way of life. Girl Scouting provides the women of tomorrow with practical experience in making democracy work. I'd like to add my congratulations to the millions of Americans who know what a wonderful job the Girl Scouts are doing. Right here in New York City, we have over 40,000 Girl Scouts serving their communities every day. Let's show them that their community is behind them. It's a fine cause. It's a fine cause. Judy, here's something I'll bet you know. On my honor, I will try to do my duty to God and to my country, to help other people at all times and to obey the Scout laws. Well, that's the Girl Scout pledge. How'd you learn it, Miss Downward? I learned it because it's a pledge I think everyone should know and keep. If everyone kept it right in the back of her mind all the time, I don't think people could ever go very far wrong. Don't you think every girl should be a Girl Scout? Yes, I do. Right here in New York City, there are over 10,000 girls waiting to become Scouts. We can begin right now to help expand the Girl Scout program by contributing to Greater New York Council. That's at 133 East 62nd Street, New York. Won't you join me at Girl Scouts? This is Patrice Munsell. I'd like to tell you a little about the Girl Scouts. The Girl Scout organization has a code of ethics governing personal conduct and the duties of a citizen of this democracy. The promise to serve God and country influences the activities of each troop. In the troop, each girl learns the meaning of democracy by practicing it. She learns to live and work together with girls of all races and religions. Right here in your own community, Girl Scouting is providing 40,000 New York girls with the kind of training that builds secure, self-reliant citizens. That's an important job in these times. And because it is so important, we, Americans, have a major responsibility toward our Girl Scouts. Won't you join me in sending your contribution to Girl Scout Council of Greater New York at 133 East 62nd Street, New York 21. Thank you.
