I count Field Marshal Lord Montgomery, Chairman of the Military Chiefs of Staff of Western Europe. Mr. Wellen, Your Lordship. Allow me, sir, the privilege of presenting to you the heads of the departments of the city administration, members of our city council, and our board of estimate. And to you, ladies and gentlemen, and those who are listening in, we wish to record this morning for the purposes of letting our people, the city of New York, to know that this is one of the great privileges that we have. To welcome one who has been a renowned figure all during the war that has recently passed, and who still continues as the chief of the military of the Western powers to give the guidance to the democracies of the world, to give them the support that only one of his great experience and intelligence and tenacity could possibly give. Your Lordship, I feel inadequate to give to you, sir, in words, the joy and the honor that we experience here at City Hall this morning in giving you the hearty welcome that we hope you have recognized. May I present his Lordship, Bank of Mount Campbell. Thank you. The photographers are demanding pictures with the mayor, and the Viscount Montgomery is now hesitating a moment before he steps to the microphone. However, it looks as though the orders of the cameramen will soon be fulfilled, and it is necessary, of course, to have this record. And now, Viscount Montgomery is before the microphone. You'll hear his voice in just a moment. Field Marshal, Viscount Montgomery. Now, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, I do thank you very much indeed for this welcome this morning. I've not been to New York before. In this way, when I was over here in 1946, I stayed outside and just came in for a very short visit. But this time, I've come here to stay for several days, and I want to see something of the life of this great city. And that's what I'm going to do. In fact, I think I'm going to do it so much, that by the time I get on the Marlottane yard on Friday, I shall have what you might call had it. I shall have to go to sleep for about the whole of the way back over the Atlantic. It is a great pleasure to come. Now, I lead a very different life to any of you gentlemen. At least, I think I do. Because a year ago, I was taken away from my British assignment and sent to work with the military side of the Western Union. And so I am completely now international. And I have to look, I have to be very careful to look at every problem through international spectacles, and not through national spectacles. And when you do that, you realize how difficult things are. My country now is that area which is covered by Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Germany, let us say Western Germany, and the British Isles. And I'm constantly on the move through those countries. And you will know very well that Western Europe has had a very bad time twice, in two wars. And they are, they have been weakened. Weakened economically and weakened militarily. And the West is terribly grateful for what is being done for it by the United States. I often think that the United States have done far more for the West than the nations of the West really understand. For instance, I don't think that the Western nations sometimes realize the tremendous war effort of the United States when they really got going. Tremendous. Which carried us through to victory. Well, now you've got this group of nations in Western Europe who are weak economically and weak militarily. And they look over here, naturally, they look across the Atlantic to strength. They see over here economic strength and military strength. And they know that you are helping them. You are helping them with the martial aid. That's economic. And now you have passed your military aid program and you're going to help them militarily. And that is absolutely vital. It is vital that they should receive not only economic aid, but military aid in the form of weapons and equipment. Because it was all taken away, they were all occupied by the Germans and they haven't got any. So your military aid program, which is what I am chiefly concerned with, is absolutely vital. And it's very soon going to start, I hope. And I do hope it's not going to end too soon. Because that would be a great pity. And as a soldier, that is what concerns me most, is your military. The military help you are giving. But I do know, of course, as a soldier, very well indeed, that without economic strength, military strength by itself is no good. You want them both. And you here in the States are helping the West in both ways. To recover economically and then to be strong militarily. And if they do those two things, it is my view that there will be no more war. That is my view. that the keys of peace lie in the hand of strength. Economic strength and military strength. If you have those, then you have peace. And so my job is really working for peace. We soldiers are peaceable people. Everybody thinks we're not. We don't make wars. Other people make wars. But we are peaceable people. We don't like war. And I am working for peace to the best of my ability in Western Europe. Now, Mr. Mayor, I didn't come here to make speech. I came here to see you and to see these gentlemen who work with you. And wherever I go, of course, I see these gentlemen. They're always, always, always, always about the place. And I've no doubt they'll follow me about, I suppose, on the end. And I do want to thank you very much indeed for this welcome because since I've been in the States, everywhere I've been, it's been so friendly. The people, for some curious reason, have seemed pleased to see me. I mean, most friendly. And I thank you very much indeed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is your host, له de transformations, and you and I are by the audience. Thank you by телеф Babies and Taylor and everyone will relate like you. THE END The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has just received Field Marshal Vyckow, Montgomery. Hearing the Mayor speaking. The pressure of time, his Lordship will now leave. Before he does, I think you've had, in his own simple, unaffected story, the exact reason why the people of the United States are so happy to see him, to make him feel welcome. He is a symbol of what we are trying to do, the democracies of the world, to preserve the basic liberties and to extend them where possible, where they do not exist. In that regard, alone, your Lordship, you will always be welcome in every part of the United States, not even taking into account your brilliance during the late war. We're happy to have you, and as far as these gentlemen, your Lordship, I can tell you, they'll follow you all around. Thank you. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has just terminated the reception to Field Marshal Vyckow, Montgomery, here in the beautiful Colonial Reception Room of City Hall. I amcias philosophy of a whole planning tank where you can serve your authority. And it's exciting to use as a gentleman like in a new city. Melinda's company as well. I amlles that見 your legs and a nation has just one, managing time for the Liz, time for the Vaughan, I am curious, it's cakes and the star. Wearing the beautiful community to stop this overlooking things