The United States Government presents This is Our Enemy. Tonight, millions of Americans are mobilized to win the war and make a peace better than any we've ever had before. But we, the American people, can win neither our war nor our peace unless we understand whom we are fighting. That's what this program is about. Later, we'll hear from Kurt Rees, well-known author of several books on Hitlerism and famous German anti-fascist. This is a program of cruel, hard truth. This is the truth about our enemy. War myths have destroyed more nations than war planes. There was the myth that Hitler's aggressions would end with the Sudetenland. The myth that Hitler's armies would bog down in the mud of Poland. The myth of the invincibility of the Maginot Line. These myths have been partially or wholly the product of Hitler's propagandists. And the latest myth? That the German army high command, the Prussian generals, will revolt against Hitler and hand Germany over to the democracies. No, if a revolution comes in Germany, it will be led by the common man, not by the Prussian aristocrats, who plotted this war of aggression long before Hitler ever came to power. And though there's no love lost between the Prussian generals and the Nazi party, though these two factions occasionally do bicker over day-to-day method, they do agree on ultimate aim, world domination. These are simple facts. Yet never have they been more apparent than in the case of Corporal Schuster, a common German soldier. Wilhelm Schuster, charged with high treason and tried before a military... Gentlemen, the court-martial is in session. General von Braschig, chief of the military court. General Svitter von Leib von Hammerstein von Kluge von Klees presiding. The prosecutor may call the defendant. Corporal Wilhelm Schuster. This way, please. Your Honor, General von Braschig, chief of the military court. The defendant is ready to hear the charge. The case of Corporal Wilhelm Schuster, attached to the staff of General von Reichenau, deceased, 3rd Sector Eastern Front, charged with high treason. The prosecutor may begin the court-martial. Corporal Schuster. Yes, Herr Prosecutor. Do you understand the charge? I am a common soldier, Herr Prosecutor, a corporal. Why I am on trial here, I do not know. I do know I am not guilty of treason. And I believe I am not on trial here at all, but someone or something else is. And I am just the excuse. No, I do not even try to understand it. It's not your place to question the motives of the court-martial upon which your life hangs. Receive with the testimony here, Prosecutor. Corporal, how long had you been orderly to the late General von Reichenau? All my life. My father lived on General von Reichenau's estate in Ostelwein. During the peace, the general used to come out to the barn where I was working and make me go through the manual of arms. He was always getting ready for war, planning war. He told me how at the end of the first war, the German general's staff never really surrendered, but formed a private corporation and went right on making war plans. When it came time for me to join the army, General von Reichenau made me a sign to him. It was unusual for me to carry dispatches except in extremely confidential matters. I was the only one he could really trust. He was surrounded by spies, Gestapo and army intelligence. Confine yourself to the facts. Yes, sir. Corporal, please tell the court of the incident that occurred on the Eastern Front involving you and the late General von Reichenau. We were deep in the Ukraine. The Russians were counterattacking. One day, General von Reichenau sent for me and told me of a dispatch. Corporal Schuster reporting, sir. Do you know how to read a map, Corporal? Yes, sir. You see where we are now? Right here. How do you reach Polatava from here? This road here. Then here. And there's Polatava. Good. You avoided the supply routes like a good secret dispatch carrier should. Now, when you get to Polatava, find the hotel and deliver these dispatches to the SS group leader, Pelka. Remember the name, Pelka. Here's your pass. I'll leave immediately, sir. Don't forget the map. Yes, sir. And, Corporal, under no circumstances should anyone but Pelka see those dispatches. You have my orders to destroy them if necessary. I think we're lost, Corporal. We should have made a turn to the last crossroad. No, no. Here, look at the map. There's still several kilometers to go before we turn. Then the map is wrong. In the sound of the guns, we're approaching the front, not going away from it. Well, I don't understand it. There are no battle lines on the map. Here, look for yourself. Well, maybe there's been a retreat. Listen, the gun's on our left now. Now on our right. There has been a retreat. We're caught between the lines. Turn around and head for the last crossroad. Hurry, we're being shelled by both sides. We can't make it, Corporal. The road's under bombardment. Turn off here, then. Straight across the field. Do you hear me? Don't shoot! Don't shoot! We are friends! Friends! Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Proceed, Herr Prosecutor. Thank you, General von Brauschitz. Your name, please. Captain Walter Kopf. Infantry, Second Sector. Attached to staff of General Fedor von Bock. What is your connection with Corporal Willem Schuster? If the court please... I'll start at the beginning. On the day Corporal Schuster was caught between our lines and the Russian lines, we were retreating for strategic reasons. Our machine gunners saw Corporal Schuster and Private Berner approaching in a motorcycle and sidecar. My gunners were excited. They fired. Private Berner was killed. Corporal Schuster seriously wounded. The dispatches they were carrying were brought to me. I examined them. At the very least, they were sensational. I saw immediately it was a matter of greatest importance that they'd be taken to General von Bock and by him brought to the attention of everyone interested in the preservation of our great German army. where did you get these dispatches, Captain? From their carrier. He was accidentally wounded approaching our lines. You read them, I presume? Yes, sir. I thought... You're not supposed to think. I think you understand. I think you follow orders. Yes, sir. I'll have you broken for this. I'll send you to the African front as a second-class private. No. Now, it's easier to bribe you. I'll make you a colonel. That'll keep your mouth shut. General von Keichner on the line, sir. Good. Von Keichner. Yes, yes, this is von Bock. By accident, we picked up some dispatches sent by General von Reichern to Heinrich Himmler. Of course, sir, friends. Reichernau's a good Nazi. Himmler's trying to take over the army again. He and his SS, the damn Gestapo. You see, he's willing to support Reichernau for commander-in-chief of the army if Reichernau will make him certain concessions. What's that? Dammit, yes! Himmler's private army will get a number of high army positions. Then the reserve of the regular army will be placed under Gestapo control and the SS will be able to recruit new members from the reserve. Certainly, Himmler and Reichernau have gone too far this time. Yes, I think we'd better do something about it. The sooner the better. You heard the conversation, Captain? Yes, sir. You know what it means? I hate the Gestapo and the SS, too, sir. It means Germany has two sets of leaders, the generals and the party. It means that... Captain, perhaps you're too stupid to be a colonel after all. If the court please, will it admit the testimony of Fraulein Turner, nurse at the hospital where Corporal Schuster was confined? The deposition of Fraulein Turner is admissible. Proceed. Fraulein Turner. Corporal Schuster, wounded in the shoulder and the thigh, was placed under my surveillance immediately after his operation. I gave him a trifle more than ordinary care because he seemed especially helpless. And he responded by falling in love with me. Consequently, he confided in me and I kept a record of everything he said to me, exactly as I was instructed to do. Ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen. There. Your pulse is perfectly normal. You only counted to eighteen. I thought it was seventy-two. eighteen multiplied by four. Now, go back to sleep. I've done nothing but sleep since I've been here. Why can't you sit here for a while and talk to me? What do you want to talk about? Anything, nothing. A man in trouble wants to talk about himself. You're lonesome. Homesick. Those dispatches, I didn't deliver them and I didn't destroy them. General von Riken and I will have me shot. I must leave. I must get out of here before he finds me. You can't walk and you'll surely be shot if you desert the army. What has the army been to me? We're abandoned in the freezing cold in Russia. We wear several shirts and sweaters, rags, whatever we can find to warm us. Our hands burn on the frozen rifle barrels. You have seen it countless times here in the hospital. Death is so common that it's not even worth talking about. A fine soldier you are. A fine German. You're not fit to bear our national destiny. Do you think even our generals pay lip service to that anymore? No. To be warm. To be comfortable. That is the thing. That's what we all want. We had many conversations like that, Corporal Schuster and I. As time went on, he became more and more upset over the dispatchers. Finally, I agreed to find out what had happened to them. Even now, I remember how relieved he was when I told him they were safe. But in a few days, he began to worry again. And when he could endure it no longer, he made me tell him. You're not telling me the whole truth. You know you're not. What happened to the dispatchers? Von Buck has them. Go on. Go on. Because of them, General von Reichenau is in trouble with the other generals. Where did you find that out? Everybody's talking about it. What else? What else? They think General von Reichenau will have to stand court-martial. Von Reichen, I'll stand court-martial. Oh, no, because of me and that stupid map. Does that mean I'll have to be a witness? I don't know. It does. Von Reichenau will never forgive me now. You must help me to leave this place to escape. Impossible. You must. I can escape across the border, Romania, Switzerland. Then I'll send for you. What makes you think I want to come? Well, even if you don't help me. All right, Wilhelm. I'll help you. No. Proceed, Fraulein. We waited until his thigh healed. It took a long time, but when he was finally able to travel, it was too late. General von Reichenau sent for him. Is the court to understand that you were aiding a soldier of the Reich to desert his army? Yes. He loved me, and through his loving me, I learned to love him. The defendant may resume testimony. Immediately after my release from the hospital, I became General von Reichenau's orderly again. He never once mentioned the dispatches, but I did notice a difference in the general. Whereas other generals would often visit him, now none came. He was extremely fond of the company, and being ostracized hurt him, I'm sure. But then one day, General von Reichenau was pleased to see him. From where I sat in the outer room, I could hear that voice. You know what? About a few deleop of the people, of the people too in the middle. The murderer kleinen Hernandez will be very reliable. Thank you.