If an atomic bomb were to fall somewhere in New York, would you know what to do? Would you remain calm? Would your life be lost unnecessarily? Or do you have a plan for survival? This is the 12th in a weekly series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. This is the network from which you will get your official information and news in the event of an emergency anywhere in New York State or in nearby areas. To bring you essential information and instruction to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of an atomic attack and what you can do to help, each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here is Bill Leonard. This week, our topic deals with hospitals in the event of an emergency, and most of our time will be spent answering some of the questions that you have asked. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First, a discussion on hospitals by Dr. John J. Bourke, Executive Director of the State Joint Hospital Survey and Planning Board, New York State Department of Health. And then local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about hospitals in respect to their individual communities. One of the most frequent questions asked in connection with hospitals goes something like this. Suppose I'm working in a defense plant on the outskirts of a city, for instance, a factory in White Plains. An armada of enemy planes bombs New York City, and some of the bombs fall on White Plains. There are many casualties. I'm one of them. I have a broken leg, a fractured arm, and second-degree burns. After I've received first aid, what happens to me? How about the answer to that one, Dr. Bourke? Mr. Leonard, at the time you receive first aid, the medical officer of the Emergency Medical Field Unit evaluates your general condition, taking into consideration such things as existing signs of shock, and determines the maximum time which can safely elapse before you receive further active treatment. On the basis of this medical judgment, you may be transported by stretcher and ambulance directly to a permanent hospital, such as the White Plains Hospital or St. Agnes Hospital, or to one of the improvised hospitals which have been set up in school buildings or in other suitable structures. I might point out here that all hospitals have plans for setting up additional beds in reception rooms and other suitable parts of the hospital. And we have plans to evacuate all normal patients that can be safely removed in order to provide the maximum number of bed facilities for casualties resulting from enemy attack. But suppose that words received that the White Plains and St. Agnes Hospitals, as well as these improvised hospitals, are filled. Now, what happens to me then? If your condition is such that you can be transported to another hospital, for example, to a hospital at Albany, you will be transported to a holding station located on the mainline railroad for a medical evacuation to Albany. If your condition is such that you cannot be evacuated from the White Plains area without further intensive hospital care, a bed will be made available for you in White Plains by evacuating a less seriously injured casualty to another outlying institution. Well, Doctor, are all hospitals fully equipped and ready to do business, so to speak? Mr. Leonard, in order to provide all existing and emergency improvised hospitals in all sections of the state with large stores of equipment and supplies would involve exorbitant costs, and such action would be detrimental to the armed services. But you have a plan, Dr. Borg. Oh, yes, Mr. Leonard. The State Civil Defense Commission, through the emergency medical services, has made arrangements for the designation of storage depots on the outskirts of our major target cities, where such medical supplies and equipment will be stockpiled. Under emergency conditions, these supplies and equipment will be transported rapidly to our hospitals in the amounts needed. Recently, the state legislature made an appropriation which will provide about $12 million for this purpose. We have already stockpiled such material in this manner as antibiotic drugs and blood transfusion equipment. The blood services program has already been initiated with an upstate goal to supply about 20,000 pints of blood within the first six hours following disaster. It's comforting to know that such a great deal of progress has been made along those lines, Dr. Borg, but now I've been injured and there was no room for me at White Plains. I've been safely evacuated to the Albany Hospital with medical supervision en route. But now I'm worried about my family. I want to know whether they're all right and I want them to know that I'm all right, that I'm not badly hurt, and I'm getting the best of care. How do I go about that, Dr. Borg? This is to be handled through the Casualty Information Service, which is accomplished by cooperative arrangements between the emergency medical services and the emergency welfare services. How does that work out in operation, Doctor? Mr. Leonard, all hospitals will report the name and condition of all patients admitted and all patients discharged with their destination to the emergency welfare services. Your wife and wife claims by making inquiry to the emergency welfare service information center can get the necessary information. Of course, there will be considerable confusion and interruption of normal communication services, such as a telephone. So there probably will be some delay before you can actually speak to your wife. But this is precisely the reason for the welfare information service. Dr. Borg, do you have any general instructions you'd like to pass on, some basic rules that would help us in our plan for survival? Yes, Mr. Leonard, there are several steps which every person can take. All adults should become familiar with the basic principles of self-help and neighbor help by attending public instruction courses now being given through the State Department of Health and the Civil Defense Commission. They should be thoroughly familiar with the local plans for emergency medical and hospital services, and they should give full support to this essential civil defense service by enrolling for training and duties in the emergency medical units or their local hospitals. Without the tens of thousands of volunteers, our doctors and nurses in our hospitals cannot hope to meet the great demands which would be made upon them under atomic warfare conditions. There is a suitable place in the emergency medical service for practically any citizen of our state, man or woman. Thank you very much, Dr. John J. Borg, Executive Director of the State Joint Hospital Survey and Planning Board, for answering our questions about hospitals. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. In our studios now is Dr. Marcus Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals for New York City and Director of the City's Medical Emergency Division for Civil Defense. Dr. Kogel has been invited to explain about hospital facilities within the city. And I think one of the most discussed issues in this connection concerns the overcrowded conditions in the city's hospitals. Under such conditions, the public wants to know, how do you plan to take care of some hundred thousand additional casualties that might result in the event of an atomic attack, Dr. Kogel? This problem, Mr. Leonard, is a major one. Not only are New York City hospitals crowded, but altogether, they have a total capacity of only 50,000 beds. However, we have a four-fold plan which will solve the problem. First, we will place beds and cots in conference rooms and closed porches, assembly halls and corridors, expanding each hospital's facilities to the utmost. 39,000 additional beds can be provided this way. And incidentally, we have these beds already. Secondly, we will organize emergency hospitals. Thirdly, we will transfer the less seriously injured out of the city. And finally, we plan an evacuation of long-term patients. Well, in connection with evacuations, doctor, suppose my wife were injured. Could she be taken to a hospital and evacuated before I could ever find her? Oh, no. Even if there is no room in one of the hospitals in the city, and that only if she is not severely injured, your wife will be placed and cared for in what we call a holding station where she will remain up to two days pending her evacuation to a hospital in Westchester or Nassau or perhaps New Jersey or Connecticut. As Dr. Burke explained, holding stations will be set up on main roads leading from the city at airports, piers, and rail terminals. Our plans provide for a central registration and information bureau to be operated by the Department of Welfare where all information concerning the injured will be available. The recording and identification of the injured will begin at the first aid stations and will be a continuous process as evacuation towards a definitive hospital facility proceeds. Well, suppose, Dr. Kogel, I'm injured near the center of a blast and the rubble is piled many feet high around me. How can ambulances get through to help me? Well, Mr. Leonard, you would be reached by rescue crews specially trained in the difficult job of rescuing persons trapped in all kinds of wreckage. Litter bearers from first aid stations will be in constant contact with these rescue crews and they'll take you from the hands of the rescue squads, give you first aid, and then take you on a stretcher to a first aid station. There, you will be given first aid on a professional level and then transported to a hospital. Ambulances will be placed as far forward as possible, but it may be necessary to hand carry patients from one first aid station to another before actually reaching an ambulance. How about dentists in civil defense, doctor? Have they any place on the team, so to speak? Oh, definitely. They can help in a most vital way. We count heavily on dentists and the work at first aid stations and these stations will circle the disaster area and several concentric rings. In these stations, additional shock prevention measures will be instituted. Hemorrhage will be controlled, splints applied and burn cases treated. Dentists, as well as nurses and other professional groups, including medical students, will act as assistants to the physician. In many cases, dentists will have to take the place of a physician. In addition, dentists will serve as anesthetists and they'll be under maxillofacial surgical teams in addition to performing their regular professional work in hospitals. Do you have, or do you plan to have, mobile first aid stations, doctor, or permanent stations? Well, Mr. Leonard, the first aid station must be essentially a mobile unit since we cannot, of course, predict the site of a bomb hit. Our plans call for fixing training locations in certain areas as aid stations and there are about 20 of these in each health district of the city. In all, we plan to set up 400 aid station teams. Personnel and all vehicles assigned to the locations, will go there as rapidly as possible in the event of a raid. The vehicles will carry the personnel and their equipment as close to the scene of a disaster as they can get. Some of the vehicles to be used, such as city buses, have wide doors and will double as ambulances if necessary. There are many volunteers, such as nurses' aides, doctor, who served during the last war and I was wondering, do they have to train all over again? Well, they actually do. For one thing, they have probably forgotten some of the techniques they learned and for another, there are some brand new techniques necessary now. At this point, I must emphasize that the keystone of the medical emergency service is the volunteer, the ordinary citizen who will pitch in to man our first aid stations or help us operate existing hospitals and hospital annexes. We could hardly scratch the surface of this emergency without the help of thousands of trained volunteer workers. In the event of a calamity such as is possible through the use of modern weapons, the existing services become the skeletons around which forms a tremendous volunteer organization which must carry out the work of rescue and life-saving. Thank you, Dr. Marcus Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals for New York City and Director of the City's Medical Emergency Division for Civil Defense. Next week, our topic will be food and water. Speakers, Dr. Omar Pankost of the City College of New York, consultant of the New York State Civil Defense Commission and Dr. Ted Rosenthal of the New York City Health Department. This is Bill Leonard reminding you again that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the 12th transcribed program in a series called Plan for Survival brought to you over a special emergency broadcasting network and next week we shall answer more questions your listeners have sent us, specifically those dealing with food and water. Our address is Plan for Survival Box 22 Murray Hill Station New York 16. Send us your questions and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember the only address you need, Plan for Survival Box 22 Murray Hill Station New York 16. We'll answer your questions as quickly as possible on subsequent programs. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.two北. kamu