From the north end of Jeanette Park in downtown Manhattan, your city station brings you the opening ceremonies of World Trade Week. Freer trade, key to peace and prosperity. In tribute to World Trade, His Honor, Mayor Impeletary, has issued a proclamation designating this entire week in celebration of the achievement of friendship, understanding and service, gained through interchange of the commodities by which nations live. In this year of grace, which marks the 300th anniversary of the birth of this great city, World Trade has special significance. The world recognizes the important role which New York City has played, is playing, and will continue to play in the fields of import and export. Under the supervision of Mr. James S. Carson, chairman of the New York World Trade Committee, a gale a week has been organized. Thirty-eight cooperating organizations, including important city officials, have contributed to the ultimate launching of the project, among which are the directors of that edifice just across the way from where these festivities are about to take place, namely the Seaman's Church Institute, who, together with the city, engineered the acquisition of this park, which commands a view of New York's magnificent and busy harbor. It is most fitting that this pageant be enacted upon this site, where it can be seen arriving and leaving the great carriers of cargos, making possible the bloodstream of world trade. Many people are gathered to enjoy the proceedings. In this colorful atmosphere, on this glorious May Day at high noon, we hail Port of Friendship Day. Ladies and gentlemen, here is Miss Anita Eskenderian with our national anthem. Oh, say can you see, by the lovely light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous night, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, And the rocket we drew, the monster stinging air, Ye flew through the night, that our neck was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled, Buried it wave, O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave. Thank you, Miss Eskenderian. Now it is my pleasure to introduce the Reverend Dr. Raymond S. Hall, Director of the Siemens Institute, who will deliver the invocation. Almighty and everlasting God and Father of us all, We ask thy blessing upon New York World Trade Week, And this Port of Friendship Day. Bless the maritime activities of this port, And all those who take part in them. Grant that the nations of the world, May be brought into the ways of justice and truth, That peace may come to all nations. Help us to see the importance of world trade, In providing peace and better understanding, Among all peoples. May each of us, in his way, Do his share, In promoting and lifting up this port of New York, So vital to the welfare of our city and nation. We remember particularly before thee, Those who go down to the sea in ships, And occupy their business in great waters. Be with them at sea, And guide them safely back to port, And remember their loved ones, Whom they leave behind. We thank thee for our free country. Give us a greater sense of our responsibility, To see that other countries, May enjoy the same blessing. These are prayers, We offer in the name of the master of men, Thy son, Jesus Christ, Our Lord. Amen. Amen. Here we go. The End The End The End The End And now a message from His Honor, Mayor Vincent R. Impalitari. Hi, Vincent R. Impalitari, Mayor of the City of New York. Present to Mr. James S. Carson, Chairman of the New York World Trade Week Committee, the following proclamation. Whereas the City of New York has attained its preeminent position as the commercial capital of the world by reason of its foreign trade, and whereas only through the acceptance of international commerce and mutual understanding by all nations of the earth, can there be assured lasting world peace and prosperity. And whereas in this, its tercentennial year, it is particularly fitting for the City of New York to commemorate and honor shipping and trade in this port in an earlier day. Now therefore, I, Vincent R. Impalitari, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim observance of the week of May 18th through May 22nd, 1953, as World Trade Week in New York City, by display of the American flag and the World Trade Week flag, and do invite our citizens and friends to join in a fitting consideration and understanding of the importance of international trade to the American economy and its relationship to the prosperity and peace of our nation and of the world. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 11th day of May 1953, Vincent R. Impalitari, Mayor. Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the New York World Trade Committee, which I head, I wish to thank you for issuing this proclamation. It will greatly aid us in our efforts to alert the public to the danger our country is facing if we take wrong steps in the international trade field. The ultimate aim of our enemies is to crush us economically, and this they can do if we forget that we are no longer a self-sufficient country and that to live and prosper we must import many vitally needed raw materials. In our educational effort, we are not only grateful for your help, but very particularly we appreciate the fine aid which the Department of Commerce of the City of New York has given. Let me, on this occasion, repeat our slogan, Freer Trade, Key to Peace and Prosperity. The End The End I am Father Knickerbocker, the historical and somewhat mythical personage, the trademark of our fair city. It is my honored and pleasant duty to accept, in the name of this island of Manhattan and this great city of ours, the felicitations of the rest of the world on this 300th anniversary of the birth of our city. I am happy, therefore, to represent that city as its symbol. But in reality, we all know this is a dual celebration. Since, with the program you are about to witness, we are launching the opening of our annual World Trade Week. I often wonder if all of our citizens fully realize the contribution of this old town of ours to the enhancement of worldwide trade. In case some of you need to have your remembrance refreshed and your memories reborn about our great port, I assure you that you will now enjoy the prospect of renewed vision regarding the greatness of this port in world trade, and my very good friend, Mr. District Attorney, who is known by that cognomen to millions of listeners. I am greatly honored to present to you Mr. J. J. Joston, Mr. District Attorney. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Civic Pride. Civic Pride. That badge we wear, heralding to all the world that we are part of the greatness and the wonders of that acreage that is the city of New York. Pride of the nation, nestling here within the fond embrace of the waters that surround her. Metropolis of the world, gateway to every foreign port, haven of accomplishment, giver of success to those who seek through proper thought and applied earnest labor the treasures hidden in every nook and cranny of her magnificent majesty. This, which once was called New Amsterdam, under the crusty governorship of mean heir Peter Stuyvesant. Yeah, New York you call it. That's that English influence. Ah, me, I call it New Amsterdam. For my motherland, Holland, by the side of the sea. Ah, me, what everything has so changed. Look, them big buildings. How you make them stand up so high? Ah, I just come from the bowling green. Yeah, over there, where we used to play at ninepins and drink that good beer. And our ladies danced with our lanceman. Yeah, with me, I danced too with this wooden stick I call a leg. Ah, ha, ha. Ah, your city. No wonder you celebrate. Three hundred years. I would never have believed it. Yeah, it is wonderful. Wonderful. Wonderful. Should old acquaintance be forgot And never brought to mind Should old acquaintance be forgot And days of old lang syne For old lang syne For all lang syne My dear For all lang syne We'll pay the companyמה of kindness yet Oh, no, I'm sorry. Three hundred years. To us, infinitesimal specks that crowd her streets, it would seem an eternity. But in the annals of time, it is no more than a day, making your city an infant compared with her elder sisters within the family of nations. Yet, view that rapid growth. In awe, we must needs gaze upon its mountainous skyline, its gorges and ravines that thread their way north and south and east and west. Let your eyes sail into its welcoming harbor, a waterway of beauty, a protecting liquid arm of strength and of safety, a truly fitting monument to that to which is dedicated this week in tribute to world trade. We stand now at the very brink of this world-famous port of call, this terminal of cargo ships come from across the seven seas, bringing the richness of the growth and manufacture of friendly nations for the better life of Americans. In token whereof, great seaworthy freighters knows their way out toward the oceans beyond to carry from this point to the ports of all the world that which is brought into being here in this, our blessed land to enrich the lives of others. And this is World Trade, lifeblood of intercomers, artery of friendship, heart of peaceful relations, the ever-inordinate hope of him who on his great white steed proudly rode along the very street upon which we now stand to what is now the sub-treasury building to take the oath of office on becoming this nation's first president, His Excellency George Washington. Though I do not favor, nor will I, as your president, countenance any entangling alliances with other countries, I will foster every effort to promote the interchange of commerce. Because I believe in this way, we will not only profit monetarily, but also enjoy a state of friendship and peace. Who will come to the sea with me as far as a ship can go? Never care where the port may be, Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho, will come to the sea with me and hear the fresh wind blow. Our sails' life is born and free. Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho, Yo-ho, yo-ho, Welcome to the sea with me The voices of seamen, The hearty voices of men who have gone down to the sea in ships. Ships, once hulking windjammers that weathered bravely the stormiest of seas, their sails beating their rhythmic tattoos in defiance of the wind, and which once strained at their moorings at this very pier where the famous savannah was built centuries ago. Ships bearing in their holds the bounty of many lands, plying their missions port to port in the interest of world trade. Sea chantees, and the men who sing them, mariners all, who lend their brawn that interchange of commerce might never cease, but grow into a mighty bulwark of peace and of understanding and of sharing. Here, from this point of vantage, I look with appreciative eye upon a building devoted to the well-being of those who ply the sea. There it stands, the Seaman's Church Institute. Surely, Saint Elmo, patron saint of men of the sea, must have inspired the donors of that all-embracing edifice. To some, its home and school and church and sustenance. A beacon light guiding the lonely to comforting rest and cordial fellowship. YAHO! YAHO! YAHO! YAHO! From across the sea, from out of the Indies, there came a man of destiny to these shores. How fitting that we remember him on this eventful day, as we stand here on the very fringe of the greatest financial district in all the world? Are we not forcibly reminded of this man who, with fealty and intelligence, strove to elevate this new nation high upon a solid monetary foundation? He strove and won and died upon the field of honor. Lest we forget, he was Alexander Hamilton. Laker to come again. Laker — Laker Now that I have renounced all allegiance to king and the country to which I was subject and have cast my lot in love and loyalty, here with these colonies, I have set myself to work but for one end. No nation can long survive when its financial status trembles on the brink of bankruptcy. Security is the goal toward which I will strive. My method in attaining this objective will be criticized and I shall make many enemies in the process. But in spite of all obstacles, I will succeed and these colonies will flourish and become the envy of other nations. מיריações The End The End What is a pageant? It is a cavalcade made to inspire us, the living, with a keen respect for those who struggled, that those who came after might enjoy the fruits of their sacrifice. To the end that you might, as you leave, to go about your appointed tasks, carry with you a sense of your responsibilities. We have used this hour, and now I take my leave bidding you Godspeed. The End Oh, beautiful for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain, For purple mountains' majesty above the prudent thing. America, America, God shed his praise on thee, And promise with joy, God, from sea to shining sea. In the name of the city, of which I have the honor to appear as the symbol, I hail this pageant as an inspiring tribute on this 300th anniversary of the birth of our great community, And also for its outstanding contribution to world trade. I know that every citizen having witnessed this opening prelude to a week of celebration, And everyone, too, out there on the airwaves, Feel the same sense of pride and high elation for our city And its contribution to world trade and commerce, as I do. But we want a tangible expression from you all at the moment, And so, for that, I present the guiding spirit of this World Trade Week, The chairman of the World Trade Week Committee, A most distinguished citizen, Mr. James S. Carson, Who will speak for you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Indeed it is, Father Knickerbocker. What a glory is this great city and port. Where can it be matched in the world, Where indeed, in all recorded history, We love New York, and with good cause. One of the aims of the New York World Trade Committee Is to tell those who do not understand us How fine are our aims And why we are really a port of friendship As this day has been designated on our program. Washington, one of our revered founders of the nation, With all his vision and foresight, Could not have foreseen our amazing growth. 700 miles of waterfront, More than 10,000 ships of all flags Entering and leaving each year. Hundreds of millions of dollars Invested in shipping, docks, and warehouses. The story is more magical Than any of the Arabian night tales. We as a committee Are engaged in a great educational effort. We want to get over to our citizens That we are no longer a self-sufficient nation. We cannot live and prosper Without many raw materials Which we can only produce abroad. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We must buy Not only to sell abroad But to produce at home. In this era of world tension We must never forget That the ultimate aim Of communist Russia Is to crush the United States economically. Korea Indochina And other battlefields Tragic as they may be Are but bloody interludes. To crush us trade-wise Is the final aim of the Kremlin. They will never succeed If we become economically literate. We must have freer international trade To avoid economic disaster at home. The great court of New York Should lead in a campaign For enlightenment. For enlightenment. And for increased world trade abroad. That was Mr. James S. Carson The distinguished chairman of World Trade Week. And now We are all honored By the presence Of the senior deputy commissioner Of the Department of Commerce Of the city of New York Who represents the city And has had a large part In guiding The affairs Of World Trade Week With Mr. James S. Carson Therefore I have the honor To present to you At this moment The honorable Frank J. Connaughton Mr. Chairman Jim O'Brien Distinguished guests And ladies and gentlemen Assembled here today The purpose of our program Today Initiating New York World Trade Week Is to depict the maritime development Of this city Over a 300 year span And stress the importance Of our harbor And foreign commerce To the city's growth Since the year 1653 Following in the wake Of Henry Hudson Dutch sea captains Such as Christensen And Bloch Explored every nook And inlet Of New York harbor And set the stage For the appearance Of the Dutch West Indies Company And subsequent Colonization New York then Was the first colony To be established Specifically For the purpose of trade And commerce is The heritage Of this port Following the cargo sloops And those early times Came the transition From sail to steam Culminating in today's Luxurious superliners And the changes In method And the scale Of commerce In the port Of New York Has been no less Than the advances In the ships Themselves Through the years Countless organizations And groups Have contributed To this record Of progress More than anyone else The Siemens Church Institute Has been responsible For and epitomizes New York's global reputation As a part Of friendship Founded in 1834 This institute Has grown to be The largest shore home In the world For active merchant seamen Of all races And creeds Conditions for seamen Have materially improved During the past century But the nature Of their work Still denies them Normal social advantages And home life The institute Through its diverse services Fills this void In their lives For that reason Your New York World Trade Week Committee And the Department Of Commerce Are happy to welcome The Siemens Church Institute of New York As a sponsor Of this port Of friendship day Exercises I want to thank you all For being present Praise God From whom all blessings flow Praise Him Earth reaches In the earth Praise Him Over the heavenly host Praise Mother Son And Holy Ghost Ladies and gentlemen I am now privileged To present The Reverend Dr. Raymond S. Hall Of the Siemens Church Institute Who will impart The benediction Dr. Hall Will you be seated please I am supposed to occupy A few minutes Before the benediction Father Knickerbocker Honored guests And you people Out there And particularly You seamen It's a pleasure To be here today It was a search For new trade routes To the east That resulted In the discovery Of the western hemisphere Those who had sailed For silks and spices Were denied The wealth Of the Indies But as one surveys This hemisphere today He must conclude That the consolation prize Was not half bad The accidental discovery Of America Is but one example Of the results That can flow From trading With our neighbors In other parts Of the globe In trading things Men trade ideas And in trading ideas Men grow in their Understanding of each other So it is That the story Of world trade Is a story Of the spread Of civilization And culture And so it was trade That sent men Down to the sea In ships To perform The hard and lonely Task of floating The world's freight From one shore To the other As men have grown Skilled in sailing So have their nations Flourished Through the development Of trade As a young country America rose rapidly To an important role In world trade Mainly because In an age of wooden ships She was a land Of splendid forests These American forests Encouraged the building Of our own wooden vessels Which soon came to carry An important share Of the world's International trade This development By America Of a large merchant fleet In turn Fostered the growth Of our other Native industries By offering them Access to the world's markets Our great American Clipper fleet Once carried 25% of all International trade We now carry A bare 5% American ships Once carried Between 80 and 90% Of the goods That went in and out Of American ports We now carry Less than 25% Except in wartime When we demand And so far Very luckily Have always gotten Miracles From our merchant marine When America Thinks of its war heroes It had better not Forget the men Who come and go At the Seaman's Church Institute Across the street Many of the men In this audience Here today I know Have been torpedoed More than once On the Merman's grunt During the last war We saw many go Who never checked In again And unless we are Absolutely convinced That peace is upon us America had better Build itself Some first class ships Or we risk Having to send These men out In the rusted And obsolete fleet That won the last war Peace or war The American merchant marine Must go forward With the rest of the nation Free a trade Among the nations Of the world Will inevitably Result In increased Cargo hauling As countries Develop special products They must rely upon change In order to meet Their economic needs Shipping will have A greater delivery job In the future Than it has in the past And there is no reason Why America Should not play A strong hand In this maritime activity But above all Our defense needs Should stimulate us To prepare for the job As he walks down The gangplank The seaman Is a man away From home And it is up To the people In the port city That he enters To help him Find some other substitute And that's exactly What the people In this greatest Of all ports Have done In the case Of the building Across the street As private citizens They have provided A great building And the means For recreating The atmosphere And benefits Of home life The city of New York Is celebrating Its 300th anniversary The seaman's church institute Is not quite Half as old But it is old enough To remember The part of town When it was far different From what it is today For the institute Goes back to the first half Of the last century When the waterfront Was a forest Of yards and spars And when the wagoners Duck their heads To clear the bowsprits Of sailing ships Nosed in along South street In those days The institute itself Was tied along the shore For it was a small church Built on a barge When we gave up Our mobility We did it For a good reason The boarding houses That catered to seaman Along South street Like the waterfront Boarding houses In most ports Of the last century Were scenes of Crimping and Shanghai Seaman were like Pawns And a vicious racket Worked by these Boarding house masters Who by various means Ranging from whiskey And women To opium And brute force Managed to gain custody Of most of the crew Of every ship That docked When a ship Wanted to sail Its master Had to go to a boarding house To get a crew together And they had to pay So much a man In order to be able To collect these fees The crimper The crimper would often Shanghai some of his Borders With a lacing of dope In their soup Or whiskey These seamen Could be put aboard Like so many Sacks of meal The seaman Might not only Wake up on his way To the far east But he might also Find that his first Two months salary Had been paid in advance To the crimper Who had shanghaied him These crimpers Would not even Play fair with the masters More than one captain Paid a hundred dollars For a man Who never woke up at all He had simply Bought a corpse These were the practices Of the waterfront Boarding houses That prompted The seamen's church institute To establish Lodging accommodations The seamen's needs Were more than spiritual A vicious circle Had to be broken And it was broken But it was not easy As long as A boarding house master Had the job Market corner At the turn of the century A brave clergyman Dr. Archibald Mansfield Who was then director Of the seamen's church institute Opened an employment bureau At number three state street Thus openly challenging The crimpers It was a tough battle And it caused bloodshed As crimper gangs Tried to prevent Dr. Mansfield's men From shipping Dr. Mansfield's life Was repeatedly threatened And it may surprise you To learn That the New York Crimper's ring Was not broken Until after The present institute building Was opened In 1913 The ground on which We stand today Was filled in To secure our building To a bedrock foundation Great caissons Of steel and concrete Had to be sunk To a depth Of 200 feet The history of Seaman's church institute Like the history Like the foundation Beneath the building itself Reaches well back Into the history Of our poor We stand firmly On our record of service To the city Achieved through Serving the men Without whom This could not have been A great city The men of the merchant marine On this occasion Of the 300th anniversary Of the city of New York The Seaman's church institute Is glad For the opportunity To join the city And the New York World Trade Committee In a prayer That international Tensions will cease And that a program Of freer trade Will indeed Prove to be The key to peace And prosperity For this city And for every other Port and hamlet The world around Let us pray Under God's gracious Mercy and protection We commit our port And nation Our ships And the men Who sail them The Lord bless us And keep us The Lord make his face To shine upon us And keep us The Lord lift up His countenance Upon us And give us peace And prosperity As we seek One world Where all nations May work together And where all men Are free Amen The Lord bless you This tribute Was made possible Through the efforts Of Mr. James S. Carson Chairman of the New York World Trade Week Committee And the Siemens Church Institute And Dr. Raymond S. Hall We recognize The concerted efforts Of the 38 Cooperating organizations We thank The Senior Deputy Commissioner Of the Department of Commerce Of the City of New York The Honorable Frank J. Connaughton And Deputy Commissioner Morgan Sheehan Our thanks to Mr. Frank Brainerd Director of the Bureau Of Information Of the American Merchant Marine Our thanks also To the New York Fire Department Band Under the direction Of Deputy Chief George F. Brigo The United States Merchant Marine Academy Of Kings Point Long Island The North Shore Men's Glee Club For the rendition Of authentic sea chanties By the balladeers Under the direction Of Mr. Avery Lottner Miss Anita Eskenderian For her fine vocal selections Mr. J. Justin For his outstanding narration In this pageant also For Mr. James O'Brien Who was seen In his famous role Of Father Knickerbocker Humphrey Davis Was Peter Stuyvesant Fred Hildebrand Was George Washington And Bramwell Fletcher Was Alexander Hamilton The script and direction Were by Maurice Barrett This special broadcast In celebration Of World Trade Week Was brought to you From Jeanette Park In downtown Manhattan By your city station The Philistine The End The End The End The End The End The End We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The End