Now, the occasion today is the inauguration of the new 20KW FM transmitter of your city station. The men of the city station, our own engineers, have been working like beavers, shall we say, since the beaver is in the coat of arms of the city of New York from the early Dutch settlement. And in the last two weeks, an amazing amount of progress. In fact, an engineering factor has been established here with the speed with which this FM transmitter has been installed through the able direction of the Western Electric engineers, Mr. Pounds and Mr. Lyle, and then our own engineer, Mr. Pitkin, and Mr. Gerstein, FM transmitter supervisor, and the staff of the city station. Now, Mr. Siegel, director of radio communications for the city of New York, has brought together a very interesting group, and we're going to ask some of our speakers here today, the important ones, because there are so many, we cannot take the time for all. And who would you suggest, Mr. Siegel, we bring over first? Well, suppose I start things off, Tommy. Mr. Deputy Mayor, WNYC FM is about ready to go into operation. This is an extremely proud moment for the staff of the municipal broadcasting system, because our engineers have worked very closely with the engineers of the Western Electric Company in installing this transmitter in a record-breaking short time. When you throw the switch, Mr. Deputy Mayor, a new era in public service broadcasting for the people of this city will begin, because for the first time in the history of the city's broadcasting, WNYC FM will be on a par with any other FM station in the metropolitan area. Now, Mr. Deputy Mayor, we have with us, we're honored to have with us, the inventor of FM, of frequency modulation, Major Edwin Armstrong. There probably is no other individual in the United States who has contributed more to radio broadcasting as we know it today than Major Armstrong, and I would like to ask him to say a word or two on this occasion when FM broadcasting is being inaugurated by the city of New York. Major Armstrong, would you say a word? On an occasion such as this, it's really very hard to express how an inventor feels. I can only say, as a citizen of New York and as a native-born New Yorker, how proud I am to be here on an occasion like this, and to tell you all how much I know, how I know what you must have been through here. to get the engineering and to get the program technique and to put into operation what you have here today, a top-flight radio station from a top-flight manufacturer. Now, let me personally say to you how much I appreciate the work that Mr. Lack and the Western Electric Company have done for FM. He and I were overseas in World War I, and not until FM started did I come into contact with him again. He threw behind FM the full resources of Western Electric, and with that product which you now have, and with the technique which the staff of WNYC has developed, I want to tell you that next summer, in the middle of the static and the lightning storms, with Goldman's bands on the air, the citizens of this city have a treat in store for them. And I can tell you that I will be one of the first to listen to it. Thank you very much for the privilege of being here today. Thank you, Major. And now, Mr. Lack, would you say a word? Mr. Lack of the... Oh, by all means, sir. Mr. Deputy Mayor, Mr. Siegel, Major Armstrong, friends, the installation and today's dedication of your new 20-kilowatt frequency modulation transmitter is an appropriate event in the celebration of New York City's golden anniversary. Representing the newest and best in radio broadcasting, it is symbolic of New York City's advancement and typical of the station's continuing program in public service. The Western Electric Company and the Bell Telephone Laboratories have been privileged to be associated with the development of the municipal broadcasting system since its very beginning. During the years, as the arc of radio progressed, and as the city's requirements for radio services increased, new facilities were added, constantly maintaining the station's position of leadership. One of the important services rendered by your city's station to the people of New York is their programs for cultural advancement, including many broadcasts of fine music. Thus, after Major Armstrong's invention of frequency modulation, it was only natural that WNYC should be one of the first to utilize this improved method of broadcast transmission. In 1943, the station installed one of the first Western Electric 1-kilowatt FM transmitters for its station W39NY, operating on a frequency of 49.3 megacycles. At that time, the new frequency... At the time the new frequency assignments were made by the Federal Communication Commission, Western Electric made the necessary changes in the city's equipment. The step today in increasing the transmitted power to an effective 20 kilowatts, together with the installation of the Cloverleaf antenna, increases the power of your station to its maximum power approved by the FCC, and makes this station second to none, not only in New York, but in the United States. This step assures the citizens of the metropolitan area quality coverage for your station's fine program. The municipal broadcasting system's leadership in this field is well established by the receipt of every radio award for public service. That Western Electric, as manufacturer of much of this equipment, could thus participate in helping making this... You make this station an object of civic pride has always been a source of satisfaction to us. We congratulate you, your associates, and the personnel of WNYC and WNYC-FM, on your new facilities, and extend to you our best wishes for continued success in your service to the citizens of New York. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Lack. Now, Mr. Deputy Mayor, Colonel Bennett. Mr. Siegel, Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Lack, and fellow citizens, the mayor had looked forward with a great deal of pleasure to being here at this opening of WNYC-FM, but unfortunately, the press of business wouldn't permit. He's asked me, however, to send to you, Mr. Siegel, and all those who are connected with WNYC, his congratulations on another fine achievement by the city. We are very happy in the city administration at the fact that we do have WNYC. Not only is it an adjunct of the city government, but we believe that it has been a source of great pleasure to the people of the city of New York. And in line with the mayor's idea of carrying programs, not only of entertainment, but also of cultural value, we now come to another innovation, that of adding FM to the title WNYC. The mayor is happy that this event has occurred during the 50th anniversary celebration of the consolidation of the city of New York. He's asked me also to send his respects, as well as his thanks, to Major Edwin Armstrong, who is, I'm sure you all know, really the father of frequency modulation in radio broadcasting. Major, I'm sure that it's a great pleasure to all of the people of the city of New York to know that you're here with us in the station. We're happy, finally, to have an FM station. And we know that if it hadn't been for the life work which you have devoted to this particular form of radio broadcasting, we would not be today starting out with this FM station. And to you, Mr. Lack, the mayor sends through you to Western Electric his thanks for the speed-up work. And to you, the citizens of New York, Mayor Dwyer has asked me to say to you that he knows that you will get great enjoyment as well as cultural value from the station that is now about to go into operation. And to say to you also that he assures you that as time goes on and science provides other methods of bringing services to the people of the city of New York, he will only be too happy to put them into installation here, not only at this station but in other parts of the city. Because what he's interested in is a bigger and a better city, a city of which all of us can be proud, a city which is doing all of those things for its citizens which the mayor wants to have done. Thank you very much, Seymour. Thank you very much, Colonel. And now, sir, if you'll step up and throw the switch. Thank you. Can we take over, sir? We have to give the photographers a moment now so they can get their cameras set. And Deputy Mayor Bennett is about to throw the switch that will put into service the FM 20KW transmitter of the municipal broadcasting system, WNYC, as Mayor Bennett said, with the added important affix FM. Now, ready? Now, ready? Mayor Bennett has just thrown the switch and the FM transmitter goes into service to the people of the city of New York. Those familiar with the technique of FM from an engineering standpoint know what a tremendous augmentation of facility and communication this will be. Radio has a pleasant responsibility to entertain, but it has a definite and positive responsibility to inform, instruct, and enlighten. And with this additional 20KW FM transmitter, the City of New York is better able to meet any emergency that may occur in the city and serve the people of the City of New York through the great medium of radio communication in its FM translation. In the presence of the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, Mayor Bennett, Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Communications of the City of New York, Mr. Frederick R. Lack, Vice President and Manager for Radio of the Western Electric of its radio division, and Major Edwin H. Armstrong, the inventor of FM, and a distinguished company, including our Budget Commissioner, Mr. Patterson, because without the budget, we don't get any money to spend, and he has been most cooperative on instructions from the Mayor to see that everything possible was achieved here in the way of purchasing power to make it possible to put this new service into you, into your homes, people, of the City of New York, and now WNYC-FM is yours for service.
