Good evening. From the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria, your city station brings you the after-dinner ceremonies of the gold medal award dinner of the Williamsburg Settlement of Brooklyn. Governor Thomas E. Dewey is the guest of honor tonight and is to receive the award for being the person who in the past year has done outstanding work for the underprivileged and who typifies the American way of life. Others participating in the program are Mayor Vincent Aram Pelletieri, John Foster Dulles, Vladimir Popovic, the Yugoslav ambassador to the United States, humorist Harry Hirshfield and Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers. The master of ceremonies is Happy Felton who is speaking to us now. Here now is Mr. Felton. I'm informed that we are about to go on the radio and as an old tired announcer of longstanding, I only think it's fair to tell all the people that are listening in out there that you are listening to the annual gold medal award dinner in honor of the honorable Thomas E. Dewey, governor of the state of New York, which is sponsored by the Williamsburg Settlement Incorporated and the Brooklyn Philanthropic League Incorporated, the United Order of True Sisters. Toastmaster is Happy Felton and now we've taken care of all the billing, haven't we? May I introduce to you, by the way, I met a most charming gentleman seated to my left on the day. And he asked me to read his telegram. I have it here and I want you to meet Ambassador Popovic, the our ambassador from Yugoslavia. And if he'll stand, I'll be glad to read his message. If you'd like to read his message. Thank you. Thank you. Says, congratulations, Governor Dewey. I am very happy to be here on this auspicious occasion for such a worthy cause. And it's signed, Vladimir Popovic. Thank you. My pleasure to introduce next to you the honorable Robert F. Wagner, Jr., president of the Borough of Manhattan and a sponsor of the Williamsburg Settlement, Mr. Wagner. Mr. Felton, Governor Dewey, Mayor Impeletary, distinguished officers of the Williamsburg Settlement, and ladies and gentlemen. It's been often said that those who stoop to help stand erect before their fellow men. And that is so true of everyone who has done so much to make the Williamsburg settlement such a great thing for the kids of the city of New York. And I'm also very happy to have the privilege of extending my congratulations on the award to Governor Thomas E. Dewey, not only because he is a most distinguished governor in the traditions of the governors of the state of New York, but because he has been a great, great international voice for all of us here in America in the fight for freedom and democracy for which we all pray. Thank you very, very much. May I introduce another sponsor of the Williamsburg Settlement, a most important one. Assistant U.S. Attorney, former Justice of the Domestic Relations Court, the Honorable Florence Perlow Shintag. Dear Governor, the Gold Medal Award and so many of our friends here this evening say that you put public service above partisanship. That, I believe, is true in the larger sense. I know, too, that even in your lesser appointments to public office, you have been non-political and non-partisan. Because I, a Democrat, am an example of that. For when we were both young, Governor, and when you were special prosecutor, you appointed me to your staff. From then on, Governor Dewey's appointments have been getting better and better. A few years ago, he appointed my husband to higher judicial office than he had therefore held. But the governor, as Ms. Todd has said, and as Frank Hogan, who was also on his staff, has indicated, has ever been an inspiration to those who have worked with him. And we know that history will show, even more than we can say, how great your contribution to the American scene, to the state, and to the nation, to the world at large, have been. Thank you very much. It is my privilege now to introduce a gentleman speaking for myself. I had the privilege of working with him on the Sandlot program in baseball, which is naturally very close to my heart last year. He did a magnificent one-man job. He's a sponsor of the Williamsburg Settlement. And I guess more important than that to all of us, he's our mayor, the Honorable Vincent R. Mr. Impelletari. Happy Felton, Your Excellency Governor Dewey, ladies and gentlemen. The chair lady came over to Ambassador Austin and myself and limited us, limited both of us, to 50 words in a telegram. And I'm going to abide by that admonition. My telegram reads as follows. Addressed to Mrs. Gertrude Ammerman, Care of Thousands of Grateful Children, Hotel Waldorf Astoria. The annual gold medal award dinner of the Williamsburg Settlement has definitely earned its place as a New York City tradition. You have made an excellent choice in selecting for your accolade the first citizen of the state of New York who has always given intense devotion to the charitable causes which you represent. To Governor Dewey, my personal congratulations and the congratulations and the appreciation of all the people of my city. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And now may I introduce to you the father of all the Brooklyn Settlements, who's been active in every good cause and a sponsor of the Williamsburg Settlement, Justice of the Supreme Court State of New York, and the founder of Youth United, the Honorable George J. Beldock. Mr. Governor, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, when they came to me, they ran out of telegrams. And so I had to write my message on this piece of paper, but you'll understand that that's the reason why perhaps I'll run beyond the 50 words, Mr. Mayor. The emphasis tonight is on youth and on your youthful Governor Dewey for his great contribution to the service of youth welfare in the state. Now, Governor, I've said many things about you through the years, and they were all very good. And I know that the people assembled on this dais can say the same. You have great many achievements to your credit, from the days when you started as a fearless federal prosecutor, those exciting days in the district attorney's office, the great days as governor of our state, the office that you've served in the past 10 years so nobly, your work as a statesman, as a great leader, as an orator, as a candidate for high national office, and recently as an orator. But I, tonight, put foremost on the list of your accomplishments the work that you did in leading the state, the vision that you had in showing us the way in the creation of the New York State Youth Board. And time doesn't permit to tell you all why I put that at the head of the list. And second on the list, Governor, I place your leadership in creating the New York State Commission Against Discrimination. The New York Youth Board that is saving our children, that is making health healthy citizens for our communities, the commission against discrimination that is combating bias, particularly in the field of education. Those two achievements alone are sufficient for me to say you've earned this gold medal award tonight. We look forward to your leadership. We look forward to your health. We all wish for you the best of everything in this world. God bless you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce the most attractive young lady, 17 years old, who made her debut in Rome at the age of 15 in the Barber of Seville. She's going to sing for you now. She was born in Buffalo, New York, and she is very soon going to do a concert at Carnegie Hall. Colettura Soprano, Miss Jeanette LaBianca. Shall we give her a nice welcome? Thank you. She was born in affects her and she is very strong, she as 12uk0F, who awake for their Machina around the age of 15 in the Cities. She was born in Bailey. She was born in Illinois at home, History in the Garden at a time of Lono at the 12 and she, she was born in Geneva. It was born ininformatingly with her mother. TheIST The Maria's father will be born with her mother, she reminds me the tremendous witness, she views her daughter her daughter. It's been a ritual to her boyfriend, the cupcakes of her life and the marriage of She loved her mother, she continues to her daughter. It was born inança for their Song of the Year. She was born inô<|ms|> bridges when she was born in her daily age of 19 of July. She faced the weight of the realizacporn of the보다 to her mother. il so I'm contenta, I'll rest her. Si, l'imdo, Romino, darà la, giurà i la, vincerò. Si, l'imdo, son a Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I will now sing the audition song from Fledermas. You should see how I do. By the shore on genoux, I sing and dance and wave my fan. And I get in my man. He says to me, a little day, a walk. He holds my hand, we hardly walk. We run this lonely through the park. The lights fade out, the stage is dark. La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la. When you see the way I can actually play, the fact is absolutely clear. That a girl like me, a girl like me, who was born for a future career. When I play mare in pompadour, I do it with l'amour, l'amour. Flitting here and flitting there, I run, ah, a little face of the mare. I have become the part behind the throne. I've got ten maples of my own. Proud and stately, and the fine serene. I am every future queen. standing and flowers for a girl like me. Now, let her may be. When you meet the decent ski scenes. With their beach curly lines. Yeah, we all work,위 the camaraderie. At theadian cracks are little bones, but they always call right away. Where a girl like me, a girl like me, was born of a age free. I made a young sleeping wife, oh la la, oh la la, through the board with Mary's wife, oh la la, oh la la la. But my husband, he did all my feet, oh la la, oh la la, who cannot quite give up with me, oh la la. I made a young sleeping wife, oh la la, we fall in love and run away. In time to time, we try to become, oh la la, I don't know, I don't know. I made a young sleeping wife, oh la la, oh, la la, oh la la. I'm a woman, I don't know, I don't know. And I am a woman, I don't know. I don't know. I'm a woman, I don't know. Um, Thank you very much, Thank you. Wasn't she charming? Lovely. Thank you so much, Miss LaBianca. May I introduce to you, ladies and gentlemen, Chairman of the Buffalo Council of the State Commission Against Discrimination, Grandmaster of the Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York, the Honorable Ward B. Arbery. Governor Dewey, happy Felton, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, how pleasant it is for one Buffalonian to follow another who has so ably and charmingly represented our fair city here this evening. I have been asked to send a telegram to this splendid gathering of about 50 words, and here it is. I am proud and happy to represent the Masonic Fraternity of the State of New York in this splendid tribute to a fine humanitarian effort and an honor of a very great humanitarian. I am proud and happy to find so many distinguished Masons, including our guest of honor, reflecting great credit on our organization through their support of this very fine organization. Stop. 58 words. Thank you. I suppose I could get quite eloquent in introducing the next man to you. He happens to be a very close friend of mine. Most of his troubles and tribulations and deeds are a matter of history, so that I'm only going to say that he's one of the finest gentlemen I've ever met. And I think tonight he'd like to be introduced as the father of David, about two days old. Here's a friend of mine, Jackie Robinson, ladies and gentlemen. Very cute. Very cute. Very cute. Thank you. Governor Dewey, Mayor Impeletere, honored guests and friends, they didn't give me a telegram. But I do want to say that I think we should certainly give thanks to Mrs. Ammerman and all of those associated with the Williamsburg settlement, because I certainly think that it's organizations such as this that are sort of welding our future. Anytime any group takes an interest like they are doing in our youth, they're really doing something. I think that they should certainly be commended for it. And I know the organization to be commended for choosing a man such as Governor Dewey. He's really a worthy choice for this wonderful honor, and he's done so much for our youth that it certainly gives me a great deal of pleasure to be here on this day as with him and with all these other fine people. So again, I want to say thanks to Mrs. Ammerman and all those that gave me this opportunity to be associated, shall I say, with such a wonderful organization. Thank you so much. I'm especially glad, Jack, that you didn't tire yourself out because we need you tomorrow. Oh, this is a real pleasure, meeting an old friend. Several years ago, as the theatrical saying goes, we trooped every hamlet and cross corners, every general store in the state of New York. A wonderful trooper. I can speak for that. But you people know him as a great public servant and a statesman. The Honorable John Foster Dulles. The Honorable John Foster Dulles. Thank you. The Honorable John Foster Dulles. The Honorable John Foster Dulles. This is Ammerman and Mr. Felton. I had no idea until I saw my name on the program that I was expected to take other than a purely listening part tonight. but fortunately the subject of your gathering is one which does not require me to do any new research before I can speak of it with authority. I did my research about 25 years ago, I think it was, and the result of it was that I then invited the then young Tom Dewey to be my partner. Well, we've been partners ever since. In a broader and more satisfying and more enduring way than if we had had the merely professional partnership that we contemplated at that time. That has been one of the great joys of my life. A great, magnificent mind, driven by a heart, stout and courageous, and the whole dedicated to public service. That is a combination that is hard to match. In my opinion, it cannot be matched. And you have done tonight a worthy thing in honor of a man who is unique. And I assure you it is a great privilege for me to participate in this tribute to Governor Dewey. Thank you, Mr. Dulles. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the end of my little pleasure that I've had here this evening. It's been a great pleasure, may I tell you that. When I introduce to you the president of the Williamsburg Settlement, and in this case, I am going to give you a list of credits, shall I say. A member of the Board of Directors of the United Neighborhood Houses, Association of Brooklyn Settlements, National Jewish Welfare Board, secretary of the Board of the Visitors of Pilgrim State Hospital, and the past president of Brooklyn, number 27, United Order of True Sisters. The lady who really put this together. And she is going to read for you The Cavalcade of an American. Mrs. Benjamin Ammerman. Thank you. I'm going to push this back. Mr. Toastmaster, Governor Dewey, Your Excellencies, honored guests, and friends. This is the story of an American, a most extraordinary man, a product of the land of opportunity, who stands as an example to you and to me, that heritage from family of princely domain is never required for American fame. Take heart from the story I'm about to relate that obscurity will not determine your fate. In Owasso, a remote Michigan town, a boy named Tom Dewey was wearing no crown. His father, a journalist of moderate wealth, endowed Tom with only the blessing of health. Between going to school where his grades were quite good, he worked in a drugstore, on a farm, chopping wood, in a print shop, running errands with the utmost good cheer, till he saved enough money for his first college year. Then to college, where the study of music intrigued him. Neither schoolwork, nor writing, nor singing fatigued him. His effort was all the price he could afford, but a music scholarship was his reward. A scholarship provided by the money of those who would give their support to a boy on his toes. From music, Tom turned to Columbia Law and graduated with a high scholarship score. Then he hustled and plugged, gave his best to each trial, and attracted attention by his hard-working style. Attracted attention from a man unafraid to make someone so young chief assistant and aide. And thus, at the remarkable age of 29, Tom Dewey, in the U.S. Attorney's Office, did shine. First assistant, then chief, to the echo of cheers, as he vigorously fought gangsters, rats, racketeers, after that special prosecutor, till the memorable day when the people of Manhattan elected Tom Dewey, their DA. The mature racketeer of Tom was afraid, but the juvenile delinquent enlisted his aide, and in a career devoted to the search for truth, he quickly demonstrated his affection for youth. He urged special treatment for the youthful offender, a punishment corrective, but nonetheless tender. In 1938, he received nomination for the governor's chair, New York's highest station. He ran, was defeated, but with American grit, Tom years later, tried again, and this time, he was it. After four years of service, as per promises made, Tom ran once again, and again made the grade, with the greatest majority in the history of the state, the citizens of New York left to Dewey their fate, and again in 1950, to the echo of cheers, they returned Tom to office for another four years. Ask the question, who did this statesman assist? You'll find children at the very top of his list. Improved housing, education, aid to settlement work. There was no social problem Tom Dewey would shirk. Discrimination he fought and pushed laws to protect every race, creed, and color with the utmost effect. As his humanitarian deeds multiplied, with honors by colleges and schools he was plied. Illinois, Michigan, Tufts, and Brown awarded Tom Dewey their scholastic crown. Dartmouth, St. Lawrence, Union, Fordham, NYU, Alfred, Hamilton, Colgate, and Columbia, too. William, St. Bonaventure, and in 1951, Yeshiva University, for the good he had done. So the story reaches its climax, you see. Do you have an idea what the moral might be? In America, children, when born, have the chance of a sister the right way to rise and enhance the land that we live in, the culture we make. And that's why, Governor Dewey, we ask you to take this token, a humble but fitting reward, the Williamsburg Settlement Gold Medal Award, which brands you a self-made American man. May God give you strength to go on as you began. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very well. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Ammerman, Mrs. Hartman, happy, distinguished guests, good friends, that is the first and only palatable award I ever received because it was done in delightful verse and in such fluent and charming fashion and I am very grateful indeed. No one, of course, could be worth all of those kind sentiments and no one is good enough to receive the nice things that people say about him, but it always makes you feel good to think that people are willing to utter them even though it's not under oath. frankly, I think that I should express to all of you an apology. I have been in public life for 20 years, principally by accident, and finally, at the end of eight years as governor of New York, Columbia, anticipating correctly as I understood it, that I was about to retire from public life and have a chance to earn a living, insisted that they had never had an alumnus who was governor for whom they did not give a dinner. And for the first and only time in my life there was a dinner given in my honor which was made equally palatable with this one by the elfin wit and knife-like humor of that renegated assistant of mine, the distinguished district attorney of New York County, Frank Hogan. Always before that and always up until this moment I have refused to let anybody run a dinner for me, although I have attended a very large number of dinners for others. And least of all did I expect my friends to be put upon to come here and say words that they probably don't believe. to all of them I apologize. I agreed to accept the award because I knew that it was very pleasant and very generous and also because I knew that I would be the instrument by which we would make a little money for the Williamsburg settlement. but I did not expect to be a central theme and therefore to the extent that my friends have been dragooned to come here and others have been stood up to bear false witness I apologize to them. I must say that in one of the most beautifully managed dinners I have ever seen in which they got more people on and off the stage faster than in any other time in history the only flaw has been that the religions are a little mixed and it's very amusing. Now I'm sure that somebody thought that I must be a Presbyterian perhaps because Foster Dulles and I have been such good friends for so many years he being one of the leading Presbyterians of the United States in the world and perhaps that was the reason that they asked Dr. Wolf to give the invocation but they're confused I am an Episcopalian but perhaps also it was because they discovered that my son is going around with Dr. Wolf's daughter and that was the reason. or perhaps it was by way of atonement for the fact that his daughter was at Princeton last weekend and for four days and nights my son did no studying by reason of that fact. To all of the wonderful sopranos and tenors and baritones who have participated in this program I want not on my own behalf but on behalf of the settlement to express my gratitude. I am sure nobody would have come if they didn't know they were going to have a good show and they sure had it didn't they? Each each of them seemed incomparable to me and I was I was particularly grateful as I noticed the lineup. You see they had sopranos and a tenor soprano a tenor a coloratura and a baritone but they left me completely unembarrassed and nobody to be jealous of because they didn't have a bass on the program. I was struck by the inadequacy of one or two of Happy Felton's introductions. I've known Happy for so many years that I have thought that he couldn't possibly get any better and tonight he did. And in getting better I never saw him cut out so many titles of people and just introduce them by name. It's the highest compliment I ever saw an audience paid. He didn't have to tell you that for example that Roger Strauss was a regent of the state of New York and the guiding spirit of the National Conference of Christians and Jews you all know it. He didn't have to tell you that Frank Hogan has achieved and maintained and developed a level of public service and equality of integrity and public prosecution to which I am proud to pay the highest tribute within my power. He didn't have to tell you that for so many years I hate to think of them Foster Dulles has been the symbol of bipartisanship and nonpartisanship in the development of a foreign policy without which the United States could not survive that without him I have the gravest of doubts as to whether the United Nations would ever have come into being on a basis acceptable to the people of America. Without him there would have been no possibility of continuity of foreign policy with changing administrations and without him I am entirely sure we would never have achieved the miracle of a peace treaty with Japan which brought in all but two of all the free nations of the world. of course it gives me very great gratification to see how even the great can falter because it wasn't 25 years that he invited me to be his partner. I was too young for him even to notice 25 years ago. He was about to become the head of the greatest law firm in the world and I was almost the lowest law clerk on the totem pole in a law office he didn't even know. Actually it was 17 years ago Foster. It may seem like 100 but it was only 17. And it is true that we've been partners ever since. Of course you know you have to get the men whom you've appointed to office to really lie about you. And I shall never cease to be grateful to George. I guess you have to make a man district attorney and judge even before you get up when you're 50 and call you the youthful governor. I've been the young this and the young that and the too young for this and the too young for that for so long that I actually didn't believe I could grow old. And finally this year on the 24th of March I was appalled to discover that I was 50. And that is a thoroughly disagreeable age. There's something definitive about 50. At 50 you've sort of gone over the hill. You can't possibly ever again be called young. It used to be a menace and a burden around my neck and now it is a reminiscence to be cherished and when somebody uses the word you want to love him. When you pass 50 you have arrived at the stage when you can never again improve your golf score. When you know that all your efforts to reduce your waistline are temporary and probably futile. And when you know that you have no place to go but older and it's worse each year. It's been a lot of fun seeing so many people say so many pleasant and exaggerated things. The most fun of all is that I understand that Mrs. Ammerman with me is a very small portion of the bait managed to raise a very large sum of money tonight. I'm sure Mrs. Hartman and all the other ladies who are sitting around here did an enormous amount of work. So all of you who came here under false pretenses contributed very handsomely to a wonderful cause. Frankly I didn't know very much about the Williamsburg settlement when eight years ago we launched the New York State Youth Commission. I knew that I had lived for 11 years of my life in the field of public prosecution and one of the things that bothered me most was that almost all of the people that came into the criminal courts had been youngsters who didn't have a decent chance in the world. And we made notable efforts at least we made efforts which became notable in dealing with youth when I was district attorney and I resolved that if I ever got a chance I would extend the work and we did. We created a state youth commission with state aid to be matched by the localities and in eight years it has grown to the point where there are now in New York State 750 youth organizations scattered through every county of the state which never existed before. In community after community things have happened nobody believed was possible. For instance one small upstate city that I know of had a regular substantial stream of juvenile delinquency of 15 or 20 a year which is a lot in a town of 10,000 and when the youth commission was organized they were one of the first to apply and they set up eight baseball teams in that town in addition to social work, psychiatric service, referral service and so forth but their emphasis was on baseball and from that year on for each year of the succeeding seven years there has not been one case of juvenile delinquency in that town. It's much more difficult to assess in numbers or in dollars or in people the work in a vast complex city such as this. It's almost impossible to be sure of what you've done in the Williamsburg settlement. The mayor, the borough president of Manhattan would know a good deal about it. You would know a good deal about it but it's very hard to nail it down in figures but I am perfectly sure that for each boy or girl you get into the Williamsburg settlement for each one who spends the night there playing basketball or studying music or learning a craft or taking part in any one of the other activities or going to the summer camp you have for sure kept that child out of bad company and you have for sure given him a vision of something that he may never have acquired otherwise. And so if all you did in all these years amounted to the sum total of one child who was given the vision of the meaning of a free society all your labors would have been well rewarded. But in truth you know there have been in terms of the thousands and I can think of nothing to which any of us would be happier with which any of us would be happier to be associated and nothing I would rather have on my grave than that I had contributed to the kind of work you are doing in the Williamsburg settlement. You're doing it without discrimination on grounds of race or color or creed or national origin which also is at the heart of the American tradition. It shocked me when we came to meeting this problem head on that nobody had ever met it before in the United States. Surely it is part of the warp and woof of the things we believe in. It is the thing for which this country was created that all men are created equal in the sight of God. That all men shall have equal opportunity for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And yet throughout the United States people were and had always been denied an opportunity to earn their bread because of the color of their skin or the way they worshiped God or who their father was or where he was born. It seemed to me that that was an intolerable blight upon the things we believed in. So in 1945 we set about to pioneer in a way that had never been done. And out of that labor came, after much grief and toil and considerable political bloodshed, the first commission barring by law discrimination and employment on grounds of race and color or creed or national origin. Following that, it seemed to me that we ought then to attack the next major problem. And that was the denial of an opportunity for higher education on similar grounds. And we legislated for the first time in the history of America again that no one should be denied an opportunity for higher education in any field on grounds of race or color or creed or national origin. And the law was passed and we have made it stick and it is working in New York today. And the other states are now copying us. And we have, I believe, translated what all of us believed was part of our heritage into law. And the beautiful thing about it is that it has been accepted by the people of this state without resistance. We are really becoming civilized. You know, we've all heard a lot about bread cast upon the waters. And having been a baseball fan for many years, I think perhaps the nicest bread that came back upon the waters, so far as I was concerned, was that in the second year of the law, a very fine gentleman, Elmer Carter, the Negro member of our state commission, persuaded a very fine gentleman from Brooklyn then named Branch Rickey, that no one should be denied the opportunity to engage in sports by reason of his color. And so, so far as I'm concerned, I have been more than liberally rewarded by reason of that law as a result of the wonderful occasions on which Mrs. Dewey and I have had the joy of seeing Jackie Robinson dance off first, driving a picture crazy. And I am particularly happy that we have set this landmark of what we really believe in and got it embedded in the minds of our people so that it is accepted today from one end of the state to the other as a state of mind and not merely a state of the law, which is really important. Because last summer, during the trip to which Mr. Delegard made his gracious reference, I also was in Singapore. And there I received a letter from an Indian judge who said, how can you pretend to represent a nation which believes in freedom and democracy? When I see on the front page of the Straits Times the enclosed clipping, your country cannot pose as a leader of the cause of freedom so long as incidents such as the riots at Cicero, Illinois, because a Negro moved into a house. And I was pretty mad. Of course, I was mad about the riots. But the thing that was really infuriating was that an English-speaking newspaper should use four columns in the middle of the front page three weeks after the event to portray a portrait of those riots as if that was the only and the most important news from all the world on that day. And so they were having the first joint meeting of the new Malayan and Singapore parliaments the next night. And I decided, with the approval of our diplomatic friends, to speak very bluntly on the subject. And I quoted from the letter of the Indian judge in Singapore. And I pointed out then that it is true that every nation has its defects. And we have ours. We have come further in 90 years toward achieving genuine equality for all than any nation ever did in 500 years in the history of the world. No nation has ever given so much of its substance to raise the fallen, to assuage the wounds of the defeated, and to build a sound peace based on freedom and the dignity of every human being. And that in our state and in a growing number of states in this country, no one could be denied his opportunity to earn a living by reason of who his father was. No one could be denied an education. We really had arrived at a genuine feeling that we knew that every man was just as good as every other man, regardless of his parentage, his religion, or whether he was black, yellow, brown, white, or red. When we have arrived at that situation, wholly throughout this country, we shall have achieved all of the purposes our founding fathers desired to achieve. When we have accepted the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God, wholly with our hearts as well as our minds, we shall have done so much that I don't even think we will need a Williamsburg settlement anymore. And when you have worked your way out of a job in this wonderful service, as I believe will happen, we will then have all the reason to believe that all the struggles and all the efforts have not been in vain. And all of you who have made it possible shall have lived richly and better than you knew. Thank you very much indeed. You have been listening to the after-dinner ceremonies of the gold medal award dinner of the Williamsburg settlement of Brooklyn. Governor Thomas E. Dewey received the settlement's gold medal award for his work for the underprivileged and for typifying the American way of life. Guests at the dinner included Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere, John Foster Dulles, Miss Jeanette LaBianca, Robert Wagner, humorous Harry Hirschfield, Warren R. Austin, Jackie Robinson, Dorothy Sarnoff, and Mimi Benzel, and a good many others. Happy Felton was your master of ceremonies. And at this point, we return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.