The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Though it breaks my heart to go Something tells me I am needed At the front to fight the foe See those soldier boys are marching And I can no longer stay, I want He held at the front to fight the foe. He was soldier boy on marching, and I can no longer stay. I hear the beautiful calling. Goodbye, darling, pray. Come on now, sound, way, way down south, where the sun shines every day. Soft eyes of blue shine down anew, and all the birds are singing clear and clear and gay. Come on, come on along, come on, join in the song. Jump on, it won't be long, we're on our way. Hip, hip, hooray. We're going down south, hooray. Hanson's makes the heart grow thunder. That is why I long for you. Lonely through the nights I've hunder, wondering, darling, is your true. Distance only, land and shun's land, all the ocean waves divide. Absence makes the heart grow thunder. Absence makes the heart grow thunder. Longing to be near your side. Be near your side. Be near your side. She was happy till she met you, and the fault is all your own. If she wishes to forget you, you will please leave her alone. She has come to her old mother, just because there is no other. She'll be happy in her own sweet home. When the harvest days are over, just be near, Christ is near. And the harvest days are over, just be near, and the sun gets flowers blue. He dies so clear. He dies so clear. He dies so clear. You will keep the word you said. When you said, that's the time we do shall wear. When the harvest days are over, just be near, my just be near. When the harvest days are over, just be near, my just be near, my just be near, my just be near. The harvest days are over, just be near. When the harvest days are over, just be near, my just be near, my just be near, my just be near. The baby was off with a strawberry dog, and the band played on. He's like from the floor, with a girl he adored, as the band played on. But his brain was so loaded, it nearly exploded, the poor girl would shake me along. He carries a girl with a strawberry dog, and the band played on. Sweet Adeline, my Adeline, at night, dear heart. For you I find, in all my dreams, your fair-faced be. You're the flower of my heart. Sweet Adeline, my heart. Sweet Adeline, my heart. Sweet Adeline, my heart. Sweet Adeline, my heart. Sweet Adeline, my heart. He's only a murder, in a fearless day. A beautiful sight to fear. You may think he's happy and free from care. He's not the most he seems to be. She's done when you think of a wasted life. For you shall not make me wait. And her beauty was sold for an old man's gold. She's a bird in a given day. She's a bird in a given day. A little brown car. A shady green spark. So happier home I find. My heart's barely gone. My heart's barely gone. I love only one. She's the girl I left behind. Are you like James? Marie my baby sounds. Don't cut. Sne out. Je blamed her for bless your love I work. Seen the nagging. Matthias Paul, Jo nowadays, I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. I'll be happy forever, Christian wonder. the rain is a sea. In the north of our time, in the north of our time, going through the shady lake with a lady's mind. To hold her hands and feel good and that's a very good sign. The sea's a worthy one to meet the north of our time. As I walk along the Wapu long with an independent air, you can hear the girls declare he must be a millionaire. You can hear them sigh and wish to die and you can see them wink the other eye at the man that broke the bank at Manti-Carlo. As I walk along the Wapu long with an independent air, you can hear the girls declare he must be a millionaire. You can hear them sigh and wish to die and please and kiss the other eye at the man that broke the bank at Manti-Carlo. Don't you hear them sigh and wish to die and you can hear them sigh and wish to die. Don't you hear them bell, don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. Don't you hear them bell, they're ringing out the glory of the day. The country in her faith and manner too. She was bred in old Kentucky. Take her, boy, you're mighty lucky. When you marry a girl like you. Comrades, comrades, ever since we were born. Sharing each other's sorrows, sharing each other's joy. Comrades, when men was born, they blew all their lives in time. When they just read us, my darling, old comrades, what's there by my side? There's a name that's never spoken, and a mother's heart has broken. There is just another living from the old home that belongs. There is still a memory living. There's a father of the old home. And a picture that is home. There's a mother of the old home. She's my sweetheart, I'm her beau She's my Annie, I'm her beau Goodwill, Manny, never to pass Goodwill, Manny, never to pass It's my sweetheart One evening in the month of May I met old Satan on the way I looked old Satan in the eye If you want to get to heaven when you die Gotta get your gun, get your gun If you want to get to heaven when you die Gotta get your gun, get your gun Rolling on, rolling on, rolling on Rolling on, rolling on, rolling on rolling on Rolling on, rolling on, rolling on Get the gun, get the gun Don't think that the eye of the devil Has to run to fight the war Lay the voices of our hearts That we can't no longer play On the right is the beautiful party Who might not be great After the fall is over After the praise of God After the dancers leaving Under the stars are gone Still your heart is waiting If you'd greet the war Come to me Sweet Marie Not because your face is fair Love to see But your soul so pure and sweet Makes my happiness complete Makes me fodder at your feet Sweet Marie Sweet Marie Where did you get that hat? Where did you get that style? Isn't it a knobby one and just a proper style? I should like to have one Just the same as that Where did you get that style? Where did you get that hat? Say au revoir Say au revoir But not goodbye But not goodbye The past is dead The past is dead Love cannot die Love cannot die The past is dead We're better far Had we not met I love you then I love you then Love not die I love you then I love you then Give me your answer too For for the love of you, it won't be a striving valley, I can't afford a valley. But you don't speak, but I speak, I think so good for you. When you hear the rest of the things in me, I die now, and we say you are safe, and when the birds stand through, in the forest of the night, there will be a hard time, you'll come to night. When you hear the rest of the things in me, I die now, and we say you are safe, and when the birds stand through, in the forest of the night, there will be a hard time, you'll come to night. We are hard time, hard time, to night. We are hard time, hard time, to night.