Good afternoon. From the Downtown Athletic Club, your city station brings you this special broadcast of the 1952 Hearst Medals Award Luncheon. The luncheon is tendered by the Downtown Manhattan Association, merged with the Greater New York Civic Center Association and the City Hall Park Association, in recognition and appreciation of the accomplishments toward the improvement and preservation of downtown Old New York City. The William Randolph Hearst Medals of Award will be given this year to Robert W. Dowling, Kenneth H. Dunchy, Major General John M. Franklin, Seymour N. Siegel, and Frederick H. Zermullin. The principal speakers will be Deputy Mayor Charles Hurwitz, John C. Postel, President of the Downtown Athletic Club, Thomas Darcy Brophy, President of the American Heritage Foundation, and William Randolph Hearst, Jr., Publisher of the New York Journal American. Here now to introduce the program is Howard S. Coleman, Chairman of the Port of New York Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, it's my privilege to welcome you to what I believe is an important occasion in Lower New York. The city of New York has grown. It's a good, healthy idea that once a year we gather here and remember old New York, that this society that is giving this luncheon today quite properly is honoring. Mr. P. R. Moses, the spark plug of this organization, I think deserves the thanks of all of us for his dynamic leadership. And I want to thank him and his associates who have given us a little bit of the old days of sulfur and molasses instead of antibiotics to lower New York. The time has changed. It's a bit different city than when the Dutch bought this little island in the port of Amsterdam for, as I recall, 60 guilders, which at the last rate of exchange was $24. Many things have happened in this harbor, some of which, for obvious reasons, we won't go into today. But there are other things that I'm very happy to talk about. There still are many things that we're pretty proud of. Instead of slums, we have the Al Smith housing. We have the Baruch housing. We have, from a goodwill standpoint and good neighborly standpoint, the Siemens Institute, the Beekman Downtown Hospital, the Grand Street Settlement, McCauley Mission, the Miss Ignace Association. We're still a good little town and a good community that, despite its skyscrapers and commercial aspects, has a real feel for old New York. And to me, in the pace that we're living at, I think it's a pretty healthy thing for once a year to sit around as good neighbors to help us in every way that we can to remember that old New York is still a landmark of this hour America, where democracy still flourishes, and which we're very proud of. It's with great regret today that I announce that our distinguished mayor, the Honorable Vincent Pelletieri, cannot be with you. But I'm very happy and proud to say that the deputy mayor, who got his basic training, and I might say, as an excellent lawyer at the Port Authority, is here today to represent him. With high affection and great respect, I present to you Charlie Horwitz, Deputy Mayor of New York. Mr. Toastmaster, guests of honor, distinguished guests, and gentlemen, I certainly appreciate the very generous introduction of the Toastmaster, Commissioner Cullman, for, without making this a mutual admiration society, for whom I nevertheless have a very deep and high regard because I have observed the tremendous energy that he always displays in the performance of great public duties, and he is a citizen of New York of whom we are deeply proud. As the official representative of Mayor and Pelletieri, it is a real privilege and a pleasure to participate in this luncheon today, which, while aside from being a very delightful affair, has a great significance in that today you are making the Hearst Awards under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Association, now known as the Downtown Manhattan Association, to distinguish citizens of our city. I bring to you the warm greetings of Mayor and Pelletieri and his keen regret at his inability to be with you. He has participated in the past at these luncheons, and he has a great regard and a great esteem for the work of the Downtown Association, and he is also deeply grateful to William Randolph Hearst, Jr. for carrying on the great tradition established three years ago in the making of these awards. But the Mayor today is engaged in some very serious city business. We just got through up there with making an award for something that will relieve somewhat the traffic congestion in this area by the installation of some 13,000 parking meters. In addition to that, there is an executive session which will undoubtedly take the balance of the day to go into this great fiscal problem and the relationship between the state and the city in regard to the making of the coming budget for the ensuing year. So, immersed as he is in those very serious problems, it's impossible for him to be here today, but you may be assured that in spirit he certainly is with you on this occasion. Commissioner Coleman has alluded to the development of this area of New York City and the city at large and this tremendous growth and the fine public improvements and private improvements that have made our city great. And yet, we feel in the city administration that no community, including the city of New York, is greater than its own people. And so, we're very proud to have selected here today five of the outstanding citizens of the city of New York for recognition of the achievements which they contributed to the city of New York within the past few years. We have, first of all, Mr. Kenneth H. Dunchey, a very noted historian and author. we have our good friend Robert Dowling who, in this area particularly, wherever you go about and look at the great edifices that make up the commercial and industrial life of this section as well as the rest of the city of New York, they are monuments indicating contributions made by Bob Dowling to the growth and development of the city of New York. And in addition to that, from his busy life he has always found time to devote himself to civic matters, patriotic matters and philanthropic matters and he is indeed a great citizen of whom we are proud. Major General Franklin, I think the general will recall the tribute paid to him by the mayor upon the arrival in this port of the first trip of the great line of the United States. and he has indeed made a wonderful contribution to our port and its development. Honorable Frederick Gates of Mullen, and now we come to two individuals who are part and parcel of the cabinet and city administration. Fred Mullen, I have had occasion to work with very closely, know very intimately and observe the tremendous energy, the tremendous brain power, the tremendous planning ability that he possesses and as a result in the fruition of his labors, the great public improvements that dot every section of this great city of New York. He is the mastermind as our commissioner of public works who is responsible for the building of every great public improvement of which we are so proud in the city of New York. Now, aside from bricks and mortar, we have in the person of Honorable Seymour N. Segal, the director of Station WNYC, an individual who represents another side of city activity, another side of what the municipal government is doing for the people of the city of New York because in the administration of that station, he has received nationwide acclaim for the wonderful contribution in education and culture that WNYC has made not only to the people of the city of New York but throughout the reaches of the beam of that great broadcasting system. And we're very proud of the work of that station and we know that Seymour Segal symbolizes everything that means for the development of the educational and cultural interests of our city and he symbolizes WNYC and we say to you, it being a station that is non-commercial, it being a station that is supported by our municipal government, we feel that what it gives to the people of this city is of such great value that for anybody to seek to eliminate that station on the ground that it is extravagant to operate it, I say to you that we deem that to be false economy and the mayor will vigorously oppose any efforts on the part of anybody to eliminate the continuance and the development of station WNYC. Now, in conclusion, I merely want to take this opportunity in behalf of the mayor and the 8 million people of the city of New York of congratulating and felicitating this organization upon this very splendid and well-deserved tribute and these awards that they are making here today. your organization by doing this deed today is demonstrating to all of the people of the city of New York that we have a deep and abiding faith in the great citizenry of our community and when they make their contributions we are prepared to give them due and proper recognition for it. And so I can only bring you the mayor's congratulations, his felicitations and wish a continuance on your part and the part of William Randolph Hearst, Jr. of these awards yearly to outstanding citizens and may God speed you in your every endeavor. Thank you, Deputy Mayor Horowitz. Before I introduce the next speaker I just would like to say one thing about Bob Dowling. I happened to live for many years in Far Rockaway next to an individual who was streamlined in those days named Grover Whalen. And he had on a striped bathing suit and he used to jump up and down on the ropes at Roach's Beach with the Bloomer Girls. Today I don't think Grover could get off the ground. But in those days Bob Dowling was one of the few individuals who emulated Annette Kellerman, Gertrude Adderley without the same type of bathing suit and swam around the port of New York and I think Bob deserves a medal for that too. Your next speaker is the president of this club who has served for ten years with efficiency and with dignity and for the welfare of this community. And it gives me great pleasure to introduce Mr. Postel, president of the downtown athletic club. Thank you, Mr. Coleman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. We are indeed pleased to act as host to the members and guests of the downtown Manhattan Association on this occasion. When we are privileged to honor five outstanding citizens for their leadership and accomplishments toward the improvement and preservation of downtown old New York City. We here at the downtown athletic club feel that we are an integral and essential part of lower New York. So in making available our facilities on an occasion of this kind, it seems not only natural, but we assure you we consider it a privilege. Therefore, as president of the downtown athletic club, on behalf of our 3,700 members, we extend our wholehearted welcome and express our sincere appreciation in permitting us to join with you in honoring our distinguished guest at this time. Thank you very much. thank you, Mr. President. Our next speaker is a jobman who I think has contributed a lot to our democratic way of life despite many other accomplishments. He happens to be chairman of the board of Kenyon and Eckhart, one of our top advertising agencies. and thanks to his basic training, he conceived the idea of this program this year irrespective of your political affiliations of getting out the vote. And anybody who can elate a democratic nation to use their franchise and to get out the increase that we had in this last election, over the last election, for our privilege of being American citizens deserves more than our warm appreciation and thanks. He's a man of outstanding ability, who's done all kinds of research and more or less responsible for the awards that are being given here today for outstanding service. With high appreciation of his public service, I introduce Mr. Thomas Darcy Brophy. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, in the unexpected and continued absence of Mr. William Randolph Hearst, Jr. on the Pacific Coast, I know that his official representative and colleague present here today and seated on the dais, Mr. H.M. Gediman, executive vice president of the American Weekly, will eloquently and properly eulogize all five of the deserving Hearst Memorial Medals of Award recipients for their 1952 achievements. members of the Department of Downtown Manhattan Association and as chairman of its educational and publicity committee, my particular part in today's program is to say a few words in praise of our organization's retiring chairman, the honorable Robert W. Dowling. Our board has been assured by R.W. that he will continue in his new post of honorary chairman, actively as a director, and will counsel and advise our group in our efforts toward continuing the improvement and preservation of old New York in lower Manhattan. These words, cast in enduring metal on the Hearst Memorial Medals of Award, are descriptive of the basic purpose of the Downtown Manhattan Association as recently merged with the Greater New York Civic Center Association and the City Park, the City Hall Park Association. Now it has been my pleasure and my privilege to work with Mr. Dowling on various committees and in connection with numerous organized efforts for civic betterment over many years. It amazes me the extent to which he gives time and energy to so many causes, busy as he is with his myriad business undertakings in many cities throughout the country. Since the Greater New York Civic Association was organized in 1948, he has headed the Board of Directors. Having served as a Vice President thereon during these past five years, I have known how he has taken the leadership in the activities of this group on behalf of Downtown Manhattan, ably assisted by our President, Mr. Percival Robert Moses, and our Executive Director's Secretary, Mr. L. Porter Moore. It was he, Bob Dowling, who advised our recent change in corporate name from the Greater New York Civic Center Association to that of the Downtown Manhattan Association. The new name is fully descriptive of the area below Canal Street to the Battery, in which our association has been serving these past 16 years. The original City Hall Park Association was incorporated in 1937, and this organization was successful in securing the demolition of the old United States Post Office at Broadway and Park Row, and the subsequent restoration of the southern portion of City Hall Park. In 1945, the unsightly old Third Avenue Subway Spur Station, opposite City Hall and Brooklyn Bridge on Park Row, was torn down. Then Mayor LaGuardia invited the City Hall Park Association to sponsor their re-unveiling of Brooklyn Bridge, crediting our group with this accomplishment, as he had previously done in connection with the post office under Mr. P.R. Moses, who has continued as president of the organization ever since. But it was in 1948 when the City Planning Commission, under its then chairman Bob Wagner, announced a new master plan mapping greater New York, that is, the Manhattan Civic Center, that our association was once more honored by the city fathers. We were asked again to sponsor a special luncheon to make public this new plan. The affair was appropriately held in the downtown A.C. Since that time, the association has taken a prominent part in all downtown and many citywide civic affairs. Last year, the new Hanover Square Park was created. The official opening luncheon was sponsored by our group, cooperating with the Department of Parks and the Manhattan Borough's president's office. Saving Castle Clinton was another successful cooperative effort some years back. And presently, we are engaged in the project we all believe of vital importance to downtown Manhattan. The starting of the Second Avenue subway from South Ferry northward to properly serve this area, when that much-needed artery of transportation is built. Commissioner Zermullen, who is present today and is being honored, will bear me out that we have constantly fought for the construction of the long-needed and now-approved city-municipal courts house. It would seem that the first funds necessary to acquire a proper site and prepare plans will be included in the city's 1953 capital budget. We shall continue to strive for the appropriations necessary to restore the dangerously corroded stonework on old City Hall, which Commissioner Zermullen has sought annually, and for the restoring of the remaining portions of City Hall Park still to be properly laid out and landscaped according to the 1938 plans of the Park Department. In all of this, I know we shall continue to receive Mr. Dowling's full cooperation and support as our first honorary chairman. Thank you very much. I know I was asked to preside today because the Port Authority represents a lot of the life on land, sea, and air around this new Amsterdam. And in full frankness, as one of 12 commissioners, I rely tremendously on 11 associates. As I came in here today, I noticed that one of my youngest commissioners, who knows every creek and harbor in this city, was at this luncheon. He's a man that, due to modern gadgets, has made the life of tugboat captains miserable. He sits in his office and short waves telephones to them all day, so they can't even have a drink or play canasta. So I would like Gene Moran, if he'd get up and take a bow. A great sailor. Thanks, Gene, and I hope you'll be telephoning for many years to come. Thank you. Thank you. It's with great regret, as you heard, that young William Randolph Hearst couldn't be here today. The Hearst Publications is not only local, it's national. With the American Weekly, with its other magazines, it's a substantial real estate investor, obviously on South Street. A free press is important in any democracy. But what's more important is that when a free press uses the advantages of a free press to have a viewpoint, and I know of no other chain of newspapers in this country was fought more vigorously for the decency and integrity and American way of life than the general American, the Hearst papers throughout this country, who have fought valiantly and successfully to at least keep American citizens in the forefront and have fought all subvasive activities in this our nation. And at this point, I would like to turn the microphone over to Mr. Gettleman of the Hearst Publications to make these annual awards. Mr. Gettleman. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Gettleman. Honored guests, ladies and gentlemen. Naturally, any substitute for Mr. Hearst is necessarily a compromise. But please consider that in addition to representing Mr. Hearst, I'm here as a representative of the Hearst Institution. And it is the entire Hearst organization, the largest of its kind in the world, that through the New York Journal American pays homage to the recipients of these awards. Besides, you know, I'm roughly contemporaneous with Mr. Hearst. We entered the organization approximately at the same time and came on up through it together, although admittedly at different rates of speed for obvious reasons. So, excepting for a mere matter of some 40 or 50 millions of dollars, there is no essential difference between what you expected and what you're getting. Mr. Moore has enjoined me and impressed upon me the limitations of time. He dwelt on this at considerable length and ended up in the rather ridiculous position of having delivered to me about a three-hour dissertation on brevity. He told me of a speaker who appeared at one occasion, another occasion, and this speaker apparently was completely without terminal facilities. He droned on and on, and the people began trickling out until finally the entire audience had escaped. That is, excepting one lone surviving listener, and he sat it out to the bitter end. When the speaker finished, said as at long last he did, he stepped down from the platform, went over to this man, the only one left in the hall, wrung his hand warmly, and said, may I thank you for your extraordinary courtesy. Would you mind telling me who you are? The man said, not at all. I'm the next speaker. Now, mindful of Mr. Moore's parable, I shall direct a few words to the award recipients as a group before handing over to them, with brief individual citations, these symbols of a whole community's gratitude for their services. To you, the award recipients, this city that we all love could neither achieve nor maintain greatness if we did not have men like you, men of vision, men of broad, civic-minded perspective, who find fulfillment in the knowledge that they have increased the sum total of good in the world about them. And oh, how important it is that such men and such influences shall flourish here in the largest city in the world. For if we break faith with those principles here, we hobble the conscience and the character and the efficiency of a whole nation. So, we honor you for what you have done. We honor you for what you represent. We honor you as a group. And now, on behalf of Mr. William Randolph Hearst, we honor you individually. The Honorable Robert W. Dowling. Mr. Dowling. Read your citations. Mr. Dowling, we congratulate you on your elevation to the honorary chairmanship of the Downtown Manhattan Association. In your long years of devoted public service, you have brought efficiency and beauty to every task entrusted to your care. Your record has been one of continuous leadership in the planning of a greater city. With you as chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission, we know that our community's improvement programs are in wise and competent hands. Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you very much. The Honorable Frederick H. Zermulin. Thank you. Mr. Zermulin, as commissioner of the Department of Public Works, you completed the modernization of the Brooklyn Bridge. Now, the Brooklyn Bridge has virtually the character of a trademark of New York. You have performed your task not only with great technical skill, but also in keeping with the tradition of this historic structure. Your fellow citizens salute you. Thank you. Major General John M. Franklin. General Franklin, in you, an old army man, the nation has a new naval hero. New York and all the rest of America hail you and your great company for carrying the American flag more proudly on the high seas and considerably faster aboard the finest ship afloat, the SS United States. For quickening a nation's pulse. For expanding the chest measurements of 150 million Americans. For dramatizing a country's quiet determination to excel. We thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Dunchy, you have used your exceptional talent to set down with the scholarship of the historian and the sensitivity of the gifted writer. A warm and authentic record of old New York in which downtown Manhattan, of course, figures so importantly. Your book, titled As You Pass By, will be read with special receptivity by members of the downtown Manhattan Association. Congratulations. The Honorable Seymour N. Siegel. Thank you. Mr. Siegel, as director of our municipal broadcasting system, you are the voice of New York. We are fortunate indeed that you and Station WNYC speak in accents of clarity and courage with authority and good taste. For making our city's broadcasting facilities the model and envy of municipal systems throughout the nation, we gladly do you honor. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there's one final ceremony, but before I get into it, and I'm not qualified to really handle it, Mr. Gettleman's remark about his turtle race with Mr. Hurst reminds me of the story of the producer that applied for a job with Sam Goldwyn. I'm doing a new movie. There were three applicants. So Mr. Goldwyn, in his realistic way, said to the first one, how much is two and two? And he said four. The second one said six, and the last one said nine. Mr. Goldwyn said to the first man, you have accuracy. The next man, you have imagination. And to the third one, you have super imagination. It's difficult to tell you the reason, but I will, who got the job. It was the third one, he happened to be Mr. Goldwyn's cousin. Now, when I go in a rowboat, which I can't row very well, I take Dramamine, I steer a bad course, and why I should be asked today to give these four citations to four top individuals who are responsible for the U.S. lines, SS America, breaking all records, is really a travesty. The United States, excuse me. We've lost the Davis Cup. We've lost many things. But it's a pretty proud thing, as Mr. Gediman said, that 150 million people can throw their chests out and say, we've won the blue ribbon of the sea. So to Captain Manning, Commodore Jones, and the four distinguished members, and my card is missing, who are the real tops of this SSUS, on behalf of this association, I would like them to come up and get their citations. Their names are listed in the book. My card has disappeared. They know who they are. I'll tell them anybody else in the city. These final honor scrolls are being awarded to the United States lines. William H. Jones, Director of Publicity, Commodore Harry Manning, First Master of the New Line of SS United States, Chief Engineer William Kaiser, and Present Master John W. Anderson. You have been listening to the ceremonies attending the presentation of the 1952 Medals of Award of William Randolph Hearst for appreciation of the accomplishments of the gentlemen cited toward the improvement and preservation of downtown Old New York City. The award winners were Robert W. Dowling, Kenneth H. Dunshey, Major General Dunshey, Major General Dunshey, Major General Dunshey, Warren Siegel, and Frederick H. Franz Siegel, and Frederick H. Franz Siegel, and Frederick H. Franz Siegel, and Frederick in Manhattan, rather, that's John C. Postel, President of the Downtown Athletic Club of New York City, Thomas Darcy Brophy, President of the American Heritage Foundation, and H.J. Gediman, Executive Vice President of the American Weekly and Representative of the absent William Randolph Hearst, Jr., and finally, Howard S. Coleman, Chairman of the Port of New York Authority, who presided. This broadcast has come to you from the Downtown Athletic Club through the facilities of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building for a summary of news. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
