Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to add my word to the annual appeal of New York Catholic Charities. I often wish that the Mayor's powers included the right to abolish human distress, but the Mayor has no such power. As the head of a billion dollar business that is our community, he does what the law provides for the care of the helpless. As Mayor, I am mighty glad that we have in our city the great network of hospitals, homes for children, and the scores of other agencies of Catholic Charities. Without them, our task of caring for the sick, the needy, and the helpless would be one of heart-breaking difficulty and intolerable expense. Let me give you a quick look at what Catholic Charities means to us as New Yorkers. The scream of an ambulance rushing to help an accident victim is a familiar sound in our streets. The ambulance may have rolled from a hospital under Catholic Charities' supervision, but the bulk of Catholic Charities' work for all of us is done without sirens. The mother who comes to a Catholic Charities' office with a baby in her arms and children clinging to her skirt may need help just as urgently as the victim of an automobile accident, and she will get that help. She is only one of the many hundreds who come to those offices, each with a different problem. They tell of poverty, illness, and desertion, of drunkenness, broken homes, and children left alone and hungry. There are old folks whose sons and daughters will not or cannot make a home for them. There are humble people who need public relief, but are too timid or too proud to ask for their legal rights. There are luckless girls, desperate or defiant, who need understanding care. There are youngsters from all sorts of homes, at odds with their parents, bewildered boys and girls who might be lost in the jungles of crime, unless taken in hand by people who understand them. In all these areas, and in many others, some agency of Catholic Charities is ready to help, either with its own resources, or by cooperating with the city's welfare agencies, or both. As taxpayers, you must share my thanks that this is so. In the hospitals, childcare homes, and other institutions under Catholic Charities, much of the care is given by sisters who offer their lives to God by serving human necessities. Their standards are without superior. If they were replaced by city workers, we would have to add many millions to our city payrolls, and to your taxes. Catholic Charities hospitals gave 200,000 days of free care last year. They also treated many thousands of people. The part of whose fees were paid by the city. Agencies for children maintained by Catholic Charities assure thousands of dependents and handicapped youngsters the loving care and attention that they can't get around their own firesides, and fits them for full lives as adults, at a cost that is never fully met from public funds. There you have private charity doing its indispensable job in our society. The heart of charity is the love of one's neighbor, the will to help in his adversity. It is one of the most beautiful of human attributes. It will never diminish. You and I will not suppress our wish to help our fellows. And we will have plenty of chance to help them, for private charity must bridge the gap between the needs of the human soul and the cold, rigid provisions of the law. I earnestly urge them that you give to the appeal of Catholic Charities as generously as your means allow. Remember that whatever you give will be multiplied many times by acts of kindness and mercy. Today's pay suggested by Cardinal Spelman as an appropriate gift is little enough to pay for that privilege. If you can give more, please do so. The world can never be too full of human kindness. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to add my word to the annual appeal of New York Catholic Charities. I often wish that the mayor's powers included the right to abolish human distress. But the mayor has no such power. As the head of a billion dollar business that is our community, he does what the law provides for the care of the helpless. As mayor, I am mighty glad that we have in our city the great network of hospitals, homes for children, and the scores of other agencies of Catholic Charities. Without them, our task of caring for the sick, the needless, and the helpless would be one of heart-breaking difficulties and intolerable expense. Let me give you a quick look at what Catholic Charities means to us as New Yorkers. The scream of an ambulance rushing to help an accident's victim is a familiar sound in our streets. The ambulance may have rolled from a hospital under Catholic Charities supervision, but the bulk of Catholic Charities' work for all of us is done without silence. The mother who comes to a Catholic Charities office with a baby in her arms and children clinging to her skirt may need help just as urgently as the victims of a non-mobile accident, and she will get that help. She is only one of the many hundreds who come to those offices, each with a different problem. She Hirokte are too timid or too proud to ask for their legal rights. There are luckless girls, desperate or defiant, who need understanding care. There are youngsters from all sorts of homes at odds with their parents, bewildered boys and girls who might be lost in the jungles of crime unless taken in hand by people who understand it. In all these areas, and in many others, some agency or Catholic charities is ready to help, either with its own resources or by cooperating with the city's welfare agencies of hope. As taxpayers, you must share my thanks for this itself. In the hospitals, child care homes, and other institutions under Catholic charities, much of the care is given by sisters who offer their lives to God by serving human society. Their standards are without superior. If they were replaced by city workers, we would have to add many millions to our city payrolls and to your taxes. Catholic charity hospitals gave 200,000 days of free care last year. They also treated many thousands of people. The costs of food fees were paid by the city. Agencies for children maintained by Catholic charities assure thousands of defendants and handicapped youngsters for loving care and attention that they can't get around their own fireside and fit them for full lives as adults. A talk that is never fully met from public funding. There you have private charity doing its indispensable job in our society. The heart of charity is the love of one's neighbor. The will to help is his adversity. It is one of the most beautiful of human attitudes. It will never diminish. You and I will not suppress our wish to help our fellows. We will have plenty of chance to help them, for private charity must bridge the gap between the needs of the human soul and the cold, rigid provisions of the law. I honestly urge them that you give to the appeal of Catholic charity as generously as your needs allow. Remember that whatever you give will be multiplied many times by acts of kindness and mercy. Today's pay, suggested by Kahneman Spellman, as an appropriate gift is little enough to pay for that privilege. If you can give more, please do so. The world can never be too full of human kindness. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.