For the City Council, the question of new taxes for relief came up. During this past week, the Municipal Broadcasting System has presented some of the leading members of the Council speaking on this general question of new taxes for relief. Before the Council meets tomorrow morning, we conclude the series as we tonight present the Vice President of the Council and Leader of the Democrats, John Cashmore, and the Majority Leader, the American Labor Party Councilman, B. Johnny Vlada. We introduce first tonight the Majority Leader of the New York City Council, B. Johnny Vlada. Ladies and gentlemen, Councilman Vlada. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the beginning. There are on the rolls of the Home Relief Bureau today over 180,000 families. For well over half a million persons. These exclusive of 18,000 homeless men who are also taken care of by the City's Welfare Department. These people have been receiving every two weeks a check from the City to make it possible for them to leave. A committee consisting of a number of citizens and headed by Mr. Peter Grimm, who has been for many years the chairman of the Citizens Budget Committee, reported only recently that the allowances of the City to families on relief are 40% below a decent standard, so that nobody can complain that the people on relief are receiving too much. It looked way back in September or October of last year, that whatever income the City has from the special sales tax for its relief budget will be sufficient to take care of the people in need. For the recession began by that time, and relief applications began to pile up at a non-precedented pace. It was found after an experience of January and February of this year, that the money which the City expects to collect from the sales tax for relief purposes will not be sufficient to keep the families on relief going. In fact, it is anticipated that the City will lack about $20 million on the basis of the present number of families in need of relief. The City expected, through the Mayor and the Board of Estimates, that $12 million which the City has been collecting from utilities until July 1937, and which was taken by the State in the middle of last year, will be refunded to the City. If the City could get these $12 million, there would be no need for additional taxes, at least not until September or October. But the State refused to refund to the City these 2% tax and utilities amounting to $12 million. and the City had to go out to find money in order to be able to keep these 2 bi-monthly checks coming to the relief families. The Mayor and the Board of Estimates have been criticized for not having borrowed money in order to keep the home relief rolls going. Well, you cannot borrow money unless you know that you will be in a position to pay the money back. Bankers do not lend money on anticipated deficits. In a situation like the one we are facing today, when there is a possibility of a deficit of over $20 million in New York's relief expenses, the bankers will not lend money. But assuming that they would, the situation in no way would be changed. On the contrary, the City would have to pay interest, and the City would have to mortgage more of the anticipated revenue than there is in sight. So the Board of Estimates, finding itself with insufficient funds to carry the relief burden, announced a temporary cut of 10% in relief allowances. For myself, I thought that as far as the relief families are concerned, it was the most terrible thing. These 10% in their meager allowance will probably rob them of some of the most important necessities. On the other hand, the City had no alternative. So the Mayor appeared before the City Council over two weeks ago, proposing a number of new taxes, which would give the City an additional revenue of about $9 million. These $9 million, as I have already said, will not be sufficient to carry the City relief budget over the year 1938, but might be sufficient to carry the families are relief until probably August and September. These taxes are taxes on the rich and taxes on the poor. There is a tax on the conduit companies, a very powerful public utility, which is making large profits and which hasn't as yet contributed to the relief fund. There is a tax on people who pay for an individual meal $1. Under the present law, they pay in addition $0.02. Under the proposed law, they will pay $3. Also, people who take a drink at the bar will have to pay an additional cent. There is also a tax now affecting businessmen. Every business establishment in the City of New York pays one-tenth of 1% on its gross income. Businesses who are doing less than $15,000 a year were exempt from this provision of the tax. Under the proposed law, the exemption will be dropped to $10,000. There is also a law which calls forth all kinds of comments and a great deal of misunderstanding, which proposes a tax on banks. A great many people took it as a kind of a suck at the rich and powerful banks on the principle of soaking the rich. This was not the intention of this bill, except that under the present law, under which every business establishment in New York City contributes one-tenth of 1% to the relief fund, insurance companies and banks are exempt. I see no reason, in logic or fairness, why the banks should be exempt from a burden to which every other business in New York City is subject to. Now, in about 39 states of the United States, there is a tax on bank deposits. In some of them, the tax is pretty high. In New York State, there was a special tax on bank stock, which brought in the state something like $8, $9 million a year. In 1926, this tax was dropped, and instead, the banks are only subject to the regular income tax. Under this income tax, the banks have been paying only about $2 million, which means that the banks profited from this change in the law to the extent of $5-6 million a year. This bill, which would tax the gross receipts of banks, is not expected to produce more than about these $5-6 million. We think that it is a fair tax and should be adopted. If this bank tax is adopted, perhaps it will be possible to do away with another tax, which is a tax really on the poor man. That is a one-cent stamp tax on cigarettes. It will not affect those who buy only one pack of cigarettes, because the present price of $0.14 is supposed to represent $0.13 for the cigarettes and $0.01 for the sales tax. Except that the city, which collects the tax on a basis of gross receipts, collects $0.02 from seven packs of cigarettes instead of from two. The other $0.05 remain with the dealer. The intention of this tax is to give the city every cent of the sales tax, which is being collected by the people who sell cigarettes. The only ones who will be affected will be those who pay two packs or cartons of cigarettes. Under the old law, a carton of cigarettes was subject only to a $0.03 tax. Under the new law, the tax will be $0.10, or a difference of $0.07 and $0.10. There were also many who paid $0.27 for two packs of cigarettes. Under the new law, most likely they will have to pay $0.28. Now, with the condition we are facing today, I think everybody should contribute to the solution of this problem. All taxes are hard, and we know a very few people who volunteer to pay taxes. But above everything, the question is, shall we allow the people who are now unrelieved and who are now receiving a very meager allowance from the city, should be allowed to starve? The question is, shall we make it necessary to perpetuate this 10% cut? Or shall we, through the adoption of this new taxation, be able to restore the 10% cut so that the people get at least as much as they have been getting heretofore? We are also aware of the fact that economic conditions throughout the country and also in New York City have not as yet improved. There is every likelihood that conditions, at least for the next three or four months, at best, will not get better, which means that thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of new families will apply for a leave. And the city should be in a position to meet this need, not to permit any men or women or children to go without food or without shelter. I do hope that the city council tomorrow morning will adopt these taxes and will solve this problem at least temporarily. By August or September, if present conditions prevail, the governor of New York will probably have to call a special session of the legislature so as to give an opportunity the state of New York to contribute a little more to the city's relief fund. I thank you. Thank you very much, Councilman Bloduck. Ladies and gentlemen, in this panel discussion... ...that has come before it in the three months of its short and stormy existence. We have been asked, as you know by the mayor, to place another burden on the nearly broken backs of our taxpayers by levying an increased sales tax on the various necessities of life, such as the gas and electricity you use in your homes, and to levy another tax on the receipts of most of the banks, and industrial concerns which do business in what used to be the most prosperous city in the world. Now, if this were an ordinary tax, the answer would be easy to find. The answer would be no. The people of New York can't afford another cent in taxes. But, my friends, this is not an ordinary problem of taxation. This is a tax that is intended to raise funds for our ever-increasing cost of relief. As anyone who has read or even glanced at a newspaper during the last week knows, the city administration became embroiled in a political battle with your governor and your legislature on the subject of relief. I needn't tell you, my friends, for you know it as well as I do, that political wars are bloody wars, and the city administration, in the heat of the fight, called upon its Board of Estimate to cut the relief allowance by 10%. All right you say? What has this got to do with the city council? Well, this is where we of the city council entered the picture. The mayor came before us and urged a quick passage of a set of taxes, which until that moment we had never seen, because city administration leaders said there was an emergency. I said then, and I say it again, there was no emergency, and there was no necessity for cutting the relief allowance and thereby creating an emergency. The city of New York is not bankrupt. The city of New York had money enough to pay its relief bill for the month of April. If the city did not have the money on hand, it could have borrowed the needed 10% at a cost of $208, which is the present rate of interest which the city would have to pay. Don't you think a 30-day loan was a fairly business-like way of handling the problem? That's what I said on the floor of the council. But the administration leaders simply snapped, Pass the taxes. There are thousands of people on relief. What taxes? We asked. Give us copies of the bills. And finally, we were given copies of the proposed taxes. It was then as leader of the democratic forces in the council that I demanded that the Committee on Finance be given a week in which to study these bills, which means so much to you and me. Please remember that as a member of the city council and as vice chairman of that council, I have a duty not only to those on relief, but to the taxpayer as well. And even more important than my duty to the taxpayer is the responsibility which I owe to the numberless thousands who stand on the borderline of relief, too proud to give up the ghost and admit they are beaten. They are the people who work three days a week. They are the people who I can see from my office as they trudge their weary way from one employment agency to another. My friends, there are thousands of them. To saddle them with a tax which we didn't even consider or to vote on, sight unseen, it would be heartless. Well, the week I asked for has now elapsed. And what have we found? We found that the bills in their original form proposed to raise relief money not merely by raising the present tax rate, but by placing a new tax on meat, meat products, and other foods. These bills were also full of typographical errors. And need I remind you how fussy the mayor is about typographical errors that have not half as much importance as these? At this point, the administration, realizing that its proposals were of dubious constitutionality, made amendments and finally introduced new bills. And while I make no recommendations for the administration tax laws that will be passed tomorrow, I can assure you that they will not be nearly so vicious as the original suggestions. Now it seems to me that the time has come to make this thought clear. I think I speak for my colleagues when I say that we in the City Council will not stand by and do nothing for the suffering of New Yorkers who have lived here all their lives. To these New Yorkers who want to work and cannot find it, I make this pledge. We, your fellow citizens, will always see that you have food to eat and a place to sleep. But I think it is my duty as a representative of the taxpayers to serve notice on the administration at City Hall that the doctrine of soak the rich upon which they have risen to power has now grown thin. And when we try to soak the rich, we find that the intended tax victims are continually growing poorer. Businessmen, not big businessmen, but the ordinary storekeepers from Park Avenue to Canal Street, are growing desperate under the threat of bank taxes, gross receipt taxes, privileges of doing business here, and other such nonsense. What will be the exasperation of these businessmen when they see that even city contracts, being let to out-of-town firms simply because the tax-strapped business houses of New York, cannot compete? Even as I speak to you now, the shipyards of Staten Island and Brooklyn could commence operation if they could be assured of doing the city's maritime construction work. But no, they can't be so assured. The Department of Sanitation is about to let contracts for the building of some much-needed maritime equipment. To be more explicit, the contract calls for 30 steel barges. Our own shipyards, however, had to serve notice that they would never be able to compete with firms from out-of-town. So the bill for relief skyrockets, and the city saves a few dollars by doing its shopping out-of-town. If I succeed in leaving just one thought with you, I will be satisfied. And that thought is this. The administration had better change its prescription of high taxes for the businessman because the patient is getting so sick of the dose that he is apt to get up and walk out on us. Can you blame me if I insist that if any more of these tailor-made emergencies are created, my colleagues and I will wash our hands of them? The time has come to speak plainly and not politically. It is no secret that hundreds of relief candidates from other cities are trooping into our community to qualify for relief. And once they got on the relief rolls of their adopted city, there doesn't seem to be any incentive for getting them off. And so we are faced with the problem of supporting visitors who never did a day's work in their lives. Only last week, one investigator in a letter to the Evening Sun reported that out of his 60 cases, 40 were aliens. Just think of it. Two out of three didn't even bother to become naturalized. As a citizen, let me give the powers that be in City Hall this one final piece of advice. If the expenditures for relief must be cut, don't start with the trifling salaries of the relief investigator, who was one step ahead of the relief roll himself. Start with the well-paid, well-fed executive and official of the relief bureau. Executives and officials who make a career of other people's miseries. They are the career men to whom depression and panic have been a boom. They are the men who will fall from their pinnacle when the load of relief is lifted. Is it any wonder then, that in the business spurt of 1936 and 37, the drop in relief was negligible by comparison? Yes, my friends, this is the place to start with the economy. If cuts are necessary, the law never intended that some men grow rich by doling out bread to others. To the city administration I say, reduce the overhead of relief by cutting its high salaries. If this won't take care of the situation, then cut the salary of every city official who receives a salary of $5,000 a year or more. The suggestions made to the administration for avoiding future financial embarrassment are many. Even now, for example, we are about to report a proposal of Councilman Joseph T. Schalke, which calls upon the Constitutional Convention which meets tomorrow to consider the feasibility of a municipal lottery in New York to alleviate the sufferings of the needy. The lottery has done so much as an instrument of good in other communities, both as a means of breaking organized gambling rings and as a means of relieving hardship, that it is at least deserving of some consideration in our community. But whatever is done, let politics be kept out of relief. After this, let us have no more hand-made emergencies. I promise you, as Vice Chairman of the City Council, that if the administration will only give up its policy of mixing politics with taxes and relief, we in the Council will do our part to feed the hungry man of New York without breaking the back of his forgotten brother, the taxpayer. Good night, and good night, James. Thank you very much, Councilman Cashmore. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard an address by the Vice President of the City Council and Leader of the Democrats, John Cashmore. Also heard this evening was the Majority Leader of the City Council, the American Labour Party Councilman, B. Charney Vlada. Tomorrow morning, the City Council will convene to take action on the tax situation. In order to best serve the citizens of New York, the Municipal Broadcasting System has opened its facilities in the past week to a representative group of Councilmen. Tonight, we presented the fourth and the last of the series. We invite you to be with us tomorrow morning at 10.30 a.m. instead of the usual 2.30 p.m., at which time the Municipal Broadcasting System will broadcast the proceedings from the City Council at City Hall. At 11 a.m., an invitation has been extended to the Honorable Herbert Morrison, leader of the City Council of London, England, to address the members of the Council on the subject of housing. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.