Good afternoon from this great historic spot, the Mall in Central Park. When we're not bringing you harmony in the summer months with the Goldman Band and all the great musical organizations that have kept up the musical tradition here at the Mall in Central Park with the most exquisite harmonies, we're going to talk to you today about the harmony of faith, faith in each other. And that, of course, is the most important harmony of all. Mr. Harry Hirschfield, the distinguished and beloved New Yorker, is entertaining just previous to the regular order of program. And he has told some very funny stories. I'm awfully sorry that you weren't on a little while ago. He just told a joke about a fellow that got washing pie with white icing, and then he got on the Pullman train, and he got washing pie with chocolate icing. He said to the waiter, he says, how is it? He said, I get white icing in one place and chocolate icing in another place. He said, boss, he said, in Washington, there's two Washingtons, George Washington and Booker T. Washington. So you see, Washington is always at least able for the emergency. The Department of Sanitation Band, under the direction of John Celebrate Bandmaster, has been entertaining with a preliminary concert. And in just a few moments, we'll have the pleasure of presenting Mr. John A. Ross, Chairman of Interfaith Day. We've reminded you all through the week. Now, Myra Manning has been handling the regular order of program here, and she's going to sing the Star Spangled Banner for us a little later. And Miss Manning is just bringing the audience now to order, and the entertainment part is over. And Mr. Ross is ready to make his opening address in just a moment. Mr. John A. Ross, Chairman of Interfaith Day. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to introduce to you the Chairman of the Day, Mr. John A. Ross. Friends, in turn, I will now have to present the person who just introduced me, who is a well-known concert singer, who will lead us in the singing of the Star Spangled Banner, Miss Myra Manning. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, Mr. John A. Ross, your Chairman. Just a minute. They're moving a piano out of the way that was moved for a preliminary concert. And if you hear a little noise in the back, that's you'll know what it is. But you have to get this piano out of the way because it's blocking room on the platform. I'm Daniel Goldstein, Rabbi of the Congregation B'nai Jeshurun of New York. Lord of creation, the heavens declare thy glory and the earth proclaims thy handiwork. So, too, has man always been the articulate witness of thy majesty. This day, we gathered here are the witnesses to the bond of humanity and brotherhood which makes men kin to other men across the differences of color, creed, or nationality. May we be ever mindful that the test of our sense of brotherhood is our attitude not only to those who are most like us, but also to those who are unlike us, and that the bridge of comedy rests most significantly upon the pillars of our respective faiths and cultures. May the day not be distant, O God, when the sense of community which binds us as Americans here may be expanded to embrace more and more land, for whoever believes in one God must of necessity believe in one humanity. May that twin faith, O Lord, refresh us when global strife and contention depress us. May we match our faith in thee with forbearance toward one another. And may we be content not with forbearance alone, but also insist with ourselves upon discerning in one another and evoking from one another. May we be content not with forbearance alone, but also insist with ourselves in one another. Forbearance alone, as we bring this delight to the ear, so may we all together merge our diversified humanity and idealism into a brotherhood that shall find favor in thy sight, O Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. The interfaith movement was organized many years ago by several citizens of New York by several citizens of New York to found an organization whose objects were to advocate, promote, and to exemplify in their personal and public conduct human brotherhood under the fatherhood of God without distinction as to race, religion, creed, color, or national origin. They further instituted the annual observance of Interfaith Day by all people. Today on the mall in Central Park, we are celebrating our annual Interfaith Day. We believe that in this world of ours, it is possible for all of us to worship God in our own way, yet live in harmony with one another. At a symphony concert, we notice how each instrument in the orchestra has a special function. And by playing at the proper time, it makes the orchestra the harmonious unit which we enjoy so much. In the same way as the orchestra, we of different religions, races, colors, and creeds, can each of us play our own part in our individual way, but yet work in harmony for the good of all of us. This is the working of real democracy. When it can be more universally observed by the American people, we will have little to fear from communism within our borders. And we will also be a shining example for other nations to emulate our democracy in actual practice. On behalf of the Interfaith Movement INC, I welcome you here today, and I hope that you will enjoy yourselves. We are now favored and think ourselves very honored in having with us the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, who will now address you. Mr. Ross, Reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It was my very happy privilege to proclaim this day as Interfaith Day in the City of New York so that all of us might join in giving public expression to the ideals of brotherhood that for so long have characterized the lives and the activities of the people of this great metropolis. It is appropriate indeed that Interfaith Day this year is being observed just a few days after the opening of the United Nations General Assembly in our city, the United Nations capital of the entire world, and at the beginning of the week, which will mark the seventh birthday anniversary of this great peace organization. It is only through the principles of goodwill, mutual respect, and understanding between peoples of all races, colors, and creeds so ably espoused by the Interfaith Movement and which I believe has a fuller expression in our city than any other place in the world that the objectives of the United Nations can be realized. The leaders of the Interfaith Movement in our city representing all faiths and walks of life cannot be commended too highly for undertaking this important work that is such a bulwark to our democracy by strengthening its spiritual fibers. It is the ideals and principles of the Interfaith Movement which have immunized us more and more against prejudice, intolerance, and discrimination which are the dry rot of any kind of society. There are among us today many who only recently escaped the oppression of totalitarian dictatorship. We have warmly welcomed them to American citizenship because we know their talents and abilities which will have full expression here have made all of us and made the United States of America a much stronger and a greater nation. The Interfaith Movement is for all of us. Be we Protestant, Catholic, or Jew. It's tenets of mutual understanding and faith in God. Help us all to keep our beloved land in the forefront of the world's struggle that today is being carried forward against communist aggression. These ceremonies today are another demonstration of the deep-rooted faith the people of our city have in the ability of men and women of all creeds and all national origins to live and work together in peace and in friendliness. It was this faith I told the United Nations General Assembly last week which prompted us towards the United Nations to select our city as its permanent home. It is this abiding faith which all of us pledge anew on this Interfaith Day that again will bring peace to the world through the full strength of freedom-loving nations through the United Nations here in our great city. Thank you. We will next be favored with some songs by the Brooklyn Post Office Glee Club directed by Bob Nicosia. We are very fortunate in having this organization with us today. they have made an enviable reputation for themselves along the whole East Coast and Postmaster Quigley of Brooklyn kindly consented to have them with us today. We thank them. All right. You're all set? Where's the bottom? Come on. Watch the music. Where's Gus? Come here. Come here to see you. Come on. Come on. Stop. Go to the teacher's Don't doubt. Go to the Marcelino inclusive bei Mention Beh oldhorn ben cardi飛bly li Lio Ben harmonali blown large Yeah AMD Tos Glorious is thy name, almighty God. All the angels stand, stand, round about thy throne. All the angels stand, stand, round about thy throne. Let all nations bow before thee. Let all nations bow before thee. Let all nations bow before thee. Let all nations bow before thee. And declare thy wondrous works. And declare thy wondrous works. We praise thee. We give thanks to thee. We adore thee. We glorify thee. Lord, we adore thee. We bless thee. Lord, we thank thee for thy great glory. Lord, we thank thee for thy great glory. Lord, we thank thee for thy great glory. For thy great glory. For thy great glory. Lord, we thank thee for thy great glory. Heaven is thy throne and earth is thy foes. Thou art king over all the world. glorious is thy name. glorious is thy name. glorious is thy name. glorious is thy name. blessing and honor be to God forever and ever. King God to scroll MATT forever and evermore. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Proclamation, State of New York Executive Chamber. Freedom of worship, as guaranteed by our Constitution, is one of the privileges we cherish most highly as good Americans. We talk about it, but sometimes people forget that with the right of freedom of worship goes the solemn duty of respecting differences of belief among our neighbors. We owe them the same profound respect for their views as we expect in return, and only by observing this respect for diverse faiths have we been able to build this great free country of ours. In several communities of our states, congregations of Catholics, Protestants, and Jews get together at regular intervals in fraternal assembly. This is a most encouraging expression of the American spirit, and would be even more inspiring if practiced in all communities. At a time when freedom of conscience is subject to a worldwide attack, it is highly necessary to support the noble American tradition of sympathy, mutual respect, and affection for all worshipers, and all people of every race, creed, color, and national origin. Now, therefore, I, Thomas C. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York, do proclaim October 19, 1952 as Interfaith Day in New York State, and I urge all the people to join in this movement for the sake of our civilization. Given under my hand and privy seal of the state of the capital and the city of Albany, this 14th day of October in the year of our Lord, 1952. Thomas C. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York. Before I leave this program, I want to say a few words to you this afternoon. When I read the Tribune this morning, I saw the statement made by Governor Burns of South Carolina. He still feels that he's living in the dark ages. He wants segregation in the public schools of South Carolina. When I read the New York Times, I saw that Governor Talmadge of Georgia says, to the Supreme Court of the United States, that if you insist on segregation in the state of Georgia, then we're going to turn our public schools over to private citizens and run them the way we wish. I say that the Supreme Court of the United States must exercise that great power and to preserve the tradition of that court by enjoining the governor of the state of Georgia from turning over the schools to private people unless segregation be practiced in the state. But we also have a happy side of the picture when we read the newspapers today. We read of the building given by Myron Taylor to Cornell University so that interfaith be taught and practiced. And only a few weeks ago, we again read the story of the happening in a little town in Spoffordville, Connecticut, when a congregation of all-white members chose as its pastor a Negro. And all the newspapers sent representatives to Spoffordville to find out why this all-white congregation chose Reverend Heacock, a Negro, as its pastor. And in the words of one of its outstanding members, he said, he's Christian, ain't he? Why all this fuss? And that's what we must remember when we go through life. We're all human beings. Why all the fuss when we practice interfaith? Thank you. There is a great hue and cry today for civil rights. Both of the candidates for President of the United States are bringing this into their campaign. We are fortunate to have with us today a man who is doing something along that line. The state of New York was one of the first states to introduce the FEPC legislation. The man who will now address you is the chairman of the commission that enforces that, the Honorable Edward Edwards. Chairman Ross, Reverend Clergy, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen, I am most happy to participate in today's program, which brings together people of all groups dedicated to the task of developing mutual respect, understanding, and amity, regardless of race, creed, color, or national origin. These are the eternal objectives of our great religions, the unchanging principles which guide our beloved country. These goals are based on the dignity and worth of the individual, endowed by his creator with certain inalienable rights. They are grounded in our American way of life, which favors no one group, but recognizes that our country is truly a nation of nations, enriched by the contributions of all peoples, by their desire to live in freedom and friendship with their fellow human beings. I am indeed pleased to join in the effort of Interfaith Movement Incorporated, because its purposes coincide with those of the New York State Commission Against Discrimination, on which it has been my privilege to serve since the inception of the New York State Law Against Discrimination. This law was the first statute of its kind in the United States. It is based on the legislative finding that discrimination in employment, in places of public accommodation, resort or amusement, and in other areas of human relations, threatens not only the rights and proper privileges of individuals, but endangers the foundation of the democratic state itself. The need for such legislative action was foreseen by the people of this state in 1938, when they approved the important amendment to the state's Bill of Rights, which provides that no person shall, because of race, color, creed, or religion, be subjected to any discrimination in his civil rights. When this vital addition was incorporated into our organic law, the legislature foresaw that specific laws would be needed to carry out this fundamental policy. Our law against discrimination, which has since been the model for similar statutes in eight other states and some 25 municipalities, is not an effort to change attitudes through force and sanctions alone. Indeed, Governor Dewey, when he submitted the bill creating this law to the legislature, stated, The problem in this field may not be solved by means of statutory enactments alone. All of our people must be imbued with the urgency and the will and the understanding to bring cooperation and equality into relations among our fellow human beings. Much can be accomplished to accelerate the process of education and understanding by voluntary action. The philosophy set forth in the Governor's statement is reflected in the provisions of the law and in the policies and procedure of the Commission. For example, as specific complaints are directed to the attention of the Commission, the investigating Commissioner in charge of the case decides whether or not the alleged discrimination has occurred. If he finds that it probably did, he is under mandate of law to use the educational processes of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. In other words, he uses the time-honored method of moral suasion to right the wrong. If his efforts are futile, the case is noticed for public hearing before three other commissioners. Testimony under oath is taken from all parties to the complaint. If the facts warrant, a finding of discrimination is made and a legal order issued, violation of which is subject to the penalties of law. On the other hand, if the public hearing results in a finding that no discrimination took place, the case is dismissed. I am sure that you will be interested to learn that out of approximately 3,000 matters which have been processed by the Commission, only two public hearings have been held and two cease-and-desist orders issued. In neither of those cases was it necessary to invoke the penalties because of noncompliance. Using the technique of education, coupled with sanctions available when needed, this law has been an effective contributory factor to the gradual elimination of job discrimination from the economic life of our state. Employers, labor organizations, and employment agencies against whom complaints have been filed have entered into voluntary agreements to eliminate and prevent discrimination wherever it has been found to exist. They have demonstrated that spirit of understanding and cooperation which is essential to the success of this type of law. The Commission has been able to treat alleged instances of discrimination without disrupting the orderly routine of business, without harassment of employers, and without usurping the prerogatives of employers, unions, or employment agencies. Effective July 1, 1952, the law was amended to extend the Commission's enforcement jurisdiction to places of public accommodation, resort, and amusement. It was Governor Dewey's thinking when he recommended this amendment that the educational and conciliatory techniques effectively applied in employment could be used successfully in the area of public accommodations. In addition to its regulatory functions, the Commission has the equally important task of developing and carrying out an educational program in all fields of human relations. Its efforts in this respect are directed toward the building of goodwill, understanding, and friendship among the people. It is through its educational work in this general field that the Commission seeks to bring about a moral climate which will steadily reduce the incidence of discrimination. In its regulatory work, it investigates alleged overt acts of discrimination, which are usually the result of prejudice. In its educational work, it seeks to reach the cause of discrimination, prejudice itself. As pointed out in the discussion of this law prior to its passage, the most perfect law of this type would be relatively ineffective unless it was sustained by the moral attitude of the people. With this in mind, the Commission designed a dual approach. First, it created 12 community councils throughout the state, in Westchester County, the boroughs of New York City, Albany, Troy, Syracuse in central New York, Broome County in the southern tier, and Buffalo in the western part of the state. These councils comprised of volunteer citizens serving without pay may be empowered by the Commission to 1. foster through community effort or otherwise goodwill, cooperation, and conciliation among the groups and elements of the population. 2. Study the problems of discrimination in all or in specific fields of human relationship or in specific instances of discrimination. And 3. Make recommendations to the Commission for programs of formal and informal education which the Commission may recommend to the appropriate state agency. In this latter function, for example, the councils have worked closely with schools, churches, labor, veteran, and other agencies in planning and executing human relations programs. The Manhattan Council, working in cooperation with guidance officials in the New York City Board of Education, developed programs in the junior and senior high schools. The theme of these programs was that regardless of past patterns of discrimination, the job, the important job, prerequisites today, are skill, character, aptitude, and interest. The purpose of this type of program is to encourage youngsters to set their goals high and not to be held back because of the fear of possible discrimination. The teachers and guidance officials who assisted in the planning of these programs utilized radio recordings, motion pictures, exhibit materials provided by the Commission. Before the program was carried out, an in-service training course for teachers was established. Other councils of the Commission have undertaken the following types of programs. Foreman training courses in human relations, meetings with boards of education and superintendents of schools for the purpose of acquainting them with the Commission's facilities, school community workshops in human relations, bringing together school administrators, teachers, and civic leaders for the purpose of developing community-wide programs. In addition to organizing citizens' councils, the Commission uses the media of mass communication and various forms of the printed word to reach all sections. During 1951, the Commission's March of Time film, an equal chance, shown in 800 theaters, theaters, was also received in 200 showings by schools, colleges, churches, synagogues, and other community or group forums. After nearly eight years of operation, can we say that this law has been effective? Answering that question as objectively as possible, I believe it would be fair to say that it has been one of the important factors in eliminating unlawful discrimination and has also played a part to improve intergroup relations generally. The law is actually an additional method for solving the age-old problem of human relations. It does not supplant the family, school, the church, or labor and other organizations in this effort, but it is, it stimulates and supplants them. Although it uses the power of the state where overt acts of discrimination takes place, its efforts are essentially along the lines of developing democratic community education and action. The commission has constantly emphasized that the law is not directed against nor administered for any special group, but it is an instrument designed to bring its benefits to all of the people. Adherence to this policy has not completely eliminated, but it has reduced considerably the incidence of discrimination and increased employment opportunities for groups hitherto barred because of their race, creed, color, or national origin. With the continued cooperation of all communities, the commission will continue to exercise its key role in promoting undertaking and amity among the racial, religious, and nationality groups of the state. The men and women who, at great personal sacrifice, organized interstate movement incorporated, are to be congratulated not only for today's splendid demonstration of civic devotion, but also for their selfless efforts throughout the year devoted to the principles of equality which undergird the federal and the New York State Bill of Rights. Today's program program is an outstanding example of how good citizenship can be patterned. May I commend you for a job well done and wish for you the highest degree of success in your future efforts. Thank you. we will now have the reading of the scriptures by the widely known church scholar and rector of the Trinity Episcopal Church of Morris Senia Reverend Father Wendell C. Robert. Here beginneth the first verse of the third chapter of the epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Colossians. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. But now ye also put off all things, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication, out of your mouth. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bonded nor free. But Christ is all and in all. Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. Here endeth the lesson. The interfaith oath will be given by one of our members, the Honorable Edward McCullen, Justice of the Court of General Sessions. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Members of the clergy, ladies and gentlemen, you are all very hearty souls, I am sure, to sit out there this cold afternoon for such a long time, and that is every indication that anyone should have as to your absolute confidence in the interfaith movement. I think that I shall recommend to my associates in the interfaith movement if they're going to hold their ceremonies as late as it is now in the year, that they either give us long underwear or do something else about it. I'm freezing. Before we get to the interfaith oath, I think I should bring you two examples of modern life in endeavor to orient the mind of each one of you to what we mean by the interfaith oath and what significance it should be to you. On Sunday afternoon last, at the Polar Grounds in the City of New York, His Eminence, the Cardinal of the Catholic Church, invited members of all religious groups to come to the Polar Grounds to participate in the Rosary Service under the slogan that the family that prays together stays together. It must have been very gratifying to Cardinal Spellman to find between 75,000 and 100,000 persons there of all faiths. Of course, we Catholics do not expect the members of the other political groups to follow our suggestion as to the Rosary, but nevertheless, pray as you will, and pray as I hope you will, the slogan, the family that prays together stays together. So now, if you will, I was going to tell you a lot of stories, but they just told me we only have eight minutes more. And if I take eight minutes, you can take me out and shoot me. That's a hint for other people. Well, I wouldn't be Irish if I didn't tell you the truth, you know. So if you will kindly rise, oh, I know you're glad to get up and get a stretch, and repeat after me the interfaith oath. I will discriminate against no man by reason of his faith or creed. I will daily deal with every man in business and social and political relations only on the basis of his true individual worth. I will never try to indict a whole people by reason of the derelictions of any individual. I will utter no rumor and no slander against any sect. In my conduct, I will consecrate myself hour by hour and day by day to the achievement, to the achievement, in fact, of the highest ideals of the dignity of man, human equality, human fellowship, and human brotherhood. You may be seated. Thank you very much. We will now have another number by the Brooklyn Post Office Glee Club. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In rain or sunshine, pals say they're rather hope for each other. When you're on your own, you're not alone, for when you belong in a lone star, Rangers man to man. Hi-ho! Hi-ho! Hi-ho! Hi-ho! Hi-ho! Hi-ho! We're home! We're home! Home! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Rootin' pals, tootin' pals, scootin' pals, shootin' pals. In rain or sunshine, oh-oh! Pals say they're rather hope for each other. When you're on your own, you're not alone, for when you belong to the lone star, Ranger man to man. For this glorious day, we are most thankful and join in the benediction with Cardinal Spelman's Secretary of Education and personal representative, the right Reverend Edward J. Watterson. Almighty God, it is thou who created the world, gave to each man his existence, and sustains his life and activity. Wherefore, you are the father of each, a provident and attentive father. But all the more are you our father because you have made us to your own image and likeness, with an intellect to think, to reason, and to judge, with a will that is free like yours, free even to turn against you. Thus have you made all men equal, by their divine origin and by their basic endowment, divinely conferred of a spiritual soul with the twofold gift of intellect and free will. At the same time, you have further blessed men by making them different from one another through your distribution of talents, apportioning these talents wisely, so that not all are possessed by one, but so that each has his share and thus becomes a blessing to his neighbor by supplementing for what his neighbor lacks. Thus, basically, are all men a blessing to one another and a necessity. Grant, therefore, that our fixed attitude towards our neighbor will be one of reverence for his worth and consequently one of goodwill and helpfulness for his welfare, so that we will rejoice in his happiness and be distressed by his misfortune. Grant, Almighty God, that we may love our neighbor and help him to avail himself of the opportunities that your provision of natural resources and personal talents has made common to all. Amen. The facilities of your city station has brought you the benediction at the Interfaith Rally at the Mall in Central Park by the representative of Cardinal Spellman, the Right Reverend Edward J. Watterson. In this, we had the privilege of bringing you this interesting program here today at which Mr. John A. Ross, chairman of Interfaith Day, acted as chairman and introduced the program. That is all from the Mall in Central Park, WNYC, AM and FM. I represent two of our... Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
