Mr. Mayor, today Sweden is... Mr. Mayor, today Sweden is honoring one of your distinguished transportation experts, first of all the expert, the international expert, Colonel Sidney Bingham, who has given considerable attention to the problems of the country that today is honoring them. It's a great privilege for me to present the Acting Council General, Kirk Lejohn of Sweden. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I'm greatly honored to be here today and to represent my country on this occasion. It does not occur very often that the duty of the kind I will perform today can take place in such dignified surroundings as the Mayor's office. I've been instructed by my government to pay a special tribute to a prominent American who has rendered a most generous and valuable service to the city of Stockholm. Like many other cities that have grown rapidly in recent years, Stockholm's traffic problems became more difficult as time went on. It became clear to the city authorities that a subway embracing most parts of the city would be the best solution to these problems. And it was decided that a thorough study should be made of subways abroad. New York was considered to have one of the best systems and the most modern cars and equipments of any subway in the world. When contact was made with the Board of Transportation of the City of New York, the Swedish authorities made inquiries for the purpose of obtaining, if possible, certain technical information regarding the subways of the City of New York. The Board of Transportation consented, in a most generous way, to give all the data at their command to the Swedish officials. The person, since its inception, who took the responsibility of giving all necessary information to the Swedish officials on this subway project, and who gave unstintingly of his time and efforts, and above all, very valuable advices, is Colonel Sidney Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York. He has, in a most gracious way, demonstrated the workings of the subways, the cars, the plants, and car barns, to the city representatives of Stockholm. Furthermore, he has, on several occasions, visited Stockholm to give his expert advice on various problems which arose during the time the subway in Stockholm was being built. Colonel Bingham also has been very kind in demonstrating to the Swedish transportation officials a new type of bus, which he had planned to introduce here, and of the two models available in the beginning, one was given to Sweden to try out there. The bus proved to be very satisfactory, and the Stockholm Transportation authorities have decided to put buses of this kind in service. The keen interest in the Stockholm transportation problems that Colonel Bingham has displayed, and the courtesy he has shown representatives who have arrived here from Sweden to study the subway system of New York, has been very highly appreciated in Sweden, and we feel that Colonel Bingham has shown a very unselfish and cooperative attitude, which is a great thing in international work and relations. In recognition of the valuable assistance that you, Colonel Bingham, have rendered the city of Stockholm, in connection with the improvements of the city's transportation system, His Majesty King Gustav VI Adolf of Sweden has decided to bestow upon you the insignia of knighthood of the Royal Order of the North Star, and it gives me great pleasure to hand over this insignia to you now. The relations between your country and mine have always been of the best, and in order to maintain a spirit of cooperation between our respective countries, we need men of your calibre. And I can say with certainty that you have contributed greatly to the development of the particularly cordial relations between the city of New York and the city of Stockholm. May I pin this one on you now? Congratulations, Colonel Bingham. Before Colonel Bingham responds to the decoration, I think we'd all like to hear a word from his honor, Mayor Vincent Impelletari. Mr. Whelan, Mr. Acting Council General, Colonel Bingham, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great pleasure for me to be invited to participate today at this ceremony in which a foreign government, a foreign government that's very friendly to the United States, has conferred upon the chairman of our Board of Transportation its highest award for in recognition of engineering and cultural achievements. I feel exactly the way the Swedish government feels about Colonel Bingham. As a matter of fact, I don't think that if I were to write something about the achievements of Colonel Bingham, I could not summarize him more succinctly than did the Acting Council General of Sweden. I think he said everything about Colonel Bingham that could possibly be said. I know that during the seven years, or approximately seven years that I have been here at City Hall, I have had opportunity almost daily to know of the tremendous ability and the energy and the diligence and the kind of conscientious public servant Colonel Bingham really represents. I have been the beneficiary of his cooperation and advice on transit matters during all of that period, and particularly in the two-year period that I have been mayor of this great city. He has performed a perfectly wonderful job in maintaining the efficiency and the safety of the mass transportation system that we have here in the City of New York. And as evidence, the fact that I share the same ideas about Colonel Bingham that the Swedish government did, only recently it was my pleasure as mayor of the City of New York to appoint Colonel Bingham to a new six-year term as a member of the Board of Transportation. And in addition to that, I also designated him as its chairman. So, Colonel Bingham, I want to congratulate you on this new award. This is only one of a great many other awards that Colonel Bingham has received, not only for his activity in transit matters in times of peace, but he has been the recipient of many decorations, not only from our own government, but from many other foreign governments, in recognition of the contribution he made during times of war, both in World War I and in World War II. Colonel Bingham made a tremendous contribution to the prosecution of both of those wars and I've had occasion to read some of his citations. Colonel Bingham's achievements have received the highest kind of recognition. So, Mr. Council General, may I, on behalf of the people of the City of New York, thank you, thank your government for recognizing the kind of service Colonel Bingham has rendered to your government. And may I say to you that I know that I express the thinking of 8 million people of the City of New York when I say to you that the people of the City of New York are appreciative of the recognition given Colonel Bingham by your government. Thank you very much. Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York. I am honored indeed to be the recipient of this distinguished decoration, conferred upon me by his majesty, King Gustav VI Adolf of Sweden. I felt it a great privilege to be called upon by the Swedish authorities to make a study of their transportation problems and it is very gratifying to learn that my recommendations were carried out and my services so highly esteemed. I am grateful, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Leon, Monsignor Middleton, Father McGinley, and all of my friends for joining in this ceremony and making it a truly memorable occasion. Thank you. . . . . . . . . . . .