Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight, we are opening our Tuesday evening series, Marriage and Family Life. Our speaker this evening is Kelton Stewart, and he is speaking on marriage and family life in the primitive society. It was just about three months ago that I introduced Mr. Stewart on another program, and at that time, he gave us some very interesting information about the magical dances from the barrier reef of Asia. And if I remember correctly, and if you remember correctly, I trust, I told you at that time that Kelton Stewart is an anthropologist and a psychologist, and has spent most of his life studying primitive peoples in the lands and regions of primitive peoples. Now, with the first exception that he has studied and worked in the University of London, and then after that, he has studied in Peking Medical College. He has also worked in a psychological clinic in the University of Hawaii. He has spent several years in the barrier reef of Asia, including Melea, and he has made quite a study of the Ainus and the Negritos, Negritos of the Philippines, Ainus of Hokkaido, and the Senoi of Melea. And so he looks at the problem of marriage and family life in primitive societies, both as an anthropologist and a psychologist. So I'm very happy to present to you this evening, Dr. Kilton Stewart. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have just been told, my work has been mostly on the practices of healing and since we have no scientific medicine in these societies, most of the methods of healing fall in the classification of magical religious beliefs and practices. And since that's my specialty, I will try to tell you tonight how these magical religious beliefs and practices influence various of the marital and family relationships in primitive and ancient societies. From a study of marriage and family life in primitive society, we can conclude that man is tremendously adaptable. It is as though nature had performed many fascinating experiments so we can find out, if we are willing to look at them, the best way in which we as people can direct our own personal and social relationships. There are many different examples of societies in which the traditions of the past, all of which are thought to come from the gods in primitive societies or from supernormal sources, are good. So, when this traditional knowledge encourages the creativeness and adaptability in the individual, you will get a rich social life. When it does not, you will get a rich social life. When it does not, you find the human being going off in many, many different directions. I would like to discuss tonight some of these different directions which society takes. It is as though you would take a number of individuals, some are conservative, and each generation, these conservative ones seem to encourage the conservativeness of their children until you get one branch of conservative people taking over the whole society. You find others where it seems that the liberal person, the whole society has been built after a liberal temperament. You find some in which there is a compromise between, you might say, the impulse and the intellect of various people. I am going to ask you to consider these societies from the standpoint of psychotherapists, from the standpoint of healers yourself. Because, as social scientists, we have no absolute values or standards by which we can judge any type of social interaction. But, the doctor has certain universal standards. The doctor can put a thermometer in your mouth and tell in just a moment or two if the many systems of which you are composed as an individual are operating in such a way that you maintain the delicate balance of normal body temperature. He can use a pair of scales to tell whether or not you maintain your weight, whether or not your child is progressing from week to week in a normal fashion. As psychotherapists, we can do somewhat the same. If you have a good feeling about life, if you feel good, we know that the many systems which maintain your self-feeling, the many systems of which you are made up, are operating fairly well. If you feel bad, then some of these systems are working against each other. You are turned against each other. You are turned against each other in some way. If you have a consistent feeling of happiness, feeling of progress, feeling that you are growing from day to day, moving towards your objectives in life, then we have this other type of indicator which we could compare with the doctor's scales. As an anthropologist and psychologist, I have always been interested in inquiring and observing how the people felt in the various groups that I have worked with from day to day. And trying to form a judgment as to whether or not the accumulated knowledge and wisdom of the group fulfilled those two functions. Whether or not it made the people feel good from day to day and whether or not it gave them a feeling of expansion, a feeling of progress toward some life goals and objectives. In order to simplify the data that I am going to present, I would like you to keep in mind that as a social scientist, you look at behavior. You can observe the reactions of a person with authority with the people older than himself. And in that authority is included the traditions of the past, whether or not it's religious or other type of knowledge. And in primitive societies, all of the authoritative knowledge has the weight of religion in our society. Or we can observe the interactions between man and wife or between parent and child. The study of a big sweep of societies indicates that very often the accumulated knowledge is prejudicial to good family relations. Or even precludes any family relations at all for certain individuals. In our own society, we have an example of that. Anyone who takes, who joins institutions where they require vows of celibacy precludes for himself, at least, the normal family relationships. In primitive societies, we also find some groups in which there is a great prejudice against our feeling against genital energy, against emotional energy. We might even call them anti-genital societies. One example of that are the peoples, many of the peoples who live in North Africa and Arabia. Most of them, or some of them, are tentatively Mohammedans. These people have a very great feeling. The traditional authority is very much against any type of genital or sexual feeling. This leads them, as a custom, to excise, cut out the external genitals of the girl when she is a little girl. It's called female circumcision. In such a way that all of the normal feelings associated with that part of the body are eliminated. Another part of this custom, which is also of sacred origin, coming from the inspiration of the past, is to rub on the wound the sacred dung of cows. This often leads to phlebitis and scarifications of various sorts, which influences not only the family relationship or sexual feeling toward her husband, but also the birth of her children. We find other societies, other groups in which this feeling, this anti-genital feeling, was even stronger than this. Some of the groups in Russia and Europe, southern Europe, at times, have interpreted the Bible, where we are told that some made themselves eunuchs for the Lord's sake, as encouraging mutilation and self-torture. Sects have sprung up there in which there was a custom of removing all of the external genitals in both men and women as initiation into these various religious societies. And women even went further in their devotion than men by having their breasts removed, because there was also some genital feeling in the nipple. This shows how far people can go when the traditional authority is directed against impulsive energy, and when this keeps growing from generation to generation. I've met a lot of people in our own society who I think would like to solve some of the complicated problems, emotional problems, in that same simple way. But our own laws, religious and civil, do not encourage or permit this. On the other hand, you get some societies such as the Dyax of Barneo, where during his circumcision, the young man has a loop cut beneath the gland's penis, and later on, as he relates sexually to his wife, he buttons through this loop of skin a sharp, double-pronged little spear, which lacerates and punctures the woman as he carries on sexual intercourse. This type of practice encourages, you might say, the masochistic, the natural masochistic feelings that all women have, the infantile ability to release emotions in pain and in masochism in the woman, and it encourages the natural, rather infantile, sadistic desires of the male. This society, rather than being against the genital feelings, seems to be set against maturation, the type of emotional maturation, which occurs in most other societies. The societies, the authorities encourage this sadomasochistic sexual relationship, rather than encouraging adults to go out of these infantile, immature emotional tendencies. We have other societies in which the family life is precluded or influenced in other directions toward immaturity. For instance, a young man who failed in his aggressive tests at some of the age-grade examinations, who has certain dreams or who has certain dreams, is required to cease being a man, to throw off his men's clothing, to dress like a woman, and to perform the role of a woman, the submissive role of a woman, in sexual intercourse with other men. This also occurs, for instance, in Siberia, if a man aspires to a religious calling, to the calling of a shaman. Among the American Indians, there were the Plains Indians, where the vision quest very often determined a man's lot in life. There were certain dreams that a man could have, and which, if they occurred three times, he was forced to give up his masculine role in society. The moon was thought to be a feminine character, and if the moon in a dream gave a man a digging stick rather than a bow and arrow, he was required then, and this happened three times, authority, traditional knowledge said, that if he did not throw off his clothing, his male clothing, and assume a woman's clothing, and work like a woman, and submit anally to men, that he would die. This was a compulsion or impulsion that he must follow this feminine role in life. Now, this is a little different than the encouraging of the infantile sadomasochistic response, but we know that all boys and girls in all societies tend to be homosexual in adolescence, and any society which encourages this type of reaction later on in life is again settling for something less than the type of emotional and sexual maturity which is demanded in most societies. These examples go to show the various directions in which societies are led by the various types of individuals of the past. that knowledge becomes stratified, becomes written into custom, becomes written into institutions, and persists. Now, for a little while, I want to discuss the type of marital and family relations in some of these border-wreath groups in Asia. I'd like to start out with the Negritos. The Negritos live up in the mountains of the Philippine Islands, of Lausanne in the Philippine Islands, and carry on a very simple life. They have a very simple type of society. Very small groups, often only 10, 12 families in one group. They are nomadic hunting and gathering people. The marital relations in that society are directed by custom, very much as they are in our society. There are certain things which a man must do according to the commandments of the High God, who is Tolandian. If a man would relate sexually to some woman in his own group, the world would come to an end. There would be an earthquake, or the whole group would get a plague and die. And so there are very strict taboos against any type of relations between men and women of their own group. The men get their women outside their own small groups and bring them in. They marry outside of the group. So a young man among the Negritos has no sexual experience before marriage, and no teachings about sex. He cannot relate to the girls in his own society at all, after he puts on his loincloth at the age of about 7 or 8, without running into the incest taboo. And since he has to buy his wife from some other group, and she would lose her commercial value if she related to or associated with other unmarried boys, she is kept very much away from the boys of other groups. So these young people enter marriage after the boy has paid the bride price for his wife, entirely without sexual experience. It is as though the gods had said that man learns naturally how to mature sexually and how to conduct himself in marriage. There are some other societies where that same idea is held. But it doesn't work well among the Negritos. The family relationships, the interpersonal relationships between husband and wife are not very good. In this society, adultery is punishable by death, and there's terrific disruption caused by it, and still there is quite a lot of adultery. In this society, there is often divorce, desertion. The marriages are not very stable. They do have, however, some methods, some native method for dealing with the situation. And one of the things that I studied while I was, or often ran into while I was studying their magical religious beliefs and practices were magical spells by which women hope to keep the love of their husbands, and women hope to overcome frigidity, or men hope to overcome frigidity in their wives, and magical spells for protecting the men from spirits who had bewitched them and the like. To give an example of the type of psychology which these people exercise in trying to cope with this problem of poor sexual relation in marriage, I saw one woman who brought to the shamaness a story of a vision or an hallucination which she had had in which she saw that her husband went off frequently and related sexually, had anal intercourse with a strange creature whom she called a dwindy. The dwindy, so far as I could gather, has a horse like a face and a body like a man, but he has long hair growing down over his face so you can't very well see his face unless he pulls back the hair. Well this woman had seen Miss dwindy going around with her husband and in fact in her vision or hallucination had seen them in this embarrassing love relationship. So she went to the shamaness and asked what could be done about it. The shamaness went into trance and prescribed what to us would be a very strange routine. She was required to urinate on her husband every morning and to submit herself to anal intercourse and to rub, massage his body with her anus in such a way that the spirit, who was a good hunter because he had a very great sense of smell, would be advised of whose woman, whose man this was and would leave him alone. This practice apparently worked. I didn't quite know if the man involved in the case was impotent because he was tired of his wife or because he had found some other woman off in the jungle somewhere. But I was rather of the opinion from talking to him that he had become impotent and uninterested in his wife and that he did have some sort of a neurotic or psychotic split personality which made him wander off and forget where he was. And when he would come back, his wife would be very angry at him. But after this magical formula was initiated, he seemed to get back his potency or at least paid attention again to his wife. And there was another woman who I saw come to the shaman as a patient with a disease, with a tumor on her right arm. And the shamaness who interpreted it said that this was also due to a breakdown of the love relationship. We found out from the woman that she was very, very much against sex. She couldn't relate to her husband in the marital relation without an extreme feeling of pain and nausea. The shamaness said that this breakdown in sexual function and the tumor were caused by the same thing. She saw in her vision the spirit of a young man of her own group whom she had loved before she had been bought by her present husband. And this one of this man's souls had taken up residence in her arm. That was what caused the swelling. And then whenever she was around her husband in the love relation, this soul being inside her and knowing where all the machine he was could torture her and make her hate her husband. The shaman talked to the spirit of this lover who had followed her from her own group to her present place of abode and told the spirit that unless it agreed to leave and go back to its owner, to its own camp, that he was going to kill it in the dreams of his patient. And the spirit agreed to leave. Then the shaman also prescribed that the husband bring down herbs of various sorts and red beads to scare away the spirit so it wouldn't come back anymore. And to be very gentle with his wife, sexually, until the evil influence of this spirit disappeared. I was collecting dreams from the group at the time and found that this woman started having some very, very violent and destructive dreams in which her husband and her former lover and her brothers and her father and the shaman were all having knock-down, drag-out fights, killing each other right and left. And a terrific hubbub. She went back to the shaman again and he said, well, this spirit of your lover is not only very bad because of the way in which he tortures you and makes you hate your husband, but he's also very bad because he's a liar. He said he'd leave and here he hasn't left. And so there was nothing to do but have his spirit kill off that spirit in her dreams. She became the center of attraction in the group. All the other shamans were called in and their spirits helped her, helped kill off this spirit. It developed into a sort of a war because the brothers and cousins and fathers of the boy, a father of the girl, all joined in to help the lover spirit. And so it developed into a very long sort of dream battle. But before I left, which was a couple of months, I learned that the spirit, the dreams had ceased and that she had overcome largely her aversion to her husband and that the marital relation was progressing. She even felt, uh, said to me that the tumor was getting smaller, the home of the spirit was gradually shrinking. Well, this type of, this type of primitive psychology or psychotherapy demonstrates the fact that the traditions of the group, the group, although they do not provide for either training in intermarital relationship, in marital relationship, or for a choice, very much of a choice in the, of a partner, still, the tradition of the group does encourage the interaction, the psychological interaction inside the individual. Once they do get into bad marital situations. It does encourage, through dreams and visions, a type of psychotherapy, which makes up somewhat for the initial lack in training of the young for marriage. There are other groups in which this doesn't happen. There are other groups in which there is very little room for the type of inner reorganization which occurs in dreams and visions. An example of this is in Australia. In Australia, the young man not only is forbidden to relate to the girls of his own father's group, but there's a special girl he must marry. And, usually, it's his cross cousin once or twice removed. And, very often, he has to wait a long time for that cross cousin to arrive. The, uh, he not only has to submit to the authorities of his own father's group, but the authorities in his mother's group. The old men of his mother's group are also his authorities. And, he has to learn a lot of ceremonies which will fit him into the ceremonial life of the group. It's a long time before he, uh, is able to get himself a wife and carry on a normal marital relation. Still worse for the women in that society, because they also have to marry a certain person, and very often do not marry until they are very old, until the man is very old. And, they are without previous experience of training as a rule also. The society doesn't make allowances for marital training, premarital training. The Australian society, we might say, belongs to the old men. And, the old men belong to the dead men, more or less. Uh, among the Ainu of Northern Japan, the, uh, situation is even more stratified and, uh, conventionalized than it is among the Australians in some respects. Here, the penalty for adultery for any type of break over of the sexual code is still more harshly treated than it is in Australia. In Australia, and, uh, among the Negritos, if a man offends, his, the husband of the woman has a right to punish that man, perhaps to kill him. But, in, among the Ainu, the whole of society insist on taking revenge on the sexual offender. And, they torture as well as, uh, punish that man. So, the anti-genital feeling among the Ainu is very strong. There is no, uh, there is no sexual relation before marriage. No sexual training or preparation before marriage. And, the woman among the Ainu has become still less important from the standpoint of authority than she is in these more primitive societies. She is entirely the slave, you might say, of her husband. And, the Ainu are so good from a conventional standpoint. They do what the gods say with such fervor that the men cannot think of helping with the woman's work, since the gods told them how to distribute the work a long time ago. The women are the agriculturalists. And, the hunting and fishing and fighting, which was the men's job, is now nearly all eliminated. So, the men spend all of their time worshipping in their drinking ceremonies, or most of their time in their drinking ceremonies. And, the woman does all the work. This, uh, slavery to tradition does not include, courage, creative, and genital expression. And, you'll find if you go to their drinking ceremonies, that instead they release their emotions through reliving the hero worship of the past. They tell the stories of the heroes of the past. And, as they tell them in these drinking ceremonies, they jolly well live them. They also have curious fantasies in these, uh, stories, origin myths, and stories about old heroes, which in a measure encourage the type of sadomasochistic fantasy that you get among the dyaks, only now on a fantasy rather than a reality level. For instance, the, one of the favorite stories of the Ainu, which relates to, uh, this subject, is a story about three brothers, three heroes who lived long ago. The three greatest Ainu went out on a boat, and fell under the spell, or under the influence, of an enchantress. They went into the, they saw an island on which the enchantress lived, and saw her standing in the sunset, combing her red hair. Immediately they fell in love with her, and went over to the island. Uh, she gave them a magic wine to drink, and then said they could stay the night, but warned them that, although she hated most, most men, and liked to, uh, to eat them, to kill them, that she loved these very wonderful Ainu, and therefore they must not, under any circumstances, make love with her. The three brothers lay down and went to sleep, or were going to sleep, and the two younger brothers heard the older brother get out of his bed and go over to the, uh, room of the enchantress. Then he heard the rhythmic sound of love. He heard, uh, cry of, uh, joy, and then the death rattle in his brother's throat. He got up, and the brother was dead. The enchantress was crying and said, You wonderful Ainu, I am very sorry that you had to die. I warned you against making love with me, and I'm very, very sorry. The two old, younger brothers took their older brother and wrapped him in a sail cloth, and then the two younger brother went to, uh, started going to sleep. And the youngest brother heard the second brother get out of his bed and go over to the bed of the enchantress. Again, the rhythmic sounds of love and the death rattle. Again, the enchantress weeps and, uh, says that she had warned him and warned the younger brother that he must leave now, that he cannot, he must not make love with her. The younger brother was the one who had to do the menial work for the three, and he had a long whetstone. And, uh, he was sharpening his harpoons in the early part of the evening. And, uh, even after his older two brothers had died, he couldn't, uh, he couldn't resist his love for the enchantress. But as he got out of his bed to go over to where she was, he felt this whetstone and took it with him. And then the enchantress say there was a sound, the grating sound, the rhythmic grating sound for a long time, and then the sounds of love. The younger brother had discovered, or had looked for the source of this death before he, uh, completely lost his head in love and had, with his whetstone, filed out the teeth, which were in the vagina of the enchantress, and which had resulted in the death of his two older brothers. And so he made love with the woman, and this time there was no death rattle, but screams of love and satisfaction of the woman. But then the island started to sink, and the enchantress said, I'm very, very sorry that you have made me love you, made me love human beings, now I've got to sink under the sea. And the Ainu, there was a great wave as the island sunk, and the Ainu found himself in his boat. But he was cursed, because he could never get rid of this beautiful figure of the enchantress, memory of the enchantress for a moment, and yet he could never find her again. And so he was cursed with her memory, even more than the older brothers who had, just lost their life to her. Well now this kind of story, when it is related in the Ainu drinking ceremony, has, is told with very great interest, and all of the brothers are obviously, all of the people are obviously identifying with the brothers as they undergo this experience, which again, as you see, is both masochistic and sadistic, and has the same infantile elements that we often find in childhood fantasies. the bear ceremony, of which I told before in this hall, has also this tendency to split apart the group into masochistic and sadistic relationship. The bear, which is first brought up as a member of the family, of the group, is called first younger brother, and then precious divinity, an older brother. The bear in the ceremony, at last, when it's full grown, is shot by Ainu's, which the men let fly, and as the bear is penetrated by these arrows, so fashioned that they will not kill, but only torture the bear, as the men exercise this sadistic torture on the bear, the women all perpetuate the bear's cry, its groan, its sob in their song, they perpetuate its quiver, its cowering, its lunging, which is the expression of the pain in their dance, and this goes on until all the men have shot their arrow into the bear. Then, the old men pull the bear over to two logs, and slowly choke its life out. Just before it dies, they bring a large, smooth stake, pointed stake, as the bear is being strangled, they bring this large, pointed stake, and force it between the bear's teeth, and ram it down the bear's throat. Then, they sink a knife into the bear's heart, collect the blood, drink the blood while it's still warm, and mark it on their foreheads. The women, after perpetuating the bear's agony in their movement and voice while this is going on, at the point when the big stake is thrust into the bear's throat, most of them go into a paroxysm of nausea, and weeping, it's really a trance or orgastic outburst of weeping and vomiting when the stake is thrust in, and the knife is driven into the bear's heart. They also take the, rub their fingers in the eyes and the tears of the bear, and mark them on their forehead. Here we see, not a therapeutic ceremony, to work out the difficulties of the individual, to release the emotional energy in a way which is guided by dreams, and by experience, but we see the emotional energy of the group being penalized into the fantasies, the sadomasochistic fantasies, and into these ceremonies in which the men act aggressively, and sadistically, and the women act masochistically, with sorrow, with nausea. This does release emotion, as you see. This releases emotion very well. But according to the two criteria that I mentioned earlier in the evening, it doesn't fulfill the second one. It releases the emotions, but it does not give a feeling of growth to the individual, and it does not relieve those emotions free, so they can be worked out in the interpersonal relationship between husband and wife, between child and father, and between the siblings. In other words, it does not leave the emotional relationship free for expression, and development, and maturation in other types of social relations. And I might say that these people are not adaptable to their environment. They provide very poorly for the children, they suffer from malnutrition, and it is judged from any standard. It is not a good way of releasing, the ceremonial way of releasing emotional energy, which ties the individual more and more to the ceremony of the past, to the old men and to the men who are dead. In that manner, it does not solve marital or any other kinds of problems. Now we have other groups in which, primitive groups in which there is an encouragement and the guidance of emotional energy, of genital energy in preparation for marriage. There is one group in Micronesia, in which the first year of the married life, is devoted to sexual training. The old men relate to the young married woman in the temple. The old men are possessed by the gods when they go into the temple, and when they swing the bullroar, which is like a ruler on the end of a string, the young matrons come, who have not yet had the first child, to the temple, and the old men, possessed by the gods, relate to them sexually, and teach them how to live, express themselves sexually, in a way that is pleasing to the gods. The young men, during that first year, relate to the older women. They are, you might say, on call, for the older women, and yet learn how a young man should express himself sexually, to be pleasing to the woman. The first child is not the child of the husband. The first child is the goblin's child, and becomes a priest. After that, after the birth of the first child, the married couple settle down, and live a normal married life. And apparently, it works out quite well, so far as the marital relation is concerned. There are other groups. However, this is a very rigid society, and many of the other qualities aren't realized, that might be desirable in marriage. There are other groups, such as the Ifeugawans, of the Philippine Islands, the central mountain range of the Philippines, in which the emotional development of the child, occupies a very important place in the culture. Among the Ifeugawans, the little girl, when she puts on her skirts at the age of six or seven, moves into a dormitory, and with the other girls of her district or group. The young men are encouraged to go to that dormitory and meet the girls. And the girl from six or seven, sees all there is to be seen about love, from then on until she is married. The boys and girls are encouraged to indulge or participate in sexual play until the girl has her first menstrual period, when she is warned or advised by her parents that she should not relate to anyone who is not in her own caste. This, although it is a primitive society, is in some ways a very conventional, a rigid society, and has three castes in it. The girl, however, when she does start relating sexually to men, can have as many lovers as she can attract. And when she becomes pregnant, she chooses from the lovers, the current lovers, the one she wants from a husband. And if you don't want to be chosen, you just don't relate to the girl. This type of marriage leaves the women who are not fruitful, the sterile woman, the old maids of that society, stay in the, in the ulog, as they call it, and train the younger men. The women who can't have children have a much richer sexual life than the ones who can. Because they don't become, they don't get married, and the young men who do not want to get married, are very glad to learn about life, to learn about sex from these older women. And when they, they're taught, the philosophy there, as I was told it, was that the, that orgasm was the death of the love encounter, rather than the goal of the love encounter. And the young men wanted to have a rich sexual life, because if they weren't able to make love well, to communicate in love, to sing a song with the love act, or in the love act, then they would not have a very wide choice of girls, because the girls would be afraid to relate to them sexually. And so, the young men are taught to control orgasm, and to be able to communicate, to produce complete relaxation, and great joy in both themselves and the love partner, rather than just to get release through orgasm. However, in this society, we find other features, which are very rigid, and which influence the parent-child relationship a great deal. For instance, these people cannot plant two crops of rice a year. The same gods who told them to bring up their children in a way that made them able to communicate sexually when they got married, also tells them that they must not have two crops of rice a year. For about 20, 30 years, the American government has been trying to convince them that they should grow two crops of rice a year. Then they would have plenty in the society. As it is, they live on the border of starvation all the time. But the gods told them they mustn't have two crops of rice a year. They mustn't change their economic status. And therefore, the marriages which result in children are beset by poverty and other types of rigidities, which make it difficult in this society, make life, family life difficult in this society. Although marriage, when it once results, is usually very stable, and I found a great affection and a great understanding between the men and wives in this society. Very much better type of situation than existed among the gritos, where the society depends on chance or instinct to provide the training for marriage, and marriage life. Now, there are other societies in which the traditional training takes quite a different direction. Here we have been talking about, when we talked about the Negrito, the Australian, the Ainu, it would appear that the gods were very much in favor of the men. But there are societies in which the gods seem much more in favor of the women. The buttocks of Sumatra, who live up on the central mountain range of Sumatra, usually have mother-right societies. It's as though the woman, the Negrito woman, had settled down and become the agriculturalist, and owned the land, and if you wanted to marry a girl, you had to go to her house, and become dependent on her agriculture. Among this, in this society, the husband is just sort of a visitor. It's the older brother of the woman, who disciplines the children, who takes responsibility about the house, and the husband has to behave himself very well, or he is sent packing. The woman has the authority in the house. The men also have authority in this religious authority, ceremonial authority, because they have become Mohammedans. But the chief ancestor authority for funerals, and other lineage functions, brings the man back to the house of his mother, rather than functioning as the authority in the house of his wife. We get this same thing, sort of pattern developed still further, in groups like the Todas of Southern India, where the woman not only inherits the property, and the man is under her authority, or the authority of her mother's group, but here the woman has more than one husband. Reverse is the old pattern of polygamy, and the woman has more than one husband. Up in Tibet, this same pattern is carried still further, and if there are no sons, the oldest girl inherits the ranch of her mother and father, or usually it's mother and fathers among the Tibetans. The oldest daughter, if there are no sons, inherits the ranch. The younger daughters go to a nunnery, a convent, or they are married out, and the oldest daughter then is encouraged to find and marry some six or seven husbands. It's impossible to run a ranch without five to seven men to help with it, and so each woman, each family has five or six, seven husbands. If the boys inherit the property, all of the boys marry the one woman. Our oldest brother chooses a wife, and all of the younger brothers are automatically married to her. This gives the woman a great deal more authority, than the man has, because she can play one husband off against the other, because she is five or six times as important from a numerical standpoint. We also have some other groups which reverse the program with reference to age. Both the Ainu and the Australian groups seem to belong to the old, and the old people belong to the ancestors, to the people who were already dead. But among a group such as the Yami of Boteldebago, you get a reversal in that score, and the whole society seems to belong to the young and to the unborn. In this society, among the Yami, all of the traditions, all of the stories, the folk tales, stress the virtue of children, and the stupidity of adults. All of them tell about the bravery of children, and the cowardice of adults, and point to the fact that the child is always right. In this society, they have great respect for children. I never heard any of them say, you are bad or you are wrong. They say your foot soul to the child, your foot soul isn't behaving very well, or your souls don't agree very much with each other, or don't cooperate very well, but they're very gentle in their criticism. I often have seen a child breaking taboos, such as throwing a stone into the ocean. In this society, the flying fish is a god, and he doesn't like to have rocks thrown into the ocean. And if anyone throws a rock into the ocean, it might offend the flying fish, and he would never come back. So if a child throws a rock into the ocean, the father will patiently go and do hours of taboo, hours of ceremonies to remove the harm done by the rock. But he doesn't punish the child. He just says, your foot soul certainly did do me a bad turn when you threw that rock into the arm, erosion of your arm soul. In this society, you also get a training, a very free type of sexual interaction before marriage, before puberty. Children are encouraged to have sexual play together. And as soon as a woman has her first period, she is automatically married to some young man, whom the father, the parents feel will be most, will be best suited. This doesn't mean that she has to remain married. She's married in the daytime. She builds a furniture, the parents furnish a household. So the girl does the woman's work, and the man does the man's work. They eat together and work together. And if they want to, they stay together at night. If they prefer to live at night with someone else, that's all right. And after this trial marriage goes on for about six months to a year, or if they haven't worked out a satisfactory relationship, the marriage is automatically dissolved and they marry whom they like. This has a very interesting effect of allowing every child to learn about the mechanics of marriage, to learn to get along with someone outside the family, and seems to work toward a very stable and a very good family relationship in this group. Well, now we have a number of different... This has a very interesting effect of allowing every child to learn about the mechanics of marriage, to learn to get along with someone outside the family, and seems to work toward a very stable and a very good family relationship in this group. Well, now we have discussed... a number of different types of family life. All of... in all of these, the traditional knowledge was more important than the... than the other types of knowledge, than creative thinking. I want to summarize my speech tonight by telling you about the Ainu... by telling you about the Senui of Malia. This society, although it's a very primitive group, in some respects, is very much... has an attitude very much like our own scientific attitude. Although it's... refers to emotional education, where we stress intellectual education. All of the ceremonial of the Senui is directed toward encouraging the type of... equilibration, the type of reflective thinking, which goes on in dreams and in visions. All of the traditional knowledge encourages the spontaneous creative activity by which man reorganizes the experience which he has accumulated, the experiences and patterns which he has accumulated from the group. In other words, the ceremonies of this group are all directed around the expression and interpretation of dreams. The child's dreams are interpreted from the time he's able to talk. And those dreams are interpreted in such a way that it relates him well to his social group. If he has a dream that his brother has hurt him, he has to go and tell his brother about it. And his brother gives him a present. If he has a dream that he sees a tiger attacking someone, he tells his parents about that. His parents say, go and tell your friend to be careful to the tiger. If he has a dream of some sort of a trap or design, his parents say, oh, that's very good. If he is a spirit, the spirits are giving you help, we'll try that out. We'll see how it works. So he becomes the center of attention through his spontaneous thinking through this dream activity. When he becomes adolescent, if he has a dream of performing an incestuous relation with his sister or his mother, he tells about it to the old men, feeling rather ashamed of himself, being afraid that maybe something bad will result. And they say, oh, don't worry about those sexual dreams. That wasn't your mother. That wasn't your sister. That was one of the goddesses. They just disguised themselves as your mother and your sister. It's very good to dream of making love, to have dreams of making love, because that's the way in which you give your spiritual power to the spirits, and that will make all of the spirits work for you. When the young people are ready to get married, usually they relate to a woman because they dream of her. The young man dreams of a girl. He leaves his own long house when he's about 10, 12 years old. He dreams of a girl, and he goes and tells the parents and brothers of the girl, and the father says, oh, that's fine. Come tonight and sleep with my daughter. And, however, that doesn't mean that they immediately consummate the sex act. They are encouraged to sleep together, so they will be sexually stimulated without relating sexually, because the Tsunoe say that you can never tell if you can get along with a woman until you find out what spirits you've got to contend with. If you sleep with a woman and all the spirits are jealous of you, then they torture her and she takes it out on you the next morning. So you have to sleep by her where she wants you without having you for a while, so you can tell how her spirits behave, and so she will have a chance to work it out with her spirits and either control them or kill them off, so they won't torture you under the surface. And the same thing is true with a man. No woman wants to marry a man if he's got some spirit whom he loves more than a woman or some spirit who will attack her. So in this society, the whole traditional ceremonial knowledge encourages the people to tell their dreams and to act socially on their dreams. It is as though from year to year as the child grows up, all of the emotions which are blocked off through social criticism and shock are encouraged to express themselves in their disguised form and to be related to the group so the group can approve of them. And these people, these dream characters then that are at first angry and that at first torture people and cause them trouble, terror dreams, gradually change their behavior until at last they bring them dances, they bring them inventions, they bring them useful information, they make them healers, and they help them. At first they might oppose the image or the person whom you love, but as time goes on, if you fight them and control them, they will help you to love people. This group is different, you see, from the Indian group in respect that. The Tsunoe says, every spirit, every dream spirit is potentially good, but you must control it before it is good. You must make it give you something that is good, not only for you, but something which is good for the group. And with this type of very simple psychoanalysis, these people have attained very, very excellent family relationships. There had never been any kind of a violent crime, although there's no laws, no policemen, no jails. We could learn of no type of violent crime, no violent crime that had ever been committed in this society in the memory of the oldest men. There's not only any, there's no murder or punishment for adultery has ever been meted out in that society, but no jealous quarrels leading to fights or murders. In fact, these people, through this type of, through this type of tradition, which permits for the flexibility of the individual, has created the type of society in which there are no crimes. By the time a person is an adult, this wild aggressive energy has been so dealt with, so guided that it becomes, that it can be put into marital relationship, into the relationship with the father, with the mother, and with the child. Well, I thank you very much for your time to thank you. Thank you very much, Kelton Stewart. Thank you very much, Kelton Stewart, for that interesting and informative talk. Come on up here a minute, sir. You certainly do know a lot of stories, doctor. Had I known how many you'd know, how many that you were going to discuss, I'm not sure I would have been so enthusiastic about. I suppose I had some anthropological points at some times, but I didn't get. Doctor, we have a series on marriage and family life coming up here. And the next meeting is on the preparation for marriage. Now, I wonder whether you could do us a little favor and sort of bridge the gap a little bit between these very primitive people that you have been talking about and their various manners of life. Could you step us up sort of to our modern times? Would you give them, of course, about two lines, just a kind of a summary of the step up? And no stories now, doctor. I mean, just stepping up so that we can kind of get the bridge between these primitive people and our present situation. Is that asking an awful thing for you? I mean, let's try it anyway. I mean, it's that lit, folks. The, if we would trace the type of training for marriage which you get in the most primitive society, the gritos that I discussed, we find that the traditional knowledge is not, is not good. It does not prepare the child for marriage in any way. However, the traditional knowledge does encourage the child, or does encourage the adult, and help the adult to express his dreams and his visions, and create social interaction about his dreams and visions in the way that makes it possible for him to relate to his complicated social life. Now, among this other, this later group, like the, the, the, Sanoi, we have a type of traditional knowledge which also, or which encourages the creative response of fantasy, the fantasy and dream life of a child. In our modern group, we have the problem of determining ourselves, those of us who are not any longer rigidly directed by religious ideologies, have the, the, the burden of determining our own values. And if we would look at institutions from the standpoint of, do they help balance the individual from day to day? Do they help the individual constantly reorganize his traditional knowledge and the knowledge he, experience, he acquires, so that he can constantly relate it to his reflective thinking, and constantly relate it to his social behavior. Then we would have a good type of preparation for marriage, family life, or anything else. Between the Negrito and the Sanoi, we find these societies which go off in different directions. The traditional knowledge favors the man and neglects the creativeness, the responsibility of the woman, and society gets into trouble. It favors the, the old and neglects the young, society gets into trouble. It favors one, or one type of personality, the conservative, and the liberal gets into trouble. So, I think in judging from these various primitive groups how we should form our training for children in our own society, I think the best example, or the best way we can sum it up, is to say that our traditional knowledge must in some way encourage the spontaneous organizing process which occurs in dreams, fantasies, and visions, and must encourage the type of social interaction, or should encourage the type of social interaction, all along the line through adolescence, which helps the child to maintain a good personality, so that his reflective thinking isn't being constantly thrown off by, uh, split, by neurosis and split personality. Thank you, Doctor. Aren't dreams introduced into the unconscious by conscious suggestion, and so have absolutely no bearing on the individual's personality at all? The, uh, the scientists can observe social interaction between people. But the scientists can also observe this equilibrative, balancing, reorganizing process that goes on in all of us all the time. The reflective thinking, trance behavior, and dream behavior are not particularly different. The only difference between dreams and trance behavior and wakeful behavior is that man in dreams and trance behavior is able to escape the past a little bit more than he is in his, in his reflective thinking. In dreams, you are not so tightly meshed with your past experience, and therefore, you can reorganize that past experience in a way that is more creative and more novel than you can in creative thinking. Thank you. Thank you. What does the primitive sense term, uh, in the primitive sense, what does the term spirit mean? It sounds rather unsympathetic. I have one of those unsympathetic spirits in the middle of my back at this moment. I can't move at this moment. I speak of dream characters and trance characters and spirits exactly the same. That is, to the Senoi and to most primitives, all characters, all images that you see in dreams are in trances, are spirits. Now, the spirits can be great or small, but among the Senoi, for instance, you only see spirits in dreams and visions, and that's the only time that you worry about them. It's the only time that you communicate with them. So really, the Senoi are saying that any dream character is important. The spirit world is simply the subconscious world. The supernatural world, uh, in a group like this, is simply the subconscious world. And in sleep and in visions, you deal with the forces of your subconscious. We, I call them spirits, but you could just as well call them disassociated personality entities. Thank you, Doctor. Where would a person get a hold of some of the names that you have been, uh, throwing off so casually here? Uh, we have a bibliography published here in the back. Would you like to add some books to that right while you're here? You might just glance over that, Doctor. Any reference worth you recommend? Well, the, uh, the Ainu have mostly been described by, uh, John Batchelor. Uh, he's written a number of books on them. Uh, the, uh, the Yami, unfortunately, are not described anywhere in, uh, in English. There's some, there's one Japanese book, uh, written on the anthropology of the Yami of Bottle de Bagel. There, uh, the Negritos are described in, uh, one of, uh, Fay Cooper Cole's books. I don't recall the name of it. He has a section about the Zambelli's Negritos. Uh, they are mentioned and described in the Philippine census, but very little work has really been, been, been, definitive work has been done on them. The Senoe, unfortunately, have only been described in one very short article, uh, by, uh, by H. D. Noon, published by the Raffles Museum in about 1939, 38. Uh, since then, Mr. Noon lost his life in the Japanese occupation, and, uh, there's just no other literature on them. So, uh, these, these groups, I'm speaking mostly from my own research material. Thank you. Uh, Doctor, there's a theory that the current curbing of children and adolescents from sexual experiences in play has also, uh, curbed their life severely and made them easy prey for exploitation. Would you comment on this, uh, in connection with your findings? Well, uh, as I mentioned earlier, man is tremendously adaptable, in my opinion. Uh, the children, for instance, in these various groups are brought up very differently. The children in the, uh, among the Yami are weaned at six weeks. Six weeks old. After that, they get no bottle, they get no milk from the mother. They're fed entirely on adult food, masticated by the parents and, uh, spat into their mouths. Uh, this is very different, uh, child or infant care than you get among the, uh, Negritos, or the Sonori, where the child nurses till three, four years old, or till the arrival of the next child. And yet, the dreams of the children in these, uh, different societies were interchangeable. I could find no difference in the dreams. You find some children that seem to be neurotic in all the societies. I feel that a child could adapt to most any kind of training if the adult's given a chance to come back. That is, you can discipline a child, I think, even harshly if the personality entities split off during that discipline, are given a chance to come back in dreams, are given a chance to re-express themselves for social approval in a disguised form. Therefore, I think your adolescent training could have a wide, and practices could have a wide margin of, uh, of forms, if you have some type of effective psychotherapy, effective way of the disassociated personality entities, of relating the disassociated personality entities back to the personality, uh, through this, through dreams, through visions, through, uh, social interaction centering about the dream. Thank you. And Doctor, why does psychoanalysis, and Doctor Abram Cardiner uses it, so important in anthropology? Well, we find so many of these inexplicable things, so many inexplicable, uh, forms in, among primitive peoples, that in order to explain the Mittal, we need some sort of theories. And, uh, Freud's ideology introduced many, uh, concepts by which we can explain, or by, on which we can build hypotheses to explain a lot of primitive actions. And, uh, myself, I think that anthropology has a much better chance of helping psychoanalysis than the reverse. Thank you very much, Doctor Stewart, and good evening ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor. This has a very interesting effect of allowing every child to learn about the mechanics of marriage, to learn to get along with someone outside the family, and seems to work towards a very stable and a very good family relationship in this group. Well, now we have, uh, discussed a number of different types of family life. All of, in, in all of these, the traditional knowledge was more important than the, than the other types of knowledge, of knowledge, than creative thinking. I want to summarize my, by telling you about the, by telling you about the Senoi of this. I obviously said this anywhere, and I'm interested in a people in writing that where specificity pops up. So anyway, that's exactly the fact I wrote in. I have heard my music. Of course we come very well when someone controversial, for example, listening at the film that occupies director, of knowledge and drawing been appreciated with my David baptism. But all of these were so many kind of things that you think were able to catch up Montegoovement. And that might've been just learned to explain that because since it was very early in first years, I cannot wait until it's some of the reserves. If it's very close to me. Hearing perhaps you, the Herrenwe laugh. So anyway. I am easily FDA? I am not sure. If it's huge. Probably not.ightily, I am well known, Kryzeem an Aleluia or liaison kind of renewal