Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent and affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable presents a discussion of, Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism? To open this important program, we present Harold E. Lasville, Specialist on Propaganda Analysis, and member of the faculty of the Law School, Yale University. Now, Mr. Lasville. This University of Chicago Roundtable has a long tradition of hitting the headlines, and certainly today it is entirely true that we're hitting one of the most important subjects before the American people today. Propaganda is front-page news. I suppose that Mr. Malik has done more to make tens of thousands of American citizens propaganda-conscious of the problem that's in front of us than any other one individual in recent times. Now, the University of Chicago Roundtable today has, particularly, William Benton, United States Senator from Connecticut, former Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs. Mr. Benton is well known for the recent resolution calling for the Marshall Plan in the field of ideas. The University of Chicago Roundtable also has, as a participant today, David Sarnoff, General Sarnoff, Chairman of the Radio Corporation of America, and a pioneer advocate of adequate facilities for American communications. Now, this problem we're talking about today is one of the major policy fields before the United States. After all, the foreign policy is a matter of military policy, economic policy, diplomacy, and psychology. Or, to put it in four words, it's a matter of force, goods, deals, and words. Now, Benton, what must we do to defeat the propaganda of international communism? Well, last, well, let me first define the pronoun we. I like to think of we today as meaning the free nation and the nations that are resisting the aggression in Korea. We doesn't just apply to the United States, but to all the free nations who have this problem in common. May I suggest we take that as a guide for us as we proceed through the broadcast. I would like, for the benefit of our listeners, to suggest that the three of us each give an illustration of the communist propaganda, so that the listeners, who aren't exposed, all of them, to Mr. Malik, so our listeners will better see what we are up against in this mirage that is going on throughout the world. Good idea, Benton. Indeed, the communists are saturating the world with propaganda, and it's propaganda that has very wide appeal. Let me give this illustration from a Moscow broadcast to show you how the USSR talks to its own people. A Soviet poet came to the microphone to recall the scenes on Stalin's birthday when children handed him bouquets. All those children, said the poet, looked like flowers themselves, like shoots brought up by a wise and thoughtful gardener. Stalin, whose name is venerated by millions of mothers all over the world, since he it was who saved the lives of millions of children. Stalin stands guard over peace, protecting the children from the imperialist assassins, who would stop at nothing in their greed, even the extermination of millions of children. I need hardly add that the imperialist assassins mean the United States and are allies in Korea. Well, Benton, I can give an example that is not quite so poetic. I quote from a recent communist broadcast in China, and this is what it said. When a rat runs through the street, everybody shouts, kill it. This United States imperialist rat is now running through the streets of Asia, with its true features exposed. And the result is that the Asian people are saying, kill it. When United States imperialism has no way but to expose its real character, the time is drawing near for it to enter the grave. Unquote the broadcast. I might give you another brief example of the kind of communist propaganda we face in Russia. An article in the magazine Red Fleet, published as late as November 1949, says that the American industrialists want to have all corpses skinned for use as leather. It also says that American cattle growers are objecting to this because they don't like the competition. The American industrialists must mean you, General Sardoff. I guess I would. Sardoff, that's a beautiful example. Well, here's one that's a little bit more sober. The Soviet broadcast poem. Here's one. Freedom American style. It means police persecution of all democratically minded people. It means racial discrimination. It's the lowering of human dignity. The propaganda machine of Wall Street, that's you again, employs the renowned American way of life as an ideological bait in order to break the resistance of the masses in other countries. It's noteworthy that the U.S. government does not use the methods of persuasion inside the country, but the only method, only the methods of intimidation and coercion. Well, the truth is that, as General Marshall testified before the committee holding hearings on my resolution to which you referred last well, that most people aren't familiar with this kind of propaganda and would react to it exactly as General Marshall said he reacted when he first went to China on his famous mission. He said he found it so outrageous that no sound man could be impressed by it. But he said that he later discovered that that was not the case. Now, the truth is that our listeners have difficulty appreciating that this propaganda is believed. All I need do is point to the way these North Koreans are fighting as evidence of the way they believe the Russian propaganda. The paper this morning says that 50,000 of them are now casualties, yet they keep pouring forward and coming on. In Indochina, they're fighting the same way. They're hopped up by the Russian propaganda. It is terrifying in its impact. I think this, Sarnoff and Laswell, is the most important fact in today's world. Ambassador Dulles, when he testified on my resolution, said, and I quote him exactly, even in the free world, a very large percentage of the people believe that the Soviet loves peace and that we, the United States, love war. If the Russians can get away with this, said Ambassador Dulles. Well, he put it another way. He said, if we do not successfully counteract the Russian propaganda, war or peace may come in a matter of months. Now, Sarnoff, this is why I have proposed $500 million as an appropriation by the Congress in this great new area of foreign policy. This may be, oh, 2.5% of what we will put this year into our armed forces. I want $200 million of that $500 million, Sarnoff, to underwrite the cost of the worldwide radio network as advocated by you and me over a long period of years and as estimated by you when you testified before Senator Thomas' committee. Won't you elaborate somewhat on that? Because with this network, which you have fostered so eloquently, we can get the kind of facilities we need in the present emergency. Well, Benton, I'm very glad to give my views on that. I want to say first that in addressing you as well as the audience, I know that you have been sympathetic, more than sympathetic. You have been active in helping to provide our country with the necessary facilities to carry our message across. For after all is said and done, however good the message may be, if we haven't the facilities with which to transmit it or people haven't the facilities with which to receive it, it is a voice in the wilderness and fails to meet the target. Now, the network which I have recommended is a network for the United States government and in no way related to any private enterprise. Its purpose would be to enable the voice of America to be heard consistently and clearly throughout the world and particularly in places where it needs most to be heard. It is no new idea. When you were in the State Department, I brought that idea to you and I must say that you put life into the whole question of advancing the voice of America. Now, I suggest further that there be a clear directive by our State Department to the voice of America so that it will know what its message is to be to the countries and the peoples that we seek to reach. A successful voice of America, in my view, is impossible without a coherent and consistent foreign policy. The tongue can only state the mind must create our policy and the mind must guide the tongue. I may say, Sarnoff, that this phrase, the voice of America, which I helped to promote when I was in the State Department, I think has boomeranged a little bit with the American people because it sounds as if we have a real voice and a real tongue. The London economist not long ago commented that compared with the voice of Britain or the voice of the Soviet Union, the American effort is a small, shrill pipe spread over great distances. And this, of course, is why we need this great new powerful network. Well, Benton and Sarnoff, it seems to me that no one would seriously disagree with the proposition that it is imperative that we have adequate facilities to get the American message across. And I certainly agree with the emphasis that we've just put on the importance of finding out what the message is that we're going to communicate. What I want to emphasize is this point. From one standpoint, the Russians and the Americans, the free world, talk the same way in terms of ultimate professions of ideal for the world, free man's commonwealth. If you listen to people describe the utopian future, you discover that often the same values are expressed, the same basic policies are pointed out. Now, it seems to me that our problem, therefore, becomes this. There's a great struggle for credibility. Both of us profess important objectives for the world. The problem is, how can we make what we say credible to others? I agree, Glasswell, thoroughly. The Russian propaganda ties itself to the legitimate aspirations of the peoples throughout the world. Most of us in the United States don't understand that. That's not basic. Well, I think, gentlemen, that we have got to do more than merely tell the story of America itself. We must tell the big truth about the big lie. What we need to do is to have counter-propaganda first to dissect the lies which the communists are telling wherever they have facilities to tell it. Sir, what you're saying is that we have a double problem. We've got a defensive problem of credibility, and we've got an offensive problem. Isn't that right? Exactly. Right now, I think the defensive problem, which is perhaps more a short-term problem, may be the more urgent and the more important because of the overwhelming attacks and great success of the communist propaganda against us. Well, of course, that is the immediate problem. You may call it defensive, but I call it counter-propaganda. And I think we have really, since the Korean affair, moved into an area where propaganda is perhaps inadequate to describe the needs of the job. We really are engaged in a cold psychological war. What we have got to wage now is psychological peace fare, and in the event of a hot war, there's psychological warfare. Well, of course, for the long term, the problem is much deeper and much greater than counter-propaganda because we, on our part, must show the peoples of the world that we, too, are interested in their legitimate aspirations and are prepared to wield our great power and our great strength in their favor. That is true, but we must show them that while the communists espouse the cause of the legitimate aspirations of masses, they deny in every way the achievement of those aspirations. We must show them what is going on in their own country. We must tell them the truth about the lies that their governments are telling them. There's no doubt that is the most urgent and immediate short-term problem. I think that's certainly right, and I want to emphasize, though, that if we're going to perform successfully, it's very necessary for us to coordinate all aspects of our foreign policy. Now, I imagine that we're in agreement on that one. I think so, except that I would stress the point that it is necessary to have a coherent and consistent foreign policy for the voice of America to expose to the people in the countries we seek to reach. Well, that is the ideal, Sarnoff. I agree with you wholly on that. On the other hand, a democracy operating as a democracy doesn't tend to have a coherent, consistent foreign policy in each and every aspect, in the sense that Hitler had such a foreign policy, or the USSR had such a foreign policy. Thus, I fear there will often be elements of uncertainty or doubt, seeming doubt, about our foreign policy to people looking at us overseas. So I will go further than what you have just said, and almost put it in reverse. The more uncertain our foreign policy seems to be, the more necessary it is for us to explain to the peoples of the world how these things are inevitable in the operation of a democratic people in its dealings with other democratic peoples throughout the world. Well, Benton, when I refer to foreign policy, I particularly have reference to the need of a foreign policy that would guide the voice of America as to the message it is to deliver. For example, it is one thing for us to speak about our own way of life and not to dissect the lies that are being told in these countries we seek to reach. It is one thing for us to tread gently in our references to the heads of those dictatorship governments. It is quite another thing to take the whiskers off Uncle Joe Stalin and really tell the people in Russia and in the satellite nations what kind of a man he is. Now, that is a policy that I feel our government must decide and not the operators of the voice of America itself. That's a foreign policy. Well, Sarna, before we get into that, I want to say that it seems to me that nobody can object to the great emphasis that you put upon the importance of central, coherent, integrated guidance. The definition of our purposes, our aims, of our procedures. The correlation of all of our instruments of policy. Benton, I'm sure nobody should disagree with the proposition that you put out, that it is especially important that we should have a background of psychological understanding on the part of audiences to interpret the curious ups and downs of American life. Well, if our foreign policy is interpreted in terms of the interest of the American people in peace and not in war, if it is interpreted in the interest of the American people in the welfare, prosperity, security of our neighbors to the south and east and west of us, then I'm in thorough accord with General Sarnoff. But if we interpret it in terms of a seeming particular attitude or policy at any given moment, such as towards the Koreans or towards Formosa or towards our neighbors in the Caribbean, we should not hold back because of arguments in this country and differences of opinion and short-term uncertainties. We shouldn't hold back in this greater objective of portraying for the peoples of the world the fundamental interests of our own people in their peace and their welfare. Benton, nothing that I have in mind is in the direction of holding back. I am for going forward and going forward on the widest possible scale in the field of propaganda. I'm merely pointing out that when you talk about the interests of the American people in peace, that's fine, but inadequate, because you have got to talk about the interests of the Russian people, the Romanians, the Bulgarians, the Czechoslovaks, the Chinese, and so on, in peace. And you've got to get the credibility. You've got to get the credibility, but you have got to point out to them that what their leaders are doing is leading them to war and compelling peaceful nations to make war in self-defense. That's the point I want to get across. All right, Sarnoff, what you're pointing out is that it is of fundamental importance for this country, first of all, to have adequate defensive counterpropaganda. That's fundamental. Now, the other side of our problem is how can we capture the psychological offensive? That is the more important. I think it is much more important to get the psychological offensive in terms of peace, in terms of the long-range determination of the American people to work for the welfare of the peoples throughout the world, than it is at this point, Sarnoff, to go after Joe Stalin, take his whiskers off, vilify him, and resort to the techniques of psychological warfare, for which I do not think the American people or American policy are yet ready. Well, I think that the word vilify is perhaps a strong word. I'm talking about exposing him to the naked truth. We all talk about the truth, a policy based on truth. Well, I want the truth told about Stalin and his associates and what he's doing, not merely the truth told about the United States, its government, and its people. Now, when you want to capture the imagination or obtain the interest of people who are victimized behind the Iron Curtain, you have got to talk in terms that interest them. You've got to define it as, what does it mean to me, a Chinese, a Czechoslovak, and so on? What have you to offer him? Sarnoff, I agree that it is imperative that the people of this country take a psychological offensive that's far more vigorous against the personalities and the policies of the Soviet Union. But we must also remember that it is of the greatest importance that we should develop a positive conception of what America signifies and what the free nations signify. Here's the sort of thing that I mean. In many countries of the world, the false propaganda has for years been repeated, that it is inevitable that we collapse economically. It is inevitable that fear of economic collapse, we will perform the aggressive role against Russia. Now, it seems to me of the greatest importance to project successfully the idea that Americans are not satisfied with this present state of the world. We not only are hostile to the police state of the Soviet Union or even police states that happen to work momentarily with us. The essential point is that we, as Americans, are vigorously in favor of a new world situation in which the scientific and technical facilities of mankind are used for our benefit. And the essential point seems to me to bring about, preferably by peaceful persuasion, a transformation in the Soviet Union, a transformation among the other peoples of the world, in the direction of the resumption of cooperation in the world. This seems to be the fundamental conception that we are a progressive power with a positive program, and this is what we want. Last well, I like the way that you have put it. Our people, in general, aren't aware that the Marxist dogma, as interpreted by Lenin and by Stalin, makes the leaders in the Soviet Union, a very high percentage of them, believe, in fact, that we in the United States, in the death throes of capitalism, in the death rattle of capitalism, will launch out into an offensive war and attack upon the Soviet Union and other countries throughout the world. Their belief in their own propaganda is one of the most dangerous facts we are facing today, and we must learn how slowly to combat it. Well, after all, we have got to separate in our minds and in this discussion the leaders of these people and the people themselves. It is one thing to tell the story to the people. It is another thing to have hope that by peaceful persuasion you can change the minds of the Russian dictators. I do not believe you can do the latter. I do think there is hope for educating the Russian people themselves to the true facts of the situation and for hope that when they do know the true facts, that they themselves will help to bring about a transformation and their own liberation. Well, Sarnoff and Benton, it seems to me that the heart of this problem is what we can do now to achieve these purposes. And that is what I would like to emphasize. First, I have this suggestion to offer. I think that America and the free nations need a vigorous declaration of goals and policies in peace or war that will serve as a guiding statement of what we are after and what we're trying to accomplish. You mean another 14 points or four freedoms, Lasswell. Right. Well, I have a suggestion. I made this to President Truman the last time I visited with him. This is something that we don't have to wait 18 months for as we do for the delivery of our new bombers. Here's something we could do at once. I suggested that he invite to this country, from all the countries throughout the world, commissions of 100 people from each country. Commissions of journalists, professors, labor union leaders, yes, and industrialists, Sarnoff. And these people come to the United States for 60 days and go end to end through this country so that these people can report back to their own countries on the Russian propaganda. Let them come. Are we warmongers? Are we imperialists? Are we exploiting our labor? Are we depriving our children of schools? Those, each day during these 60 days, I would hope there would be a newspaper story reporting back in their own countries on what they're seeing here and what they're observing here. Well, Benton, I am aware of that suggestion which you have made, and I think it is excellent. I am all for it. And I hope that your recommendations will be followed. I would recommend that in addition to what we already have agreed upon, that the voice of the UN should have its facilities expanded both at home and abroad, and that its message should be as clearly stated as it is possible to do under all the circumstances. That in addition to that, there also be the voice of the UN. As you know, I have advocated some years ago that the UN itself have a voice powerful enough to be heard throughout the world. Certainly, if they're discussing a police force for the UN or a military force, it is proper and highly proper, I would say, for the voice of the UN to be heard throughout the world. And not only in the matter of radio, but also this new medium, television, that is coming along, and your own suggestion that you made some time ago about a movie every week that can be made and distributed throughout these countries. I'm all for that. Well, Sarnoff, anything that the UN or UNESCO can do in this area should be encouraged as a matter of high national policy by us. Absolutely. Including the financing of these international agencies in these areas. It is just as legitimate for us to finance them in these areas as to finance, let us say, .4. Ben and I would like to put into the roundup the suggestion of your colleague, Senator McMahon. The essential idea was that billions needed to be expended, not on arms, in the future. But if we can get agreement to Disarmament Conference and the rest of it, that we can spend these billions on the peaceful development of the nations of the world. And also immediately, in addition to our expenditure for arms, is the importance of expending billions for the investment and development of all of the nations of the world. Yes, Lasswell, instead of a few millions on .4, Senator McMahon, in effect, is demanding billions for .4 to help the other peoples of the world improve and develop themselves. I have one final suggestion in line with Sarnoff's comment. I would like to see the UN set up a commission and do it at once to study government-sponsored propaganda and report to all the peoples of the world on it and continue such reports regularly and consistently so we will be better exposed to this great problem. Well, gentlemen, it seems to me that in this discussion we have come to some very important agreements. First of all, international communism means aggression. We're against international aggression. The free nations of the world are determined that we will achieve these objectives. Today, we have emphasized the fundamental importance of clarifying our own positive goals, of exposing all of the negative statements which are circulated by communist international propaganda, and we have emphasized the great importance of integrating all aspects of our policy as a nation and as a member of the free nation for the sake of achieving this purpose. Well, thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism, were Brigadier General David Sarnoff, Chairman of the Board of the Radio Corporation of America, William Benton, formerly Assistant Secretary of State, now United States Senator from Connecticut, and Harold D. Laszlo of the Law School, Yale University. You will want to order a copy of today's roundtable pamphlet, which includes the full text of today's discussion and special supplementary statements by General Marshall, General Eisenhower, Bernard Baruch, John Foster Dulles, General Sarnoff, and William Benton, on proposals for worldwide expansion of American information and education programs. You will want to purchase copies of this important pamphlet and read the additional special materials and suggestions on how America may spread its democratic principles and aspirations abroad. Individual copies are ten cents in coin. Send ten cents with your order to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. A full year subscription to the roundtable pamphlet cost only three dollars. You can close three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's discussion of Can We Defeat the Propaganda of International Communism? Repeating that address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Be sure to listen for the first of a series of roundtable discussions next week on the Far East. Today's program came from Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago roundtable. Today the roundtable discusses psychoanalysis and ethics. Participating in this discussion are Dr. Thomas French, psychiatrist of the Institute for Psychoanalysis, Chicago. David Reisman, social scientist. Dr. James G. Miller, chairman of the Department of Psychology, both of the University of Chicago. And now to open today's discussion, Dr. Miller. Has there been a change in the moral climate in American life in recent years? At all levels of our society, we find persons concerned with problems of emotional adjustment, frequently with their own personal emotional adjustment. Psychoanalysis and the technical language of analysts appear more and more often in the poetry, the prose, and the cartoons of the day. While once it was considered shameful to have emotional problems, now it is almost a fad to be neurotic. Many of the basic psychoanalytic terms, like guilt complex and rationalization, have become part of everyday conversation. In a play of a few years ago, the author had one of his characters, a physician, switch from the field of psychiatry to surgery, because, he said, while only the rich have neuroses, even the poor have consuls. The rich have rights too, don't they, Dr. Miller? Yes, but this is no longer an apt statement, because psychoanalysis now impinges on the life of the rich and the poor alike. And so today, the round table discusses psychoanalysis and ethics. Mr. Reisman, you're a social scientist at the University of Chicago, and you're interested in sociology of knowledge. What observations would you make about the influence of psychoanalysis on our society? Well, today we may get the impression from this program that it's a pretty malign influence of lots of problems, but I think it's sound to begin with the feeling that the world is a lot more interesting place to live in, thanks to Freud. We understand more about ourselves and others. Only novelists understood as much in earlier generations. We've complicated life enormously, and although we sometimes regret those complications, I think they're productive in the long run. Today, we see ethical problems, for example. It's much more involved than we once did, when we could complacently blame those who were different and approve those who behaved as we did, as nice people did. Likewise, in my own field of the social and humanistic sciences, I'm struck with the tremendous capital of excitement and enthusiasm, which we can work on for a great many years in understanding society and understanding what goes on in history. Beyond that, as psychoanalytic thinking, as you've just said, penetrates our popular culture, we face a very changed situation, which is very different from that which was faced by Freud and the analysts of a generation ago. They were battling for recognition of the unconscious. Today, it seems to me, people are apt to say, damn it, my unconscious is showing to justify any mean thing. Well, yes, Mr. Eisman, I think that that's an adequate analysis of the situation, and I think that we should now turn to Dr. French, because many of the general public have been influenced by psychoanalytic thinking, and still are not exactly clear concerning the overall aspects of the whole theory. At the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis and elsewhere, Dr. French, you've spent a good many years thinking about these matters. How would you answer the question as to what psychoanalysis is? Psychoanalysis is based on the discovery by Sigmund Freud that many nervous and mental illnesses are the result of emotional conflicts which the patient is unable to face frankly and has repressed or pushed out of consciousness. The task of the psychoanalyst is to make it possible for the patient to look at his conflict and try to find a solution for it. For example, a young man may be extremely boastful, rebelliously aggressive, and unable to apply himself effectively to serious effort because he is so ashamed of the fact that he really has a very strong desire to be loved like a child, which he is too ashamed to admit even to himself. If the analyst can make him aware of his strong dependent cravings and can ultimately enable him to tolerate this knowledge of himself, then it will not be necessary for the young man to waste so much of his energy in vain boasting and rebellion. And with the energy thus freed, he may be able to apply himself more effectively to worthwhile effort and ultimately to get rid of his feelings of inferiority by achieving real success. Yes. And you think that then this is the basic notion that the psychoanalysis rests on, is that correct? Yes. Well, let me ask you, do you think success is always a good thing? I've had the experience many of you doubtless have of seeing people go into analysis is the converse of the case you just gave. They're aggressive, they're shy, they're timid, and they come out aggressive, and since our society values aggression, they succeed. Society says they're cured, they feel they're cured, the analyst says they're cured. Is that a good thing? And, after all, the real judge of the real test of whether a person is cured or not is whether he's in harmony with himself. Certainly one of the common misconceptions of psychoanalysis is that it cures people by making them aggressive and speak out their minds and changing them from being cast for milk toast. Isn't that so, Mr. E. Quite. And then there are other misconceptions, too, that are quite common at the present time. For example, many people believe that analysis is something that permits people to get rid of their repressions. Well, I see that all the time among students who feel that they can't afford to have any repressions unless somebody make a remark that they're submissive, dependent, and make use of the hideous psychoanalytic vocabulary to curse them out with. Well, now, do you consider that this is good analysis to view these problems this way, Dr. French? Well, of course, I think that so-called parlor analysis, that is the use of it in social situations, is really a serious abuse of analysis. But to come to the question of... What is good analysis, from your point of view? You mean from the point of view of ethical standards or...? Yes, what's the analyst's job? Well, the analyst's job is essentially not to take sides in the conflict, but to help the patient to see both sides of it. He must take the side of both sides of his conflict. Very often, the conflict with which he's struggling, for instance, is an ethical conflict. In that case, his job is not to take sides with either one or the other, but rather to help the patient to become aware both of his conscience and of the disturbing impulses that are... Well, wouldn't you say that one of the real contributions of Freud, perhaps one of the most significant ones, and really an important contribution to scientific method, was his recognition of the fact that the human observer of other human beings always has his emotions involved with other people. Therefore, if the observer is to be objective, he must make an allowance for his own emotional problems, and adjust for them in his interpretation of what other people are doing. Do physicists have emotional problems when they deal with atoms? Well, it isn't quite so complicated a situation when you're dealing with inanimate matter, but when you're dealing with interpersonal relations between human beings, emotions on both sides, both the observer and the observed, are very important and enter into the total equation. Can't they be used productively to explain the total equation? Yes, of course, one of the important contributions of Freud... ...into the scientific realm in a way that make them a significant aspect of our understanding of behavior. Well, this is all very nice, this trained objectivity and so on, but it seems to me that we really tend to overlook the point we made earlier, namely that we have a changed moral climate today. Let me give an example of the kind of situation that I see as a teacher, where it seems to me that the analyst can't hide under this great beard of objectivity. A student comes to me, says he wants to be a social scientist, and he talks about a thesis, but when we get talking about it, we find, yes, he's a very good social scientist, but he's going to quit and go to medical school. Why does he want to go to medical school? Well, his father is a doctor, and it turns out that this boy is in analysis, and the analyst is telling him to this effect, your struggle with your father is an Oedipal conflict, you're really rebellious, you really want to be a little more dependent, as Dr. French said earlier when he talked about his case, his claims for a decent life in which he could be interesting, and becomes successful. Now, there it seems to me we deal with a direct ethical conflict, the very words, the vocabulary the analyst uses to describe that conflict will guide the situation. Do you think this is right, Dr. French, that the analyst should enter into moral judgment this way? I think that this example is based on something of a misunderstanding of the situation. The analyst should not make interpretations in a way to tip the scale on one side or the other of a conflict the patient is on. Well, how can he help it when, as we've just said, the Freudian lingo is permeated popular culture, and when every word he uses the patient already knows? His job is to take first one side and help the patient see first one side and then the other of his conflict. He should help the patient see the motive of rebelliousness insofar as it influences his conflict, and also the motive of submission. The patient has to be the one that has to make the decision between them. You've been using this term conflict now. This is a common phrase used in psychoanalytic discussions, and particularly we've been referring to ethical conflicts. Now, where do these ethical conflicts and attitudes arise? Do they come wholly from within the individual, or do they come from other sources as well? No, of course they do not primarily come from within the individual. But the individual, before he ever comes to a therapist, has been exposed to cultural influences from many directions, especially from the family. And the, has developed ethical attitudes in reaction to these, in reaction to these external influences. Well, how do you mean? Can you give me an illustration? Well, I think a somewhat unusual illustration is, would help to illustrate how ethical attitudes can arise that are different from the usual ones. For instance, let's, let's take the mother and daughter of an alcoholic. Many alcoholics are extremely charming people. Mother and our daughter are, are both attracted to their, to their, to their husband and father. It's just a very typical situation. Very typical situation. On the other hand, this alcoholic husband and father is extremely unstable. You can never depend on him. So that, if you, if you, make your adjustment on the relationship to your, to the attraction to, to him, you, you, you never know where you are. So, on the other hand, the mother is an extremely reliable person. The daughter always knows where she is. And has, can, can have a, a, a stable, a, kind of adjustment that she'll only cling to mother. Well, this also is a very usual situation, isn't it? Yes, that's right. This is, this is, this is a typical situation for many, uh, alcoholic, uh, families. Now, um, what happens? Very often you find a, a kind of, uh, uh, uh, ethical standard, uh, developing, uh, based on the mother and daughter as a group. How, how can they stick together? Well, they, uh, the disturbing factor is the father. If they're both attracted to the father, that puts them into conflict. Um, so, uh, uh, uh, an ethical system, one might say, uh, developed a kind of a private ethical system, belonging just to this group of mother and daughter. Um, that, uh, uh, uh, uh, women, loyalty, uh, are good, men and sex are bad. I think this is a lovely example of what I was talking about earlier. Namely that, uh, psychoanalysis permits us to understand ethical problems more than we did before, and to see the very origin of ethical systems, uh, and one could very well imagine whole cultures, which develop on similar premises. It shows us that the origins of personal ethical symptoms frequently come from the past background of the individual. Isn't that right? Quite. But does it follow from that, that, uh, one ethics is as good as another? Well, uh, now, what, what is your attitude on this, uh, Mr. Reisman? Because I know that you may have a somewhat different, uh, point of view from that of Dr. French. Well, it seems to me that to, uh, leave the ethical problem at this point, to say, well, we straighten out these conflicts, uh, overlooks the change which has occurred in the moral climate since Freud wrote. Freud had different moral problems. Freud's patients came to him with obvious symptoms, uh, they were hysterical, they were obsessive, uh, they had, uh, things of which they wanted to be cured and freed. For a sudden, they made a neurop bitcoin. Okay. Thank you very well. Thank you again. There, been, you know, love– Thank you very well. You, thank you very well. Thank you veryLimh. Thank you, everyone. Have a great day. Thank you. Please welcome стали the narrow European became viewed as well. Okay. The Swedish 0132 is a huge part of the change of July 152. Theglichicrice 01 and the lead my phone?. Wasn't止ated when the