The Queen's College, youngest of New York City's municipal colleges, brings you the fourth in a series of eight broadcasts in celebration of the completion of the first four years of the college and its first commencement to be held June of this year. This morning we present a talk by Dr. George Simpson of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology entitled A Population Policy for America. Dr. Simpson came to Queen's College from the Office of Radio Research at Columbia University. He is the author of Conflict and Community and has done extensive work in population trends with particular reference to the public school system of New York City. We are very happy to present Dr. Simpson. A population policy for the America we know must be democratic. That is, it must look towards the realization of those ideals and goals which we Americans have long held dear. Ideals like equality of opportunity in economic life, free public education, adequate recreation and leisure time for the pursuit of happiness, special privileges for none, and social legislation to offset assumed privilege. We can help to discover what a democratic population policy for America should be by pointing out what it is not. It is not totalitarian. What is the population policy of Nazi Germany and fascist Italy? It consists of increasing the birth rate among the general population and particularly among the lower economic groups. The state grants bonuses to couples for marrying, marriage allowances they are called. The state urges couples to bear as many children as possible and grants special bonuses for each child born while taxing bachelors. We usually interpret this desire of the fascist and Nazi rulers to increase population as a means of assuring a vast reservoir for future army recruits and a military machine second to none. There is, however, a deeper and more significant reason. Children are most susceptible to propaganda and training in a mechanical discipline which carries over to adult life. By increasing the number of children in the general population, the fascists and Nazis are unable to rear a new generation which has no inkling of the precious fruits of democracy and liberal civilization. By thus increasing their populations, the Nazis and fascists can train a generation in unmixed barbarism. The Nazis and fascists also think they can ship this barbarized generation, when it is grown, out into the world to rule over the lands they have conquered. Just as we Americans do not tolerate a totalitarian civilization, so also we cannot tolerate a population policy which smacks of totalitarianism. We shall establish our population policy upon facts and science, not upon political myth and superstition. What are the facts regarding our American population upon which we shall formulate a policy? The total number of people in the United States is still increasing. The 1940 census shows a gain in numbers of over 1930. Every census since the first in 1790 has shown a gain in numbers. But the rate of gain has been decreasing, and it is scientifically estimated that by 1970 or 1980, we shall reach an upper limit of 150 or 160 million people, after which we shall begin to decline, or at most remain stationary in numbers. This decline is mainly due to the decline in the general birth rate, and has and will increasingly become evident in the fewer number of people under 20 years of age. In 1980, it is estimated that there will be 8 million fewer under 20 than in 1930. Moreover, the number of people 65 years and over is increasing. It is estimated that by 1980, there will be about 15 million more people 65 and over than in 1930. What this means in terms of old-age pensions, sickness and health insurance, hospitalization for the future, can be fairly easily seen. But the birth rate is not the same for all groups in the population. The upper-income groups are having the smallest number of people, and the lower-income groups the largest number. In short, those who can least afford large families are the ones who have large families, and those who can best afford large families are the ones who do not have large families. The best educated have a low birth rate. Those who have been denied educational opportunities have a high birth rate. The practice of family limitation through voluntary parenthood is largely restricted to upper-income and high educational groups. This is a fact which we have to reckon with in terms of a democratic population policy. Moreover, the birth rate is highest in rural non-industrial areas. Here, the opportunities for jobs and the living are inadequate to support the increasing number of people. Consequently, we are witnessing a movement from the farm and countryside to the city for jobs, and thereafter a movement of these rural people from city to city in search of work. This is the problem usually called internal migration. The number of people increases mainly because of an excess of births over deaths. Even though the birth rate is declining in the total population, the death rate has been so lowered, and the length of life so increased, through medical and sanitary science, that our population is still going to increase for some years, as we have already noted. Births are still more numerous than deaths. The death rate per 1,000 population has fallen from 17.6 in 1900 to 11.3 in 1930 and to 10.6 in 1938. However, the death rate among very young infants, from one to two months old, is tragically high for a country as advanced as ours in medical science. With proper care at the act of birth, medical men are convinced that the death rate of infants in the first month of life could be cut in half. The death rate from childbirth is still high in the United States. From one-half to two-thirds of all deaths of mothers from childbirth could be prevented by adequate medical care. The infant and maternal death rates in the South and states with a large Mexican population are highest. Here also are sore spots in our national economic and educational life, where living standards are low and pay small. A time like the present, when we are gearing our national life to national defense, shows up the state of the nation's health. Rumors fly about that there is cause for alarm in the many rejections of prospective draftees for ill health, and that draft boards at certain places in our country find that the general level of male health in their regions is so low that they have difficulty in filling their quotas. We should have been alarmed long ago at the state of health of our people and the lack of adequate medical care, particularly in that lowest one-third of the nation. Some form of government health insurance and socialized medicine is a future contingency if our democracy is to be physical and social, as well as political and ideal. In a recent article in the New York Times Sunday magazine section on the effect of the draft on our nation's population, Professor William F. Ogburn of the University of Chicago, one of the nation's leading authorities on population trends, suggests that despite the effect of delaying marriage for draftees and draining our population each year of its finest manpower, that the national defense program will result in an improvement in physical qualities among the draftees because of the healthy life in training camps. But what of the health of the draftees who are rejected and of the women, children, and older people in the lower-income groups of our nation? National defense and population policy lead us to a consideration of the relation of future decreasing population to our military strength and our manpower position in wartime. Permit me to call attention to the statement of the report made by Frank Lorimer, Ellen Winston, and Louise K. Kaiser for the National Economic and Social Planning Association, published by Harper's just a few months ago under the title Foundations of American Population Policy. I quote, Within broad limits, the trend of total population is a relatively minor factor in actual or potential military power under the conditions of modern warfare. Natural resources, geographical situation, economic organization, morale, and military organization and equipment are more decisive factors. Thus, while continued population decrease in the United States over a long period of time might have serious consequences, in terms of national defense, its importance is easily exaggerated. Unquote. In conclusion, let us call attention to the recommendations made by the same authors concerning the quantity and quality of our people. Concerning the number of people, they say that the approaching cessation of population growth in the United States will have advantages that may in the long run equal or outweigh its disadvantages. Positive measures are needed, however, for the adaptation of the American economy to this change in population trend. Economic stability and continued economic progress are now peculiarly dependent on measures for relating production more effectively to the interests of people as consumers of goods and services. At the same time, serious attention should be given to the development of positive measures consistent with other social interests for offsetting the present trend toward population decrease so as to assure population maintenance at a relatively high level. Concerning the kind and quality of people, Drs. Lorimer, Winston, and Kaiser say that the development of special measures conducive to population replacement at a high qualitative level is needed. As reproduction becomes more and more definitely a voluntary matter, it is important that conditions affecting attitudes toward childbearing be such that the most capable and well-adjusted persons will tend to prefer families that are on the average as large or larger than those of less advantaged individuals. The specific measures most appropriate to this end must be gradually worked out through public controversy, scientific research, and active experimentation. Adequate provisions for health, education, and the development of community institutions should be assured to groups characterized by high reproductivity. At the same time, it is important that all facilities for the voluntary control of parenthood that are available to groups with superior opportunities for physical and intellectual development be made equally available to less privileged groups. Provision for equality of opportunity in different parts of the United States is a fundamental consideration in the determination of a national population policy. These are the thought-out proposals of scientific workers in the field of population, and it is not too much to say that they have hit the nail squarely on the head. We began by contrasting a democratic population policy for America with totalitarian policies. We can conclude by saying that a democratic policy is marked by measures taken on the basis of scientific intelligence and moral progress. Democracy is a process. Its lifeblood is improvement. Democracy can continue to exist only by extending benefits and enlarging life's scope for the common man and woman, as well as for leaders and sub-leaders. In seeking to extend benefits and expand life's scope for the common man, we cannot afford to fail to look to the solution of the problem of how many and what kind of people we want to inherit the democratic earth we are desirous of defending. You have just heard a talk on population policy for America by Dr. George Simpson of Queens College. This speech marks the end of the first half of the spring radio series of the college devoted to four notable talks by members of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology. Next Saturday, at this same time, Professor William Withers, Miss Irma Rittenhouse, and Dr. Vera Schlackman will inaugurate the second half of the series devoted to the economic prospects in 1941. Their discussion will be on employment in 1941. This program came to you under the sponsorship of Dr. Paul Clapper, president of Queens College. It was produced by the Committee on Radio Education, of which Henry Miller is chairman, in cooperation with your municipal station. We draw your attention to the opening next week of the Spring Institute Series at Queens College, Wednesday evening, April 2nd, at 8.15. Professor Nathaniel Pfeffer of Columbia University will talk on our relations to Europe and the Far East. The public is cordially invited. There is no admission charge. The college also conducts a series of extension courses, which are open to the public. that's a great job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
