From the steps of New York City Hall, your city station is bringing you a special broadcast of the official reception to Commodore Harry Manning and the crew of the new transatlantic speed queen, the SS United States. Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri heads the reception with the speakers Grover Whalen, chairman of the mayor's reception committee, and General John M. Franklin, president of the United States lines participating. The rain has just stopped here in City Hall Park, just in time for us to bring you the ceremonies here in front of the dais facing the facade of the City Hall building. The SS United States, as you probably know and have read in the newspapers, broke both records formerly held by the Queen Mary, west to east and east to west. From this country, from New York to Europe, and from Europe to New York. Queen is dead, the Queen Mary that is, long live the new queen, the SS United States. It's a very, very colorful spectacle here in front of the plaza, with the combined bands of all the city's departments, the Parks Department, the Fire Department, the Police Department. And with members of the United States Merchant Marine, all our national services, the United States Marine Corps, United States Navy, and the United States Army. Together with a group of about 130 young Norwegian sailors who are in the port of New York on a training cruise, and who are invited by Mayor Pelletieri to attend this reception. Our program, outlining now, will consist of, first, the playing of the national anthem by the United States Merchant Marine Academy Band. And that was the Parks Department Band, you may have heard in the background, playing God Bless America. Now here is Grover Whalen. The anthem will be played by the United States Merchant Marine Academy Band. At this time, the various services are saluting, presenting a guard of honor in front of the dais. The anthem will be played by the United States Merchant Marine Corps. The anthem will be played by the United States Merchant Marine Corps. Now to open the ceremonies, here is the chairman of the mayor's reception committee, the Honorable Grover Whalen. Seated. Everybody. Mayor Pelletieri, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. About 23 years ago, a young man came up Broadway, as he did today, after having rescued some 20-odd members of the crew of the Italian ship Florida. That was back in 1929. That was back in 1929. And the applause at that time was comparable with what it is today. And I think, Mr. Mayor, it might be in order for us to change the name of Broadway to Manning Way, since this is the second time in the history of this great city of ours that anybody has been received twice officially for heroic services and for distinguished services. It's a great privilege for me, Mr. Mayor, to introduce to you the President of the United States Line, General John M. Franklin. Thank you, Mr. Whalen, for the perfect arrangements made for the welcome of the ship United States. I also wish to thank the mayor and, through him, the people of this great city for the genuine welcome and warm-hearted manner in which they have received the United States. It is obvious that the American people realize that this ship is their very own. The United States Line is merely the custodian. Our government can take the ship in an emergency by simply sending us a telegram and returning the funds contributed by the United States Lines toward our construction. It is gratifying to see the real pride that all of the people of the United States seem to be taking in this ship. All of us are grateful to those who have contributed to the design and construction of the great liner. I want to thank again Commodore Manning and all the officers and crew who handled her splendidly on her maiden voyage. If the United States, if the ship United States could speak, her proudest boast would be that her home port is our own great city of New York. Thank you, sir. The designer of the SS United States, William Francis Gibbs. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Whelan, and guests of the city of New York. It's a great privilege for me to stand before you today and express the appreciation and thanks of all those who have worked so hard in connection with the design and the construction of this ship, including those great government agencies like the Maritime Administration, the Navy, and the Coast Guard, and others that have done so much to make this ship come true. It seems to me that it's particularly appropriate that at this time when so much emphasis is being put on the benefits of democracy, that in this great leader of the democratic nations, so many divergent interests should come together using their individual initiative in cooperation to produce this great ship. And finally, the thanks of all of us who designed and built this ship go out to the masterful handling that the ship has received from Commodore Manning and his crew. And finally, let me say that we honor the courage of General Franklin in joining with us to provide the United States with this superb example of what our shipbuilders, designers, and ship owners can do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, Commodore Manning, General Franklin, Mr. Gibbs, Admiral Cochran, distinguished members of our armed forces, my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, the governing body of the City of New York, members of the Maritime Services, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'd like to greet to the City of New York on this occasion, a large contingent of Norwegian sailors who just sailed into the port of New York on what might be probably considered the grandmother of a ship like the United States, one of the old four-rigged sailing vessels, this very fine contingent of Norwegian student sailors. A great deal has been said and written about the magnificent superliner United States, certainly in the last few weeks. I had the pleasure of writing up from quarantine with her when she came to the City of New York from Newport News where she was built. And one of the regrets of my life was that Mrs. Impelitary and I received the very cordial invitation from General Franklin to make the maiden trip. I wanted very much to go and so did Mrs. Impelitary, but unfortunately I had too many commitments ahead here in the City of New York so I had to very regretfully decline that trip. Lovers of ships everywhere in the world have hailed her as the new First Lady of the Seas. Americans in particular have thrilled with pride at her beauty and speed, and at the wonderful ease with which she has shattered transatlantic records, bringing speed honors to our shores for the first time in almost 100 years. That the United States deserves all the praise and admiration she has received, both here and abroad, goes without saying. And I'm happy to note that the enthusiasm and warmth with which the United States was greeted, both in England and in France, is something that should warm the hearts of every liberty-loving American. I submit that there is a human factor within the greatness of the ship which is equally deserving of tribute. A ship, after all, no matter how perfect in mechanical detail, is nothing without her captain and his crew. It is in recognition of that fact, that we gather here today to honor Commodore Harry Manning, captain of the SS United States, and through him, the 1,000 man team which makes up his crew. Commodore Manning has long been recognized as one of the master seamen of the world. In his more than 37 years at sea, he has risen from the rank of ordinary seamen, персон into the ranks. time, Commodore Manning was first officer of the old America, which came upon the Florida as it wallowed helplessly in the center of a fierce Atlantic gale. Manning volunteered to take a lifeboat with seven men across the one-quarter mile of mountainous seas, which lay between the two ships. The attempt was successful, and the crew was saved. ...to Commodore Harry Manning and the crew of the new transatlantic speed queen, the SS United States. Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri heads the reception with Speakers Grover Whalen, chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, and General John M. Franklin, president of the United States line. The feat itself... The feat itself has come to be regarded as one of the most outstanding pieces of boatmanship on record. You might be interested to know, parenthetically, that the accomplishment earned Commodore Manning the reception at City Hall. So he is no stranger to New York's readiness to recognize an afflaught, outstanding achievement. There may seem at first glance to be little similarity between the Commodore's renowned Florida rescue and is commanding the United States on her record-breaking maiden voyage. Yet, the two accomplishments seem to me to be inextricably bound together. The one manifests heroism. The other, excellence in seamanship. And when you think about it a moment, you realize that these two qualities go hand in hand for all men who follow the sea. They have to, because the sea is cruel indeed to the weak and to the inept. And, Harry Manning would long ago have given up his relationship with the sea if he had not been able to meet her exacting standards. Commodore Manning, the people of the greatest port in the world fully appreciate your qualities. And I, as their mayor, am therefore privileged to express their admiration by bestowing upon you New York City's scroll for distinguished public service and thereafter also its Medal of honor. This scroll, Commodore Manning, This scroll reads as follows. For distinguished and exceptional public service, Office of the Mayor's City of New York, Know all men by these presents that I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, Do hereby stite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Commodore Harry Manning, Master, SS United States. And at the same time, Commodore, It's my privilege to bestow upon you the City's Medal of Honor. You'll note, ladies and gentlemen, that the City's Medal of Honor has a red ribbon. Mr. Whelan called upon me yesterday and he said, Let's do it a little differently this time. After all, The United States has just won the blue ribbon. And I think it'd be nice if the Medal of Honor was also given to Commodore Manning with a blue ribbon. I looked up the city charter. That was impossible. So, Captain Commodore Manning, I bestow upon you the City's Medal of Honor as is. And the Mayor puts the City's Medal of Honor on Commodore Manning with a bright red ribbon fixed around his neck. And now, Mayor Impelletary and the Commodore are posing for a battery of news photographers, more than we've ever seen here, by the way, at City Hall Plaza. From the various news services, from the various service organizations of the country, United States Coast Guard, United States Navy, United States Army and Marine photographers, all combining here to make sure they get good shots of this ceremony here in front of City Hall Plaza. They are holding up the scroll now for the benefit of the newsreel photographers and the still shot photographers too, that the Mayor has just presented for distinguished and exceptional public service to Commodore Harry Manning, Captain of the SS United States. And now the newsmen are asking for the medal that Commodore Manning has just received. They're holding it up and getting directions now from the news photographers just which way to pose. Mayor Impelletary clasps his right hand to the right hand of Commodore Manning now, puts his left arm around his shoulder, and the news photographers are taking more pictures. The Commodore is attired in the traditional summer white, with the gold epaulettes and the scrambled eggs affixed to the peak of his cap, in keeping with his right. Ladies and gentlemen, although this is in essence strictly Commodore Manning's show, we could not let such an outstanding opportunity pass without recognizing three other distinguished members of the United States family. Her creator, who you've already heard, the nation's Dean of Naval Architects, William Francis Gibbs, her chief engineer, William Kaiser, and finally, the president of the United States lines, General John M. Franklin. The city of New York, through me, is proud of them all, and I am happy to bestow the city's scroll for distinguished service on each one of them. General Franklin. Mr. Gibbs. Chief Engineer, William Kaiser. And the mayor has presented additional scrolls to General John M. Franklin, president of United States Lines, owner of the ship, the SS United States, which just set two new records, west to east and east to west for transatlantic crossing. Also to the architect, the designer of the ship, William Francis Gibbs, and to chief engineer William Kaiser of the SS United States. And these three gentlemen, together with Mayor Impeletere and Commodore Manning, are once again posing before the battery of news and movie photographers we have here in front of the Sias in City Hall Plaza. Following the taking of the pictures shortly, we expect to have a response by the commander of the SS United States, Commodore Harry Manning. Now, once again, here's Grover Whalen. This, uh, the municipal band will play the recessional, and the commander of the escort will please dismiss his command. Thank you. I'm dead. Where's my? I've got to cover the bank. We've got plenty of stuff. We've got a million made in lists. She's a driver. Hey, come on. Hey, come on. Hey, come on. Hey, come on. Hey, come on. Hey, come on. And we're in the process of the recessional here now. We're in the process of the recessional here in honor of the master officers and crew of the SS United States here in City Hall Park. Yeah, he's going to bring in the open. Commodore Manning looks very, very happy as he's filing out and just a bit tired, perhaps by his long, arduous trip, perhaps, too, by the number of festive activities he has had to engage in today. And so his response, the speech schedule, has been dispensed with. We remind you now that you have been listening to the ceremonies attending the reception to Commodore Harry Manning and the crew of the SS United States. Our principal speakers today were Honorable Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletere, Commodore Manning, Grover Whalen, and General John M. Franklin of the United States Lines. At 2 o'clock this afternoon, we will bring you the speaker session at the luncheon honoring Commodore Manning and his crew. It will come to you over your city station, direct from the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria. So we ask you to follow us via the airwaves at that time. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.