Good afternoon. We are speaking to you directly from the Todd shipyards in Brooklyn. Your city station now brings you the ceremonies attending the dedication of a plaque to mark the site of historic Fort Defiance. This is the 176th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn in which General Washington utilized a chain of forts including Fort Defiance. Now a part of the Todd shipyards in the Brooklyn Erie Basin, Fort Defiance is to be marked with a plaque presented by Brooklyn Borough President John Cashmore. Now here is our Master of Ceremonies, James A. Kelly, Borough Historian. The following program was transcribed earlier today. Good afternoon. We are speaking to you directly from the Todd shipyards in Brooklyn. Your city station now brings you the ceremonies attending the dedication of a plaque to mark the site of historic Fort Defiance. This is the 176th anniversary of the Battle of Brooklyn in which General Washington utilized a chain of forts including Fort Defiance. Now a part of the Todd shipyards in the Brooklyn Erie Basin Fort Defiance is to be marked with a plaque. One of the speakers of today's ceremonies will be John J. Bennett, Chairman of the City Planning Commission. Now here is our Master of Ceremonies, James A. Kelly, Borough Historian. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Father, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I've been assured that those in the rear cannot hear very well because of some deficiency in the ambient efficiency in the amplification. If that is so I would like very much if the engineer in charge will look to it. Today is a very historic occasion for good old Red Hook Point. You would be amazed if you were to walk with me into one of the principal offices in this borough and look upon a map which they have hanging upon the wall, a map that has been put together by social agencies. And the limits of Red Hook upon that map, much to my amazement, extended to within one block of Borough Hall. Of course we know that it doesn't go beyond Hamilton Avenue. And many of the things charged against Red Hook in days gone by certainly didn't belong to Red Hook. They were far beyond the limits of it. Today we are here to say a word in behalf of Red Hook and tell of Red Hook's great contribution to the establishment of this great nation of ours. Consequently, the speakers who will follow, I am sure, will touch upon that. We are standing upon very historic ground. I am amazed that in days gone by the proper recognition has not been given to it. This was the site of Fort Defiance, one of the principal forts in the chain on the secondary line of Washington's defenses in the Battle of Brooklyn. And here on the morning of August 27th, this day 126 years ago, with the British fleet laying in the lower harbor, Lord Howe, the admiral in charge, decided to send the Roebuck, one of his battleships, up in order to test out the guns of Fort Defiance. And when that ship sailed into the range of the long cannons upon this site, the battle was short, sharp, and decisive. They were driven back and no further attempt was made to cut off the American army. Had that been successful that day, in all probability, we would not be enjoying the benefits of this great free nation of ours. We are deeply indebted to the officers of the Todd Shipyards Corporation for the cooperation which they have given us in making this event possible. Too little has been done to mark historic sites in this great borough of ours. So that everyone may take pride in the accomplishments of those who have gone before, We have asked institutions and organizations to properly mark the sites upon which their buildings stand. We have received the wholehearted cooperation of the Todd Shipyard Corporation in this. And it gives me great pleasure to present to you a distinguished lawyer in our great borough and a representative of the company, a member of its board of directors, Mr. Harry G. Hill. Thank you, Mr. Kelly. Father Farrell, Mr. Chairman, honored guests, and fellow workers in Todd Shipyards Corporation, ladies and gentlemen. It is with a great deal of pleasure and some measure of justifiable pride that I welcome you here on behalf of Todd Shipyards Corporation to dedicate this plaque. We of Todd are delighted that the research and industry of our genial and erudite chairman, James A. Kelly, have disclosed the happy circumstance that on this very site, now occupied by us, once stood Fort Defiance. The speakers who follow on this program will tell us, no doubt, of the strategic value and brave part played by that little fort in the Battle of Brooklyn. For our part, we think that those of our forefathers who named this fort were gifted, slightly at least, with the gift of prophecy. Fort Defiance, they called it. Fort Defiance, they called it. And well-named it was. In the Battle of Brooklyn, its guns were trained in defiance on a British ship of the line in what was essentially a family quarrel. And like family quarrels, when it was over, there was peace without bitterness. And out of this spot, many years later, there breathed a note of defiance to the dictators who would rule this world by force and fear and hate. This time, no guns were trained on the British ships of the line that limped up the bay. Rather, the wide-open arms of our dry docks sheltered them, while the descendants of the patriots who manned the original fort Defiance swarmed over them, healing the scars of battle and of the elements. Refurbished and rearmed, they sailed from the site of fort Defiance, our brothers in arms as well as our brothers in blood, to do battle against our common enemy. And in these troublous times, Defiance still breathes from this historic spot. This shipyard and the men who work here defy the present enemies of our land and stand ready, strong, and skilled to do their part to preserve for our children's children the blessings of freedom. So help us, almighty God. Thank you, Mr. Hill. At this particular moment, I am going to present to you the representative of one of the most important organizations on this entire island. The man whom I'm going to present to you now is the vice president of a very, very important organization. It's sometimes referred to its headquarters as the Storehouse of New York State, where are recorded and placed many of the most important documents and relics pertaining to the early days of this great borough of ours. And it is with a great deal of pleasure I present to you the vice president of the Long Island Historical Society, Mr. Charles Hewlett. Thank you, Mr. Kelly, Reverend Father, and representatives of the Todd Corporation, ladies and gentlemen. I suppose you expect me to tell you a lot of the history of this great battle. I would love to do so, but it's too hot and you have to stand. And it would take hours to tell you all the details because volumes have been written upon it. In fact, a tremendous volume was published some years ago by our society called The Battle of Long Island. And other books have been written upon the subject, many of them. I like Mr. Kelly, I like to think of it, though, primarily as the Battle of Brooklyn, because although the history books call it the Battle of Long Island, almost the entire action took place within the present borough of Brooklyn. Not the then village of Brooklyn, but the present borough of Brooklyn, including all of the old original six towns of Flatbush, Flatlands, Brooklyn, New Utrecht, and all of the rest. However, the American lines were formed on the heights from Red Hook across through what's now Prospect Park, and along the backbone in front of the present area up on the heights near East New York. The British came in from the water. They had a tremendous navy, which landed their army, and they had more men, many more men, than did our good friend Washington. The purpose of Fort Defiance, just briefly, was this. It was there to stop that British navy from coming up and cutting off access between Long Island and Manhattan. And it succeeded in doing it. And that's the great thing that Fort Defiance did. It was suddenly arranged for it, quickly gotten together, and armed with light guns, very easily moved, however. And when this British warship, the Roebuck, came up from the British lines, testing the defenses, they found that Fort Defiance, with all its guns trained in one direction, was in a position to deliver such a blow that the navy would have stood such losses that it was impossible and impractical to attempt to fight on the water. The battle was thus limited to the land. And as you know, Washington, although greatly outnumbered and bypassed on the East, finally succeeded after a three-day battle to rescue his troops and take them across at night into New York and up Manhattan Island and so on up into New York State, thus saving the American continent and the American army for battles in a future day. The British thought that they had defeated Washington, but they didn't know Washington. And despite all the odds, and despite the years that were necessary, he finally succeeded, as you know, with Cornwallis' surrender down in Virginia. And so the battle was over. Long Island contributed as a whole much toward this battle, but Brooklyn, of course, really took the heat and the real brunt of the battle. There were soldiers, however, from many states, Pennsylvania particularly, and Maryland. The Maryland boys fought a defensive battle right in this area and from here over to Prospect Park. Their losses were tremendous. They lost over 95% of their men, but they enabled Washington to save the rest of his 18,000. And to them belongs undying credit. There is a battle, a marker, I believe, through the greatness of Mr. Kelly's work up around 3rd Avenue, which shows the burial place of those fine Maryland soldiers. Well, that, I think, is enough to give you a slight picture of what this is all about. May I take this opportunity on behalf of the Long Island Historical Society, which covers all of Long Island, but its headquarters is right here in Brooklyn, just where it ought to be. And it has a very fine collection, which I hope you will take advantage of and go and see. We have occasions every month where there are exhibits open to the public. It's down on Montague, on Pierpont Street, at the corner of Clinton. And I know that it's easy for you to get there by the bus that goes up in that direction. Before I close, may I say just one word? I just returned from a visit upstate, and there I notice every little whistle stop has some little historical event of which they make a great deal. It is a shame that Long Island, and especially Brooklyn, with its six early towns, five Dutch and one English, have so much history, so rich in history, have had so little note made of those important events. But thank God, since Mr. Kelly has been historian, that picture is very rapidly changing, and Brooklyn's history is being noted with pride and honor, as it should be. And our society is most happy to help him in every way to make it possible for more and more of these historic places to be properly and suitably marked. Thank you. Thank you. Jamie Kelly, Reverend Father, distinguished guests, and those attending these very impressive ceremonies. Today is a day of tender sentiment, as we are gathered about this new shrine to freshen with the dew of recollection, the tender blossoms of hope and love entwined about the memory of our departed whom we are honoring on this occasion, those who defended fought defiance. With our hearts attuned in perfect sympathy, we meet to pay our compliment of esteem and respect to those who played such an important part in the laying of the cornerstone of our freedom. Let us pay our tribute today with eyes undimmed by tears, with a heart overflowing with the sunshine of a happy retrospection for the contribution these loyal Americans made in the cause of freedom. As we recall their noble deeds, their wonderful attributes, which made our fallen comrades true Americans and upright men, we pay this solemn tribute to them today. In addition to this being a time for recalling what all our war heroes have done to preserve the precious liberties we cherish today, it is also a time of sincere resolution. It should be the time for us to resolve to carry on the struggle for freedom so that in our hearts we feel we are keeping faith with our heroic dead to ensure they shall not have died in vain. We must determine to be as devoted and brave on behalf of our country and the cause of liberty as our honored dead. a great issue faces all of us throughout the world today and that is whether or not we shall continue to be free men or be slaves in bondage to some totalitarian form of government. This question burns deeply within us. These men whom we honor today have waged an intense struggle for human liberty. They lived through trials and perils about which we have read in history. They fought the good fight. They kept the faith. And from then we have received this wonderful land and its free institutions. Our organization as Jamie Kelly has told you the Catholic War Veterans sponsors annually services in Prospect Park at the Maryland Monument where the Marylanders 400 most of whom gave their lives in defense of the same cause of freedom. This year that celebration will be held at the Maryland Monument in Prospect Park on September 21st. From the inspiration of today's exercises we should be awakened. Awakened to our obligation as citizens to render full service to our communities and our patriotic responsibility as Americans. In the cause of freedom we should all play an important part. It is a down-to-earth day-to-day reality. It is a question of thinking of speaking and of acting in all times in terms of the common welfare of all the people. Our contributions in the cause of freedom should be continuous. In our everyday life we can make these contributions. It means taking active part in the community life donating blood visiting the sick particularly the hospitalized veterans who have sacrificed so much and received so little. We can draw inspiration in our daily tasks from the many heroes of the past who prove that any objective is obtainable if we will devote to its pursuit sufficient time sufficient thought and sufficient action. Our place today to prove we are keeping faith with our heroic dead whom we are honoring is the firing line against disease against greed against dissension among your fellow citizens. Our place is the firing line against the forces of division and chaos. Our place is the firing lines with the straight shooters than men and women to whom the responsibility of American citizenship is a sincere and sacred trust. The reward of this kind of citizenship cannot be measured in medals on the chest or money in the bank because these rewards lie too deep. But they rejoice the heart of the giver magnify the joy of the soul and assure us that we have kept the faith with those who fought for freedom like the comrades we honor today. Thank you sincerely. Thank you, Mr. Kills. I would like to have the new commander of the Todd Post, Frankie DeMeyer, take a bow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the man who piloted the new locomotive which you see here today making its first appearance on a public occasion in Brooklyn, the Chef de Gare, Lester Lyons of the 40 and 8s. The next speaker you will hear is one who needs no introduction to a Red Hook audience or to any audience in Brooklyn or in most parts of this state. an official an official who has won his way all the way from the bottom to the top and still an outstanding public official in our great city. The pride of Red Hook, one who was born here, one whom you raised and one whom you know, the beloved Colonel Jack Bennett. Chairman Kelly, Father Farrell, distinguished guests and my fellow Americans. To say that I am happy at the opportunity which comes to me today to participate in this significant ceremony is to put it very mildly. As Jamie Kelly has told you, I am a real Red Hooker. Now I don't want the folks who come from the creek, our old friends, the Creekers, to think that they're entirely shut out from this ceremony today. But nevertheless, being a Red Hooker, I'm proud of the fact that the event we're celebrating was distinctly a Red Hooker fair. As I stand here today, I'm sure that you can understand that I am full of what might be called fond recollections. My boyhood was spent in this very neighborhood. My father and mother were born in the area as well. I went to school and I went to church here. As a matter of fact, I sold papers right outside the very gate, a few hundred, oh, about 150 feet down below there, which in my time was the main entrance and exit gate of the old Robbins Dry Dock Company, which later was absorbed by the Todd Shipyard Corporation. There was an old dock down here a couple of hundred feet known as the Coal Dock because the Nelson Brothers had a coal pocket on the corner there of Richard and Beard and the coal boats came in and we used to swim in the coal dock, believe it or not. I can look back in my mind's eye and see a place called the Old Berta Shipyard further to the west at the foot of Ferris Street where, believe it or not, in my boyhood, they were still building a few small sailing ships. I can look over here to the east and I can see in my mind's eye Edna Shipyard where the old Van Brun Street car line used to stop and where they used to make spars for the sailing ships and where all of us boys from the neighborhood used to go with a wheelbarrow or a cart to pick up the shavings and the cuttings from the trees that were to make the mass in order that we might have fuel for the kitchen fire. I can remember very well, too, where you see this line of stores over here to my right. That was our ball ground and every time we had a chance, we were in there playing ball. Across the street, too, was Savarese's on that corner and over here was Finnegan's. And may I say, looking back, too, through my mind's eye, that they were very popular places at four or five o'clock in the afternoon when the men who worked in the Robins Dry Dock poured out from their day's labor. And talking about that naval engagement which was held in the waters here to the east, there used to be, or there is now, rather, a place called Buttermilk Channel. But in my father's day, he used to tell me there was no channel there, as you know today. And also, believe it or not, the people from Red Hook who used to own cows of their own, used to have trouble going over to Governor's Island to get them back. They used to be shut off once in a while when the tide came in to the flood peak. So you can see that I am really in a place, in a situation, out of which I can gather many, many fond recollections. Red Hook was a great place. Red Hook had good people living in it. Red Hook still has good people living in it. Unfortunately, various incidents which have occurred down through the years in other parts of the city, north of Hamilton Avenue, were said to have happened in Red Hook. I can assure you those things never happened in Red Hook. May I say to you also that I have never once felt that I had any obligation to deny the fact that I was born in Red Hook. I remember very well in 1930, the first time that I ran for election as Attorney General of the state, that I had to make up a speech. It was a rather short speech, but there are two sentences in it that I can always remember, and here they are. I started every speech in the campaign with them so there could be no doubt as to the fact that I was born in Red Hook and that I was proud of it. I said, 36 years ago, I was born in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. The docks of Erie Basin were my play, were my childhood playground, and so may I say to you, my fellow Americans, that I am delighted to be back in Red Hook today. May I say that I am very happy to know that the Todd Corporation has been good enough to erect this plaque on their property today because it marks one of the most significant engagements in the whole war for our independence from Great Britain. As has been alluded to by some of the previous speakers, it is a fact that had Fort Defiance not been able to beat back that battleship of the line, the Roebuck, that day, the British fleet would have then come on in force, run up through the East River on the west side of Governor's Island into the East River, and Washington would not have been able to move his men by boat at night in the fog from Washington Heights to Manhattan, and the revolution would have ended at that very minute. Thank God for us that did not happen, and we stand here today not honoring these men who fought and stopped the defiance from running up, but honoring ourselves by being allowed to erect a plaque in their memory. They and the brave troops who fought at Gowanus and up in Greenwood and at Prospect Park, the men from Pennsylvania and particularly the men of the Maryland Regiment who fought the rear guard action and saved Washington's troops from the attack of the British Army. We're here to note for all time the fact that their work, their sacrifices, their death, their blood were the things that made possible the American nation. So we honor ourselves in coming here today to erect a plaque in their memory. Today, our country is fighting a cold war, just as awful almost as any hot war in which our nation has been engaged. After all, our American people are still filled with the same quality of patriotism as the men who fought on this very spot. We have here a unity, a purpose, a unity of cause, a unity of heart. We're going to see it through because as the situation in the world stands today, we get pretty close to the situation about which Lincoln spoke in his address on the battlefield at Gettysburg. There he said, our nation cannot live half free and half slave. That's the situation today. The world cannot live half free and half slave. America's purpose is to see that the world does not live half free, half slave. Our purpose is to see that the world lives fully free, that every man and where he lives, no matter what he thinks, no matter what God he worships, is able to have freedom of speech, freedom of expression, the freedom to live his own life. That's the purpose to which we're dedicated and we get our inspiration from the fact that Americans, our predecessors, who fought in the war of the revolution, were willing to lay down their country, their lives for their country's freedom. Once again, we stand here and in memory of the men who fought here and made possible this great nation, we dedicate ourselves to America, the land of the free, the land of opportunity, opportunity. And we resolve here, too, that to the extent that it lies within our power, we will see the battle through and see that finally out of it comes a victory once again for our beloved America. Thank you, Jack. At this point of our program, we had previously arranged that the borough president would be here. But due to the tremendous pressure of official business which has been suddenly placed upon him, it was impossible to make the affair at this hour. Instead of the borough president, we have with us a man who is going to perform an official function here at this time. One who is well known in this great borough of ours. One who contributed more than any other individual to the having had issued in last December a stamp memorializing this great borough of ours. It is with great pleasure I'm going to present to you the popular postmaster of Brooklyn, Ed Quigley. Father Farrell blessed you. He blessed this event. I wish I had the power of the church to bless you. Instead, I thank God that he gives me this privilege to come down here and thank the Todd Shipyard Corporation and people like you for what you've done. Now give me the privilege of unveiling it. It is with a great deal of pleasure now to conclude our ceremonies with the unveiling of this plaque which for all time in storied bronze will tell the story of the accomplishment of those men who fought so valiantly upon this ground 176 years ago today. and on this occasion the plaque will be unveiled by postmaster Quigley and Mr. Joseph Meyer of the Todd Shipyard Corporation. You have been listening to the dedication of a plaque marking the site of the famous Fort Defiance which played an important part in the Battle of Brooklyn during the American Revolutionary Period. One of the featured speakers today was the Honorable John J. Bennett Chairman of the City Planning Commission and your master of ceremonies was the borough historian James A. Kelly. Your city station has brought you the dedication ceremony broadcast directly from the Todd Shipyards in Brooklyn the site of Fort Defiance. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This has been a transcribed presentation of the Municipal Broadcasting System.
