Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the woman voter. Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion will center around the voting habits, factors which influence the vote of women, and the role of women in the political parties. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Richard J. Daley, County Clerk of Cook County, Illinois. Mrs. Horace Dawson, Vice President of the League of Women Voters of Illinois. Mr. Robert L. Kahn, Program Director of the Survey Research Center at the University of Michigan, and co-author of the book, The People Elect a President. This book reports the results of a nationwide survey of the 1948 elections. And Mrs. Bernice T. Vandervries, Representative of the 7th District in the General Assembly of Illinois. Now in discussing the women voter, I suggest we begin by getting this political giant somewhat identified, if we may. When were women first granted the franchise, Mrs. Vandervries? In 1920. And some states, I take it, had preceded that? Yes, in a number of states women were able to vote in state and local elections for a number of years. Mr. And how did this, this final decision to give women the right to vote evolve? Could you give us a little of that story? Mrs. Well, so far as I know, it really started back in the slavery days, with the abolition movement. Women took their places in that, and then they worked up into the prohibition movement. And then in World War I, women were very effective in not only in war work, but in leading many movements for the betterment of women and children, and in fact for men too. And it was because of that final push, so to speak, in World War I that the Congress of the United States passed the amendment, which was ratified by the states and became effective in 1920. Were we relatively slow in giving women the vote, Khan, as a nation? No, I wouldn't say so on the whole. Our history parallels quite closely that of many West European nations. Of course, there are one or two conspicuous examples of early enfranchisement of women. New Zealand, for example, gave women the vote in 1893. I was going to ask someone around the table here how many women voters we have. Could you answer that, Mrs. Vandervries? Well, as I understand it, there are some 90 million people in the United States who are eligible to vote. There are about 65 million who are registered, in other words, who qualify for voting. And I think about 51% of those are women. That means, in other words, that the women could outvote the men if they wanted to get together. I surely could. Does that disturb you at all, Mr. Daly? No, because I always feel the women will use good judgment when they come to the polls. And you're reasonably certain, may I interpolate, that they won't get together? Well, now, what percentage of women exercise their right to vote? That's not an easy question to answer because, as in many other things, people are more virtuous in retrospect about their voting behavior. We find that, in talking to people after a major presidential election, approximately 60% of the women said that they had voted. This represented, as I say, a slight exaggeration. On the other hand, it was about 10% fewer than was the case among men. In other words, men are more likely, to the tune of 10%, to exercise franchise than women. That's right. There were some statistics made in Louisiana which showed that there were about 94% of the men were registered and only about 64% of the women were registered. And also in Vermont, there were more men registered than there were women. What do women, of the women who do vote, how would you characterize them? Or to rephrase my question, what women vote? Well, I suppose the most important fact that we might bring out there, at least according to our 1948 study, is that the women who vote have many of the same characteristics as do the men voters. In other words, the women voters are concentrated in the upper income and upper educational brackets. Larger proportions of women in these groups vote than in the lower income and lower education groups. However, there is this fact to be added. Women vote more according to their interest and awareness of issues than men do. Would you make any break, any distinction as between women in rural districts and women in metropolitan areas? Do your data cover that at all? Yes, they do. It's clear that both for men and women, the largest proportion of voters are to be found in metropolitan areas. And in rural areas, we have the largest proportion of stay-at-homes. Well, I suspect this begins to get the woman voter identified. We'll have more to say about it as our discussion progresses. But more important, perhaps, what effect has the women's vote had? And I'm going to ask a very difficult question. I'll put it to you, Mr. Kahn. Is there any reason to believe that local, state, and national elections would have had different outcomes if women had not voted? Well, that question is just difficult enough so that I couldn't give you a factual answer to it if I wanted to. The only thing that we might conclude is that there's just enough difference, at least judging from the 1948 election, there's just enough difference between the distribution of the men's vote and that of the women's, so that in an extremely close election, the women's vote might be the crucial difference. Might not the women's vote make a more significant difference in local elections, Mrs. Vandervries? Well, I think it would. Perhaps you don't have the statistics on national elections, and I don't have them definitely for local elections, but I have heard of a number of local elections in which women were given the credit for change in the government. For example, a number of years ago, I believe it was New Orleans, where women were given considerable credit for changing the government there. Mr. David? Well, women have always been great crusaders, and what Mrs. Vandervries says is so true, where they become interested in local problems, whether it's the school or police or fire or some park improvement, we find them very, very active and, in many instances, swaying the individual population of a township or a community on a particular proposition. Well, now, your data suggests that even in a close national election, the women's vote might make a difference, might change the result. Is that correct? Yes, it's a possibility. In fact, according to the information that we have on the 1948 election, the women voted, as did the men, to give a plurality to the Democratic Party. In the case of the women, however, that plurality was less than for the men. By and large, Ms. Dawson, do you think that married women vote the same way as their husbands? I think a great many of them do, but I believe Mr. Kahn's figures bring out that... There are some exceptions. Yes, that's right, and that educated women, in general, make up their minds themselves as to how they wish to vote on the issue. Lazarusfeld, in his study of political behavior in 1940, got into this very interesting question, and among the results he reports are these, that in only about one case in 20 did he find a couple, husband and wife, voting for different political parties. However, there were more frequent instances of family disagreement where other relationships were involved, so that the frequency of parents and children voting differently or disagreeing was about one in ten. And when it came to in-laws, the proportion went up to one in five. Well, I think that's a very significant observation indeed. That indication of domestic tranquility. And I might add that the fact that in so many cases, women vote with their husbands might not mean that the husbands were influencing the wives. Maybe the wives are influencing the husbands. Would you have a comment on that? Well, it's quite likely that that influence could go in either direction. However, the husbands are a little more reticent to admitting that influence than their wives. And we found that wives much more frequently mentioned being influenced by their husbands than the reverse. That's probably for a domestic tranquility. I suppose so. I was going to say that in many instances the husband is influenced and he doesn't know it. Do you think that women as well as men vote as families pretty much, vote as their fathers have voted for? What do you think about that, Con? Well, there's good evidence, and mainly from Lazarsfeld again, that the family votes pretty much as a unit. But that that unit is something less than unanimous. There are disagreements in other words. However, when we remember that families are likely to be similar with respect to income, place of residence, and other such characteristics, that agreement isn't very surprising. Yes. I was going to ask Mr. Daley over here whether the enfranchisement of women has had any appreciable effect on the political parties. I think it's made the political parties more conscious of their responsibility. As party organizations, when they now embrace the women, why naturally they would have to give opportunities to womanhood like they have in selecting a national committeman, a state committeman, a county chair lady. And in every respective ward, in every ward in Chicago, they've selected a woman ward committeman. I understand that when you say they embrace the women, you're speaking figuratively. That's right. That's right. I'd like to disagree with Mr. Daley a little bit. They've taken on the women. Maybe they've embraced them. I don't think they have. They've never, the political parties have never really given women their just rights. They appoint women to positions within the party, but those women have, are accountable to the men who appoint women. They're allowed very little independence. They'd be removed promptly if they became independent. I think the political parties use women too much for serving refreshments at meetings. The coffee and the sandwiches and all those things are the things they like best among the women. Of course, those are things women do awfully well. Yes, yes, and perhaps those things attract votes, but I really don't think the political parties have really given women the chance they should have. Mrs. Vander Vries, the women will be recognized as their importance develops in community, state, national levels. We have sent women to the United States Senate. There's been a woman elevated to the important position of Secretary of Labor under a late president. There's now a woman that's the president of the Illinois State Civil Service. And I agree with you that we should give more recognition to women in various public offices. And I think it will come as we continue to enlarge our views on womanhood and their importance in our political setup. But in order to get that recognition, probably women really need to get out and work in their political party. That's right. Do you have any trouble getting women interested in politics? Do they want to work in the political party, do you think? I think a great many women are not very much interested in politics. And I'm sorry to say that, too. I feel that oftentimes they are not as interested in the issues which face the country as they should be. And that they need education. And that's why they need organizations such as the League of Women Voters and other groups that are interested in this business of citizen education. We find where you get a woman, a precinct worker, and she's active. In many cases, she's much more productive than the man-capped. And we find also in certain precincts in Chicago where you have quite a rapid changeover from men-captains to women. And where you do get the interest of women on a local level, they can be quite a factor in both political parties. Well, Mr. Daly, you say women can be very useful and very fine as precinct captains, that they can even outshine the man. But my quarrel with political parties is that the women are not taken into the councils where they have something to say about the candidates and your slate-making groups and so forth. Again, you like to use the women to do a lot of the work, but you don't give them anything to say. No, on the contrary, if we adopt, which is something I think you agree, a collection of precinct captains, then women will be elected precinct captains and they'll have something to say about their political... I take it these precinct captains are appointed now, is that peculiar to Illinois or is that generally true, or do you know? It's generally true that the... And you think if they were elected that more women might get into politics on that local level. And I take it you'd like to see that? I certainly would. I'm far from a political expert, but I have a feeling that this job of door-to-door education or organization is perhaps being run down. And I want to speak a word to the contrary. What findings we have when we ask people the things which influence their vote indicate very clearly that personal contact is a good deal, by a good deal the most important of the factors which people remember. And this is particularly true among women. They mention personal conversations and contacts as being more important than any of the mass media, radio, or newspapers. I was... Did you have something to say, Mr. All I was going to say is that following up with what Mr. Kahn said, I think the precinct activity of both men and women is the greatest thing we can do in our political society. I was wondering whether the women's vote has had any appreciable effect on the nature of political campaigns? Mrs. VanderReed, do you think more babies have been kissed and the candidates are paying a little more attention to sartorial excellence? Well I as a candidate have never yet kissed a baby, but I like babies, but I don't like everybody's babies. Well, I think that the woman's vote has made campaigns more respectable. I mean, I think the campaigns are conducted to interest women, and I think candidates are, of course, anxious to appeal to women. I know as a woman I try to put my best foot forward and wear my best clothes out to campaign meetings, and I suppose the men have the same concern. And I think we're aware of the women's vote, but as a woman I don't go out and try to make a distinction between men and women. I'm interested in all voters. Of course, you do see some change in polling places. Yes, there's been quite a decided change in the polling places. I can recall in the early days in which I voted, many of our polling places were in livery stables. They were in, well, in Kansas where I lived at that time. We didn't have saloons officially. And I think women have been responsible for many of the laws to make elections better. I know here in Illinois women were responsible for permanent registration laws. I mean, they really spearheaded the movement. They also spearheaded the movement for voting machines, whether you like them or not. And all in all, I think women have had a lot to do with trying to clean up elections. I was going to ask next, if I may, and I'll address this question to you, Mrs. Dawson, about the way you would assess the competence of the woman's vote. Do you think women know as much about the issues as the men? We've been talking pretty much about how they vote and whether they vote. But when they do vote, do they vote intelligently? Do they know what they're voting on? Do they understand these issues? I think that a great many women do not read the newspapers as much as the men do. And sometimes they're not as interested in the issues. And that's why we have to keep plugging away at education of women voters, because they need information so that they can vote intelligently. And we need to keep urging them, too, as figures show, so that more women will get out to exercise this privilege which we have. Well, I don't suppose women voters are as intelligent as they should be, but I frankly think they're more intelligent than the men voters. I think they're exposed to more education than the men. Women are great joiners. They belong to organizations. They belong to women's clubs. They belong to parent-teacher associations. They belong to lodges. They belong to patriotic organizations. All of these organizations have at least one program during the year on government, some phase in government legislation or something of that sort. And I think women are at home. They listen to the radio a lot. And they may not read the newspapers as much as they should, but there are a great many women's magazines that are published that are now carrying on great campaigns to inform women. And if we agree, wear them out is the most effective campaigning, surely the women in their conversations, whether it be at the store or the beauty parlor or at the community center, are in closer contact with their friends and their neighbors and their people. You mean the women talk more? Yes. I think one of the things which shows up when we ask women and men what decided their votes is perhaps not so much that the women talk more as that they talk to different people, that they're influenced in different ways. Men most frequently indicate that conversations on the job, business contacts, influence their votes. Women are more likely to mention conversations within the family. Whether this means that the woman's vote is being directed by the husband, I'll leave to the political expert. Do you think women are more inclined to vote for personalities rather than issues, Mrs. Van Der Bees? I don't know how to answer that. That's been said. It's been suggested that a photogenic person in this day of television might command a pretty substantial woman's vote. Well, I'm sure that I was never elected for any photogenic ability. Well, you're being very modest now, Mrs. Van Der Bees. And when I look at many of my fellow office holders, I'm sure they weren't photogenic either. Well, in that I can concur. Is there anything in this point I'm making, do you think? But the biggest vote is brought out by a great interest in an issue, apparently. Isn't that true, Mr. Kahn? Well, that was found to be particularly true for women, at least in the 1940 election. Men were more likely to say, in some cases, that they voted out of a sense of obligation, or rather that they voted without any great interest in the issues. The women, if they were not interested in the issues, stayed home and were pretty unabashed about it. Well, getting back to the personality question, I don't think you can take the personality away from any candidate for any office, whether you be president, state, or local. And perhaps you shouldn't. And undoubtedly you shouldn't. And I think the women have greater observation powers than men. And naturally they're influenced by the man or his family or his appearance or his speech or the sincerity with which he campaigned. In analyzing people's statements about their voting behavior in 1948, we were struck by the frequency with which both men and women mentioned personal characteristics of the candidates, and, if you like, personality traits and impressions, in contrast to those people who spoke only in terms of foreign and domestic issues. Do you think, continuing this discussion of the competence of the women's vote, Kahn, do you think that women are more likely to support progressive social legislation? Do you have any evidence on that at all? I'm thinking of child labor legislation, of the control of working hours, of legislation of that sort. We have no direct information on that from our own research. There's a rather classic study done by a man named Tingston at the University of Stockholm. He suggests that in spite of the fact that certain progressive parties in various European countries fought very hard for the women's vote, that the women did not reward these parties by voting for them, that the women's votes, according to his analysis, have on the whole been somewhat more conservative than those of the men. But I think women are more interested in social legislation. They work through the party of their choice, but they want to bring about an improvement in working conditions and in various forms of social legislation. You'd agree with that, Ms. Van Vries? Oh, absolutely. I think many of the movements for social legislation have been started by women when you consider various movements that Jane Addams headed and Julia Lathrop and women of that type. Of course, most of the laws had to be enacted by men because there weren't many women in our legislative bodies to work on them, but the pressure started with the women. Now, we've been talking at considerable length here about the way the women have exercised the franchise. What's been the effect of the vote on women? Do you think it's had any appreciable effect on them? Well, it's given a great many women an opportunity to serve in government, which I think is a wonderful thing. I think it's been a great thing for women to be able to get out and actively participate, and I think it's been good for women in general. Whether they have used the franchise as fully as they should, it's been a good thing for them, certainly. But you think so, too, Mr. Dawson? I think so. I think it's too bad that more women do not avail themselves of the privilege of voting. I think they need more education. It's something that we need to keep working at all the time so that they will feel that they can vote intelligently. Not only vote, but vote intelligently. And what advice would you give to women voters if you had any to give, Mrs. Van Der Rees? To just get out and be aggressive and get into the party circles, because after all, it's the parties that select the candidates, and I think they've got to be almost militant about it. Would you have any advice to offer the women voter, Mr. Daley? Well, I'd say to all women that the first thing they must do is register. We should have more people registered right here in Cook County. After they're registered, I would urge that they participate in the community activities, regardless of where they live. And also, they join either political party, because only through the political parties which are now established. I'm sorry, Mrs. Dawson, Mrs. Van Der Brees, and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Woman Voter. We want to thank our guests who appeared on today's program, Richard J. Daley, County Clerk of Cook County, Illinois, Mrs. Horace Dawson, Vice President of the League of Women Voters of Illinois, Robert L. Kahn, Director of the Human Relations Program of the Survey Research Center, University of Michigan, and Mrs. Bernice T. Van Der Brees, Representative in the General Assembly of Illinois. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, How can we prevent family failure? Our guests will be Clark Blackburn, Executive Director of the Family Service Association of America, William F. Byron, Assistant Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University, and Frank Hertel, Associate Director of the Community Service Society of New York. We hope you can join us next week as we explore this important question, How can we prevent family failure? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.