Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses railroads across the century. Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion recognizes the centennial of the Illinois Central Railroad Company with an analysis of the contributions of American railroads and the problems which they face. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are railroad men. Wayne Johnston, president of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, is our special guest because the Illinois Central celebrates its centennial this year. Northwestern University is pleased to salute the Illinois Central on this occasion. Congratulations to you and your associates, Mr. Johnston. Thank you, Dean McBurney. I'm delighted to be here and I would like to congratulate you and Northwestern University on celebrating its centennial this year. Now joining Mr. Johnston are William T. Ferrissey, president of the Association of American Railroads. Richard C. Overton, professor of business history at Northwestern University and historian for the Burlington Railroad. And Kenneth F. Burgess, president of the Board of Trustees, Northwestern University. And a man who has represented many railroads in litigation of national importance. By the way, Mr. Burgess, do you object to being introduced as a railroad man? Not at all. I'm proud of it. Also, on behalf of Northwestern University, I want to congratulate Mr. Johnson and the Illinois Central on its hundred years of service. Thank you. Railroads and universities across the centuries. Now it's interesting to note that our first common carrier railroads were opened in 1830. At that time, there were fewer than 13 million people in the United States. Nearly all located in the area east of the Mississippi River. The total population west of the Mississippi, I might add, was less than the present population of the city of Richmond, Virginia. What were these early railroads like, Ferrissey? Well, Dean McBurney, as compared with railroads as we now know them, of course, those early railroads were rather primitive. Originally, they were strap rails, and then they were succeeded by iron rails. The gauges differed all the way from a three-foot gauge to a six-foot gauge. The locomotives, the early ones, the boiler stood upright instead of being horizontal. They had the tea kettle type of smokestack, and the cars were made of wood. And the fuel that they used, for the most part, was wood. Coal came later on in the decade before the Civil War. Dean McBurney. I think it might be said, too, that the early roads were built primarily to connect existing waterways, or to extend a metropolitan market. At the very beginning, they hardly had the idea of building through lines, although that came pretty quickly when they wanted to climb the mountains. Now, we've observed that the Illinois Central crosses the century mark this year. What other lines Johnston reached their 100th birthday in the decade of the 50s? Besides the Illinois Central, there's the Missouri Pacific, and the Erie, and the Lackawand. They're all celebrating their centennials in this year. How does it happen that so many of these railroads, and I take it there are others, that came of age about this time. How does it happen that so many of them developed in this particular period? Well, I'd say this, Dean McBurney, about that. To start with, by this time, a hundred years ago, the railroads of the East were pushing into Chicago. It was in 1851 and 1852 that these Eastern railroads pushed into this Midwest territory. Now, it just happened that the development of the steam locomotive technically, as of that time, had come to the point where it was more and more feasible as a commercial instrumentality, and that coincided with the necessity of opening up all this great Western territory right to the west of Chicago and on out to the Pacific coast. Well, that's certainly true, Faris. It seems to me there are one or two other factors to bring in at that point. After the Panic of 37, it was pretty hard to get capital, and it took some time for people to regain confidence. And then there were some specific things, like the acquisition of the Oregon Territory in 46, and the conclusion of the Mexican War in 48, the gold strikes in California in 49, added an incentive to get to the west and through the Middle West. What was Chicago and the surrounding territory like in 1850, Mr. Burgess? Well, Chicago, of course, was only a frontier settlement. It had 30,000 population, and there was a great question as to whether it would become a metropolitan center. You could only reach it from the east by stagecoach. As Faris has said, there were no railroads that came into Chicago until 1851. In 1850, the Northwestern and the Burlington just started to build out to the west. Did the development of these Western lines, Overton, follow the pattern of the earlier Eastern roads pretty much? Well, I wouldn't say so. There was quite a contrast, because in the east, east of the Alleghenies at any rate, you had established channels of trade. Most of your population was there. And when they went to work and built a road from, let's say, across the waist of New Jersey, from New York to Philadelphia, and out of Boston, you had plenty of business the moment the railroad was laid down. Whereas in the west, where the population was sparse, it was a question of how you were going to build these roads without the adequate capital or the people to ship and travel on them. And in addition to what Dick has said, Dean McBurney, there's this to be considered, I think, that the roads from the east into Chicago had to cross mountainous territory. Whereas once you got to Chicago, you had the Great Plains west of you. And physically, it was possible to develop those railroads much faster than had been the case in the east. That is once you got started with the job of building west. Now, is the beginning and development of the Illinois Central, which we're noting particularly today, typical of the other roads we've been talking about, Johnston? No, it wasn't, Dean. The development of the Illinois Central was not typical of the other roads. We were the first land-grant road, and the success of our venture in Illinois led directly to such land-grant roads as the Southern Pacific, the Union Pacific, the Northern Pacific, the Burlington, and the Chicago Northwestern, the Rock Island, and the Santa Fe. Now, what do you mean by a land-grant road? Well, the land-grant is that procedure which was followed by the government, and in our particular case, the state, whereby every other section of land was given to the Illinois Central in exchange for the construction of the railroad. The land-grant, however, was just merely a starter. The Illinois Central was privately financed with money largely raised in the eastern states and to a certain extent in Europe. The value of the land-grant, from our viewpoint, on the Illinois Central has been repaid to the state of Illinois and to the federal government nearly 50 times in special taxes and reduced rates on transportation. And I might put in there, too, if I may, Dean McBurney, that on a national basis, considering the railroads as a whole, that the value of the lands granted to the railroads has been repaid to the federal government eight times over just in reduced rates alone. You see, this land-grant was a contract. It wasn't a gift. It was a contract that you should do two things. First, build railroads, and second, that having built them, you give the government half rates, as the contract was written, forever over that railroad. And Congress finally called a halt to it after we'd repaid it eight times over. Overton? I think you can take even a larger view, too, quite apart from the two parties to the contract, that is, the state or federal government on the one hand and the roads on the other, the increased value of the community, of the land, land values and the ability to go in business that resulted from the building of the railroads is simply, you cannot measure it, but it's hundreds of times what it was before. I think that's true, Dick, but there's also another point that I think we ought to stress more than the question of land-grants. And that is, as important as it is, and that is the factor that, by and large, the railroads were financed by private capital, and this question of land-grant is insignificant to the question of the financing of the railroads as a whole. Wayne's quite right about that. You see, you get a land-grant, and you can't do anything with the land until the railroad is built. You can't sell it. So you had to go out and raise the money to build your railroad before the lands granted to you were of any value to you. And therefore, you had to raise money by the sale of stock. After you had some land built, you had to mortgage it, to raise money by bonds, and so on. Well, what factors determine the routes taken by these railroads, Pharisee? Well, you might divide the answer to that into two parts, I would say, Dean McBurney. First, as to your termini, the places you're going to and from, of course, that was determined pretty largely by what someone thought would be the available traffic. But when you came to the selection of the route between those two points, let us say, then naturally you picked a place where you could build the line the cheapest, the line above the lowest grades and the least curvature, things of that character. I think you can classify it partly in this way, that the early lines in the East were built like the fingers of a hand to extend the metropolitan market, and then to connect waterways as the Camden and Envoy or the Michigan Central or the Hannibal and St. Joe, and then it was extended to connect the Eastern seaboard with the Great Lakes system and the rivers, and finally, as a last category, to open up landlocked areas. I'd like to say just something about that. It seems that the basic problem in the United States was access to the land mass. We needed cheap, flexible, all-weather, land transportation. That's what the rivers couldn't give, it's what the canals couldn't give. And so far, the only thing that has been able to give that have been the railroads. Well, how did these railroads, Johnston, affect the development of communities and cities? Take your line from Chicago down to New Orleans as an example. Dean McBurney, I'm delighted you asked me that question because I think we were one of the first railroads in the United States that brought into this country foreign people who were settled and established, first to build the railroad and then to develop the land. It was the development of this barren country in the Midwest that brought forth the development of agriculture and later the industry. And then the transportation agency made it possible for the transportation of the produce and the industrial development that was there in the Middle West. Was it the presence of your railroad that encouraged agriculture and industry or did you do anything specifically to develop the communities that you were serving? We did both. We developed the agriculture and we developed the communities because we established the, as unique to know, that between Chicago and New Orleans, when the Illinois Central was in its process of construction, there were only seven towns or cities that were on the map. And they were very small. And it was because of the coming of the Illinois Central Railroad that this great Midwest was developed both industrial and agriculturally. Of course, you people set a pattern too in advertising your lands and sending your brochures to Europe and the Northeast. You set a pattern that was followed by the Hannibal and St. Joe by the Iowa roads. You brought in new crops as the other roads followed you. They developed such things as alfalfa, making them a commercial crop for the first time. And you told the story of the Midwest in Europe. You even had colonies and brought them all the way over from Northwestern Europe and Northeastern part of the United States. And you told the story of the United States. And the story of the United States. And the story of the United States was about the coming of the railroads. And the story of the United States was about the coming of the railroads that profoundly changed the whole atmosphere of the country. You might say industrially and commercially was that prior to the time the railroads were built, if a town amounted to anything, it had to be on a navigable body of water. That meant that the people inland didn't have much chance, but the railroads changed all that. Even a town already on water didn't amount to much after the railroads came unless it too had rail transportation. And the railroads enabled new centers to be built up entirely away from any large navigable body of water, as witnessed Columbus, Ohio, Indianapolis, Indiana, Des Moines, Iowa, and a lot of other places. Let these people speak to themselves. Here's an editorial that was written just a week before the line came into Monmouth, Illinois. The whistle of the engine is becoming familiar to everyone and gives an impetus to business generally. Iron and ties are being brought forward and the gap in the road will soon be completed. We predict a heavy springs business. I'll listen to them just three weeks later after the road was built. The railroad is putting new life and activity into everybody. Business is going ahead rapidly. Pork buyers and pork sellers are on the alert. Wheat and other kinds of grain is coming in from the country and is rapidly going out. Hogs are taken off alive by the hundred to Chicago, where they are butchered and packed for the French soldiers in the Crimea. Lumber and goods are arriving from abroad. Strangers are on the lookout for new homes and there seems to be a good time generally among businessmen of all classes. All kinds of products can now be turned into cash at high prices. And if farmers do not get rich, it will certainly be their own fault. The good time which has been so long on its way may with truth be said to have come. I hope a good many American farmers hear that prophecy Mr. Overton. I hope so too. I wanted to ask about the peculiar identification of the railroads with the cultural and educational development of the past century. Do you think that's a fact, Burgess? Yes, indeed. As the railroads opened up new territories and the villages grew into cities, one of the very first demands of the people was for schools and school teachers. One of the pioneers who helped to develop the area that extends west from the Great Lakes was Dr. John Evans, after whom the city of Evanston in Illinois and one of the great peaks in the Rockies in Colorado is named. Evans was one of the leaders of a group of young men who founded Northwestern University just a hundred years ago. He also helped to build the Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad, which is now the main line of the Pennsylvania system into Chicago. Later on, after he had gone further west as territorial governor of Colorado, he built three more railroads out of Denver, one of which is the Colorado and Southern System. Then he turned again to education and founded the University of Denver. He was convinced that the opening up of new territory and transportation and education must go all hand in hand. I think it's also of interest to note that the Illinois Central was the prime mover in the development of the University of Illinois, having contributed the first $50,000 to its construction. That certainly is true, and the pattern was repeated out through the west. I recall in one place in Nebraska, before they had a school, they allowed them to hold it in the railroad station, and then the superintendent got the railroad to give 300 acres to found Doan College, which they named after him, and is still doing a splendid job. I think that pattern can be repeated many, many times. You know, one of the more dramatic chapters in the history of railroads, I suspect, is the role that they've played in wartime. You can take that way back to the Civil War. You can, Dean McBurney. The Civil War brought out the tremendous importance of railroads to both sides. The north had something of an advantage because the railroads in the north had begun to burn coal by the time the Civil War came along, whereas the railroads in the south were in large part still wood burners. We have a couple of striking examples, and I suspect that my good friend Wayne Johnson here can add another. The two that I was going to cite about the Civil War were the time that Longstreet's car was moved by rail to Chickamauga in time to turn the tide of battle to the side of the south. Then after that, when the Union forces were bottled up at Chattanooga, it was the movement by rail of Hooker's two-car that raised the siege of Chattanooga. Two very striking examples of what railroads could do. I imagine that Wayne could tell us something about the Illinois Central, couldn't you, Wayne? I can, that, Bill. Well, during the Civil War, the Illinois Central was of vital importance to the government from a military point of view. Our main line from Chicago to Cairo, through the heart of the state, became the route of armies and military supplies, and led directly to the victories of the Union forces in the west. What about World War I and II, Pharisees? Well, that's where railroads really did come into their own. In World War I, we apparently hadn't remembered the lesson learned in the Civil War, that you must unload freight cars and keep them moving, and there was quite a bit of congestion and delay sufficient, so the government took over the railroads and ran them for the duration of World War I. In World War II, however, the railroads remained in the hands of their owners and were operated privately. Now, we have there the basis for what you academic men would call a perfect laboratory experiment, in that you have two World Wars, similar in character. In the first one, the government operating the railroads, in the second, the railroads being operated privately. It's interesting to compare the results. In World War I, with the government operating the railroads, the cost to the taxpayers was two million dollars a day. World War II, on the other hand, with the railroads being operated privately and paying taxes, they paid into the Federal Treasury three million dollars a day in taxes. Thus, we start our comparison with a difference of five million dollars every time the sun goes down, and that comparison in favor of the private operation of World War II. In World War I, the government had to raise the freight rates very substantially after it took over the railroads. World War II, on the other hand, the railroads came out of the war with a freight rate structure no higher than that with which they'd begun the war. The most important difference of all was in that of service. While in World War I, the job was done, there was a good deal of chronic congestion and delay. Due largely, as I said at the beginning of my remarks, in answer to this question, Dean McKerney, that we'd apparently forgotten the necessity of unloading cars fast in World War I, where that was remembered in World War II. Well, to sum it up, in World War II, the privately operated railroads, with one-fourth fewer employees than the government had had in World War I running the railroads, with one-third fewer locomotives, with one-fourth fewer freight cars, and one-fourth fewer passenger cars, handled 73% more freight and 100% more passengers. I think the most striking situation that we had, Bill, in World War II was the fact that we did not have any congestion. We were able to increase the flow of oil and also the handling of men and military, uh, appended to all parts of the United States and to the foreign countries. On our railroad alone, we had 70 plants and camps, which were at all times free and liquid. I think we can sum this up about the World War II performance of the railroads by saying this without fear of being accused of exaggeration. Nowhere in all the world was the military might of America lessened or the striking power of its armed forces diminished by reason of any failure of rail transportation here at home, Dean McBurney. Now you've made this comparison between the, uh, the operation of the roads in World War I and World War II. Uh, Overton, how have competition and regulation affected the railroads generally down through the years? Well, curiously enough, if you go back to the beginning, you'll find that the canals were great competitors of the railroads. As a matter of fact, in the early days, some of the roads had to pay the equivalent of the canal tolls merely to carry what they did on their own rails. But that situation was absurd and so recognized and I would say beginning about in the sixties and from then on for the next generation, the principal competition, perhaps it could be said down to 1920, so far as Overland transportation was concerned, was among the railroads themselves. And how was that competition handled? Well, when three or four lines were built, let's say from Chicago to Omaha, they tried to get all the business they could. There was a certain amount of rate cutting and even discrimination. It should be pointed out, and I think it's often forgotten, that throughout the sixties and the seventies, the roads tried diligently to regulate themselves by informal agreements of one sort or another. But there was still such a demand for more roads that new roads were built and some arrangement would be upset by a newcomer. The states, particularly in the west, in the middle seventies, were having a hard time as a result of the Panic of 73. And there was a whole series of state laws, generally known as the Granger Laws, which attempted to fix rates and to make other regulations. The difficulty with that structure was that by the middle 1880s, about three quarters of the railways were interstate. And in 1886, I think it was, in the Wabash decision, the Supreme Court relieved interstate carriers of following the state regulation. And that led directly in 1887 to the Interstate Commerce Act. Of course, all that has been changed now since 1920. Perhaps I shouldn't say all of that, because what Dick has said is unquestionably right. But beginning about 1920, you see, we've had this tremendous development of other forms of transportation. The government between World War I and World War II poured about $40 billion of expenditures into the building of facilities of transportation other than by railroads. Now, it's interesting to observe that that's more money than the entire cost of all the railroads in all the time that they've been built and are operating. And it's also interesting to note that notwithstanding that tremendous amount of public money put into other forms of transportation, that when the great test of World War II came, it remained for the railroads to handle 90% of all the war freight and 97% of all the organized military travel. I think, Bill, that's all true, but I also would like to make the point that the railroads are now carrying about 60% of the total volume of traffic moving between our towns and cities. Or more than all of the highway trucks, the airlines, the pipelines, and barges combined. Now, Senator John W. Bricker, as a member of the Senate Subcommittee on the Interstate Commerce, has just completed a long study of transportation. And Senator Bricker says that reckless government spending is dangerous to the entire American railway system. The subsidies being given competing forms of transportation, if continued, would force the railroads into bankruptcy, when inevitably they would be nationalized. Now, he recommends that the railroads, in an atmosphere of free competition, be allowed to demonstrate their inherent advantages as carriers of mass tonnage and large passenger loads. Those inherent advantages, Wayne, I suppose we could sum up in this way, couldn't we, as to freight? That only the railroads stand ready to move anything for anybody, in any quantity, in any time of the year, at an average charge far less than any other form of transportation offering anything like a general service. Well, now, you've got this Transportation Act of 1940, to which I take it Senator Bricker refers, calling for fair and impartial regulation of all modes of transportation, so as to preserve the inherent advantages of each. Now, is that principle being observed? It certainly is not. The principle is good, but as Senator Bricker and Senator O'Connor, who joins him in the report to which Wayne has alluded, have said, that the trouble isn't with the Declaration, it's the fact that the government is not paying any attention to that. Well, of course, your problem is that you've got a situation that's developed slowly over a hundred years, a static situation, based on the perfectly reasonable premise up to 1920, that the railways were, in the natural sense, in the economic sense, a monopoly of overland transportation. Now, we have to adjust to that. Do you think the adjustment, Mr. Farris, is moving as rapidly as it could move? No, I don't, Dick. I think that the adjustment is moving altogether too slowly. Now, for one example, there's too great a lag between the increased costs that railroads have to pay for wages and costs of materials, and the time that the Interstate Commerce Commission permits the railroads to raise their rate structure. If the public, Bill, can be awakened to the danger of starving its railroads, it seems to me that it can remove some of the burdens of taxation and of subsidy to competing forms of transportation. Wayne, I'm pretty much of an optimist. I believe that the country is very rapidly awakening to that, and I believe the Bricker report that you mentioned a while ago is striking evidence of that fact. Yes, but I think, Bill, that the crux of the transportation problem is how to preserve private ownership and management of the railroads because of a basically sound transportation policy which cannot tolerate the present discrimination against the railroads who are the backbone of the American transportation system. In conclusion, gentlemen, may I observe? I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion entitled Railroads Cross the Century. We wish to thank our guests for their appearance on today's transcribed program. Kenneth Burgess, President of the Board of Trustees at Northwestern University. William Farrisee, President of the Association of American Railroads. Wayne Johnston, President of the Illinois Central Railroad Company. And Richard Overton, Professor of Business History in the School of Commerce at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. These copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may wish to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week the reviewing stand will discuss what is the role of public relations. The discussion will center around the ways and means of developing greater understanding between institutions and the publics they serve. Our guests will be Milton Fairman, Director of Public Relations for the Borden Company. Ed Lipscomb, President of the Public Relations Society of America and Director of Public Relations for the National Cotton Council of America. Conjure Reynolds, Director of Public Relations for the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. And Reynolds Seitz, Director of the Chicago Division of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. We hope you'll join us next Sunday to hear these gentlemen discuss the question, What is the role of public relations? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. The movie stars are moving to the Mutual Broadcasting System. The onlyוש who are stronger than thousands of people may disdain downtown at Northwestern University. The наши men of the comparable team have started tochluss pendingKO. The conversations have been at the jake. The lives of at the philosophers are