Deputy Chief Carmine Bracco, will you raise your right hand? I, Carmine Bracco, having been promoted Deputy Chief in the Fire Department of the City of New York, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of a member of the Fire Department of the City of New York according to the laws and rules and regulations governing the Department and will obey the orders and directions of my superiors to the best of my ability. To the best of my ability. Good luck. Thank you. Will the following please step up? William P. Landy and Eugene E. Schonlever. Now, would you please raise your right hands and repeat after me. I, and recite your own names, having been promoted, Battalion Chief in the Fire Department of the City of New York, Battalion Chief in the Fire Department of the City of New York, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of a member of the Fire Department of the City of New York and will obey the orders and directions of my superiors to the best of my ability. Good luck to you. Good luck to you. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Will the following please rise? Peter W. Burns. William M. Kelly II. John W. Smith. William Cronenberger, Jr. John J. Higgins. Edward T. Higgins. Thomas Culkin. Will you gentlemen raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, and recite your own names, having been promoted, Captain in the Fire Department of the City of New York, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of a member of the Fire Department of the City of New York according to the laws and rules and regulations governing the department and will obey the orders and directions of my superiors to the best of my ability. Good luck to you gentlemen. And now I am about to promote 153 lieutenants. And in view of the large number, I shall merely ask those gentlemen who are to be promoted as lieutenants today to rise without the necessity of calling this long list of names. So all those who are going to be promoted as lieutenants, will you kindly rise and remain where you are? Now after I, where I reached the point where you are required to state your name, each individual will state his own name. Will you please raise your right hands? I. I. Having been promoted having been promoted, lieutenants in the fire department of the city of New York, lieutenants in the fire department of the city of New York, do solemnly swear do solemnly swear do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of the United States that I will support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the state of New York and the constitution of the state of New York and the constitution of the state of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of a member of the fire department of the city of New York according to the laws and rules and regulations governing the department and will obey the orders and directions of my superiors to the best of my ability Good luck to you gentlemen Chief Loftus Commissioners Ladies and gentlemen It gives me real happiness to make these promotions today Most of you have been waiting four years less one day for these advancements and some of you have been waiting a matter of more than three years for this happy occasion and it all adds up to better morale for our department which proudly boasts the ablest and most efficient body of firefighters in the world Those of you who have already been officers and officers know full well that in a quasi military organization such as ours we must have discipline but not the kind of discipline that rules with an iron hand but rather the kind of discipline that is humane that is humane and that brings me to the men and that brings me to the men who are becoming officers for the first time who have just been promoted as lieutenants you are now wearing blue shirts the distinguishing mark of a fireman When you assume your new duties as lieutenants and when you go further up the ladder as many of you will never forget that you once wore a blue shirt it never hurts anyone to remember that he was once at the bottom of the ladder Now as this is my first public appearance as Fire Commissioner let me say something that I have known for a long time that a more splendid body of God-fearing men would be hard to find than we have in our department and I am proud to be its head The acts of a few misguided men cannot and never will injure the glorious reputation that this department has enjoyed throughout the years for efficiency, bravery and honesty The best of luck to all of you and God speed you all applause applause applause applause Thank you.