Mayor's Conference, the 31st in a series of monthly programs designed to help you better understand the problems of the City of New York and how the city government is meeting these problems. Today, Mayor Robert F. Wagner meets the Metropolitan Newsmen to answer their spontaneous questions on city affairs. Questions from Tom Finnegan of the Long Island Star Journal. Mr. Mayor, in view of the recent criticisms of some of your commissioners and their policies, plus the city council disclosures, do you believe that the taxpayers of this city is getting a fair shake from your Democratic administration? From Thomas Fury of the New York World Telegram and Sun. Mr. Mayor, do you plan to seek re-election this year? From Dominic Peluso of the New York News. Mr. Mayor is talk about creating 25 new Supreme Court judgeships again. How do you feel about it? From radio and television newsman Walter Engels. Mr. Mayor, I have some specific questions about what it's like being Mayor of the City of New York. Well, gentlemen, as usual, we have some good questions here. And because of the fact that they are ones that may have a little controversy here, and I'm sure you have a good many others, I'll forego my usual practice of making a short informal statement and get right into the questions. So I'm ready. He wants to start. Well, Mr. Mayor, the most timely question of the day would seem to be whether you intend to seek re-election this year. Mr. Mayor, the most timely question of the day would seem to be whether you intend to seek re-election this year. Well, I've, Tom, I've given that a good deal of thought. As I have said before, I will announce it certainly before March 1st. That date was set because of the the time that I've been doing, I've been doing a good job. I've been doing a good job. I've been doing a good job. I've been doing a good job. Well, Mr. Mayor, the most timely question of the day would seem to be whether you intend to seek re-election this year. Well, I've, Tom, I've given that a good deal of thought. As I have said before, I will announce it certainly before March 1st. That date was set because of the Inner Circle show. So we wouldn't cause too much confusion on that date, and you wouldn't have to have two scripts. And very shortly, I'll be in a position to make that announcement. Well, Mr. Mayor, as you know, each year at the Inner Circle, I play the role of Mayor Robert Wagner. Now, I've already memorized my lines for this year's show. Now, I wonder, could you give me a little cue ahead of time whether I'll have to do another memory job? Well, we'll give you the cue ahead of time, and that's saying how soon ahead of time. Well, you think Tom will know this week? I don't know about this week, but certainly in good time to learn both sets. Well, there's talk again about creating 25 new judgeships. Supreme Court's. Judgeships, Supreme Court judgeships in Albany, and as I recall, you've opposed such a move. How do you feel about it now? Well, Dom, one of the basic reasons we opposed it last year was that it would be a further burden on the taxpayers here, and we were not receiving any compensation. We have many other areas to meet. Increase in our police force, fire department, taking care of our employees, and try to get better services to our people, and I didn't feel at that time that we could spare that money from any of the other services. I understand there's some talk again. I don't know if there's any idea of giving the city money so that these judges can be paid and their staffs paid. It will run into quite a lot of money, and also, as far as I'm concerned, if my opinion is asked, I will have to go into the full study of whether they are really needed to relieve the congestion, or whether other methods can be used in order to meet that congestion, too, which would be less expensive. Well, then, if I understand you right, you wouldn't be against it if the state picked up the tab. Well, I wouldn't be against it in two ways. I would have to be convinced. Number one, about the expense, the way you want to say, picking up the tab, and secondly, whether there is this real need. Well, in regard to the request for additional Supreme Court judges, there's a bill now pending in Albany about creating a new judicial district in Queens, making that a separate district, and to bring in more judges, which is part of this 56 additional judges that are sought. Would you favor having a separate judicial district for Queens? Well, Tom, I would say this. Again, I have no objection to it except that we would have to find out how much it would cost, and whether the state would help us to meet that expense, and after a study to know whether it's fully needed. There has been a good deal of talk about the separate district in Queens. I'm sure, as far as the legal end of it, we're concerned, we have to be guided by those who have made the full study. But again, we have the question of expenses. I think Tom has a question. Mr. Mayor, at your urging, last summer the Supreme Court set, which was rather unusual, usually vacation all summer. Do you think that program was successful, and would you urge them to do it again? Well, Tom, I appreciate your kindness in saying at my urging they did it. I was among those who said maybe we could try it out. I have no control over the judges to tell them whether they should sit or not. I haven't had an opportunity to discuss it fully with any of the heads of the judicial council, such as Judge Conway, to see whether it was successful. But we helped them out a bit, and what it took course, by giving them air conditioning. Well, I think Judge Conway did express the opinion that it worked fairly well. And it worked well, and I would think it should be continued. Well, the judges said that they were in court every hot day of the summer, but they blamed the lawyers, claiming that they weren't ready with cases, and they were unable to obtain witnesses. And there was a charge made that there was a deliberate conspiracy to delay any easing of the congestion due in the summer months, because they were opposed to it. Conspiracy on the part of the lawyers? On the judges. On the judges? Well, I don't know. All the judges are honorable men, and being a lawyer myself, I certainly feel that lawyers are honorable men. We have another lawyer too here, Don Pelluso. We'll have to defend our profession. But I would think that through the little better system working out, the kinks might see that the lawyers were there. Again, that's a matter for the judges and the courts to work out, and certainly not for the mayor to attempt to butt in on. Well, it appears that the legislature is going to deny the city's request for its share of the motor vehicle license fees, and would that mean that the city would not repeal the auto use tax? Well, Don, you have better information on that than I have. Well, I just read some stories from Albany this morning which indicated that they're going to do that. Well, you oftentimes, in the course of a legislative session, have all sorts of stories coming out of Albany. One day they'll say they're going to give us something, the next the not. I haven't heard anything directly from either the governor or the legislative leaders that they are opposed to it. I'll have the opportunity very shortly to meet with them and find out the full position. Then we can meet the question that you just asked. Well, if they don't give it to you, would you repeal? Well, we'd have to see what our financial position would be when we have the final reports from the Comptroller. I'm sure everybody in the administration, and I'm sure everybody in New York City would like to see taxes repealed, and we'd do everything we can to reduce taxes and still, of course, give the services. I'm still confident that the legislature will give us our share of the motor vehicle fees, and I think it's only just, as we pointed out on many occasions before, the five counties comprising New York City receive nothing in the way of a share of that tax, and every other county in this state receives that amount. I think it's been an arbitrary law, arbitrary against the City of New York, and I'm sure the legislature will go along with the recommendations of the governor, and our request to see that this inequity is straightened out once and for all, and New York City will get its rightful share. And that, of course, will enable us to repeal this tax immediately upon the signing of the bill. We've already passed a bill here in the Council and the Board of Estimate. It will come for my signature within the next few days, and that will provide the repeal of the auto-use tax at the moment the governor signs the bill, giving us our rightful share of the license fee tax. Well, Mr. Mayor, in your emergency message to the City Council, which you pointed out that the law should carry a provision, that the auto tax would not be repealed unless the state gave money. Now, was that any indication of any assurance that you may have had from the governor that he is going to give you the money? Well, I think if it was up to the governor right now, we would receive our rightful share, because he so recommended last year, and as again recommended this year. I think it's now up to the legislature. And they play a very important role in the passage of legislation, as we all know. Speaking of taxes, Mr. Mayor, is the City's basic real estate tax rate going to rise July 1st? Well, we sincerely hope it will not rise. That depends. We can give you better information on that, Tom, a little later when we have some of the final figures from the controller on our receipts here in the City. And our expenses. I sincerely hope that we can hold that down to its present rate. I think, Warner, do you have a question? I'll defer mine a little bit, Tom. Well, I want to know whether you believed your even-soud statement hurt you or helped you politically. Well, Tom, I don't know, because I wasn't interested in any of the political phases of it. I merely stated my position as I stayed on all of the issues and let the chips fall where they may. Well, I know you weren't interested in the politics, but I'm sure you had some impressions of how it affected you. Undoubtedly, you must have received mail and... Well, I think you can ask Bill Peer. I'm the press secretary who was with you boys all day. He knows more about the reaction in the mail than I do. I haven't checked on it because I felt that I was merely stating my own position, let it go at that. Well, most of the mail, Mr. Mayor, applauded you for your stand, but around the political circles, they feel that your snub of the King has taken you out of any possibility of being the United States Senator, which I know is one of your fondest wishes. Well, I wouldn't say that's any fondest wishes. It's in a very fine position. Someday maybe you'd like to go there. I, of course, took a crack at it last fall. And I don't think anybody who wants to be a real public servant should be thinking of the future always as far as his judgment is concerned. I think you have to do what you feel is right at the present time and let the future take care of itself. Well, still on that even-sound situation, now that the federal government is going to personally receive foreign dignitaries because of that situation, do you plan to cut the Department of Public Events budget? Well, a lot of their budget is predicated upon reception of these before these. Well, I have only heard the statement that you've made from the press. I haven't heard anything from them officially in any way. Matter of fact, we've received a few dignitaries not as prominent as some of the others even in the past week. And until that point arrives where we hear anything official from Washington, we're always delighted to receive those people that the people of New York would want to have. Well, the only ones who receive receptions are the most prominent. There's a lower echelon. Dignitaries don't get any receptions. Well, they don't have receptions, but they come to City Hall and we welcome them. Well, the money is spent on the upper-level dignitaries. So that's- Well, again, I think that's a very iffy question. If we find out that Washington has some sort of a policy, then we'll be glad to answer that. They haven't told you so. No. Well, speaking of Commissioner Patterson, public events- I wasn't speaking at my head. Well, what is your reaction to Commissioner Patterson's move in taking the initiative whereby he announced that alternate street parking would be lifted for Lincoln's birthday, and then immediately it was countermanded by Traffic Commissioner Wiley? Well, Tom, I haven't seen that at all. And I don't believe until I see that he did that, I wouldn't want to comment on it. I think Dick Patterson does a darn good job and knows and stays within his own area of jurisdiction. Well, the purpose of his announcing it was that he wanted to encourage more people to come into the city on holiday. But unfortunately, some of the people in the city took notice of his announcement and they parked in prohibited areas, and the cops who were unaware of Mr. Patterson's order gave him tickets. Now, what do you want them, Mr. Patterson, to pay for the tickets? I think we should do something for the borderists. And they should be better liaisons. Mr. Mayor, you don't really feel that even if the federal government steps in to take over the official reception of these people, and of course, as I understand it, our receptions always take place after the heads of foreign states have been to the White House and then come back here. Is that correct? Mr. Mayor, and they request us to give them the official reception. I don't believe that the city of New York would want to be put into a position where it did not have the right to honor, let's say, the Prime Minister of England or the mayor of Dublin or somebody. I don't think that that move would mean that we would give up our right to be host as the better city of the country. We are always delighted to receive those people, and I believe one of the highest officials in the French government will be here around March the 1st, and the city will give him his due honor. But don't you think that in many instances in view of the fact that they are guests of the national government, that the national government should pay at least some part of the budget of the Department of Commerce and Public Events? Mr. And the expenses, of course, they do other things outside of receiving these few top dignitaries, but there have been many people who feel that the State Department should share in the expense. How do you feel about it as mayor? Mr. Well, of course, it would help financially, but it's not a matter of time. But after all, we're a big city and the biggest attraction, I would say, in the entire United States for any of our foreign visitors, and we're willing to do our share provided it doesn't get out of line. Mr. Mayor, getting back to the question of whether you seek re-election, if you do decide to run, will you be satisfied to run again with Comptroller Jerosso and City Council President Stark? Well, again, that's presuming that I would run. I would say that I would be delighted to run with those gentlemen. I think they've done a good job, and we've had a good team. We won our victory through a hard primary and an election, and we've worked together since then, and I'm sure we could work together in the future. Mr. Mayor, this week, the television industry, as you know, announced that it would continue again for the duration of these telecasts. And it occurred to me that I don't think anybody has ever asked you since we started them three years ago, and we're going into the fourth year, what it's really like being mayor of the city of New York. And I have a few specific questions that I think those who watch the mayor conference might be interested in. The first one, it being probably the second largest administrative job in the country, you consider it a kind of man-killing job, as the presidency is described as being by those who are close to it. Well, I think a lot of people have said that the mayor's job, Walter, is a man-killing job. I think some of the things said about it are truthful. Some are a little nonsensical. Sometimes we said that we go to many more banquets, for instance, than we could possibly make in the course of an evening. It is a difficult job. It takes its time consuming, but it has a lot of satisfaction. What are the toughest moments when budget time comes around or when these gentlemen from City Hall turn up a scandal or when you have interdepartmental troubles? What are the real bad headaches in it? Well, I guess we have so many headaches in the course of the day that it's difficult to classify them. But I suppose the most difficult problem we have here in the city is to try to meet the demands for more services on the part of the people in our departments and yet at the same time keep our budget under control. That comes to a head at the budget here. Well, and it happens, Walter, continually throughout the year because there are many worthy and fine people interested and worthy and good causes who come to City Hall and seek assistance. And they make fine arguments and they make fine arguments and it's difficult to say no. But we have to say no a lot more times than most people realize in this city or our budget would be way out of hand. We want to run our city economically and humanely and therefore it is a question of trying to pick first things as first. What are the most rewarding moments? I mean, that day when you say, gee, this has been a good day. I mean, when the budget almost gets balanced or... Well, I suppose sometimes when at a hearing somebody will say something nice about the city rather than be in there to complain or to ask for more. And of course, I suppose the most rewarding moments for me is the opportunity to spend some time with my family. Well, going back over a few previous administrations, particularly, for example, Lugardia, I mean, am I right in saying that your method of running this city pretty much depends on having a good team of department heads rather than the kind of sort of one-man running city? Well, I believe in, first of all, having top department heads because the problems of the city are much worse now than... I mean, they get worse each year because of inflation and the demands for greater services. And therefore, no one person could possibly keep in contact with all of the problems in the course of the day in any detail. And therefore, with good commissioners and with good people in City Hall who can bring the problems to you as rapidly as possible, then you try to find solutions. It's very helpful. But no matter how many good people you have around, the buck stops at the mayor's desk and he has to make the decision. Well, Mr. Mayor, judging from your answer, you are quite pleased with your commissioners and the work that your administration is doing for the... I think by and large our commissioners have done a fine job. I hope we can get back to your question as soon as Walter is through and let you give us a list of complaints. I've just got one more and that is, what's it like living in Gracie Mansion? I know this is an awfully old place, but it looks awfully good from the outside. Is this a good place to live? Walter, I hope you come up and see it sometime. I would be delighted to show you around. It's a very lovely place to live in and a wonderful location. But I can always say that in the family we're glad to get out to our little place in the country because when we get the opportunity, because that's our own real home and there's nothing like your own real home. Well, getting back to the commissioners, for instance, there was some criticism of the Sanitation Department for the practice of permitting labor organizers to be on the city payroll and not do any garbage removal work. Then you have the... Yeah, all right. Let's stop at that, Tom. How long has that been going on? Well, I'll agree it's been going on for 40 years. All right. You stopped it. We stopped it. You stopped it. All right. Let's go on to the next one. Well, did that have anything to do with the Sanitation Commissioner turning in his resignation? Of course not. Of course not. Mr. Mayor, that practice was stopped after a lawsuit was started and revealed in the newspapers by the Daily News. Soon it was brought to our attention. All right. How about... It was brought to the attention of City Hall. It was stopped. How about the tax commission where one of the commissioners was accused of sitting on a case involving his own property? I realize he was... Immediately sent to the Commissioner of Investigations and the Commissioner of Investigations gave him a clean bill of health. And how about the charges from...that the police department is over-enforcing parking regulations, traffic conditions, to build up the city treasury by handing out thousands of tickets? Well, there's absolutely nothing to that, Tom. And I'm sure you don't agree with that, that we ever have asked any department or any court to use the method of fines for increasing the revenues. Actually, it wouldn't amount to a great deal, I can tell you, in the budget of our size. But as I...on the question of enforcement, it's the opinion of the police commissioner that that is one of the way...best methods of cutting down accidents and cutting down deaths and injuries. And nobody likes to get a ticket, I'm sure. I know in the past I never liked to, and I wouldn't like to in the future. But we do have to have some enforcement. And it's interesting to note that due to enforcement, particularly on moving vehicles, enforcement of the law there, we've been able to cut down on deaths and accidents and injuries to our citizens at a marked rate while the rest of the country it's been going up. So we've had somewhere about a...over a 20 percent decrease in deaths and accidents here. And since they have had some enforcement now, we don't want to have anybody be overzealous in the enforcement. I think they have to give on...I've so said that they must give our citizens a fair break and be sure that they are violating the law and not merely give out tickets for the sake of giving out tickets. I've heard that come to my attention and I have so informed the police commissioner that that practice is not correct and he certainly agrees. Well, one final question. As you know, I'm always interested in small homeowners. And on Thursday you approved another agreement with a private tax-exempt corporation to erect a tax-exempt housing project in Long Island City. That's the North Queensview. I know that you, Mr. Geroza, the Comptroller, and Mr. Lundy, the Borough President, have been opposed to additional tax-free housing. What is your position? Well, there's a lot of questions involved. We just don't want to give out tax-exemption for the sake of giving out tax-exemption. But in certain areas where, due to high land costs, the only possible way of getting down...getting the rents down to a point where people in the middle-income class can afford to live in those projects is to give some form of tax-exemption. I believe the one you mentioned was the one where they receive only a portion of the exemption. Well, I'm sorry, Tom. Go ahead. Mr. Mayor, there was a story in the papers this week about a law department official who solicited his employees, his underlings, and as a result 13 of them... Employees. Employees. Employees. 13 of them bought $100 tickets to the Democratic dinner that was held last night. How do you feel about city officials soliciting people who work under them? Well, I want to say this. We're still checking on the matter. As a matter of fact, when it was found out, the money was immediately refunded to these officials. And I don't want to condemn anybody until they've had an opportunity to present their side of the picture. There are some people who like to jump out and begin to criticize right away without getting all of the facts. Now, speaking on a theoretical basis, I am opposed to the soliciting or any pressure put on any city employee. Now, the city employees are asked to contribute to lots of things, the various charities, various drives, Red Cross, Hart Fund, and so forth. And there are some departments which actually have a fund. And each employee contributes a very small percentage of his salary. And they set up their own board, and that board is responsible for the distribution. Now, things like that are all right. But I would certainly be opposed, very strongly opposed, to any form of pressure or coercion. I feel that city employees, right from the mayor down, have responsibilities to see that they are above reproach. I want to make sure that when I leave as mayor, citizens of this town will feel that they have honesty in their administration, and that if there is any dishonesty on the part of any one of the individuals that we will move right in and see to it that justice is met. And I may say, too, that I look forward and I am going to invite the committee set up by the city council to draw up a code of ethics and help in the clarification of the present law. I am going to invite them in to have a talk with them this week and ask them if they would also take a look at the law as it affects all city employees, right from the mayor down. Then you have changed your mind about a code of ethics. Now you feel that a code of ethics is necessary. No, I don't mean to say a code of ethics, but to take a look at our law to tighten it up if they feel that it is necessary. In conjunction with the study that the Corporation Council is making, is that the idea? That's right, and together with their work with the City Council, just to make sure that we have every full protection to the employees and to the public. Well, besides that... I'm not saying that I've found out anything wrong, but we want to be sure that we have the very best in this whole United States. Now, besides that, in view of the embarrassing stories to which Tom and both Toms have referred concerning the conduct of some members of your administration, what do you plan to do about them? The embarrassing stories about... Well, what do you plan to do? Are you going to call them in and lay down the law of what you think they should do? Or do you have any plans? Well, we've...of course, they know how I feel and we so tell them. And we immediately have the Commissioner of Investigation move in, and as I said, his reports show that there was nothing wrong. Well, do you have any plans... Well, do you have any plans... Oftentimes, people like to criticize, particularly public officials, where there's a little feeling, and they will often make false accusations, and we have to be prepared to meet that. Do you think these disclosures, as Don pointed out, the criticism would lead to another fusion movement in this election year? Well, I don't know what the fusion people have in mind. They're all good friends of mine. They've indicated on many occasions their satisfaction with this administration, and only the future can tell on something like that. I certainly don't feel that this administration, as far as the mayor is concerned in his administration, there's anything to apologize for. Well, gentlemen, our time has run out on this edition of the Mayor's Conference, and on behalf of WPIX and Channel 11, I want to thank Mayor Wagner and the panel for coming up here and conducting this discussion today. Thank you, Walter. Mayor's Conference has been presented as a public service by radio and television stations of New York. Today, Mayor Robert F. Wagner answered spontaneous questions from Tom Finnegan of the Long Island Star Journal, Thomas Fury of the New York World Telegram and Sun, Dominic Peluso of the New York News, and radio and television newsman Walter Engels. Mayor's Conference is produced for Mayor Wagner by Arnold Cohen. Today's program was directed by Herb Holmes. Mayor'sra B,от traveller from John government. Mayor and
