The news is good today. A life-saving gift has been given. A grateful award will be made and a distinguished leader will receive the presentation. All of this is occurring on the fifth floor of 4 East 37th Street at the New York Red Cross Blood Center. Every day, men and women in various walks of life are coming to this fifth floor. They come individually and they come in groups. All have two things in common. Each one has reason to believe that he or she is healthy and each wants to do a good turn. Well, now that I've set the scene for you, let me introduce General Charles M. Walton, administrator of the Red Cross Blood Program in Greater New York. General Walton. Thank you very much. You know, I like what you just said about the donors who come here having two things in common. It's true, they all have every reason to believe they're in good health or they wouldn't be coming here. And in the great majority of cases, they're strong, healthy specimens. Also, you said they want to do a good turn. The good turn is the part I want to stress right now. Because this is a good turn which has a two-way stretch. Giving blood is a good turn to someone in need right now. And it's a good turn for the donors themselves if and when they need a transfusion. So remember that, you healthy listeners. It's just as wise to lay inside a pint of blood against the time of emergency as it is to save for a rainy day. And now, our guest of the day. I take great pleasure in telling you that Commissioner Arthur W. Wallander, Commissioner of the Police Department of the City of New York, is here at the Blood Center today. And for this reason, New York police men have been coming here regularly for the last four months and giving their blood. In other words, since June, New York's finest have been giving the gift of life, their own blood, to New York's ill and injured. Commissioner Wallander, it's a great honor to have you with us today. I am delighted to be able to show you the bank where your men have been coming regularly at the rate of 15 per week. Thank you, General Walton. I'm glad to be here. Many of you listening can visualize where I am. I'm sure. Because you know New Yorkers gave two million pints of blood during the war. And that means that you came early and often to this blood center. You wartime donors ought to be commended. You did a magnificent job. But you are needed again in order to provide a plentiful supply of blood for all in need. And the police department is proud to furnish its share of that great quantity. Every healthy New Yorker also has a duty to himself and to the sick and injured of his town. And that duty is to make New York as healthy a spot as possible. We are trying to do our part. Will you listening? Do yours. General Walton has said that New York's finest are giving the gift of life to New York's unfortunates. It's a good feeling to know that you've been able to spare someone pain or save his life. It's a very good feeling and one our town could have more of. General Walton, I'm very happy to accept this certificate of commendation to my department. And I want you to know that the Red Cross Blood Bank has the best wishes of all the police department. His Honor of the Mayor joins me in looking forward with you to the day when whole blood will be available in plentiful supply for all the sick and injured of this, the greatest city on earth. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Walliner. Your department has set an example for every civic-minded, red-blooded resident of this city. Red Cross thanks you.
