Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, speaking to you from the Great Hall of the Cooper Union in the heart of downtown Manhattan Island, New York City. I would like to thank all of our listeners on the National Association of Educational Broadcasting Stations for their very kind letters, which we have received from practically every state in the United States, and we are particularly thankful to these 40 stations that carry the Cooper Union Broadcasting Broadcast of the Forum from Coast to Coast. We can't answer all of your cards and letters, but believe you me, we like to get them. They are awfully, awfully nice. And incidentally, as far as the National Association of Educational Broadcasters is concerned, may I just state that it's not just because that they carry our programs that we think they're wonderful. We feel that stations of that kind are really the backbone of the radio broadcasting in the United States and also the hope for the future of that. Well, to get on to this evening's program, we're continuing with our series on women, and the subject for discussion tonight is momism. Momism. Momism. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly ladies, I want you to do me a personal favor and realize that this is not a personal discussion of you and you and you. We are discussing momism sort of en masse, and please realize that this discussion is not aimed or directed necessarily at any one single person. Our speaker tonight is Dr. Ralph Wentworth Rohr, psychologist, director of the Psychological Adjustment Services, Incorporated, formerly associated with such institutions as the University of Hawaii, University of Oregon, Hunter College, New York University. And I might add that we are all extremely fortunate that the good doctor has a very fine heart. He has had a very bad case of influenza. He, just the other night, has been receiving transfusions. He has been flat on his back for five or six days, and if any of you wonder why we have the stool here tonight, that is why we have the stool here. Next week, I'll tell you how I feel. We're really delighted that this, I can now say, old friend of Cooper Union, who has returned for the third or fourth lecture here, is back this evening to talk on the subject of momism. Dr. Ralph Wentworth Rohr. Thank you. Professor Fairchild and friends of Cooper Union, tonight I'm on a rather touchy subject. I didn't know whether the proper way to dress, for the dress on momism, was to wear a bulletproof vest or what. Someone suggested a baseball mask. But just to be on the safe side, and to be specific, and to get matters straight, right at the first of the lecture, I want you to know that I recognize the necessity of motherhood. And furthermore, I'm not against the institution of motherhood. In fact, I had a mother myself. And, uh, uh, I'm glad it was a real human mother, and not one of the test tube type, like Aldous Huxley told us about his brave new world. Uh, however, I do not think that an embryological accident necessarily places a taboo on a critical discussion of mothers. Now, this accidental union of the microscopic human egg cell, or the human ova, with a sperm, is very, very microscopic, and it's, it's no reason at all for us having a blind, unswerving respect and honor through the receptacle of that union, just because it happened. Now, to show you how accidental this union of the ovum and the sperm happened to be, if you take all the ova of all that, that were developed into all the people that ever lived in the world, you could put them in a gallon can, in one gallon can. And if you take all the sperm cells that developed into all the men and women that ever lived, it wouldn't fill a half a jigger of whiskey glass. Yet, to the accidental nature of this connection, or this accident, of a sperm getting fertilized, we were taught from childhood up that the unpardonable sin is to ever doubt the words that mother knows best. I'm a trained psychologist, and yet, in preparing this speech, I feel guilty in presenting to you the very facts that I'm going to have to speak on. I feel like a traitor. I feel like a traitor to the mother who bore me. And I know that I will heap upon my head the approbation of those who are still bound by the silver cord and whose knockus, I hope I pronounced that right, or loyalty has been unfaltering. You know, ever since Philip Wiley labeled the cult of mother adoration as momism, there has been a great deal of controversy about the subject. Anyone who agrees with Wiley's major premise is classified as a hysterical, treasurist, un-American, ungrateful, attackeder of our most sacred possession or memory. and then they say it with that very tremulous voice, mother. Now, I first became interested in the subject in making a study of case histories of 1,016 returned overseas veterans during the last war who were psychoneurotic. and I found that 90% of those cases were excessively attached to their mothers to the exclusion of anyone else. Since that time, I found in a significant majority of male neurotics under the age of 30, the same fact seems to be true. Now, having had a scientific training, I was naturally interested in ascertaining the facts. And what I have to say, as Professor Fairchild said here tonight, has nothing to do with my own personal feelings in the matter, but a resume of the things that I have learned. and they are not true about all mothers and all of them are not true about any one mother, but they are true about some mothers and many too many, not for something to be done about them. Now, Gore, the English sociologist, he had a recent book, a very interesting book, by the way, called The American People. And he makes the statement that the clinging mother is the greatest emotional menace to American psychological life. doctor strecker says that the American mother is the main and sufficient cause of nervous breakdown or psychoneurosis among the recruits for the American army. Now, part of the reason for this is shown in Margaret Mead's book, Male and Female, where she says the boy is trained by women to be a male. And she says that this involves no identification of the self with the mother teacher, but that it's sort of this sort of thing, that the boy is to be a boy. In other words, he is to be doing the thing mother says he's to do, but he's to do them in a manly way. Freud has given us numerous examples of mother love in action. And he claims it traces itself to an incestuous perversion of a rather normal instinct, but most Americans, when they're told about it, do not benefit at all. Freud's statement, because they are very indignant, and say that they can even prove that they never slept with their mother, and miss the point altogether. I disagree with Meade in her statement that the boy does not identify with the mother. The boy does. The male child always identifies with the strongest member of the family, the strongest person in the family. And practically every American man that I have ever known, and especially those that I have worked with as a therapist, has a feminine component in his personality, a feminine conscience, his encapsulated mother. And he also has a little bit of hidden doubt about his own masculinity. And any person, or any situation, which brings this question up, or questions that, is seen as a dangerous threat to that man's integrity, and often reacted to very violently. Now, the mother's constant pushing of the male child toward doing things, even beyond his own limits, is very apt to result in passivity on the part of the male child. Gore also says that an American man have a deep ambivalence towards women as an inevitable result of their childhood and of their upbringing by women. Women are in childhood not only the sources of love and reward to children, but they're also the sources of pain and punishment. And he says that most children in America love and hate and reliance and fear become terribly mixed up. Now, the fact that rules for moral conduct are felt to emanate from a feminine source is a source of confusion to most American men. They tend to resent such interference with their own behavior, and yet they're unable to ignore it since the insistent maternal conscience is just as much a part of their personality as anything else. And this frequently leads them into rather contradictory behavior and is a major source of bewilderment which most non-Americans feel when they're confronted with American men. And what else can you expect? Let's look at the situation. Most boys reach and pass adolescence under undiluted feminine tutelage. Absolutely. And their conduct has been regulated by female norms, praise and blame. and their ratings in the competitive world of childhood have been almost all given by women, either the mother or the teacher or some other woman. So it's small wonder that their conscience should become a predominantly female conscience in our American men. Now, Erickson says in his childhood and society, mom is a composite image of traits, none of which are present all at once in one single woman. women. It's like when you take a composite photograph. If we took a composite photograph of every woman in this hall tonight and put them all into one photograph, we'd have a woman's face when we got through. And she would have part of every one of the women here in the audience as part of that face. And yet it would be the face of none of you, and yet it would be the face of all of you. It's something of the same thing. This picture of mom that he describes is not necessarily ever found in one woman, but some of it might be yours, contribution to momism, some might be somebody else's. And here's what he says. He summarized the demands that mom makes on her children. And he says also that no woman aspires to be a mom, and yet she finds that her experience sort of converges on a gestalt as if she was sort of a force to assume this role of being a mom. And he's just summarized the demands that mom makes on her children. I hope none of you have made these demands on your children, and I hope none of you have recognized any of these as having happened to you. One, mom is the unquestioned authority in the matters of mores and morals in her home, and through clubs in the community. And yet she permits herself to remain vain in her appearance, egotistical in her demands, and infantile in her emotions. Two, in any situation in which this discrepancy clashes with the respect which she demands from her children, she never blames herself. She blames the children. her. Three, she thus artificially maintains the discontinuity between the child's and the adult's status, without endowing this differentiation with a higher meaning emanating from superior example. Four, she shows a determined hostility to any free expression of the most naive forms of sensual and sexual pleasure on the part of her children, and she makes it clear enough that the father, when he's sexually demanding, is a bore. yet as she grows older, she's unwilling to sacrifice such external signs of sexual competition as two youthful dresses, frills of exhibitionism and makeup, and in addition, she's avidly addicted to sexual display in books, the new novels, movies, and last but not least, gossip. Five, she teaches self-restraint and self-control, but she's unable to restrict her intake of calories in order to remain within the bounds of the dresses that she does like, unless don't even mention her emotional outbursts. Six, she expects her children to be hard on themselves, but she is hypochondriacly concerned with her own well-being, with every little ache and every little pain. She stands for the superior values of tradition, but she doesn't want to become old like the tradition she stands for. In fact, she's mortally afraid of that status, which in the past was the fruit of a rich life, the status of a grandmother. Mom is a woman whose remnants of infantality join her advanced senility and thus crowd out the whole middle range of mature womanhood. woman. If she's a mom, she becomes stagnant and self-absorbed. She mistrusts her own feelings both as a woman and as a mother. Even her over-concern does not provide trust. It only makes for mistrust. but let it be said that this mom is not happy. She doesn't like herself. She is be ridden by anxiety that her life was fruitless and that her children do not love her in spite of Mother's Day and all. She's worried about it. Mom is a victim, not a victor. Some of these things may apply to you. None of them apply to all mothers, and I hope very much that none of them apply to you. But the problems, if any one of them applies to you, in your relationship with your children, in the thing that you're trying to do with your children, or have done with your children, it's a threat to your child and his future. How? In the first place, any child whose mother is a mom, in any of these things that we've been talking about, is very apt to become a very neurotic young adult. Two, the prevalence of homosexuality, raging in, that has been shown in the Kinsey Report, and that I found in the people that I've worked with, especially those in the military, when I was in the military, is a direct result of momism. There's a great controversy raging in the newspapers today about sending our 18-year-old babies to be trained for the war, whether they can survive military training or not. women who are filled with panicky letters of mothers who show their attitude and their contribution. the increasing divorce rate in America and the breakdown of the American family is principally because the individuals involved have been so catered to by their mothers that neither party really contribute to the establishment of a home. home. Then again, the husband's mom and the wife's mom seem to wage a determined campaign of who's going to control the children's home, even if it means to destroy them. You can always come home to mother. They both say it, both to the son and the daughter. I've had case after case of it. six, if you're uncomfortably plump or just plain obese, nine chances out of ten, it's not glandular, but because you take in more calories than you need to use up. And this habit probably stems from mom being good to you by stuffing you with food to show herself that she is a good mom. When she gave that piece of bread and jam to you as a child to quiet your tears, she was starting you on the habit of eating every time you get frustrated in some other thing or unhappy. Now the problem is what can be done about preventing you mothers or you who are going to be mothers from being moms to your child. By the way, you men in the audience don't look so smug. it's your fault too. How much time have you left spent with your sons lately? Oh, I know the answers. Oh, yes. You get home late, mom sent her to bed, sent her to bed, or turning the child against you, or, or, uh, any of those things. I know, you're tired when you get home. But if you want your son to be a man, I advise you to do something about it and do something about it quick. I can't go into your part of the process tonight, but I understand that Professor Fairchild is considering whether the subject of men might be interesting enough to be a topic of a series of lectures like women. Um. All right, mamas, it's your turn. We're not going to get personal tonight. No. You, as American mothers, are always more or less anxious from the moment your baby is born. You're anxious lest you make a mistake, or forget part of the prescribed routine, or worse, yes, that you have too rigid a life for the child. You're anxious that the baby might not be responding properly. Gassell and Spock, they're your Bible. And woe be to the child that doesn't sit up, roll over, and bark when Spock or Gassell says he should. At the very age that's prescribed for that action. If he doesn't, then the anxiety really becomes acute. Usually, in most of you, you do not let your anxiety show on the surface, but these anxieties are sort of transformed into a new set of psychological symptoms, which are technically known as compulsions. And woe be to the husband or anyone else who gets in the way of those compulsions. One of these compulsions is this one that the anxious compulsive mother attaches to the baby's eating. The anxious mother frantically follows the baby's schedule or formula, or anxiously await the man feeding, whichever one happens to be in style this year. She shows great distress if by any chance the infant does not absorb the proper amount of nourishment which the system has allocated to a size or an age. How many of you have seen a mother take hours forcing down the prescribed amount of baby food to a poor child? And especially food the child doesn't seem to want. Well, it reminds me of the forced feeding of a Strasburg goose for the patifoi gras manufacturers. This compulsion about food, of course, is carried over even to the area of reward and punishment. Physical punishment for small children is generally disapproved. good conduct is rewarded by giving greater quantities of food of the kind that children are supposed to prefer. And bad conduct is punished by withholding the dessert or giving less or even being sent to bed without your supper. A silly thing to do. Some foods even become a sign of love and approval and as such take on added symbolic importance. And other foods are treated by mothers as if they had some magical qualities. In other words, how do you expect to become big and strong if you don't eat your spinach and drink your milk? And while we're on the subject of milk, I sometimes wonder if our American love for it and the great emphasis on breasts and the illustrations of our magazines and advertisements as well as the great emphasis on falsies and bras doesn't stem from this very source of bombism again. Now for our sex training of our children, what can be worse than a little child discovering it has genitals and handling them? Many a hand has been slapped and much adult maladjustment has been started, especially in sexual areas, by mother's admonition. Oh, that's dirty. Good little boys don't do that. Things like this and then plus incestuous remarks, such as mama's little sweetheart. Didn't think of that being incestuous, did you? Or you love mama even if daddy don't. Don't you, darling? All of this adds to the strength of the silver cord and are a threat to the manliness, at least, of your male offspring and to the mental health of the girls. While with the return of the mother as the dominant parent, certain things are going to naturally follow. We talk about Oedipus complexes. Oedipus disappears. The child doesn't have to compete with the father. The father he was competing with has become a punching bag and a clown. He doesn't have to compete with his father for his mother's love because the child already has it rather than the father. father. But the trouble with this is that the moms of this world forget St. Paul's statement. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. And I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. This statement would be fine if we ever allowed our man, or our so-called man maybe, today, if we as men were not still lingering in the early morning twilight of infantilism. We never outgrow our childish terrors and impulses completely because we're never let outgrow them since our tender loving mother is always there to lean on. The man who is unduly influenced by his mother retains all his life in uncritical faith in the barren logic and the inherited reason which he heredeth as a child without once questioning whether any of this infantile magic has any relation whatsoever to the world of experience. We're nourished on dogmas and we're disciplined in a dutiful reverence and respect for authority. And our minds remain that of obedient children. And we never escape from the specter of self-interest that's disguised so many times as mother love. The man who had a mom develops a mind which discourages an impartial scrutiny of the traditions of the past. He believes blindly that whoever attempts to upset tradition that mom has taught him is in danger not only of hellfire but a failure which in America I think is generally thought more serious. Even the tenderest inspection of the foundations of the tradition such as momism and mother knows best is likely to precipitate a total collapse of this false matriarchal superstructure. It's built upon nothing humanly ascertainable. These essentially baseless traditions are superstitious folklore or feminine self-interest and they tremble at the slightest touch. They not only tremble but they're apt to go into an emotional barrage at the son who dares to doubt or test the validity of such beliefs. The mothers who are moms want our minds squeezed into straight jackets of the same size and cut or what is ultimately the same thing. They want to make louts out of us all and prank us up out as man-sized children. Because the truth that mother knows best and by decree everlasting we're compelled to assent to this dogma and although we might not be burned at the stake for not accepting this dogma or pulled apart on the rack we go through the verbal counterparts of it for our own everlasting good and for the greater glory of supposedly eternal truth. We no longer follow the commandment when mom takes over of honor thy father and mother but we must humbly and reverently be reverently obedient in honoring our mom whether it's in thinking her cooking is the best in the world or that somehow by childbirth in spite of her lack of experience, education, or wisdom she is always right. Among my cases I have three adults brothers and sisters whose mother demanded and got in a way the utmost respect and honor. Their neuroses are all traced to this mother and this is one of the things she used to do for her amusement. She used to read the most gruesome murder stories that she could find in the newspaper and there's one that she used to like to repeat. This one was the one about the mother who had four children and she had more than four but and she took first one down the basement and used a bushy knife. She took the second one down the basement two children dead. She took the third one down the basement the fourth one she shot to change it. But anyway after the mother would tell this story to them these were little children. She would say wasn't the mother justified in taking them out of this world especially if they weren't good children. Now I want you to be good children. I want you to always obey me. Will you always obey me? They'd say yes. Then she'd say Johnny I want you to run down cellar. And then she would laugh. Her children feared her and they feel guilty even today because they do not honor and respect her. And there are some of them in their late 30s. I have another case where the mother would give the child severe beating each weekend so that he would not be spoiled. And today she wonders why her grown son doesn't come back and visit her very often. I have another mother who gets extremely ill every time her son goes away from home for a day or two or overnight. Then I have another case of a mother who tries to look very young and very beautiful. And she's constantly telling her daughter how sorry she the girl is so ugly and awkward. They're in the competitive stage now. I have another mother who so constantly depends on love and affection of her son he doesn't dare date or have other friends except his mother. Now these are not typical mothers. Thank goodness. But they are samples of the phenomena that occur much too often for the mental health of our nation this phenomena of momism. I've had innumerable women patients who have been unable to adjust sexually to their husbands because mother has insidiously taught them what beast men are and how repulsive and dirty the sexual act is. I have men patients who are impotent and whose impotency can be traced to mother's teaching and disapproval of the penis. She called it his private and it was so private that he couldn't even touch it. or their respect for womanhood was so great that they cannot bring themselves to commit such a filthy act as intercourse with one of them. I've seen innumerable marriages break up or be on the brink of breaking up. Why? Because of mom's attitude about it. Now these are just a few of the symptoms of momism. And if you will examine your own behavior and if you find that you're doing some of those things with your children then too you're weighing down your child with the impossibility of ever loving anyone but mother. And the load of being always mother's little boy is far greater and just as clean as the old man of the sea was to Sinbad. Never lose sight of the fact that your sons and daughters should become independent human adults and that they never can become emotionally mature adults if you never let them free. If you are emotionally starved yourself don't devour your young. It is much better for your children and my children to learn by their mistakes and learn to think for themselves than have you or me or anyone else think for them. Don't make them feel guilty if they don't have your stamp of approval on everything from their clothes to their wives. In other words don't be a mom. And you know you will have no need for fear if you earn honor and respect from your children rather than expect it. You won't be starved for love if they remember that you do have a husband to love and do it. And if you don't have a husband don't seek all the needs for love from your child or from your children. And you will find also that you will have much more ideal relationships with your adult children and their families if you would avoid interfering in their home as strongly as you would prevent someone trying to interfere in yours. So take stock of yourself. Every one of us is so apt to say well those other people aren't they awful. But we all have perhaps something like it or something worse in our own lives. Take stock of yourself. And remember if you're not getting along with your children or if they're grown you're not getting along with them and their families. And if you're not receiving the love and respect that you feel you deserve or if your children still live in your home and they should have homes of their own remember then there is something wrong with you and please don't try to blame it on anyone else. If you are unable to do anything about yourself in these things then get help. Any good psychologist listed by the American Psychological Association or psychiatrist listed by the American Psychiatric Association or the state directory can help you if you want help. it doesn't pay to be unhappy and miserable because you got in the habit or it doesn't pay to be a possessive and demanding mother and probably a poor wife. And the few dollars that you spend for psychological health will be the greatest investment for happiness in the future and in the present that you've ever made. Now remember the successful mother is the one who teach her nestlings to fly not to escape her but to live fine independent lives because of her. The good mother is the one who can tell her children about human sexual relationships without the birds and bees and all the rest of that stuff and without filling them with the idea that it is repulsive and dirty and unspeakable. And the loving mother is the one who loves her children enough not to let their love for her interfere or overshadow their love for others. and the sane mother is the one who is wise enough not to use emotional tricks such as illnesses heart attacks aching backs and tears to hold her child. Momism is an insidious disease. It's an infection of our culture and I hope that each one of you from this day forth that the very first sign or symptom of it if it comes up just like you would fight this influenza or flu that came up in your cell would either get rid of it or get help getting rid of it for your work is great and your responsibility is heavy. You must do the job well. As Walt Whitman once said Mother bend down bend down close to me your face I know not what these plots and wars and deferments are for I know not fruition success but I know that through war and crime your work goes on and must yet go on yes your work must go on but for the sake of your children and for the sake of your own happiness and for the sake of the world let your work go on as a real intelligent mother and not a mom I thank you. thank you very much Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower we'll now have our question period I have paper and pencil here and the microphone for those who would like to ask their question directly thank you all right ladies and gentlemen ladies and gentlemen thank you very much Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower for that very interesting and very provocative talk if I might say very provocative talk we have a lot of questions here some of these doctor you might like to take a whole hour to answer I know how you feel I think I do he's now sitting down folks so we're going to go just as fast as we can and ladies and gentlemen if I don't get to you personally please don't be angry at your chairman all right doctor and you're a very patient lady here very nervous how did you guess excuse me she can't wait another minute that's why we're starting you stress the issue of momism as being more prevalent in the American motherhood would you please mention briefly the difference between momism in a country like Europe and momism in America well the countries excuse me did you all hear that what's the difference between momism in Europe and momism in the United States they have something else in Europe that takes the place of momism over there and causes the same sort of conflict and is this dead go ahead the same sort of conflict and that is the stern European father the arbitrary unyielding father in Europe generally takes the place and causes more or less it's a different type of conflict but a conflict in the European and you'll find that in so many of the European psychiatric or psychological books and when the father came to when they migrated to America the father sort of lost his power mother the youngsters went to school and they were under feminine teachers and they were taught to be good Americans and do things the American way well mother she didn't care she didn't know and father would tell them and they'd say well father you're old fashioned so he sort of got put in the background and mom took the foreground because she still fed and clothed them and nursed them when they were sick and that sort of thing and that's how it developed in the first place thank you doctor what is the validity of children leaving the homestead by the age of 18 or 19 to live alone to mature emotionally I think to learn independence wait just a second doctor assuming that the finances are adequate what do you think of it well I think it's going to be quite legal even if it's not valid very soon for one sex to leave home at 18 or 18 and a half in the draft and I think that's one good thing about it if any I think it will be a good thing I don't think I don't like to see anybody sent off to war I didn't like to go to war myself when I went and I know what it is but I do think it's a good thing for the boys to have the experience to have the military training and to be away from home and I think many times it would be good for both if they've been raised up to be independent thinkers by that time well thank you doctor now this lady has waited a whole week for this question she tried she tried last time and I made her wait to this week so here we go you've spoken a good deal about the effect of momism on boys now my question is if a girl feels that she has never succeeded in winning the love of her mother because she could not live up to her mother's expectations will the girl go on seeking the mother's love in her own adult life and if so what forms might it take yes I'm sorry that I gave that impression I tried to put girls in there every once in a while I told the girl that was in competition with her or that the mother was in competition with her pretty daughter for one but you generally speak as it's a little hard to speak always in both sexes because it's very parallel and momism is just as harmful to a daughter as as to a son and of course when you're talking about the rejection of the daughter by the mom by the mother that's something else again and there's another problem not a problem of momism but momism is just as harmful to the girl child as it is to the boy child and I didn't mean to show any preference the principal thing I want to know is whether the girl will go on seeking that love after the girl herself is adult I mean in some subconscious way perhaps if the boy doesn't have the love of his father he's very apt to go out and seek the love of a man and the same thing is true lots of times for the girls who don't feel that they have any love for their mother or their mother's love they identify themselves and seek the love of another woman they seek their love for who they do have the love with sometimes yes that is true many many times not all cases you can't answer any of these things for every case but many times that is true doctor thank you there are many questions here about popism you seem you seem to have been on the subject here I wondered if you cared to enlarge a little bit about it one question goes well what about pops popism have an effect on daughters you've been speaking of that you mentioned mom giving her authority back to pop won't that affect more popism would you like to could you mention a word about that or not well I think after all a home should be a partnership not a one ring circus with just one person cracking the whip in it whether it's mother or father and if it's a partnership the partnership ought to include part of not only earning the living and see that they have a nice home the two of them work together in that but I think they ought to certainly work together in raising the children and I think that's the ideal we have mothers and fathers for that purpose thank you doctor and your question young lady doctor um doctor Wentworth-Ror excuse me you're not a young lady doctor are you I wanted to ask a question which is sort of controversial I want to ask according to your experiences and the statistics you might have what are the chances for a girl who's had a normal happy home life to marry a boy who's lived with a terrific mom well the chances are that uh if she's a good catch his mom will help arrange it so he does marry her but the chances after that is that she if you mean the chances are to marry only the boy or to marry the boy and his mom no I'm not talking about mom I'm talking about uh what are the chances for the two young people as far as their marriage goes oh I think I think uh uh most moms want their boys to get married a lot of them unless they're the ones that are so uh completely tied up and don't have any I mean they don't have a husband or anything else and want to maintain one of them in the home but I think most of them want to get married because that extends their realm of authority over into their grandchildren and things start all over again thank you thank you thank you your pleasure uh psychologists maintain that children need love so as to have emotional security and not be failures in life now do you think that a child is better off however without any love than the wrong kind of love are children better off let's say in institutions who have no who have no I don't think there's a wrong kind of love I don't think this self-indulgence that a lot of moms pour on to their children is love at all I think love is considerate of the welfare of the other person whether you're loving a girl or a child or your dog uh you're considerate of it uh above your own self and uh I don't consider momism is really a love I think it's a selfish self-interest and uh I got a very interesting airmail letter today from a former student of mine who's now on a collective farm in Israel and they're having that same problem on this particular collective with the children whether they're who's going to sleep with them or whatnot no I say the child is better off with love always if it's love yes all right doctor thank you how might the father take control of the family situation after being so used to allowing mother to run the home we're getting practical now uh I think that's very impractical uh I think it'd be just as bad to have father take control of the situation as it is to have anyone else take control as I say I think it should be a partnership and if mother and father are both here and your husband hasn't been doing his end let it come from him don't you say well now see that's I told you you ought to be a better father because then you're still running the show and uh if uh you're a husband and doing too much trying to control the family well let down try to make it a partnership your children will feel much more secure and I think will be much happier and I'm gonna have to get up early in the morning doctor yes sir you spoke of momism as being an infection of the culture the implication being that it had come from without the culture now I wonder whether it really isn't a product of the culture which emphasizes to young women and young girls as they grow up that the important thing is that they look right that they say the right things that they act in the right way don't you think that an emphasis on all these false values keeps young girls from growing up into genuine people and thereby keeps them from being genuine mothers well if you're popular I'm gonna be unpopular I think it's an infection because I do think it came from without the culture I think it is a result of the thing I said a while ago the decline of the father because of immigration I think I would be proud of my mother or sister or sweetheart or daughter to look nice and that sort of thing I'd be just as proud as if the men I think we'd have a lot better looking world and a lot better world if the men took as much or even a little bit more than they do now in their appearance and that sort of thing I think you would lose less wives that way too but I do think that momism is a thing that has grown up as a result of our immigrants and the building of America that way and I think these other things if they're undesirable are symptoms of momism rather than symptoms of the infection rather than the cause of it alright doctor could you mention any sociological patterns peculiar to the American culture I guess you have yes and by the way a good source book on that is this book the American people by Gore which is a study of that alright then we'll come to you sir how can an individual detect whether or not he or she has been a victim of momism and if he has what treatment do you recommend well well I suppose if you don't know it doesn't matter but I think you can detect it a great deal in the attitude towards other people in your social group towards you and your attitude towards them in your social interaction in the world of your contemporaries it would be one of the best tests of it thank you young lady Dr. Rohr don't you think that especially today much of the excessive demand for respect and the need for clinging on the part of moms is due to the notion that woman's place is in the home that her real work is taking care of home husband and children and that more than a psychiatrist what she really needs is some other channels apart from family life and to which to employ her mind and I don't mean mere women's clubs nor dilettantish hobbies but a real work in life in which she would be genuinely interested come to Copa Union I know an awful lot of women that are worked to death in their three room apartment with a maid only half a day and I know others who I've seen others who have helped harvest and plant the crops and raise a family of 10 and 12 children out in the middle west where I come from but here's the thing I think it's according to what the home situation is if the home and a child needs taken care of I think that's the mother's place to be or if she wants if she has other interests that she has to take care of and wants to take care of then I think it should be provided that the child should be taken care of but I don't think you can say every woman's place as a home more than you can say every man should be a psychologist and make speeches at Cooper Union why not? doctor granted that man is a breadwinner and he must spend most of the time out of the home what can he possibly do to alleviate the influence of the mother on the child you've been talking with the fringe of this for quite a while a lot of questions about that doctor well one thing I think is that our hours of work and the hours of the child's daylight or being up are sometimes too closely correlated I would certainly try if that was the case if the child didn't if I was a mother I would say if the child didn't get a chance to really see its father and that sort of thing the father wanted to do something about it I'd see that the child had a nap or something so he could be up a little later or I think it would be a lot better for him to be up a little later and give the chance for the father to grow up with the child and the child to grow up with the father I think that's the first thing to do is to pay some attention to it to be interested in what it's doing on Saturdays and Sundays instead of saying get away little boy you bother me like W.C. Fields did to take interest in what the little boy is doing and also to follow the very primitive custom of helping the little boy start doing some of the things that you're doing and fashioning and working with alright thank you any questions? is psychiatric or psychological help I'm talking particularly of places outside of New York available to low income families? I think so I certainly know that I've never turned anyone away because they were too poor everyone's had to pay something because I found out in my practice for instance that people who don't pay anything they don't bother to call up when they don't keep an appointment because well we're not paying anything for it and you sit there waiting for them the people who pay they always call up so they get credit for it they don't bother to do what you tell them to do so why it's free anyway it don't make any difference but I think practically every practice of every psychologist or every psychiatrist that I know has many many people among these clients who are paying very much less than other people because of their income we don't quite like that we can charge them more that really isn't telling me anything because they pay less than others I mean say for instance is it approximately the same as the ordinary medical care would be I have very I can't say because it's like saying is her operation going to cost the same as her operation well she may have a toenail removed and she may have the whole plumbing reorganized doctor doctor I think I think I think the young lady was getting at the idea that there's a nasty rumor out in my mind in the public mind that sometimes psychologists charge something like twenty thirty dollars an hour there's that rumor out whereas the average medical man he'd go to him for five dollars or eight dollars depending on for how many minutes well twenty minutes it depends on how sick you are you know whether it's plumbing job or what well I think you can get all price things and generally on ours when it's someone that's on a budget or something like that we make them a flat rate per month and if we have to see them three times a week or four times a week that's just too bad it doesn't cost them anything extra just like the doctor makes a difference in his rates too yes if I come every Tuesday night I know your lectures have been a success here ladies and gentlemen the doctor is awfully tired this evening thank you very much as minha Nacht too go we can't miss let miss