We are speaking to you from an airplane high over New York State, where by special tape recording, your city station is bringing you an account of Operation Santa Claus. This is the last part of Santa's journey from the North Pole to New York, where he will start giving out his Christmas presence. Through the cooperation of the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund and Colonial Airlines, we have with us three young guests who represent New York children, young and old, in their greeting to Santa. I'm going to ask these boys and girls, Mickey Kivitesky, Gloria Godoy, and Harry Riviera, what they did to win this trip to Canada to meet Santa Claus. Supposing we start with you, Harry. Well, uh, well, at first I, uh, oh, I just wrote down an essay of what I did my two weeks at camp, and I told the things I did, like, uh, I learned to cook and everything I learned over there, and the first thing was pretty good. This was at the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund camp, is that right? Right. And I went to Pioneer Camp. And what did you like best about camp? Well, it's the way we live, and it's just like a pioneer. No flying, though? No. How about you, Gloria? What did you do to win this trip to Canada to meet Santa Claus? Well, I went, the lady took me up to little old, old forge, and we had plenty of fun up there because the two nieces were up there, and me and her got, and we had a lot of fun. Then we went to, up to her mother's house. She gave me a ski pants and everything. We had plenty of fun up there. We lived by a farm. We went up to the farm. We had play, we went up to the haystack. We played in the weed, and I guess that I had a lot of fun up there. I, um, I went back when my mother was sick, and she took me back there. She took me back, and me and my sister went. Then she was kind enough to take us, and then when, when my mother got out of the hospital, she, my mother sent for us. And so I guess my mother, uh, I wrote that down, and that's how I won the essays. Well, thank you very much, Gloria. And how about you, Mickey? Well, in New York, I, uh, was picked as a good sportsmanship for doing everything at Jones, like, uh, basketball, baseball, all them sports. And, uh, they asked me if I wanted to take a trip to, uh, a boat in camp, and I said no. So, uh... Why did you say no? Because I don't like it there. You, you said you'd much rather stay in the city? Yes, that's right. And, uh, they, so they, uh, so this, um, this press agent, uh, Steve Hannigan, asked me if I wanted to take a trip out west. And I said, okay, if I can, uh, bring a friend. He said, okay, that's all right. So I brought my friend, Bobby Egan, and, uh, we had fun out there. We rode horses. Went to Sun Valley, Salt Lake City, Chicago, and, um, Las Vegas, Nevada. Is it anything like Canada? No. No snow, huh? No. All desert. All desert. Quite the opposite of what we see here now. Well, here we are at Montreal Airport in Canada, awaiting the arrival of Santa Claus. The flight was uneventful except for a few bumps. And now we're going to try to get, uh, some of the reactions of our passengers. We have before us Mickey Kivitiski, Gloria Godoy, and Harry Riviera. Is that right? Right. And, uh, suppose you, you tell us first, Gloria, how did you like the flight down on the airplane? I got kind of dizzy, but my ears hurted me when I was coming down. But it was all right except for a couple of bumps you get. Ah, you think it was kind of bumpy, huh? Yeah, but it was all right. It was the first time I ever was on a plane. Did you like it? Yes. Are you looking forward to seeing Santa Claus? Yes. You think he'll show up? I don't know. How about you, uh, Harry? Well, for the first time, it was pretty exciting, the trip. And, uh, well, it was kind of bumpy, and I didn't feel too good myself. Well, what did you find most interesting looking out of the plane window there? Well, the way the country looked, looked like little islands and all that. Like a dollhouse, would you say? Yeah, that, no, smaller than that. Smaller than a dollhouse. And now we come to Mickey Kivitiski, right? Yes, that's right. How'd you like your first plane flight? It was okay, except for a couple of bumps and everything. My ears hurt, while we went up and coming down. Well, you know we were up pretty high to get above those clouds. I know that. Uh, what did you like best about the flight? Well, the scenery and everything. The scenery? How about the clouds? Were you ever up above the clouds before? No. No. Are you looking forward to seeing Santa Claus if he shows up? I don't know. You don't know. Well, it's kind of cloudy out here as we're looking through the window of Montreal airport. And, uh, we don't know whether the weather has held Santa up or not. We hope he'll put in an appearance. He's due along any minute now. Uh, in the meantime, well, I'd like to ask you one more question. Um, since we are waiting for Santa Claus, we don't know whether he'll show up or not. Um, let's assume that he does show up. What do you think you'd say if you saw him right now? Oh, I'd say hello, Santa. How's the weather up in the North Pole? You remember that, Harry. And what would you say, Gloria, if you saw Santa Claus right now? I wouldn't know what to say. You wouldn't? Would you ask him for anything? I would. For one thing? And what would you say if you saw Santa Claus? He's right over there. What did you say? I said he's right over there. Well, here he is. I'm Santa Claus. Why, of course, didn't you know? Couldn't you tell? We certainly should know, by the way you're dressed in that red costume, white beard and everything. Well, why, would you like to meet some of our guests? Why, I'd be very happy to. My, how fortunate. A nice big airport to land my sleigh and my reindeer on. Do you have any trouble getting through the air? Oh, not too much trouble. It's a lovely day today. Well, Gloria says it was a little bumpy on the way down from New York. Really? Yes. What you do, fly up here? Well. Just to meet you. Well, that's wonderful. Sort of meet me halfway. Well, that's wonderful. Would you like to put your pack down, Santa? Yes, I think so. Oh, a little heavy. Santa has a big pack with him and he's putting it down in front of our three guests. Uh, Santa, first, I'd like to have you meet Mickey Kivitiski of New York City. How are you? Well, Santa. I think you're more surprised than I am. I didn't expect to see you here today. I had plans of getting to see you Christmas Eve. Do you anticipate something special this year? No. No? Well, what do you particularly want? There's a last minute request. I'll see if I can fulfill it for you. That's a very nice piece of silence. I get that most of the time, too. Very unusual. Oh, there must be something you want. Well, while Mickey's thinking it over, suppose we meet our other guest Santa. Uh, this is Miss Gloria Godoy. Gloria, this is Santa Claus. Why, I'm charmed. Hello, dear. And what do you think you would like to have? Two things I want most. What is that, dear? A pair of ice skates and a bike. A pair of ice skates. As a matter of fact, something... I had a conversation that I got over my two-way radio this morning. I think you were discussing it with your mother and... Weren't you? I hope you were. Oh, it must have been early this morning because I was flying through the air. I think it was about 6.30 in the morning. You were saying to your mother you hoped to realize your ambition to get your ice skates this year. Is that right? I was. Oh, so you can't keep anything from Santa Claus, can you? I don't think so. Well, and here we have Harry Riviera. Hello, Santa. Hello, Harry. How's the weather up there in the North Pole? Oh, quite cold, you know. We have a nice representative of weather here. Look at that beautiful white snow out there. Reminds me of my home up there very much. Would you like to fly up to the North Pole sometime? Sure. I've got now. Oh, you're ready to go. Did you fly up here this morning too? Sure. How did you enjoy the trip? Half and half. Half and half? Half of the time you were asleep probably. That's right. That's the part you enjoyed. When you were awake, you were probably worried about your ear drums hurting or something like that. I did. Well, did you chew gum to get away the feeling? Well, I chewed some of it. Did you have some breakfast on the plane? I did. Very fine people on those colonial airlines, aren't they? They took good care of you? Well, that's great. Is there anything special that you want for Christmas? No. I'd like a doll for my sister. A doll? Well, I think we can even arrange that right now. Oh. And he has just given the doll to Harry Riviera. How do you like the doll, Harry? I think it's pretty nice. I think my sister will like it a lot. And now I think Santa has something for Gloria too. A very special doll for Gloria. It's a real beauty that Mrs. Steinerposs made with her own hands. Isn't that lovely? Thank you. You're very welcome, dear. Would you describe that for us, Gloria? It has a red, uh, it has a white dress, long, has a white cap, and it has flowers on it, and has a knitted blue jacket, and it's a solid doll. I think it's very nice. It has shoes on, doesn't it? It has stockings on, and little pink pants. It has everything. Uh, you like the doll? Yes, I like it very much. What are you going to name it? Gloria, you're gonna, as soon as you name the doll, you write, you did already? What is the name? Rose. Rose? Well, that's a pretty name. A very lovely name. I'm glad you christened it while I was present. Now I can tell Mrs. Claus about it. Uh, I just want to say something to you adults. I'm not only interested in children, you know. I sort of keep an eye on you, but I never get around to speaking to you. And some of the things I say don't please me too much all the time. You sort of lose the spirit that you have at Christmas time during the rest of the year. And now I'm going to ask you to really make me feel good. I'm going to ask you to all join me in singing a song, would you? For Santa? Let's all sing Jingle Bells. I'll start it too. I have a a flair for doing it. Don't shy away. Come on, let's all go. Ready? Come on. Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells, Jingle all the way. Oh, what fun it is to ride your one-horse open sleigh. Hey! Jingle Bells, Jingle Bells, Jingle all the way. Oh, what fun it is to ride your one-horse open sleigh. Well, that's wonderful. I enjoyed it. And please don't forget that you're really all my children. And think of that peace on earth and goodwill to men all year round, will you? Thank you very much. Well, I think that we've about exhausted our pack of tricks, Santa. Uh, but I think the boys and girls here... You know what I've decided to do? What? I've decided to fly back to New York with them. Would you like Santa to go back to New York with us? I guess so. I wish he would. How about you, Harry? Well, I hope so. I think you'll... I hope he does come with us. And Mickey, do you want Santa to go back with us? Sure. Okay, that makes it unanimous. But don't you think that if we do take Santa back with us, why we'll be keeping him from his job of taking toys and lots of other good things to lots of other people? It's not Christmas yet. That's right, I... I have several big toy warehouses in New York City that I have to see and look to to see that my elves are taking care of all my workshops down there. Well, that makes it unanimous. I guess we leave it up to Santa and Santa goes back to New York with us. Here we are back in New York at LaGuardia Airfield. On the return trip with Santa Claus, we made pretty good time. Credit for our favorable tailwind goes, of course, to Santa, for he called on his flying reindeer to give our colonial airlines more speed. Yeah. Mickey, Gloria, and Harry enjoyed the ride back and feasted on cookies, sandwiches, milk, and all of the trimmings of a festive Christmas lunch, which was served, by the way, by our charming hostess, Miss Hornsby, who old Santa took a real shine to. Other children on the plane chatted with Santa, and at an altitude of 9,000 feet, they whispered in Santa's ear their Christmas requests. And these ranged from bicycles to dolls. And Santa Claus, of course, promised everybody that they wouldn't be disappointed. Hey! Keep standing close, big hands! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh, everybody! Now, don't crowd me, don't push me. I forgot to give you a special little present. And I know you've... How have you been having... Have you been having a good time so far? Yes! Oh, yes-a-ree! Now, if you all hold your bags open... Here, there's one. And there's one. Now, as soon as you get it, move back and let the other children know. I have a little baby's bear. I got to want her to come over in a rush, please. All right, sweetie. One in here, and one in my bed. Yes, siree. And here we are. And here we are. And here we are. And here we are. Ah-ha. Ah, yes! Loads of presents! Thank you. You're all welcome. You're all very, very welcome. Here's a young lady. Well, and isn't she a lovely lady, too? Why don't you tell me your name, sweetheart? Joan. Joan what? Brown. Oh, what a charming name. Here you are, darling. Thank you. Well, well. Did you all have some wonderful hot chocolate over there? Yes! Yes, Santa! Oh, isn't it delicious? Yeah! Well, let me hear you all say yum yum! Yum yum! Yum yum! Oh, isn't that wonderful? Wonderful! It's too hot! It's too hot, though. It's too hot! Children, I all want you to know that come Christmas Eve, I'm going to sneak into your apartments. Come through the window, come through the door, down the chimney, with my great big pack full of toys, and I'm going to leave the most wonderful presents you ever did see. And in case you're not up to greet me, don't forget to leave a nice tall glass of milk and some cookies for me, will you? Yes! And until then, a Merry Christmas to you all! Yay! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! From LaGuardia Field, we have come to the Rotunda here at City Hall, where our Santa Claus Cavalcade is about to end with an official welcome from the Government of the City of New York. And here on hand, to welcome the many boys and girls who are waiting to see Santa Claus, is the President of the City Council, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere. And now the children are coming into City Hall, and they are gathering around the large, colorful Christmas tree, and it's all lighted up now, and the children are gazing in rapt attention at it. And now I think Santa Claus is about to come in. Children, I want you to meet a very wonderful, wonderful, wonderful man. This man has a lot to do with this wonderful city that you live in, and he is very, very fond of children. And he makes sure that whenever in his power he can do something for you children, he does so and sees that everybody who is connected with the City of New York does so. And now I would like to introduce the President of the City Council of New York, Vincent Impeletere. Let's give him a nice big hand. Santa, I was wondering whether the little girls that you meet up at the North Pole chew bubblegum, as well as the girls here in New York. Well, we have a particular kind of bubblegum. It's the frozen kind. It's a little, it takes two or three days before they get it soft enough to chew on, and then by the time they blow the bubbles, the bubbles freeze, and I have special balloons made out of them. Thanks, thanks very much, Santa. Now may I say, first of all, that the City is very, very proud of the program sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune, which is called the New York Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. We don't know of a single philanthropic purpose that satisfies the needs of the children of our city more than that role played by the New York Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. So may I, on behalf of the City, thank the New York Herald Tribune for sponsoring this excellent program and for bringing this children, these children, with their smiling faces to City Hall today. Thank you, Santa. Thank you, Santa. Thank you, Santa. Incidentally, Mr. Impinitieri, may I tell you one thing, that I always enjoy coming to the City of New York, and right now we're doing this wonderful broadcast over the city's own station, WNYC. And I must tell you that two of the staff of WNYC flew up to Montreal this morning, a Mr. Edel and a Mr. Rosa, with three children who were selected by the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. And I met them there on my way down from the North Pole, and I had the pleasure of flying down with the three children and the two men of the staff of WNYC on a colonial airline, and we were met at the airport by some of the finest policemen that New York City boasts of, and they had part of the glee club out there. And we had a wonderful time singing. And then through the courtesy of the City of New York and its excellent police department, we made wonderful time getting down here to the City Hall to visit with you. And now, let's all wish Mr. Impinitieri a very Merry Christmas. All together, Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Amazing. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Adele for Christmas. I'd say adesso, we're made may SW ample hope to see the Maddie all day to Mrs. апут под приютive to laddie... All the way, oh what fun it is to ride your one horse open sleigh. Hey! Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle. Oh what fun it is to ride your one horse open sleigh. Well that's wonderful. I enjoyed it. And please don't forget that you're really all my children. And think of that peace on earth and goodwill to men all year round, will you? Thank you very much. Well I think that we've about exhausted our pack of tricks, Santa. Ah, but I think the boys and girls here... You know what I've decided to do? What? I've decided to fly back to New York with them. Would you like Santa to go back to New York with her? I guess so. I wish he would. How about you, Harry? Well I hope so. I think you'll... I hope he does come with us. And Mickey, do you want Santa to go back with us? Sure. Okay, that makes it unanimous. But don't you think that if we do take Santa back with us, why we'll be keeping him from his job of taking toys and lots of other good things to lots of other people? It's not Christmas yet. That's right, I... I have several big toy warehouses in New York City that I have to see and look to to see that my elves are taking care of all my workshops down there. Well that makes it unanimous. I guess we'll leave it up to Santa and Santa goes back to New York with us. Here we are back in New York at LaGuardia Airfield. On the return trip with Santa Claus we made pretty good time. Credit for our favorable tailwind goes of course to Santa, where he called on his flying reindeer to give our colonial airlines more speed. Mickey, Gloria and Harry enjoyed the ride back and feasted on cookies, sandwiches, milk and all of the trimmings of a festive Christmas lunch, which was served by the way by our charming hostess Miss Hornspeak, who old Santa took a real shine to. Other children on the plane chatted with Santa and at an altitude of 9,000 feet they whispered in Santa's ear their Christmas requests. And these ranged from bicycles to dolls. And Santa Claus of course promised everybody that they wouldn't be disappointed. Hey Lucão! Hey! Hey, give Santa Claus a big hand! Hey! Everybody! Now, don't crowd me, don't push me. I forgot to give you a special little present. And I know you've... Have you been having a good time so far? Yes, sir! Oh, yes-siree. Now, if you all hold your pants open. Here, there's one. And there's one. Now, as soon as you get it, move back and let the other children know. I have a little baby's bear. I don't want her to come over in the rush, please. All right, sir. One in here, and one in my bed. Yes-siree. And here we are. And here we are. And here we are. Ah-ha. Ah, yes! Loads of presents! Thank you. You're all welcome. You're all very, very welcome. Daddy, here's a young lady. Well, and isn't she a lovely lady, too? Why don't you tell me your name, sweetheart? Joan. Joan what? Brown. Oh, what a charming name. Here you are, darling. Thank you. Well, well. Did you all have some wonderful hot chocolate over there? Yes! Yes, sir! Oh, isn't it delicious? Yeah! Well, let me hear you all say yum-yum! Yum-yum! Oh, isn't that wonderful? Wonderful! Wonderful! Wonderful! It's too hot! It's too hot, though. It's too hot! It's too hot! Children, I all want you to know that come Christmas Eve, I'm going to sneak into your apartment, come through the window, come through the door, down the chimney, with my great big pack full of toys, and I'm going to leave the most wonderful presents you ever did see! And in case you're not up to greet me, don't forget to leave a nice tall glass of milk and some cookies for me, will you? Yeah! Yeah! And until then, a Merry Christmas to you all! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! From LaGuardia Field, we have come to the rotunda here at City Hall, where our Santa Claus cavalcade is about to end with an official welcome from the government of the city of New York, and here on hand, to welcome the many boys and girls who are waiting to see Santa Claus, is the president of the city council, the Honorable Vincent Pelletere. And now the children are coming into City Hall, and they are gathering around the large, colorful Christmas tree, and it's all lighted up now, and the children are gazing in rapt attention at it. And now I think Santa Claus is about to come in. Children, I want you to meet a very wonderful, wonderful, wonderful man. This man has a lot to do with this wonderful city that you live in, and he is very, very fond of children, and he makes sure that whenever in his power he can do something for you children, he does so and sees that everybody who is connected with the city of New York does so. And now I would like to introduce the president of the city council of New York, Vincent Pelletere. Let's give a nice hand. Santa, I was wondering whether the little girls that you meet up at the North Pole chew bubble gum, as well as the girls here in New York. Well, we have a particular kind of bubble gum. It's the frozen kind. It's a little, it takes two or three days before they get it soft enough to chew on, and then by the time they blow the bubbles, the bubbles freeze, and I have special balloons made out of them. Well, thanks, thanks very much, Santa. Now may I say, first of all, that the city is very, very proud of the program sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune, which is called the New York Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. I don't know of a single philanthropic purpose that satisfies the needs of the children of our city more than that role played by the New York Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. So may I, on behalf of the city, thank the New York Herald Tribune for sponsoring this excellent program and for bringing this children, these children, with their smiling faces to City Hall today. Thank you, Santa Austin. Incidentally, Mr. Imperatieri, may I tell you one thing, that I always enjoy coming to the city of New York, and right now we're doing this wonderful broadcast over the city's own station, WNYC, and I must tell you that two of the staff of WNYC flew up to Montreal this morning, a Mr. Edel and Mr. Rosa, with three children who were selected by the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund. And I met them there on my way down from the North Pole, and I had the pleasure of flying down with the three children and the two men of the staff of WNYC on a colonial airline, and we were met at the airport by some of the finest policemen that New York City boasts of, and they had part of the glee club out there, and we had a wonderful time singing. And then through the courtesy of the City of New York and its excellent police department, we made wonderful time getting down here to the City Hall to visit with you. And now, let's all wish Mr. and Pelletieri a very Merry Christmas, all together! Merry Christmas!