Good evening ladies and gentlemen from one of the most wonderful spots in the world, Borough Hall, Brooklyn. Gathered here in the boardroom, site of many special meetings to discuss and administrate measures affecting the citizens of this wonderful Borough of Brooklyn, our members of various civic organizations of Flatbush, the Chamber of Commerce, and well-known public officials as well as John Public. They are in Borough Hall to help celebrate the beginning of a special service in which the city officials take over the supplying of water to the residents of Flatbush. Before presenting our distinguished Borough President, Mr. John Cashmore, we'd like to tell you something about Flatbush and its water supply. Back in June 1881, a group of individuals formed a waterworks company to supply water to the town of Flatbush and its inhabitants. It was known as the Flatbush Water Works Company. A series of wells were driven in that area and from these wells came the water that has long served the people of Flatbush, especially since it was pure and wholesome at that time. But as Flatbush grew and demands on the company increased, there was more water pumped from the wells than was calculated upon and the water table sank and seawater began to infiltrate. This eventually caused the water to become harder and more saline in taste. The residents of Flatbush have complained for over 35 years of this water service. And when Mayor O'Dwyer took office, he promised to furnish city water to the Flatbush area and Mayor O'Dwyer did. Just three days ago, the order of acquisition was signed by Mr. Justice Charles E. Lockwood of the Supreme Court. And as this gathering holds forth here in Borough Hall, His Honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer is here in person to officially carry out that promise. But first, we'd like to present and introduce to you a man who needs no introduction in Brooklyn, the popular civic crusading president of the Borough of Brooklyn, Mr. John Cashmore. Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests and citizens of the greater city's greatest borough, the borough of Brooklyn. At last, we are able to celebrate the long-awaited arrival of city water in Flatbush. We call it city water because it is the same kind of water the rest of New York enjoys. As a matter of fact, this crystal clear liquid is brought down from upstate through hundreds of miles of mains and pipes. It is pure, it is wholesome, it tastes good. While this change benefits the residents of Flatbush area primarily, all of Brooklyn is affected by it and is happy about it. Flatbush has always been one of our finest residential neighborhoods. For more than 65 years, it has been supplied by a private company with water pumped from wells in the area. The trouble began as the section grew and the demand increased. The ground water became lower. Sea water filtered in and the supply became harder and saltier. Many of the wells had to be abandoned. New wells were sunk. But even these were insufficient to keep up with the needs of the community. It then became necessary for the city to sell large quantities of water to the company. Of course, this could not go on indefinitely. In spite of the aid furnished by the city, the company's well water, according to chemical tests, showed a saline content and hardness far above the maximum amount fixed by the United States Department of Health Standards. Not only was the drinking quality of the water affected, but the life of plumbing and heating systems were diminished and the consumers suffered other physical discomforts and economic disadvantages. Now that Flatbush will have pure, wholesome Catskill water instead of the hard, brackish kind, this section should develop and flourish even more than it has in the past. This vital change affects an area of nearly seven square miles, in which are almost 30,000 buildings and 400,000 people. The folks in Flatbush have been complaining about the quality of the water for many, many years. They have been supported in their requests by public officials and other civic-minded individuals. But it remained for Mayor O'Dwyer to fulfill the promises that have been made in the past. Mayor O'Dwyer took definite steps to give the relief so sorely needed. He ordered the institution of condemnation proceedings and pursuant to his instructions, the necessary property was acquired. General O'Dwyer has again proved that he understands the needs of his people and that he will brush aside all obstacles in order to satisfy those needs. We are all very happy that he was able to take a few minutes off from his many tasks to join us in celebration this evening. The cooperation received from him has always been excellent. I take great pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, in presenting to you his honor, the Mayor of the City of New York, Bill O'Dwyer. Mr. Cashmore, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to take part in this ceremony. Commissioner John Canella of the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity has already opened the new water connections. And I have been informed that the people of Flatbush are now receiving city water. No longer will our neighbors in this area of Brooklyn have to taste the hard, salty water which had plagued them for many years. In addition, hundreds of thousands of residents of this famous old Brooklyn section will now spend less for plumbing repairs and laundry bills, and like the rest of the citizens of our great city, will enjoy the benefits of the best water provided by any city in the world. At one time, the well water system was highly regarded. But with the development of our city, the central system of water supply was installed. Flatbush, until this week, received its supply of water from wells tapping the freshwater tables under Long Island. Seepage of salt water from the ocean over the years gave the local fresh well water supply a high mineral and salt content. Residents of Flatbush justly complained about the water furnished to them. Shortly after I assumed office, I promised that my administration would do everything within its power to provide the healthful and potable Catskill water to the people of Flatbush. Our efforts finally have succeeded. After all, there is no more vital need to a community than an adequate supply of pure, wholesome water. We were determined to satisfy that need. Just three days ago, last Friday, June the 27th, the Supreme Court signed the Order of Condemnation of the Old Plant and vested title in the city. However, we decided not to wait until the completion of this litigation, because to do so, we unquestionably would have been compelled to delay this ceremony. In anticipation of this day, the city installed the necessary valves and connections some months ago. That is why, with a minimum loss of time, Flatbush residents are now receiving our crystal clear mountain water. As mayor of the city of New York, I am delighted to participate with Borough President John Cashmore and other officials in this ceremony, marking the successful consummation of a civic program designed to improve the health and living conditions of our friends and neighbors in Flatbush. I am grateful to the residents of Flatbush for their patience and for their cooperation, and also wish to acknowledge publicly my appreciation of Mr. John Cashmore, and to all the members of the Board of Estimates, and to all the public officials and civic leaders who have helped to make this day possible. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's about a hundred in this room, but this is such an important occasion for our borough, but I feel that I can't let the opportunity go by without calling upon just one or two of the dozens of men and women who helped make this day a great success and a great chapter in our borough. And without further ado at this time, I would like to present to you, just for a minute or two, Assemblyman Erwin Steingart. Mr. Mayor, Borough President Cashmore, and the people of Flatbush, as well as those neighborhoods that are Jane Flatbush, I want to say this. There are a number of my colleagues here, Assemblyman Tashin, Assemblyman O'Dwyer, Assemblyman Banigan, Senator Greenberg, Mr. Nolan, the Democratic leader of the First Assembly District, Mr. Hesterberg, Mr. Carney, and Mr. Larmer, who comes from one of the adjourning districts, as well as Mr. Grawler, the Democratic leader of the 23rd. This is not a new fight for us. We've been carrying this fight on for 25 years, for 26 years that I remember in the legislature. And it was only after O'Dwyer, or Mayor O'Dwyer rather, came into office, that unto him and the Board President of Brooklyn, when they made the promise two years ago, it was a promise they intended to keep. And I kept telling the people of our community, if they'll only have the patience and the fortitude, we'll finally get rid of that hard water, and on July 1, tomorrow, all of us will be able to bathe and drink and wash our clothes in the water we've been longing for. And to you, Mr. Mayor, and to you, Mr. President, I want to say that we, or the people of Flatbush, offer our most grateful thanks, because you don't know what you've done for the people of our community. You've made it possible for them to even forget about their vacation. They can stay home now and bathe in that Flatbush water. There's another young gentleman up here tonight, who five years ago introduced the first bill in the legislature. He's an intense Flatbushite. He's your Assemblyman. He deserves a great deal of credit, because when he was told it was impossible, he then only fought harder. May I present to you, Assemblyman Thomas Dwyer. Mayor O'Dwyer, President Cashmore, distinguished guests and folks, there are others to be congratulated here today, and those are the long-suffering people who had to put up with that water for so many, many years. Today, of course, you congratulate yourselves every time you turn on the tap. I maintain that perhaps it was your voices and your persistence that, after all, was the basis of this thing coming to fruition today, because if you folks were not so intensely interested in it, and if it didn't affect you in your everyday lives, in your homes, every minute of those days, this thing couldn't possibly have happened. We had to have the encouragement of the folks who were suffering from the Flatbush water in order to keep on, to continue on, the fight, the fight, which, as the Borough President said, has come to such a glorious conclusion today. He also mentioned that without the cooperation, and this was, of course, the vital spark, the cooperation of Mayor O'Dwyer after the inactivity of the past administrations for so many years, again, we wouldn't have realized this dream. So it was something threefold. First of all, you folks who had to endure it, those of us who worked hard for it for a long time, and then the man who actually gave it to us, Bill O'Dwyer. There are many people here to celebrate with us today, people from all walks of life. Some are just your neighbors, and others are famous. We're going to hear from Attorney General Tom Clark, Rear Admiral Swanson, and the distinguished ABC commentator Drew Pearson. But before we turn the microphone over to these people, we also pay tribute to some of the men who have made this whole project a reality. The chairman of this occasion, Irving Geist of New York City, already holds a presidential citation for service he rendered on behalf of the Halloran Hospital. Thomas J. Shanahan, treasurer of the Ford Chaplains Committee, has devoted much of his time as bank president to this worthy cause. And Mayor William O'Dwyer will speak for official New York City in just a moment. But first, here is the co-chairman of the Ford Chaplains Memorial Committee, the former District Attorney of Kings County in Brooklyn, George J. Beldock. Veterans, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here this morning to dedicate this beautiful swimming pool to the F Veterans, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here this morning to dedicate this beautiful swimming pool at the Bronx Veterans Administration Hospital in New York City. It will be an important addition to the therapeutic facilities provided for the rehabilitation of our wounded veterans. We fervently pray that it will help our wounded to full recovery. This pool, donated by citizens, is to be known as the Four Chaplains Memorial. In February 1943, in the North Atlantic, an American transport was torpedoed and sinking rapidly. Those equipped with life belts were leaping to safety. Some of the men, however, had lost their life belts and stood helpless before certain death. Four United States Army chaplains, two Protestant ministers, a Jewish rabbi, and a Catholic priest, quietly handed over their life belts to the soldiers and watched them go over the side. There was no concern on their part as to the race or religion of the boys they saved. The dramatic record of their heroism and self-sacrifice shows them, arm in arm, praying, each in his own fashion, to our common father as they went down with the stricken vessel. The memorial, serving the living and honoring the dead, is the concept of business and civic leaders. It is their energy and substance that has made this pool possible. These thoughtful men and women, recognized with unusual clarity, our common obligation to those whose sacrifices preserved our liberty. This memorial, and the men it aids and honors, is an impressive reminder of needless tragedy, needless cost, and degradation. A price, a price, ladies and gentlemen, that the people of the world must pay for war. This generation has a sacred obligation to the children of today and to those unborn to guarantee both liberty and universal peace. It is unbelievable that the nations of the world, having a will for peace, free from bigotry of race, of creed or color, with patience to achieve mutual understanding and justice for all, would ever again resort to war. Here today, we are inspired anew by the historic self-sacrifice of the four Army chaplains. In their dying moments, they left us a forceful message. We are all brothers, children of a common Father in heaven. May they never die in the hearts of the people. May they never die in the hearts of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make this introduction very short as this part of the radio time is coming to a close. I have a lot of nice things to say about our next speaker. He's chairman of this activity. Now, praise my children of this country. He's a few organizations in the minds of these and we have also pointed twelve experts about their 함 in unfilled waters. We are people telling you how they did the whole world war right now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.