Mrs. Bates, what sort of an accident did you have here in this house? I brought the dry mop upstairs and laid it on the side of the stairs and went about my work and was going to take a step to come down. And when I did, the mop had passed in front of me as I took my first step and I went over the mop and tripped and fell and went down six stairs and split my head very badly. Well, do you think there's anything you can do to avoid an accident like that again? Yes, there is. There's no place to have a mop on the stair, even if it's on the side. You have two mops in the sack. So you can have one mop of downstairs and one mop of upstairs and there won't be no trouble after that. Falling on the stairs is one of the most common home accidents, as you very well know. This time it happened to a mother of nine children who lives in Lynn, Massachusetts. Last year, nearly 31,000 grown-ups and children were killed in accidents where they most frequently happen in homes. But that's not the whole story. Approximately one out of every 33 of us was injured in home accidents badly enough to lose time from our work or school. This is Parker Wheatley inviting you to join us now on A Long Life and together we'll find out how many of these accidents, some of them fatal, can be avoided. And what doctors are doing to help accident victims back to their feet as quickly as possible. We'll go to homes in Lynn and Cambridge, Massachusetts and to wards at City Hospital and Children's Hospital and to the Harvard School of Public Health, all in Boston. Accidents is one in a series of human documents on preventive medicine transcribed for you by the Lowell Institute in cooperation with Boston College, Boston University, Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Northeastern University and Tufts College. And supervised by the medical schools of Boston University, Harvard and Tufts. Now let's go back to another home in Lynn and hear about a kind of accident that in 1947 claimed the lives of approximately 1,600 babies and children. Robert Rowe was joined by Miss Catherine Whelan, acting supervisor of the visiting nurses of the Lynn Health Department. Mr. Rowe put the first question to Mrs. Dunnegan, a grandmother who brought up five children of her own and is now helping bring up two grandchildren. Mrs. Dunnegan, would you say that the home is a dangerous place? Mrs. Dunnegan, would you say that the home is a very dangerous place? Mrs. Dunnegan, would you say that the home is a very dangerous place? What sort of an accident did you have? My grandson, little Johnny Flynn had a very serious deine very serious experience on his face. I was taking a poached egg from the stove at the same time as Johnny was trying to grab the toaster from the table. I forgot at the time that I had the egg in my hand. The water spilled over from the pan onto his face? Mrs. Dunnegan, would you say that the home is a very dangerous place? Did you give first aid treatment? And I took the butter and I just spread it right over the side of his head and face. How long was he laid out? Why, I should say about a good month. How are you going to prevent this accident from happening again? I really think you have to watch them every single minute. The home can be a very dangerous place for children. But not all children who get burned are as lucky as Johnny Flynn. Some must go to the hospital for months of care and treatment. To find out just how doctors who take care of these youngsters feel many accidents can be avoided, how they are working to prevent crippling and death among children who have been injured, we went to the children's hospital. There we met Dr. Lendon Snedeker, assistant administrator of the hospital and instructor in pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. I asked Dr. Snedeker, just how serious are these home accidents to you children's doctors? Well, we children's doctors have a big stake in this accident problem. And in a place like ours, the children's hospital, we see a good many things that bear out what national statistics show. Of course, you know, Mr. Wheatley, I think that the most important cause of death from 5 to 15 years of age is accidents. The most important cause of accidents in the upper childhood years are burns of different sorts. And then below 4 to 5 years of age, you run into, statistics tell you, mechanical suffocation. We don't believe that children suffocate that often. We very often find, when we've gone thoroughly enough into the matter, that these children suffer from very severe acute infections that have not been discovered by the cursory examination. We see a great many different kinds of accidents here in the hospital. You just cannot stop this wonderful urge children have to find out about the world they live in. They creep around, they poke their fingers into things, and it takes them quite a while before they learn any prudence. And during that period, mother has to substitute for experience. Now, I don't see how the human race, as a matter of fact, has survived so long, when I see how children egg each other on to do a bigger and better thing, and how they, by their boasting and competition, get into all sorts of scrapes. Dr. Snedeker, how can mother and father help children get through these hazardous years, without too many accidents, without making the children afraid to live? They must live with one eye on the child all the time. They must at the same time, and I don't know how to tell you where you draw the line, they've got to give their children a chance to learn about these dangerous things. They need to supervise them, but they mustn't be afraid to let them try the knife out, and use the axe, and light the fire. It's part of life, and if you can't do it, you can't grow up. But there are certain things we have to tell parents. If Johnny lives up at the head of the stairs, have a gate there, and be sure it's closed. If you are keeping things like lye, and ant paste, and rat poison, things of that sort, keep them locked up. If you are taking sleeping pills, don't keep them out on their bathroom shelf, keep them locked up, because curiosity knows no limits in early childhood, and all sorts of tragedies can occur. Now, when we get to talking about older children, I think I could show you best the months of pain, the months of careful treatment, the expense to hospital and community and family that some of these accidents in older children occur. And we have here in the hospital now a youngster who is suffering from very severe burns. Suppose we go over to the ward and see Dr. McCullum, our plastic surgeon, who has to patch up so many of these accident victims. At the ward, Dr. Snedeker introduced me to Dr. Donald W. McCullum, a senior surgeon at Children's Hospital and associate in surgery, Harvard Medical School. He was at the bedside of a 12-year-old Fairhaven boy. Here we are on Ward 4, Mr. Wheatley. This is one of the children's wards. I'd like you to meet Dr. McCullum and Arthur, who is the fellow we were going to talk about. Hi, Mr. Wheatley. How are you? How do you do, Dr. McCullum? And hello, Arthur. How are you today? Fine. Good. Arthur, how about telling Mr. Wheatley how you were burned? What happened first? Do you remember? Well, I got burnt by calcium. You did? How did you get that done? I went outside and I filled the oil jug and I got some on me. I came in the house. You mean they filled it on you, Arthur? Yes. Yeah. And I came in the house and I put the oil jug on the stove and I lit the stove. I must have got a spark on me. And when I went upstairs, I smelled smoke and I was all in flames. Then what did you do? I came downstairs. I told my sister to wrap me in a blanket. And did she? No, she didn't. She was all excited. She didn't know what to do. Well, she was all excited, wasn't she? Yes. And then what did you do? And she wanted to throw water on me. So, I told her not to, because it would burst her. Yes. And then what? Then did they wrap you in the blanket and put the fire out after that? No, she didn't. Well, my goodness. She threw a little water on me and I didn't want her to throw any more. So, I ran outside and I rolled in the dirt. And a lady came and she saw me and she put a coat over me. And this man near my house came and he picked me up and carried me in the house. And my sister put a sheet on me. He brought his car in the yard. And he put me in this car and took me to the St. Luke's Hospital. Dr. McCullum, I'd like to ask Arthur how he learned that he was supposed to wrap himself in a blanket when he was on fire. Well, in school, they talked about it. They did. That was the correct thing to do, was it Dr. McCullum? Yes, absolutely. That was just the thing to do. I wish your sister would have learned it too, Arthur. Then she would have wrapped you quicker, wouldn't she? Yes. Thank you very much, Arthur, for telling us about your accident. You're welcome. Thanks, Arthur. What other kinds of accidents happen to these children? Well, there are a lot of them, Mr. Wheatley. A lot of them that could be prevented a good many times. One of the most common ones that we have are children, little babies, small babies, that are crawling around on the floor and try to get up and they'll pull themselves up on a table leg or a chair leg, but instead of that, they'll pick the hot water pipe of a radiator. Now, you or I, if we touch that hot water pipe, of course, would let it go immediately. But on a little baby, it doesn't have that quick reaction and so they hold on. And of course, the skin of the hand is very much thinner so that they burn much deeper into the palm of the hand than you or any other grown-up person would. That burns off the whole palm of the hand. And in almost every instance, we have to remake or we say make over the whole complete hand. There's another one, too, that I think is quite common and that's the electric burn of the mouth. When the mother's ironing or using some electrical instrument and lets the plug dangle over the edge of the ironing board or some other plug, extension plug in the house, left open, the small child crawling around may put the end of that plug in their mouth. And in very short instance, that child is badly burned. Have you some final suggestions for us, Dr. McCollum, on this question of children's accidents in the home? Well, there is no way of preventing every accident. That's absolutely impossible. The only thing that I would suggest is that they be trained, somewhat like Arthur was here, to know what to do if they are burned. Children have a lot of accidents. But older people, men and women over 65, have more accidents which result in death than all children and other adults combined. So we went to City Hospital to hear from an older lady just how one of these serious accidents happened. And to talk with a doctor about how many accidents among older people might be prevented. Dr. Russell F. Sullivan, senior orthopedic surgeon at City Hospital and professor of surgery at Tufts College Medical School, took me to a ward. Here we are, Mr. Wheatley, in the surgical building in a female fracture ward that contains about 35 adult women fracture cases. This woman that I am about to have you meet is one of 1,285 people that were brought to the city hospital during the month of November with injuries, most of which were fractures. Of that 1,285, 117 were admitted to the hospital. And this lady is one of them? This lady is one of them. She is Mrs. Emma White, and she is 75 years old. I would like to have you meet Mrs. White. This is Mr. Wheatley. How do you do, Mrs. White? How do you do? What happened to you, Mrs. White? Well, the wind blew the box right down as I was going up. And I was right in front of the box when it come right over on me. The box was holding the door open? The door opened, yes. Yes. And you happened to be going through that doorway at that time? Yeah. At that time, yes, yes, doctor. Well, that might have been prevented, of course, if something else were holding that door. Yeah, two boxes, doctor. Two boxes, yes. That's really an unstable apparatus to hold the door open with. Now, Mrs. White, tell us, were you in pain right off? Oh, yes, doctor. How did you get up? Did somebody have to lift you up? No, nobody was there. You were all alone? All alone. And what did you do? I had to take in and pull myself right down the stairs, step by step. And then I sat in the hall, and I tried to get a hold of the knob of the door, and I got a hold of the knob of the door, and then I shoved myself in. My daughter called up the phone, and as much as I could do was to get to answer it. And I managed to get over, and I answered it, and I told her what happened to me. And then they sent you to the city hospital. Yeah. Now, since you have been in bed, have you been reasonably free from pain? There's no pain, doctor. That's wonderful. There's no pain. Now, this lady, Mr. Wheatley, her x-rays reveal the fact that she had a fracture through the mid-shaft of her thigh bone. It will take at least two months, and probably three months, before she can be rehabilitated to the point where she can be sent safely back home. Mrs. White, you expect to be all right, though, do you? Yeah, before three months. Before three months? Sure. Good for you. Sure. Mrs. White is just one of the thousands of older men and women who are having more and more accidents every year. In 1948, there were 5% more fatal accidents among people 65 years and over than back in 1929. In a corridor outside the ward, I asked Dr. Sullivan why so many more accidents are happening to these older people. Well, there are several good reasons. Some of the more important ones are these. First, we have many more older people today than we have had in the past. For example, in Massachusetts, there are over 200,000 people, or 5% of the population, that are over 60 years of age. And these old people today are healthier and more active. And they do not become content with sitting at home and reading the paper or doing their knitting. They're out on the street. They get outdoors. They do things around the house. And therefore, they're more susceptible to accidents. In addition to this, we have other hazards. For instance, older people, when they get up at night to go to the bathroom, unless there's a little dim light around the area, they're very apt to become confused, turn in the wrong direction, and fall down a flight of stairs, for example. Any family with an older person who doesn't have a night light ought to have one right away. They certainly should. Also, housewives are prone to wear an old pair of shoes, old wedgies, or floppy slippers in doing their housework. And it's been our experience that many of them fall down stairs or slip and sustain serious injuries. Dr. Sullivan, what types of accidents would you particularly suggest older people should watch out for? Well, of course, the most common accident in an old person is a fracture of the hip, because all it takes is a little twisting fall. So that we should be very careful how they walk and on what types of surfaces they are in contact with. You've heard why a boy and an older lady are listening to this radio document tonight in their hospital beds instead of in their homes. And you've heard how doctors feel some accidents could be prevented. How safe is your home? Could any of these accidents happen to you or to your children? To help you answer these questions, we called a man whose work it is to instruct people how not to have accidents. Mr. Clifford A. Pulis, Director of Safety Services of the Cambridge Chapter of the American Red Cross. Mr. Pulis arranged for Tim Dias to meet him at the home of Mrs. Leonard Wheeler, housewife and mother of two girls, for an on-the-spot survey of household hazards. The tour started in the bedroom. Mr. Pulis, which is the most dangerous room in a house? According to the National Safety Council, the bedroom is the most hazardous room in the house. For two reasons. First, fires are caused in the bedroom, people smoking in bed. And the second reason are from falls, people getting out of bed, slipping on the scattered rugs, and various other reasons. Mr. Clifford A. Well, is there anything we can do about scatter rugs to keep people from falling on them? Mr. Clifford A. Yes, I think there is something definite we can do. There are rugs, scatter rugs which can be bought on the market, which have non-skid material on the underside. If you have scatter rugs that do not have this material, why not get jar rings? And put the jar rings on the four corners and in the middle, and sew these onto the underside, and you have a non-skid rug. Sounds like a good idea. Have you done anything like this, Mrs. Wheeler? Mrs. I'm afraid I haven't. I've just let it slide along all these years. Have you ever had any accidents? Mrs. No, but I've come close to it. If I had been older, I would have had an accident. What else in the bedroom, Mr. Pulis? How about the electric connections? Do we ever have any trouble with that? Yes, we have a great deal of trouble from electrical connections, improper connections, we might say. Too many plugs coming from one base plug. One or two plugs leading from the base plug is sufficient. Well, is there any other room upstairs where we have accidents take place, Mr. Pulis? Yes, the bathroom is a major cause for accidents. Soak in the bathtub, the medicine cabinet, improper storage of our medicines. Which room in the house is the second most dangerous, Mr. Pulis? The kitchen ranks as the second most dangerous, according to the National Safety Council. Well, let's go down and take a look at that right now. Once in the kitchen, Tim Dyes had another question. Mr. Pulis, what are the accidents that occur most frequently in the kitchen? Cuts and lacerations are the chief cause of accidents and injuries, probably because they store their knives and other equipment improperly. Let's find out how Mrs. Wheeler stores her knives. Draw us right over there, Mr. Pulis. Oh, my. Perfect setup for an injury. Look at these knives, all thrown in and scattered around. Let's show how they should be kept. We'll take these knives out, and then if we had a knife rack right up here over the sink, we could store them neatly in the knife rack, and they'd be out of the way, and you wouldn't run the danger of cutting yourself. Well, what's the second cause of accidents in the kitchen? Well, Burns, our chief cause of injuries, improper lighting of the oven. Once upon a time, it did blow out on us because it was improperly there. We have to get close to underneath and be sure that every jet is burning with the match. How about the utensils on the stove, Mrs. Wheeler? Do you have any trouble with the children knocking them off? I've learned to be careful to be sure the handles are back from the edge. Mrs. Wheeler then took her visitors to the cellar. Tim Dyes said, Well, Mr. Pulis, I don't see any mops and brooms on the stairs here. No, this is relatively a safe house insofar as the stairs are concerned. What type of accidents occur most frequently down in the cellar, Mr. Pulis? Fires are our chief cause, again, for accidents. Improper combustion of the oil burner, and improper storage of inflammable mixtures. I see a can over here. Mrs. Wheeler, what have you in that can? Well, that's some non-inflammable waterproofing material. I keep my inflammable cleaning fluid stored away more carefully upstairs. Excellent. What else takes place down here, Mr. Pulis, that can be taken as dangerous? I see our fuse box over on the wall. We referred to the blowing of fuses in the bedroom before. Overloading of the circuit causes the fuse to blow. We might mention the correct technique of changing a fuse. If we'll go right over here by the fuse box and throw the main switch, number one. Number two, when you approach the fuse box, even before the switch is thrown, step on a board or a rubber mat. Next, determine which fuse has been blown. Unscrew this fuse. Select the proper fuse for that receptacle. Replace that blown fuse with the proper fuse, which in the ordinary house should not be over 15 amps. Replace that fuse. Make sure upstairs that you have removed the chief cause of the overloading of the circuit, and then throw your main switch. Mr. Pulis, what can people do to prevent accidents in the home? Disorder is the chief cause for accidents. Let's be orderly in our homes. Let's keep our own minds in order and use a degree of common sense. Probably you didn't have a serious accident last year. And if you follow the suggestions you've heard tonight, you'll have a better chance of being safe in your home in the years to come. But I am sure you know some people who seem to have more than their share of accidents. Perhaps a friend who can't get through a week without cutting herself. Or the boy down the block who seems to break one bone after the other. Just why is it that some of us will step on a rug on a well waxed floor and not fall, while others of us will step on the same rug and have a terrible spill? We went to the Harvard School of Public Health and put this question to Dr. Warren T. Vaughan, research fellow in mental health at the school, and psychiatrist on the staff of the Judge Baker Guidance Center. Well, Mr. Wheatley, over the past 10 or 15 years, medical people have been interested in this problem. That is, what it is in the individual that makes them the accident victim. In the field of industrial medicine, there has been many things shown in the studies over the war years in particular, concerning what is now known as accident proneness. Now, in the home as well, we believe that this same tendency exists. We haven't the statistics to back this feeling up that we can get in industrial concerns and from the automobile accident statistics. But we have certain clinical evidence to go on. Dr. Vaughan, I might just cite for you a case of a lad 14 who fell while opening his garage door to put his skis away and broke his leg. Just prior to this accident, four other accidents had occurred of a rather minor nature. Dr. Vaughan, why is it that this lad and people who have accidents too often do have them, though? Dr. Vaughan, why is it that this lad and people who have a lot of difficulty in expressing their angers and resentments, especially towards authoritative people such as fathers and mothers and bosses. And they take their feelings out in action. And in the so doing, they may often lay themselves open to having an accident. Now, this boy whom I mentioned to you was found has a problem of that sort. He wasn't able to express his resentments at all, which all 14-year-old boys have towards their parents. He had a brother who was a little older who did express his resentments in minor delinquencies. And this 14-year-old boy who hurt himself had a desire to grow up and be a lawyer, a criminal lawyer, to protect his older brother. Then, Dr. Vaughan, what can we do to prevent these home accidents? Well, Mr. Wheatley, after we have taken all proper safeguards in the home, we would sit down with the people involved in the accident and talk about the accident itself and the feelings which have existed surrounding the accident. That might, in a way, discharge these feelings and also give us clues as to the feelings themselves and what they are. Now, if a person tends to continue to have accidents, it becomes more of an illness or a disease similar to tendencies towards stomach trouble. And in such a case as that, I would suggest that one treat it as an illness and then consult their family doctor, who then may be able to give them more direct help with this problem. Thank you, Dr. Vaughan. This has been a human document on accidents, brought to you by the Lowell Institute in cooperation with six colleges and universities, Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, MIT, Northeastern, and Tufts.