From Brooklyn's Borough Hall, your city station brings you a broadcast of the ceremonies attending the arrival of the Alert America Convoy to Brooklyn. Here to greet the convoy making its tour of the city this week is Brooklyn's Borough President John Cashmore and other city officials. Let's listen now to Mr. Cashmore. You can't do it all alone. The people have to cooperate with you. And to you fellas out there, good luck to you. You're in a great institution, Polly. You're in the greatest uniform in the world. I know you'll all make good. God bless you. Thank you, President Cashmore. You kind of took the big speech I had already here to introduce Mrs. Voorhees right away from you. You did it so beautifully. I'm not going to gild the lily at all. A very charming lady that has done such wonderful work in protecting you. We can't accent that too much. This is for your help. This is for you to help yourselves and your family. Let's give her a great welcome up here as we introduce Mrs. Tracy S. Voorhees, Chairman of the Brooklyn Office of Civil Defense, Recruiting, and Public Information. Mrs. Voorhees, gentlemen. He said no speeches. Well, I'd like to introduce to you then the man who introduced me, Colonel Arthur Leavitt, the Co-Chairman of the Brooklyn Office of Civil Defense. Colonel Leavitt. At this time, may I remind you that one of the great things of the people that are working with Civil Defense, not only are they working for you, and I hope that you'll join them and work for yourselves, but they need your help, your cooperation in their drills and in their work, and respect the badge and the helmet that they wear when they're out to try to help you. I'd like to introduce at this time Mrs. Maurice B. Rich, Vice Chairman of the Brooklyn Office of Civil Defense, who I believe will make a short speech here. I'll say hello here. Mrs. Rich? Mr. Fassman, with this shuttle and this helmet, I'm going to ask you to become an honorary member of the Civil Defense Office Thank you. Thank you very much. And not only will accept it, it'll more likely be the first time a round hat went on a square head, but we'll try it here. All right, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce some other people that I know you will be interested in meeting. We have 26 Brooklyn area chairmen of the Brooklyn Civil Defense. They're in charge of recruiting public information. And if you need any information on how you can help, these people will be glad to help you. And I think President Cashmore's statement, one member of every family in Brooklyn should be in civil defense is a wonderful goal. It certainly should come true. Our 26th chairman here, I wonder if we'll take a bow. All the chairman here, we ought to give them a great hand. This work? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. No remuneration. We're doing it to help you and your families and your town. I have here with me a representative of the Brooklyn Dodgers. I'm sure that's a subject that's very close to my heart. Mr. Irving Rudd, who is the in charge of publicity of the Brooklyn Dodgers and executive secretary of the Brooklyn Amateur Baseball Foundation. Irving? Now as we think of the Brooklyn Amateur Baseball Foundation, which is supported by the Brooklyn Baseball Club and the Brooklyn Eagle, think of all these kids playing baseball. Think of the fun they get out of it. What if this could not, if anything would happen that would eliminate their playing baseball, of going to school, of growing up? That's what you're here for. And I can only urge you once again, help them with civilian defense, and by all means, see your Alert America show, which is touring your borough today. I would like to introduce at this time the Honorable Jamie Kelly, county clerk and borough historian of Brooklyn. Lieutenant Joseph Catherine. Lieutenant Catherine here. Andrew S. Roscoe, of the South Brooklyn Savings and Loan Association. And also chairman of the Brooklyn chapter of the Red Cross. Colonel Paul Thorne, executive director of the Brooklyn chapter of the American Red Cross. Thank you. And Lieutenant Charles D. Friedlander, who holds the bronze star medal for valor in the Korean campaign. Lieutenant Friedlander. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Borough President Cashmore, Mr. Felton, fellow New Yorkers. Your borough president has already listed for you the many items that you can accomplish as Alert Americans in aiding the troops that are now fighting in Korea. So if you'll bear with me, I'm just going to tell a short story about Korea. In 1950, in 1950, as a platoon leader of 40 young American infantrymen, I was determined that I would do all in my power to get all 40 of those men back to the United States alive. I knew that some probably would be wounded, but with helicopter evacuation and modern medical facilities, I felt confident that I could hope for the best. November 1950 through January 1951 were, as I believe, the most difficult months in the Korean campaign. However, every threatened life in my platoon during that period was saved due to the fact that the ample blood supply on the front of the 8th Army was sufficient so that we could have blood plasma up with the platoons at the front line where we needed it, when we needed it. By the spring of 1951, however, the blood plasma supply in Korea dropped. It dropped severely. It was so low that there was not enough blood plasma to supply each of the platoons on the front line with enough plasma to facilitate the healing and the saving of the wounded. As a result, the Army resorted to the following system. All available blood plasma was kept at a battalion aid station. When a man was wounded up with the platoon on the front line, he would have to be rushed as rapidly as possible back to that battalion aid station where he could get that valuable life-saving fluid. In one instance, in the spring of 1951, one of my sergeants was wounded by a communist mortar round. It was then that I realized that my wish could not come true. By the time that we got this sergeant back to the battalion aid station where the available blood plasma was kept, he was dead. In the name of that sergeant and others like him who have fallen in Korea, I ask you to give blood and to give it often. Thank you. Thank you, Lieutenant Friedlander. May I remind everyone that happens to be listening to me at this time at the City of New York and Civil Defense of the City of New York, the Office of Recruiting and Public Information. We'll have the Alert America show at the 7th Regiment Armory, Park Avenue and East 66th Street, New York City, from May 13th through the 19th, from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. I urge all of you to see this show. And now, after thanking Lieutenant Friedlander, I want to thank our ROTC unit here of Polytechnic Institute. I understand you have to be back in classes, men, so right on the button, we said 1225. We'd like to dismiss you, but we ask that the rest of you do not leave as we have quite a treat for you in just a moment. National Anthem. National Anthem. National Anthem. National Anthem. warm water. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the future of your town, your country, and your family is in the hands of the young men you just saw march out. It is also in your own hands, in the hands of the people who help and join in the work of civil defense. May I introduce now the fine Brooklyn Post Office Quartet, which will sing for you the battle hymn of the republic, accompanied by the extraordinarily fine band that we've had here all day. I think we ought to give them a hand. They've been playing up here for you all during the luncheon program. Is the quartet here? Are you going to sing in the quartet, John? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is trappling out the village where the graves of wrath are stored. He has lost his faithful life, hanging off his swift and devil's sword. His truth is marching on. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. I have seen him in the wildfires of a hundred cycling camps. They have built him an altar in the evening news and dams. I can read his righteous sentence in the dim and flowering lamps. His day is marching on. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. His day is marching on. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. In the stream of the lilies, Christ was born across the sea. Glory, hallelujah. With the glory in his boots, that transfigured you and me. As he died to make men holy. Let us die to make men free. His God is marching on. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Just in the room, this marching on. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. And let's have our conductor, Phil Orlando. Thank you very much. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Thank you. Just before we close up our meeting, may I thank you for your attention and remind you that right down here in front are registration blanks, a little booth table set up. We hope that all of you will join in and register for civil defense. Thanks for your attention. Anytime you see anyone wearing the right helmet of civil defense, give them your cooperation and your respect. It's a hard and thankless job. They're working for you, and they need your help. Good afternoon. I hope we can get the ball game in, and I'll see you at Emmett's Field. Bye, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. You have been listening to a broadcast of the ceremonies attending the arrival of the Alert America Convoy to Brooklyn. The Alert America Convoy is touring the city to show New Yorkers what can be and is being done to help us in case of emergency. New Yorkers are asked, too, to enlist in the city's civil defense program to help in time of need. This has been a public service presentation of the Municipal Broadcasting System. You are tuned to WNYC, New York City's own station. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.