Helping people is a business for the Salvation Army. Day and night they administer to anyone who calls on them for help. Here in greater New York alone they have over 60 centers spread all over the city in peace and war. America learned that this was an army whose soldiers had dedicated their lives humbly and simply to God and man. Today as always the Salvation Army rededicates itself to doing more, not less, for those in need. That is why I wanted to do this broadcast in order to ask all of you listening in to contribute as much as you can toward this great service to humanity. Won't you too be a friend indeed? No contribution is too large or too small. Please send any amount you can to the Salvation Army's 70th Anniversary Appeal to 120 West 14th Street, New York 11, New York. This is Catherine Cornell. For 70 years the men and women of the Salvation Army in New York City have fought, not for themselves, but for the right to care for dependent children and old people. To feed the hungry and shelter the homeless. To find employment for those who need it. To help straighten out lives which through early mistakes have seemed hopelessly tangled. With selfish devotion they have served fighting men of two world wars, often sharing their dangers and hardships in order to bring them comfort. We can show our gratitude for their unforgettable work now by making their 70th anniversary something for them to remember. I hope you will give a generous birthday gift to the Salvation Army. This is Mary Martin. You know there must be white haired grandparents in New York today who couldn't have survived infancy without the Salvation Army. That first day nursery back in the 80s, well it was primitive but mothers were thankful for the warmth, the cleanliness and above all the tenderness of devoted women who cared for their babies while they worked. Each year for the past 70 years New Yorkers have become more aware of the Salvation Army's magnificent work and more ready to give to their support. This year the Army asked us for $1,292,000 to help maintain 60 welfare services for thousands of needy men, women and children. And there are many more whom the Salvation Army would help if it had the means. Please make this 70th anniversary memorable, won't you? Please give more than ever before to the 70th anniversary appeal. This is Herbert Hoover. I have always had the greatest respect for the Salvation Army, a sentiment shared I'm sure by millions of Americans. It has been my privilege in years past to render any service that I could to this merciful organization. I had the honor to know General Booth over many years. This world needs to remind itself that there is no man or woman so forsaken, so degraded by trouble, sickness or hunger, who is not worth salvaging. The Salvation Army since its beginning 84 years ago has always held to this view. Where you find trouble and misery, there you will find the Salvation Army quietly doing its job. I commend to my fellow Americans a warm and generous response whenever the Salvation Army asks for your help. This is J.J. Jehovah speaking. I am certain all of us recognize that the mantle of leadership in world affairs has fallen upon America. The future of the entire civilized world will be determined very largely by the quality of character and citizenship being formed today in the homes, the schools, the neighborhood, the playgrounds and the churches of our nation. The American scene today, however, presents a fertile field for the growth of crime and delinquency. In areas where decent environments are lacking, where focal points of criminal infection exist, the Salvation Army, through its Red Shield clubs, basketball teams, summer camps and music organizations, is doing a splendid job in directing youthful enthusiasm. The work of the Salvation Army in this connection is a great investment in the future of America. This is William Green speaking. If a neighbor of yours was in trouble or need, you'd try to help him, I'm sure. It's the American way of doing things. The Salvation Army is in close contact with thousands of your neighbors. People who are sick, old people who are lonely and forsaken, youngsters who need help and guidance, men and women in trouble or need. You know the motto of this great organization? With heart to God and hand to man. When you contribute to the Salvation Army, you help these other neighbors of yours. When the Salvation Army asks our help, let's always be generous. I know of no better way to help our less fortunate fellow men. This is Philip Murray speaking. I hope that the day will come when need and trouble no longer burden so many Americans. Until that time does come, however, it will be necessary for us to help our fellow man. It seems to me that when we help the Salvation Army, we take care of the most direct means of doing just that. Where there is misery, the Salvation Army is at work asking no questions about faith or race or class. To them, the need is the call to action. Whether it is a distressed family, a homeless old man, a wayward youth or a community visited by disaster. When the Salvation Army asks for help, I think that all of us ought to respond. This is Jackie Robinson speaking from Ebbets Field. It isn't always the home run which wins the ball game. Very often it's a sacrifice hit, bringing in another man to home plate, which does the job. Somehow that makes me think of the Salvation Army. There you have a real instance of sacrifice to bring a man safely home. They may not always get the credit. Their only concern is that the man gets home safe. On a job like that, it seems to me that all of us ought to assist. Let's see that the Salvation Army always comes up to bat. If we do, then we can be sure that many a man will be held home to safety. Now? believed, if we don't care. So, if we don't care. Let's take care of ourselves. We will eventually go with him. At the same time, the battle starts with him that came out from guard. So now, the suicidal response part of suitable had all those Wo cuántos. How could he be following that? In a way that probably ends it in the final line. If it isn't him, sometimes he should be gone. If there are ones who lose these weeks, that will benefit away from the clock. I think that many things go by now is not in aיות or four walls,
