It is our purpose to give thanks for the blessings that have come to America, to resolve to remove the roots of prejudice from our way of life, to devote ourselves to brotherhood among men because of the fatherhood of God. It is our purpose to strengthen the life of America, both by strengthening individuals with all that is for the common good, and by strengthening the souls of men with the grace of God. To strengthen liberty in America, mindful that America was born in liberty, and liberty was born in God. To pursue happiness in this life by the fair distributions of the wealth of God's creation, and in the next life, by living according to God's commandments. In the spirit, then, of the two great commandments, love of God and love of neighbor, let us show our love of God by loving our neighbor. Let us serve God by serving our neighbor. Let us pray. We beseech thee, O Lord, to inspire our actions, and to carry them on with thy divine aid, so that every prayer and word and work of ours begins with thee, and through thee is likewise ended. And now may the power of the father govern and protect us. May the wisdom of the son enlighten and guide us. May the inspiration of the spirit quicken and impel us. May the blessings of the triune God descend upon us now and remain always with us. Amen. Remain standing, please. It is our pleasure now to hear the Star-Spangled Banner sung by Miss Monica Mayes, who has performed that wonderful service for us so many times before. Miss Mayes. Mr. Mayor, Reverend clergy, honored guests, and friends, I think it is entirely fitting that this observance of Negro History and Brotherhood Week should be under the auspices of the Department of Welfare. And as Commissioner of Welfare, it is my great privilege and pleasure to welcome you to this occasion. I say it is fitting because the Department of Welfare probably touches more directly and intimately the lives of more people in the city at any one time than any other department. And we touch it on a basis which calls forth the truest expressions of our belief in brotherhood. One of the great revolutions that happened in this country was one that happened fairly quietly back in 1935 when the Federal Social Security Act was passed. Because that act set up a systematic program of social insurance, old age insurance, unemployment insurance, and public assistance, which wiped out at one stroke of the pen all of the discriminatory practices which had occurred in so many parts of the country before that time with respect to the granting of assistance or the payment of insurance benefits. Prior to that time, it was not unusual in many parts of the country for the test of eligibility for public assistance or relief to be based not just upon need but upon the racial or religious background of the applicant. And with one stroke of the pen and through the passage of that law, that discrimination was wiped out completely and forever. So one of the great byproducts, if you can call it that, and I prefer to call it a major product, of the passage of the Social Security Act in 1935, the act under which we operate today, is that there is no longer any attention paid to the color of an applicant's skin or to the church that he goes to. When we examine an applicant for public assistance, someone who is in need through no fault of his own today, and determine that he is eligible, we do it without regard to what church he goes to or what race he sprang from or what country he came from or his ancestors came from. And that was a great step forward. Perhaps it was not needed as much in New York City because New York City and New York State and generally many of the northern cities and states had already accepted as a part of their pattern of living the idea that there should not be discrimination as between individuals and that the objective of equal opportunities and equal treatment under the law should be applied to all. But nationwide, to establish the simple principle that eligibility for old age insurance eligibility for unemployment insurance and eligibility for public assistance should depend upon objective factors which had nothing to do with racial or religious discrimination was indeed a great step forward. And I think we should not forget that. And we should, as employees of the Department of Welfare, as people interested in administering a part of the total social security program of the nation, we should be very proud of that advance. I'm happy to see so many of you here tonight. This great crowd is indeed a tribute to the sense of unity which exists among employees in our department, among employees from other departments of the city, and among citizens of New York generally. I am happy to see too, and to welcome the representatives of other departments, the many commissioners who are here, and the officials of the departments, and to testify to show, and to say that their testimony of their unity and their belief in the progress that we are trying to make in the field of brotherhood and the field of improvement of Negro-white relationships is worthwhile. Now, we have a very great privilege tonight. We have quite a big program, but we have an especially great privilege tonight in the presence of the chief magistrate of the city, our own mayor in Pelletieri. And he has come here as the first of four meetings which he must attend tonight. And sometimes the mayor, I think, is a little unhappy about the fact that people see him at so many meetings, but as he has often said to me and to others, I'm sure he feels as I sometimes feel, I would much rather be home with my slippers on, looking at TV, than racing around from one meeting to another. And I'm sure that he, being human, would have the same feeling. But he has four meetings scheduled for tonight, and we're very happy and honored that he has chosen to come to us in his first appearance this evening and to add his word to those which all the rest of us will say respecting our hopes for a further growth in the spirit of brotherhood in the city of New York and in the work of our various departments. It is with the greatest of pleasure that I present to you our own great mayor, Vincent R. M. Pelletieri. Commissioner McCarthy, Reverend Clergy, Judge Pinto, Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to say to Commissioner McCarthy that I, as mayor of the city of New York, and I know I reflect the thinking of the people of the city of New York, are very happy indeed that Commissioner McCarthy is back with us tonight in good health. This joint observance of Negro history and Brotherhood Week tonight is designed to give impetus to the development of better understanding among persons of all creeds and all cultures in this great metropolis. I am particularly happy to participate in this program as your mayor, for I feel that it is indeed an expression of the ideals of unity which have motivated your city administration for a great number of years. It has been a paramount objective of ours to keep this city a city of sincere brotherhood where the seeds of racial discrimination cannot germinate and where every person wants to respect the personal dignity of his neighbor. And I have reason to believe that here in the city of New York we have experienced a great measure of success. I would like to reflect briefly on the historic events which form the background for this meeting tonight. During the year 1915 in Chicago, Dr. Carter G. Woodson, together with a few like-minded individuals, founded the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History. This association, as its name denotes, was formed for the purpose of a more correlated and extended knowledge of the great contribution of the Negro to history, particularly American history. In 1926, the Association initiated in Washington Negro History Week. Its purpose was to highlight and emphasize the continued progress of Negroes in many activities, including education, business, and in government. in 1928, prominent laymen and clergymen of the three major faiths observed growing prejudices and misunderstandings among their fellow communicants, led by such really great men as Charles Evans Hughes, Newton D. Baker, Roger S. Strauss, and Carlton J.H. Hayes. They founded the National Conference of Christians and Jews. This conference was dedicated to the cardinal common belief of their respective religions, the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. They set forth to discover and promulgate practical techniques and procedures for bringing into our everyday consciousness and our everyday practice this concept of brotherhood, this religious concept of brotherhood to which lip service alone was altogether too frequent. in this year of 1953, the Department of Welfare of the City of New York combines the observance of Negro History Week and Brotherhood Week in one program for all of its staff and their friends here in this beautiful auditorium of a municipal college supported by city funds which in and of itself is an ideal expression of brotherhood. But probably of all of the city's departments and agencies there is none which may so well be called the heart and conscience of the city as is the Department of Welfare. The Department of Welfare necessarily embodies the city's good neighbor policy. But here in our five boroughs with their eight million residents it is impractical even impossible to know and to adequately meet the economic contingencies of our neighbors on an individual basis. therefore you the staff of the Department of Welfare who are specifically trained to meet these needs represent us the entire city. You are our ambassadors of good will of brotherhood. In your hands is a great public trust. In the quarter of a century which has passed since observances of Negro History Week and of Brotherhood Week were begun through the vision and deep conviction of a few great souls there have been numerous meetings such as this in which hundreds and thousands have participated. the emphasis of the programs themselves has changed somewhat during the years. We no longer find it necessary to enumerate as outstanding exceptions in an effort to prove something the names of certain Negroes who have used well their opportunities for training and service. A cursory reading of newspapers and periodicals sets forth their great accomplishments in practically all fields of endeavors from the ceaseless efforts for world peace of Dr. Ralph Bunch to effective service in our own and other city governments. the tragedy of a second world war and continued fighting in Korea have given rise to days of prayer sponsored by all of the religious faiths. So here at home as well as on our far-flung battle line Christians and Jews have united in common prayer and with this comes a new realization of brotherhood as an inescapable fact. We no longer find it necessary to emphasize the fact of brotherhood. We readily acknowledge it. We meet during this week to rededicate ourselves to living brotherhood. We analyze our structure of living in order to ascertain how nearly it conforms to our own beliefs. We do this as a religious people for here in the United States nearly two-thirds of all of the people over thirteen years of age are affiliated with some church or synagogue. Here freedom of religious worship does not mean absence of such worship. But brotherhood to be real cannot be carefully parked in front of the cathedral, chapel, or synagogue entrance for use only while worshiping inside. Its practice must necessarily be an everyday matter. New York City, with its teeming millions of various faiths, racial origins, and nativity, provides a great laboratory for testing fidelity to the principle of brotherhood. I feel that its citizens and their way of life is an excellent example of brotherhood in action. There is, of course, room for improvement and improvement in human relationships is continually being made. This week, Brotherhood Week, provides us with an opportunity to pause, to re-evaluate and re-dedicate ourselves to these, the highest ideals of mankind. kind. I wish Godspeed to the fullest attainment of these objectives. The need for common understanding is greater than ever before. It is a challenge which must and which shall be met. Thank you. We are indeed deeply grateful to you, Mr. Mayor, for those words inspiring to us in the work that we have to carry forward. And I know that if you do have to leave before our program is over to go to the other meetings, that all of us here will forgive you for that and envy the other people who will be listening to you later this evening. We will have some additional musical selections and the next will be again from Miss Monica Mayes who will sing two numbers. The first summertime doesn't have some like to hearる in the winter there at Frau overолог to her the happy days could come in her therefore and to her her what her is she will um she will e and she will come her too Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you earliest. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.ի ight of an opportunity for a job and the decent educational and housing facilities, to equal access to places of public accommodations, resorts or amusements, and to fair and brotherly in all the affairs of life which make for more enjoyable, happy, and contented living. Now, how can we bring all these things about? How can we develop understanding and friendship and cooperation among all the groups in our community? That answer, my friends, resides in every one of us. No one can present a pattern or blueprint, but all of us can make some useful suggestions. In the first place, we can all work on our own attitudes and prejudices. And one of the most common explanations for discrimination in employment and public accommodations is that customers and employees and neighbors would object to the introduction of newcomers. In most cases, this is a groundless fear, and yet you and I know that many people, by their thoughtless, unkind, and prejudiced attitudes, have tried to erect barriers against members of certain groups, against people entering into a certain occupation, into a neighborhood, or even an educational institution. We can carry out our faith by providing an example of the brotherhood to those in our own home, especially the children. Not only as we avoid the use of false generalizations and stereotypes and derogatory references to members of certain groups, but perhaps more importantly, as we express our righteous indignation when we read and hear and see discrimination practiced right before our own eyes. We should come out of our shell of complacency and realize that prejudice and discrimination contribute to crime and delinquency and racketeering and other evils that imperil our communities and, like cancers, reach right into our own homes. Yes, we must carry out our faith by making history now through supporting the efforts of our churches, synagogues, private agencies, and government organizations which seek to eliminate discrimination in employment and in public accommodation. That is, utilize, for example, the resources of my commission, or at least the commission that I represent here tonight, the New York State Commission Against Discrimination, and equate the community and the individuals in the community of its and their rights and obligations under that law. All too often, you know, organizations who work hard to obtain a law such as this sometimes rest on their oars after an important law of that kind has been enacted. The most perfect law would be relatively ineffective unless supported and utilized by the people and, furthermore, unless sustained by positive programs of education in our homes, churches, schools, and civic organizations. Now, under the law, as you may know, the New York State Commission receives, investigates, and passes upon complaints alleging discrimination in employment and, since July 1st of this year, last year, in places of public accommodations, resort, and amusements. And they combine those efforts with an extensive educational service which reaches right into our schools, secondary and high school, religious institutions, community agencies throughout the great state. The job of building better intergroup relations, or as I've tried to develop, the job of strengthening our democratic faith, is not the responsibility of just one single agency. It requires the concerted efforts of all groups and of all people in the communities. We cannot and we should not be satisfied with token or superficial accomplishments, nor consider the breaks in the discriminatory pattern of the last few years as the end of our efforts. Rather, we should consider these advances as but the beginning of the movement to bring all qualified and responsible people into those phases of community life where they will enrich and strengthen our country by their own fine accomplishments. Yes, we must do more than a negative job. We must seek out opportunities to bring into the neighborhood and citywide endeavors members of all groups, not merely as selected group representatives carrying the burdens of the groups on their shoulders, but as individuals who are ready, willing, and in most cases able to do a real community job. As President Eisenhower just a few days ago very well stated before the International Christian Leadership Group, where he said, a government such as ours hopes to produce people who are moved by sympathy by all those wonderful qualities that are implicit in a deeply felt religious faith. I'm sure that the faith to which our President referred and to which all of us are committed in our own way will bring to our observances next year and for many years ahead an enlarged meaning and a sense of accomplishment in relation to the many human relations problems that still are before us. Now you members of this great Department of Public Welfare have a rare opportunity in these endeavors. In your very important work you meet with all kinds of people on all socioeconomic levels. You know their problems and difficulties and you have made, you have given and demonstrated an ability to alleviate those problems not only in terms of material aid but in terms of fine moral counsel and encouragement. And you can, for example, can encourage young people and even older people to train on the basis of their interests, skills and aptitudes without fear of past patterns or recurring instances of discrimination. You can and I hope that you will acquaint them with the other community resources which will be of help to them in the solution of their problems. Not the least important of which is that of the New York State Commission against discrimination. In other words, you can bring to these people a renewal of faith that despite past and even present inequities, the theme of American life is still equality of opportunity for all of our people. I know and you know that a great deal has been accomplished but the total task is far from completion. Much further progress can be made if as you leave here tonight every one of you will be reminded that the family next door or the man or woman who works next to you in the office or the people that you meet on the subway tonight or tomorrow morning, your corner grocer or butcher, they're all brothers and sisters. Of course, for those who believe in the fatherhood of God, this concept of the brotherhood of man is not a difficult one. And how enriched would life become for all of us if during Brotherhood Week and for each succeeding week during the coming year some of the genuine love thy neighbor as thy self spirit could be captured and put into effect in the work-a-day world that we're engaged in. Thank you very much for your patience and attention. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Pinto. We'll move along with our program and we will have a real treat ahead of us now in hearing from Mr. Fred Thomas. Mr. Thomas is a baritone singer and he recently was a winner in the Metropolitan Auditions of the Air. Mr. Thomas will sing two numbers, Life and Death by Taylor and he's got the whole world in his hands arranged by Marshall. Mr. Thomas will be Mr. Thomas will be back with us a little later. You will be hearing from him again a little later in the program. Wasn't that wonderful? We'll now ask Rabbi Alexander J. Bernstein, Rabbi of the Millenary Center Synagogue to read a psalm. Rabbi Bernstein. Instead of limiting myself to one particular psalm, I've chosen three passages to be found in Hebrew literature. The first selection is from Malachi, chapter 2, verse 10. A great fifth century prophet. Having at all one father, had not one God created us, why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother? How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity, which inspired the ancient prayer which was recited during the first century B.C. in the temple every morning. May he who dwelleth in this house plant brotherliness and love, peace and friendship among all men. And it is interesting to note that during the same period, when Machia Valley, who had no confidence in human beings, the great cynic rode the prince, an obscure rabbi left a testament for his son called Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself, filled with love for all men. I shall read to you a short passage from it. Dear son, to be at peace with all the world, with Jew and Gentile, must be your foremost aim in this terrestrial life. Contend, my son, with no man. In the first instance, your home must be the abode of quietude and happiness. No harsh word must be heard there, but over all must reign love, amity, modesty, and a spirit of gentleness and reverence. This spirit must not end with the home, and your dealings with the world you must allow neither money nor ambition to disturb you. Forgo your rights, envy no man, for the main thing is peace, shalom, peace with the whole world. Show all men every possible respect, deal with them in the finest integrity and faithfulness. For did not Habakkuk the prophet summed up the whole law in one sentence, the righteous shall live by his faith? It was off my way at the assemblies to raise my eyes and regard those present from end to end to see whether, in sooth, I loved everyone among them, whether my acceptance of the duty to love my fellow man was genuine. With God's help, I assure you, my son, that I found that I loved all present, even if I noticed one who had treated me improperly, then without a thought of hesitation, without a moment's delay, I pardoned him. Forthwith, I resolved to love him. If my heart forced me to refuse my love, I addressed him with spoken words of friendship, until my heart, too, changed, attuned to my words. So, my son, whenever I met one who my heart did not incline, I forced myself to speak to him kindly, so as to make my heart feel affection for him. What if he were a sinner? Even then, I would not quarrel with him. For I wonder whether there exists in this age, the seventeenth century, one who is able to judge another. On the other hand, if I conceived that you would listen to advice, I drew near to him, turning towards him a cheerful countenance, If, however, I fancied that you would resent my advances, I did not intrude on him. As there is a duty to speak, so, my son, is there a duty at times to be silent. Thank you, Rabbi Bernstein. We are going to hear again from our fine orchestra of the police department, and the selection is called It's a Lovely Day Today. And we'll have some more of that a little later. I think we can use that. We have another speaker with us, whom we're very glad to welcome, the Honorable Judge Irving Ben Cooper, Chief Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. I'm happy to present him to you. Thank you. Commissioner McCarthy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how poorly I do this evening, there's a great deal of consolation in the thought that that remarkable singer, Mr. Thomas, will be back again before the evening closes. The last time I spoke in this auditorium was during the last world war, when it was my privilege to undertake to plead for blood for the bleeding and the dying. And I recall that it was my custom, after hundreds of such appeals, to invite the audience to put questions to me. And one of the questions that was put to me in this very room best illustrates the spirit with which I come before you this evening. I had explained how the blood was taken from the human being, processed into plasma, shot by airplane across the seas, almost onto the field where the wounded and dying, as now in Korea, were gathered for treatment. And I explained how that plasma was mixed with sterile water and injected into the veins of those who were so desperately in need of help. And when I got through, one of the questions put to me was something like this, and I'm not mocking him at all. I'm trying to imitate him, and I have a deep affection and respect for the spirit that prompted him to put the question. He said, Your Honor, Judge, why are they jipping the boys? I said, I beg your pardon? He says, why are they jipping the boys? I says, you mean cheat, jip? Yes, why are they jipping? I says, how do you make that out? He says, why are they taking this blood of plasma, this powder, and they mix it with a plain of water? Why don't they mix it with a good of wine? And that's the way I feel about it this evening. I want to give you the very best. I don't want to jip you. I think it's a sad day, really, but on the other hand, a great day that we should have to meet and comment about man's inhumanity to man. I've been on my own before I even arrived at teenage. I belong to a minority group. my religion places me in that group. I know what it is to receive rebuffs, cruel, unreasonable, unwarranted torment, those gestures that cut deeply, those condescending words that imply that you're a second-rate citizen, those pains and hurts that come not from physical violence, but from a lack of understanding and a lack of true citizenship. I pause long enough to say to you that I now occupy in this blessed land of ours the 14th post, governmental post in my career. can only happen in America. I'm grateful to the community that made it possible. people, and as a fact-finder, which I claim I am, and I claim very little else, I think it no more than fair to pause long enough to tell you that the Department of Welfare is, as Commissioner Pinto pointed out, a very important Department, and that it is being administered by a Commissioner and his delegated lieutenants with a deep understanding heart. And I think you should know that their position as to the giving of welfare, which is not within their power to give or deny, it's according to the law, is being administered by a champion for all people, and I mean Commissioner McCarthy. What I deplore, more than anything else, is the covering up of these indignities to black, white, minority groups. We've got to be outspoken. None of this business of get along at any and all costs. That's wrong. That's prostituting a principle. when you hear something said that you know full well is un-American, speak up. Righteous indignation is a precious thing. Speak up loud and clear and forcefully. I don't know what a lot of the quarrel is about. There's no basis for it. Let's be honest and outspoken. Here we all are, the high and the lowly, scholar and simpleton, pope and peasant, like passengers on the same ship on our brief visit or voyage through life. In that excellent book, Human Destiny, there's a passage that speaks much more eloquently than I have the capacity to render. We are all like people at the bottom of a valley who seek to climb a snowy peak that dominates all others. We have our eyes fixed on the same goal and we agree that there is but one summit to reach. Unfortunately, we differ on the road to take. And so guides come forward and we follow them. Some go one way, others choose different paths. All are convinced that their trail is the best and all are sincere. But when the groups which started from different points meet, instead of uniting, they seek to convince each other mutually that it is they who have discovered the best road and they then sometimes end up by throwing insults and stones at each other. And to that I say, let the religious wars and the persecutions which have claimed millions of victims throughout the centuries testify to the sad truth of that parable. February is our month of heroes. In newspapers, magazines, public addresses, and other means of communication throughout the land, tribute will be paid and is paid to the two foremost men in our history. The founder of the American Union and the savior of the Union in the hour of its most serious crisis. The biographies of Washington and Lincoln run into the thousands and hardly a month passes without the announcement of a new book on one aspect or another of their careers. Yet, in spite of the renown of Washington and Lincoln, too few Americans have more than a superficial knowledge of their character and their accomplishments. They are celebrated, but not appreciated. Glorified, but not emulated. Their genius, of course, we cannot match. We can only bow before it in awesome admiration. But every one of us can share, to some extent, the self-sacrificing devotion to duty and the sublime faith in the destiny of America, which was theirs. dark as the skies may be today, with the low-hanging clouds of domestic evils and apprehensions of foreign wars, they are no darker than they were for Washington when he shepherded his shriveling and shivering men at Valley Forge, or for Lincoln when his wise patience was condemned as weakness, and his firm purpose to preserve the Union, slavery or no slavery, law or no law, was branded as tyranny. Shall we be content to live as pensioners on the bounty of Washington and Lincoln, letting their courage in the face of crisis and their faith in the blessings of American democracy suffice us? Shall we not rather, as far as in us lies, be ourselves the promoters of the purposes and aims to which they devoted their lives and fortunes? the program is heavy, but the lament that I feel is not as deep as it was during the years that I grew up and was admitted to the bar. we've gone a long way with those of us who are impatient. Progress is slow, but it's here. I've seen it. I see it in one of the busiest tribunals in the world. There's no question but what intolerance brings outlawed behavior. The criminal calendars do not reflect that degree of slurs, impatience, subornation, indifference, intolerance that they did years ago. Sure, there's room for improvement. In some parts of our blessed land, I have witnessed acts that were enough to freeze my blood. But I do say that we've gone ahead. Spokesman after spokesman in large numbers come forward to denounce this ungodly, un-American, unconstitutional behavior of people who hold themselves up as citizens. The progress they're making isn't as easy as they used to. Certainly there's a lot of calumny. Let's close our ears to a lot of it. And let's hear those deep-throated voices of conviction. and there's a lot of them, convinced that we're all Americans and that every single act that we do of the nature that I've indicated holds back not only the individual but the community and the city and the nation. And that was best expressed 150 years ago in an editorial that appeared in the London Times. The greatest tyranny has the smallest beginnings from precedents overlooked, from remonstrances despised, from grievances treated with ridicule, from powerless men oppressed with impunity, and overbearing men tolerated with complacence, men who springs the tyrannical usage which generations of wise and good men may hereafter perceive and lament and resist in vain. men. At present, common minds, common minds, no more see a crushing tyranny in a trivial unfairness or a ludicrous indignity than the eye, uninformed by reason, can discern the oak in the acorn or the utter desolation of winter in the first autumnal fall. Hence the necessity of denouncing with unwearied and even troublesome perseverance a single act of disrespect of oppression. Let it alone and it stands on record. The country has allowed it and when it is at last provoked to a late indignation, it finds itself gagged with the record of its own ill compulsion. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Judge Cooper. I would like to have you all listen very carefully to the next announcement. I will say there's one exception however. My wife sitting over there doesn't have to listen to this particular announcement because I know it doesn't apply to her. This may sound like a gag but it isn't. a diamond has been found I hope belonging to some lady in the audience who has lost it and who will be looking for it and if so it is in the possession of the special patrolman at the rear of the auditorium. so all of you start looking around to see if your diamonds are missing. And if one of the ladies discovers that a diamond is missing she may proceed to the back of the hall and recover it. for anyone who hasn't Mr. Diamond that's a good way of keeping you seated isn't it? You'd be quite conspicuous. Our choristers of whom we are justly proud will now sing two numbers for us. English Madrigal by Morley We'll now hear from Reverend John M. Coleman. Reverend Coleman is rector of St. Philip's Episcopal Church in Brooklyn which I know to be the largest church largest congregation in Brooklyn and Reverend Coleman is also a member of the Board of Education of New York City. We welcome you Reverend Coleman. Chairman, Reverend clergy, honored guest, I'm exceedingly grateful for having been invited. I was called yesterday and rather last evening and reminded that I would be given five minutes I want to be courteous and polite because I want to be invited again. I'm going to confine that five minutes for which I am very grateful to, on the one hand, saying thank you to those of you who have come and I think of the audience as a very important part to Commissioner McCarthy and his staff who have fostered this program and others of our city who have made it possible and also to make a plea to you, a very brief one, that you come again, that you have this program again, also that you will, going from here this evening, work a little harder for brotherhood and also I want to make a plea for your interest in Negro history. That beautiful hymn America that the choral group sung has, as you remember, the touching refrain, which is a prayer. America, America, God shed his grace on thee and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. That impressed me this evening as a creed, as a part of the American creed that I want you to think of. And the point of emphasis, I think, is that the crown of all that America is, America is and noted for many things. There are many fine things about America, many great accomplishments, but the crown of it all is brotherhood. I wish I could impress that upon you as you go as a creed, to the end that we may work a little harder towards that end. I am very proud of the role that America is playing in the nations of the world today and that she has played. I was a boy in high school and early years of college when America was after World War I struggling with the great concept of a League of Nations. And frankly, as a young student, I was terribly let down when America pulled out. I am exceedingly happy that America has regained that great respect for itself and the role that it is playing now. The Marshall Plan and all it has done and is doing for making for brotherhood among the nations of the world. I am also mindful, and you are, that our efforts are being challenged. They are being called into question. And a great deal, someone has said, that others are winning the idealism, winning the confidence of the world because America is not practicing all that it preaches in America. Our enemies are fighting us with propaganda about some of the small failures that we have. are. Well, there is that great truth that I am mindful of and I won't ask you to be mindful of. The great threat to America is not from without, whatever that threat may be. America will never be defeated from enemies from without. As the greatest enemy, the greatest threat is that of bigotry and prejudice within. And those forces within that tend to set man against man, religion against religion, one group against another, that is a real threat to that which is dear to you and to me as Americans. I plead with you, therefore, to work hard. Brotherhood does not come by accident. It doesn't come simply by having read statements on our statute books about it. It comes only when men and women are convinced that that is the way and are willing to work for it. We have accomplished a great deal in that respect. especially in the last ten years. But it is evident, as our mayor has just said, that we must accelerate our pace. We must step up faster. We must increase, as we have in the production of war strength, that strength within, that is brotherhood. I have one more minute. I want to plea with you also at a great adjunct to that is studying Negro history. Negroes are not the only group in America who have suffered from, and are suffering from, bigotry and prejudice. But as a group who landed America before the Mayflower did, who have shared in all of the experiences of fought in all of the wars, who have produced the topmost men and women in every field, are still an adequate measuring rod for true Americanism and brotherhood. I venture to say they offer the best means of our measuring just how far our country has gone. The truth is our enemies are using that measuring stick. I had a friend who was in Europe at the time of that terrible bombing in Florida, Moore. He told me, you know, I read in the papers in London about this before you read about it in New York. Bad news travels fast. Our enemies know Negro history in America. we must be armed with the truth. It is not only that Negroes, and I trust soon that term may disappear from our language, that it may soon become meaningless, but it still has a great deal of meaning. It means many people a force. Well, it means many things that we dislike. It also means the mark of a group of people who have made more progress and less than the century than any others in history. If you would talk about the good and the great possibilities of America, there is your best example. Read Negro history, be armed with the truth, so that we can both be inspired to build greater brotherhood and to defend ourselves against our enemies in that respect. Again, I thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I join the audience in thanking you, Reverend Coleman. I think it's obvious that Reverend Coleman has not been initiated into the inner circle of those who indulge in a great deal of public speaking in this city because we have a little formula. When one of us is asked or asks another, how long shall I speak or how long shall you speak, when we say five minutes, we have an understanding among ourselves that means ten minutes or we say ten minutes, that means fifteen minutes. But for preachers, Reverend Coleman, we always double it. so you didn't take advantage of your opportunity really. We're very grateful to you, sir. And now, I think all of you have been waiting for something that appears in your program, and for those of you who don't have programs, you have an extra special treat coming up in my announcement that the next number will be a duet with Miss Monica Mayes and Mr. Fred Thomas, a duet from Porgy and Bess. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In a few moments, we will receive the final of the many blessings that we have known this evening, the blessings of the beautiful music which we have had given to us by our wonderful guest artists and the blessings of the inspiring words that have come to us from the speakers who have appeared here this evening. I wish to thank all of our speakers and our artists. I wish to thank the clergy for helping to make this a memorable occasion. Our own choristers are certainly deserving of thanks, and we are grateful to Police Commissioner Monaghan for his cooperation and to our splendid police orchestra. Station WNYC has, as usual, done its beautiful job of setting up our public address system and of recording the proceedings this evening, which will be rebroadcast, and I suppose if you watch your radio columns, you'll find out when that will happen. And we thank Miss Selden and the officials of Hunter College for providing us with this beautiful hall. Our own usherettes from the department have done a nice job this evening. Our special patrolmen in their new uniforms not only look fine, but I think have been very successful in preserving a semblance of order, and the psychological effect of the uniform, you see. And, of course, all of the staff who contributed to making this as beautiful an evening as it has been for all of us. I think they all deserve a great deal of credit for this fine affair. prayer. Now we will hear the final blessing of the many blessings we have known this evening. I will call on Reverend Shelby Rooks, pastor of St. James Presbyterian Church, to bless us before we go. Thank you. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon you and give you peace this night and evermore. Amen. Our choristers and all will sing God Bless America accompanied by the Police Department Orchestra. Thank you. Thank you. Do you. There's so much you have The End