The W.O.R. News Special Features Division and the Visiting Nurse Service in New York present No Calls Unanswered. This is John Wingate, W.O.R.'s On The Spot Reporter. I have a story for you that I can hardly call news because it's not news. It began in 1893, 56 years ago, and it hardly qualifies as a special event because it is and has been a daily event. Nearly a thousand times daily. Let me give you the story as I got it. It began for me five days ago when I visited the office of Miss Marion Randall, Executive Director of the Visiting Nurse Service in New York. Mr. Wingate, there's a story in the work of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York that needs to be told. Yes, Miss Randall, and I suppose you want me to tell it. Yes. You see, although the Visiting Nurses have played an important part in protecting the health and lives of New Yorkers since 1893 when Millian DeWall founded the service, it's a story too few people are familiar with. That's all well and good, Miss Randall, but please tell me how the question concerns me. You see, I'm simply a radio news reporter. If you've got a news item about your visiting nurses, I'd be very glad to use it. But unless it's something like that, unless it's the kind of story you want... Well, uh, what do you call news, Mr. Wingate? Would you call preventing serious illness news? Why, that, yes, of course. Well, or helping an injured workman to regain sufficient health to return to work? Or saving a child's life first? Well, sure, that's news. I'd call that news certainly. Well, then I could give you nearly a thousand stories, every day. We answer that many calls for urgently needed home nursing care, every day. And how many do you take care of? All. No call goes unanswered. Do you agree there's a story in the visiting nurse service of New York, Mr. Wingate? Yes, Miss Randall, I do. I think you've got a story, but I don't think I'm the one to tell it. Now, the people you help, they're the ones who really can tell the story of what the visiting nurse service means. Well, very well. How about giving them a chance to tell their story? I accepted Miss Randall's challenge. In the next several days, I accompanied some of the 225 visiting nurses on their calls. With me, I took a portable tape recorder. You're going to hear from these people themselves, from those who are being cared for by the visiting nurse service of New York. The first call was on Upper Washington Heights, a small, neat, scrupulously clean apartment. But dark. Dark only as a basement apartment in a tall building can be. The patient is a young boy. His hip has been injured and he lies in bed, immobile, encased in a plaster cast up to his waist. Well, say, Terry, what's that big smile on your face for? Yeah, I just beat the bums in the world series and that makes me happy. A lot of other people I could name are very unhappy for that reason, but I suppose you're a Yankee fan. Yes, I was. Who's going to win next year? The Yankees. Then you still are. Yes. I should tell you that 10-year-old Terry is here in bed... What's the matter? Seven years old. I stand corrected. Seven-year-old Terry is here in bed with a broken hip. He's been here for one month and he's kept company by a combination of his mother, the visiting nurse, Miss Doris Gottlieb, and a small puppy by the name of Skippy, who is around the house, barking and quiet alternately from time to time. What do you do in your spare time to keep yourself busy, Terry? I played the comics and I played the plane and I have a baseball game doing Chinese checkers. What kind of plane is that? Is that a DC-3? What is it? It's a sea plane. In other words, you could land anywhere, on land or on water. Yes. Well, how do you feel with that broken hip of yours? Okay. Do you get much help from Skippy or is he more of a nuisance? He's more of a nuisance. Why? He barks too much. Yes, he almost barked till we didn't come in when we came up to talk to you. Yes. But he finally let us in. Well, Terry, we're going to turn around now and talk to Miss Doris Gottlieb, the visiting nurse here, and to your mother. Miss Gottlieb, I wonder if you could give us a brief statement as to Terry's condition. I must say that his spirit seemed excellent to date. Yes, he's gotten along famously. I've been coming into this home to show his mother how to bathe him and how to massage and exercise a leg that hasn't been affected, so that when he gets out of bed, he'll be able to walk along very nicely. And what are you doing here today? Well, I've come in today to see his mother show me how she's been managing when I'm not in the home, and giving him his bath and helping him do his exercises. And now we'll ask the mother just how she's been able to make out with those exercises. Well, I seem to get along pretty good with them exercises. How often do you do them, Mother? Well, I do them every day. Well, I should think that maybe you'd get a little bit more out of it, or rather Terry would get more out of it if you did it three times a day, not doing it as often at one time, but spreading it out throughout the day. Well, yes, I could arrange for that, yes. Well, I suppose that if you'll show me now how you're doing the bath demonstration, and then we get on to do the exercises, then we can plan further for his home teacher coming in next week, and then we'll really have something to keep him more busy than what he's kept now, all right? Yes, I would like that very much. Now, I'm a reporter, not an editorial writer, so I can't attempt to describe the eagerness with which the visiting nurse was greeted, and the look on the face of that boy and his mother as they spoke of what the nurse had meant to them. I shall merely repeat the doctor's prognosis. The Terry will be up and around again in the not-too-distant future, thanks to skillful, devoted nursing. Visiting nurse. One moment, please. I'll connect you with the nurse. The next patient was unable to tell me anything about the visiting nurse service. You see, she's just four months old, although she hardly looks at being no larger now than the average infant is at birth. Our patient is one of 10,000 premature babies born in New York every year. She lives with her mother, father, and brother in a desperately small apartment a few blocks below 125th Street. Well, here we are in a small one-room apartment in Upper Manhattan. Sitting next to the window is the mother, and on the bed are her two children, one of whom, the youngest, was a premature child and must be given special care. Also here with us is a visiting nurse, Miss Elsie Hugo. Miss Hugo, I wonder if you could tell us how this case came to be reported to your service. It was reported to me by the hospital in which the baby was born. They refer all of their premature babies to us for care and also to make sure that the home is fit for them to be received into. Now, so that those of you listening may hear what the visiting nurse does as she makes her calls each day to help out, let's take our microphone over and pick up a bit of the conversation between Miss Hugo, the nurse, and the mother. How has the baby been since I was here last? Well, she's been a whole lot better than she was before. She has been eating, taking her formula well, too? Yes, she has. Uh-huh. You told me that she had quite a bad night last night, but that isn't usual anymore, hmm? Well, did she have any more of the diarrhea that we were so worried about? No, it hasn't came back as yet. Nothing Thursday. Oh, well, that's wonderful. You haven't had to take it to the hospital again, then? No, I haven't. Is it still on that formula, the K-Sec that the hospital gave you? She's still taking it until Thursday. Until Thursday? Oh, well, and then she'll go back to the regular feeding. She certainly has gained weight well. She's about seven and a half pounds now. Well, I didn't think she'd be that much. Well, I didn't think so either, but you've been taking such good care of her. She's been doing very well. Yes, she is doing very well indeed. And as a matter of fact, I must say both are doing well this afternoon, because as we talk, not a sound has come from them. They're very peaceful. They're certainly very quiet for babies. And now to the mother, I'd like to put a question, if I may. I wonder if you could tell us just what this visiting nurse service has meant to you. Well, it's meant a lot to me by Miss Hugo coming here and helping me take care of the baby. I wonder what would have happened had you not had the nurse here. Well, I really wouldn't know what to do. By being a premature baby, I don't know how to take care of her properly. As a matter of fact, you could say it was almost a case of saving the baby's life. Yes, I would say that. Had the nurse not been here, would you have been able to bring the baby home from the hospital? No, I don't think I would have. In other words, the visiting nurse service has made it possible for you to be here with your child. Yes. Well, thanks very much for talking to us, Miss Hugo, and to the mother also. I shall not attempt to read any eloquence into this mother's words. Eloquent beyond any words is the tiny flicker of life in this incredibly tiny baby. Nurse intended carefully and skillfully, it grows stronger, more certain of survival every day. Visiting nurse. One moment, please. I'll connect you with the nurse. Well, that tape recorder began to feel awfully heavy, trudging up two steep flights of narrow stairs to the diminutive room where the third patient lives alone. She's an elderly lady. She has a fractured left hip and is almost completely dependent upon the visiting nurse who comes daily to care for her and help her on with her brace. She has a wonderful twinkle in her eye, but the moment she heard us use that word elderly, it changed to a look of direct antagonism. Just the same, I'm going to ask you your age. I don't think that's nice. Women usually don't, but men are somehow persistent. Well, if I were registering to vote, I'd say I'm over 21. But that's not very specific. Well, that's the condition of the world today. That may be true. By the way, talking about registering to vote, will you be able to put on your braces and go down to register? Why, I promised to meet the visiting nurse at the door today, but I put my brace on by myself today. You've come that far under her instructions? Yes, oh yes. I'll be able to walk downstairs in a week or so. Looking about the apartment, we see several books which friends have sent to help her spend what certainly must be lonely and idle hours, and by her bed of radio because she likes to listen to music. And we should point out that at one time she was a very well-known concert violinist. Well, I was a concert violinist. I played, supposed to be pretty good. Yes, you played well, you told me. Oh, so they said that at the hospital, one of the ladies wanted me to bring my violin. And I said, if I did, I would play home sweet home. To which the lady said, if you do that, I'll break your neck. Of course, everybody wants to go home to the hospital. Now let's turn to the visiting nurse here, Miss Gottlieb, and get her to tell us a bit about the treatment of the patient and some other things which she may have for us. Miss Gottlieb? Since this lady has been discharged from the hospital, the visiting nurse service has been coming in to help her in giving daily care and then teaching her how to use her brace, putting it on herself, and then walking with crutches. In addition, she has suffered some sort of nutritional deficiency because of this fall. We are giving her an intramuscular injection. This has helped her get out of bed quickly, and she, as she told you before, she'll soon be able to get out of doors. Now suppose I turn to the patient and ask her what she thinks about the visiting nurses. I think the visiting nurses are wonderful. They're so understanding and ready to help in every way. Now this lady, as you can imagine, leaves me very little to say. So here then are some final facts about the visiting nurse service of New York. Last year it made 338,325 home nursing visits to 55,862 patients. Gave nursing services to nearly one quarter of all babies born in Manhattan, Queens, and Bronx. Provided health supervision at 41 day care centers for children of preschool age. Furnished 8,400 hours of nursing service to a number of small industrial plants. It's available to all, regardless of race, creed, or ability to pay. Just about half of all its services are given free. Now there's one part of the visiting nurse story, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns you. Here to tell you about it is Mr. John M. Schiff, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the visiting nurse service of New York. The episodes you have just heard, ladies and gentlemen, are fact, not fiction. But these are only three of the voices of the thousands of people cared for each year by the visiting nurse service of New York. Every day, 225 skilled nurses go forth from 14 different centers to give nursing care at home to 1,000 citizens of Manhattan, the Bronx, and Queens. Multiply this by 365 days of the year, and the total is staggering. When Lillian D. Wall started this great humanitarian service in 1893, she knew from her own nursing experience the need for skilled home care for the sick. Half of the services extended to the people of New York by the visiting nurse service are free, and all are given regardless of race or creed. This Tuesday, October 18th, the visiting nurse service of New York is launching its 1949 campaign for funds to carry on its work, so that boys like Terry, babies, the aged, the crippled and sick of this great city of ours, may be cared for at home. The visiting nurse service of New York is calling upon you, the citizens of New York City, for support. Won't you please help again? You have just heard, No Call Unanswered, presented in the public interest by WOR's News and Special Features Division. All voices heard in this program were those of the actual persons involved.