Oh, ye shall I,, I hop to the highest, oh, ye teach me, O ye Ye shall Iucilus, panting on thebly divine, round the high, MEETGULUs簡 د passage Thank you. For the land of the free and the home of the brave. We're speaking to you from the New York City building at Flushing Meadow Park, where the newest of the city's additions to the happiness and welfare of the citizens of New York is about to be dedicated. It's a combination roller and ice skating rink, the first section of the new Flushing Meadow Park to be open to the public. On the program this afternoon, out here on the site of the former World's Fair, is the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Fiorello H. Lagardia, the President of the City Council, the Honorable Newbold Morris, the Honorable Robert Moses, Commissioner of the Park Department, the Honorable George Hugh Harvey, Borough President of the Borough of Queens, and the Honorable Joseph Timo Goldrick, Comptroller of the City of New York. These officials marked the opening of the ceremony, and now the ceremonies are about to start, and here is the introduction by the Executive Officer of the Department of Parks to begin the dedication. Presenting the park, Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll get this speaking over just as fast as we can. The first speaker on the program is the President of the Council, the Honorable Newbold Morris. Commissioner Moses, Mayor Lagardia, my associates in the city government, I want to express the thanks of the skaters of yesterday who still want to skate, of the skaters of today, and particularly for the skaters of tomorrow who will have the use of this magnificent rink to develop champions from the city of New York. I must confess that when I voted as a member of the Board of Estimate for this rink and its maintenance, I almost had to refrain because my interest was so personal. We have it, and we have the vision of Commissioner Moses which made this great facility possible. On one side, we have ice. On the other side, a rink for roller skating. I believe that both these exercises will have a great deal to do with making New York a happier place to live in. Don't ask me why I took up ice skating instead of roller skating except for the fact an early incident on a roller skating rink many years ago made me decide on ice. And I don't think this will happen anyone who roller skates here because of the magnificent floor. But in those days, it was just a question whether you wanted to fall on ice and not hurt yourself or fall on the floor and pick up splinters. I picked up splinters and so I took to the ice. I want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Moses, on behalf of all those whose lives will be made so happy by this great public improvement which is just as beautiful far more so than we ever imagined. And I hope perhaps it will induce my colleagues in the city government to take up skating because my one ambition is to have the entire city administration on ice. I now present the mayor. Commissioner Moses, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to attend the formal opening of this great city recreation building. This building is typical of what a far-seeing, intelligent commissioner of a progressive administration can do. it costs no more to the city than had we put up a temporary building of the size and magnitude that was necessary to contain all of the city's exhibit during the fair and afterwards have the expense of demolition. Commissioner Bob Moses, presented the plan for this permanent building to hold the city's exhibit during the two years of the fair and which incidentally was one of the finest exhibits of local city government ever presented at any exposition. This building will be used for indoor sports for in addition to the skating rink and the roller skating rink. It will contain a track, will house basketball games and tournaments and all of indoor sports in addition to being equipped for a convention hall which was very greatly needed in our city. So I want to take this opportunity to extend to you, Commissioner Moses, the thanks of the mayor and of the people of the city of New York for this additional great contribution to our city. city. Now you've just heard President Newball Morris who is going to give you an exhibition of fancy skating. In addition to having been a champion fancy skater in his youth, he learned a great many tricks of skating on thin ice while presiding over the city council. and I want to now extend the welcome of the city to the youth of our city and to now formally dedicate this great building to the youth and happiness of the youth of New York City. Thank you. We are quite fortunate in having a member of the present city administration who was an ice skater and a member of the New York Skating Club. We owe a great deal of thanks to the Honorable Newball Morris for arranging the exhibition skating which he'll describe to you. He'll introduce the people that he brought here, all of them champions and all of them coming directly from the Eastern States amateur show at Playland. Very fortunate in having all of these stars with us today. President Morris. The first skater on this program is a young man who will go to the top in American and I hope North American and should the war end in good time to the championship of the world. He's a New York skater of great promise. In fact, he was so good that when he entered the Eastern States Championship yesterday, there were no contenders to face him. So he stands unchallenged as the finest man figure skater in the eastern seaboard of the United States. I have great pleasure in presenting Eddie LaMair. You've heard the president of the city council describe the career, the promised career of Mr. Ed LaMair. He's taking his position now on this magnificent ice skating rink here in what was formerly the city of New York building, that is the exhibits of the city of New York, were held in this building. It's still the same building, and you have no idea what a magnificent arena it presents at the present time. Mr. LaMair is floating around as though the laws of gravitation were entirely suspended, and instead the laws of grace pertained, because without a question of doubt, he presents a very magnificent picture here on this beautiful ice rink here at the city of New York building on what was formerly the world's fair at Flushing Meadow. This is the first unit of that part of the Flushing Meadow Park occupied by the fair to be open to the public. Immediately after the closing of the fair on October 27, 1940, the various city departments began the removal of their exhibits. A contract was let to remove temporary construction and to build the roller skating rink 150 feet long and 160 feet wide. The ice skating rink is 178 feet long and the same 116 feet wide and was built as part of the building when it was constructed in 1938. The rinks are separated by a 12-foot walk. There will be daily afternoon and evening skating sessions. On Saturday mornings, children under 14 years of age will be admitted free of charge. Charges for the other sessions will be 20 cents for the afternoon period from 2.30 p.m. at 35 cents for the evening period at 7 p.m. Admission price will include the use of roller skates. A charge of 50 cents will be made for the rental of ice skates. Patrons may bring their own ice skates and roller skates, but rollers must be suitable for the brand new wooden floor here in the City of New York building. No charges will be made for the checking of wearing apparel. There will be a cafeteria where food may be bought at reasonable prices, and a skate shop will be provided where skates may be sharpened and necessary equipment purchased. And now, before we conclude, Mr. Morris will make another introduction. President Newbold Morris is waiting now for the band to conclude the number that accompanied Mr. LeMaire in his skating feature here on the ice ring. Mr. Morris. The next number on the program are the national dance champions of the United States who will give you an idea of dancing on ice, which is within the realm of possibility of everyone to do, even if not with perfection, that this group, this pair will show. Miss Sandy McDonald and Mr. Harold Hartshorn. And now as Miss Sandy McDonald and Harold Hartshorn start out in their exhibition here on the ice rink at the City of New York building at Flushing Meadow Park, we bring to a conclusion the ceremonies from the new skating rink at Flushing Meadow Park. Your city station has brought you the ceremonies marking the dedication of the new rink with the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia, the Honorable Newbold Morris, President of the City Council, Commissioner Robert Moses of the Park Department. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.