Ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of introducing Miss Marie Lammemeier from Austria. She came to this country in 1924 and settled in Patterson, New Jersey. She became a naturalized citizen in 1930 and is very proud of this fact. The story she is about to tell you is the real true story of the beloved song, Silent Night, Holy Night. True to the fact as she herself was born and raised in the village where this famous Christmas carol was written, sung and played for the first time. The purpose of telling you all about the birth of this song is her desire to bring with it into the hearts of all mankind goodwill, peace and contentment on earth. Here is Marie Lammemeier. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be able to tell you today the true and only story about the song, Silent Night, Holy Night. As it was told to us by people whose parents or grandparents heard the actual first performance of this song in the year 1818 at the midnight mass in the church of St. Nicholas in Obendorf, Austria. First, let me give you a short description of my hometown itself. The village of Obendorf is situated about 22 miles north of the famous city of Salzburg where Mozart was born and where the well-known Salzburger Festspiele are given each year. Obendorf itself is divided in two parts, the old and the new Obendorf. The church where this song was given for the first time stood in the old part of the village, close to the banks of the river Salzach, and across this river lies the Bavarian city of Laufen. In the springtime every year, this river overflows its banks when the snow melts in the nearby Bavarian Alps and thus sends an enormous amount of water down the rapid moving river. These repeated floods undermined and damaged the foundation and the structure of the church to such an extent that the people began to worry about its safety, and so this old church was torn down in the year 1903. A new church was built on higher and safer ground, and a new part of the village made its appearance. A large part of the old village still stands with its creamed old houses and narrow streets. On the ground where the old church stood stands now a chapel, which was erected in the year 1935 and has the name of Silent Night Chapel. The population of the village is very religious, and the people still cling to a great extent to old customs in celebrating the Feast of Corpus Christi, and also Thanksgiving, on which days there is a big procession around and through the village, and almost every window in every house is decorated with embroidered linen, holy images, garlands of flowers, and wreaths made of evergreens. Now to the actual story of Silent Night, Holy Night. The priest Joseph Moore and the organist Franz Gruber were great friends. Shortly before Christmas 1818, Ficar Moore knew that the organ in the church was out of order and could not be used at the midnight mass. He was very downhearted about this, as he could not picture a Christmas without music. Quietly, he sat down at his desk and started to compose a few verses, to which he gave the title, Silent Night, Holy Night. He put this poem in his pocket and in his dilemma paid a visit to his friend Franz Gruber, who, as he knew too well, shared this great sorrow with him. Before Ficar Moore started for home again, he left the note with the poem written on it, on Gruber's piano, with the remark, if Gruber, as the organist, could try to compose a little melody to the words. Gruber, in trying to cheer up his good friend, composed the song to these words. As the time came for the midnight mass, Gruber took his guitar with him to church, just to have a little music. And as he composed the song for two voices, soprano and alto, the song was performed in this manner, just by these two voices, with Gruber at the guitar as accompanist. The beautiful and simple melody of this song was soon on the lips of old and young alike in the village. And as shortly afterwards, a wandering Tyrolean theater group visited the village and heard the sound. They too took it immediately to their hearts and wasted no time in spreading it all over Austria and Germany, brought it finally to America and from here all over the world. Contrary to anything you ever heard before about the birth of this song, I can assure you, this is the real and true story. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will sing two verses of this song in the original language as stille Nacht, heilige Nacht, and close with our own silent night, holy night, as we all know it. And may I ask all of you, while I sing this song to you, to say a little prayer for peace on earth. One way, please take it. Keep it up, rude. The End The End The End Stille Nacht, heilige Nacht, hier dan erst, her dan erst, rule the mass, durft de engel, Alleluia. Tönt es laut von ferne und nah. Christus der Rösser ist da. Christus der Rösser ist da. Christus der Rösser ist da. Christus der Rösser ist da. Christus der Rösser ist da.