Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. This past week, in his testimony before the Senate Investigating Committee, General of the Army Omar Bradley declared that the Russians may be encouraged toward making war by the statements which are being made before the Senate Investigating Committees. It is very harmful, General Bradley continued, to our security and to our country, and to our future security, to have to pass on to Russia all of our intentions, all of our thoughts, all of our capabilities. These military disclosures, Bradley concluded, might even incite the Russians to attack. If, as General Bradley says, an attack on the United States is more of a possibility today, what is this nation doing to protect its civilian populations which would be the victims of such an attack? What should be done now about civil defense? Is it too late to disperse cities and industries? What is a sensible program of civil defense? Examine these and other questions about civil defense. Taking part in this discussion are three experts who have worked on various aspects of the civil defense problem. Frank P. Zeidler, mayor of the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Joseph O. Hirschfelder, chemist of the University of Wisconsin, who was chairman of the Board of Editors for the Atomic Energy Commission Handbook on the Effects of Atomic Weapons, and Dr. J. Garrett Allen of the University of Chicago, who headed a group of doctors who have conducted a six-year study on the effects of irradiation sickness. And now to open today's roundtable on civil defense, Dr. Allen. The prospect seems to be war. For the first time in our history, our entire country becomes a potential enemy target from attack arising from foreign shores. Full intentions of our foreign powers, we can do no other than to plan for the worse. Is this threat of enemy attacks five years away, 18 months away, or six months away? It becomes obvious to all who reflect upon the problem of civil defense. Arrange planning, coupled with emergency short-term measures, is the only thing to do now. Civil defense is obviously here to stay and must be with us for the rest of our lives. Mayor Zeidler, what is the problem we face? The problem, Dr. Allen, we face is, in my opinion, the essential one of protecting the American cities, the centers of production, and their working populations. All of us are unhappy over the future prospects because no one knows of any internal force inside of the totalitarian nations which can check their aggressive philosophies. As long as this situation exists, every democratic nation and every city in those nations is a potential target. A totalitarian nation possessing the know-how of atomic explosions could deliver a Sunday punch on democracies from which the democracies might well not be able to arise. That likelihood, and hence the likelihood of war, would be greatly diminished if there were a worthwhile or no worthwhile targets to strike at. That's the essential problem of civil defense, to make uneconomic any type of aggressive attack on target cities. I think that if we consider that as our basic problem, we can develop it. Mr. Hirschfelder, what are the facts about the atomic bomb that we are trying to protect ourselves against? Mr. Dr. Allen, in editing the Atomic Energy Commission's treatise on the effects of atomic weapons, the following points were evident. First of all, the atomic bomb is a very flexible weapon whose effects can vary a great deal depending upon the method of delivery. The Hiroshima and Nagasaki bursts were detonated high above the ground. Casualties were caused by flying debris from the blast, flash burns from the intense illumination, and nuclear radiation within the first minute. There was no physiologically important lingering radiation, and no danger to people moving into the area after the first minute. Intense fires or firestorms added to the chaos. There is also the possibility of a ground or underwater burst, which would spread radioactive poisons over an area of the order of 10 square miles. And this would require an entirely different aspect. For example, people would have to remain in their shelters for a period of from two to four hours to avoid being killed by the lingering radiation. Thus, the flexibility of the atomic bomb makes the civil defense problem more complicated. Well, what has been done about civilian defense? And what are the possibilities that we have for protecting ourselves, our cities, our industries, against the possibilities of such an overwhelming attack? Well, Dr. Allen, I'd like to answer that. As the mayor of the city of Milwaukee, and hence one of numerous mayors around the nation on whom this entire problem of civil defense has been thrust, a great deal has been done by municipal governments on the problem of civil defense. But Dr. Hirschfelder, in his statement, has pointed out the immense complexities of the problems which are faced, which must be faced. These problems involve the protection of people from numerous types of attack. There's not only the atomic type of attack, there's a biological type and a chemical type. These attacks all put together lead us to use the expression sometimes called ABC warfare. Now, when municipal governments, which are normally set up for peacetime operations, are asked now to consider the fact that they must protect themselves, you can see that every resource of the community must be strained in order to meet the problem. Municipal governments, for instance, have the task of trying to ascertain the direction of the federal government. Is the federal government talking in terms of international policies which would destroy municipal governments? They must also calculate whether or not there is a danger. And if there is a danger, what that danger consists of is for that reason that municipal governments have gone to not only the federal government, but to independent experts such as Dr. Hirschfelder to get advice on the central problem. Well, it is true that our cities are perhaps the most vulnerable part of our population with reference to such an attack. On the other hand, we must find an opportunity to elicit the interest and the awareness of those living in rural areas of the parts they must play in such a program. What has been done, and is it, in your opinion, possible to interest the legislators, for example, in states from rural areas to help in the planning program for bombing of a municipality? Dr. Allen, let me answer your question this way. Most American cities, particularly those on the West and East Coast, recognize the terrible threat that exists to them if a war should break out. They have, therefore, taken the initiative on their own in providing means of protecting themselves. Most of these protection devices are rudimentary, as Dr. Hirschfelder will testify, having seen some of them in operation. The cities, however, have run into this problem. People in rural areas who must furnish support to the cities are not as alert to the problem as people in the cities are. And hence, in many states, there has been a great problem of getting through the proper legislation to support a civil defense organization. As a result, also, the federal government has not been as vigorous, in my opinion, as it could have been, not only in fostering a program of education, but in taking the leadership in this particular problem, because the cities have not made themselves heard, nor are their necessities felt in the way in which they should have done so in the past. They are now, however, doing that particular problem, or meeting that problem. And in one sense, the federal government, in setting up a policy of transmitting its orders through the state governments, who are not as alert to this problem as municipal governments, has created a further problem for city governments. Well, let's be more specific about it. Uh, supposing, uh, we, uh, come down to industry itself. What should be done, uh, by the larger industries to protect their own personnel? Let me give you this answer, uh, down on a very specific pattern. What should an individual family do if it's threatened? Should the family disperse from the city? Should it evacuate? What would you do, or... Uh, what should an industry do if its working men suddenly discover that their families are threatened? These are some of the practical problems which must be faced, and I'm sure that Dr. Hirschfelder, as an editor of some of these, uh, treatises on atomic energy, has some of the answers for us. Those are very tough problems. We have some of the answers, but some of the other answers remain to be obtained. Uh, the civilian, uh, the Civil Defense Organization requires its own research organization with a few key scientists who can assimilate the work being carried out in the atomic, in the Atomic Energy Commission, the military agencies, and so forth, which have a civilian defense bearing. However, the civil defense, uh, scientists must also initiate certain research projects, since other agencies cannot be expected to always get the answers in the form which the, uh, civil defense requires. Now, up to now, the Civil Defense Organization has not, uh, taken a lead along these research lines. Well, of course, uh, civil defense is organized on a national basis is a very short duration at the present time, and, um, undoubtedly, we can expect to hear a great deal more from this group in the near future. However, uh, I would like to hear what both of you gentlemen have to say regarding, well, some of the measures that the family, uh, itself, uh, should, uh, look into, uh, for its own interest. Uh, for example, should, uh, uh, uh, or is the cellar, uh, or the basement of a home a suitable place, if an alert has been sounded, or should other measures be taken? Well, Dr. Allen, this is the, this is one of the problems that we have to look into more carefully. That is, some cellars would be excellent refuges, where, whereas other cellars, uh, would cave in, and the people would be buried, uh, would be buried under the debris. We should have some sort of inspection of cellars, so that people could be advised as to what would be the, uh, best place for them to stay in their own localities. But you have in mind there, specifically, a, an investigation of the cellar conditions of the individual family, and not the theoretical inclusion. Yes. This must be put on the, on the family level. Dr. Allen, let me explain to you some of the, the procedures which have been adopted by municipalities around the country. These municipalities, rather than the wait for, uh, directives from the federal government, have shown initiative on their own part. They have done such things as this. They've set up, uh, block warden programs. For instance, in the city of Milwaukee, we have some 4,000 block wardens out of a possible 6,000 which we hope to recruit. These wardens are expected, and will be expected, to go into every building in the vicinity, to check the possible location of air shelters, to find out whether the buildings are safe. You can see that this requires a tremendous amount of investigation. The factories of our city, interestingly enough, are giving this problem some thought themselves. Together with the labor unions in the factories, uh, joint councils are sitting down to discuss the problem of how best to protect the workers in the industry, and how to protect the factory itself. In other words, there's no escape from the hard, uh, fact that there must be attention to detail in this particular problem, if we are to save lives. And this can be extended to every field. And I'm sure that, uh, I'm sure that, uh, Dr. Hirschfelder comprehends, for instance, the problems which would be involved in the closing off of utilities, and no doubt has given some thought to that. Well, American cities, by the very virtue of our high standard of living, uh, suffer indeed, uh, uh, a great potential hazard, it seems to me, in that we have central heating, uh, power, gas, steam, water, perhaps the finest, uh, uh, in the way of public health, uh, facilities, uh, in the world, for the most part. And we must look upon, uh, this as being, uh, vulnerable to attack, uh, and, uh, just one word here, with reference to, uh, biological warfare, or in particularly, bacteriological, uh, warfare, perhaps more dangerous than, uh, the dissemination of some potent germ, the spread of some germ throughout a community, is the, uh, hazard of the breakdown of our own, uh, sanitation facilities. And it seems to me that that is something we must alert ourselves to, and be, uh, continuously, uh, aware of, and, uh, plan, uh, for. Now, what, uh, what are the difficulties, uh, uh, that you both see? Uh, Mr. Hirschfelder, uh, with reference to getting, uh, things done, uh, about civil, uh, civil defense. Well, Dr. Allen, as you well know, the public has a, uh, real apathy at the present time for doing anything about civil, civil defense. That is, uh, the Congress cut down the appropriations to the Civil Defense Agency, uh, to either 31 or 34 million dollars. And this, uh, does not permit enough funds to carry out all of the varied responsibilities of the federal, uh, civil defense agency. Furthermore, I think that most of the people in the country are looking to Washington to, uh, take their key. That is, uh, if the federal government is not going to disperse the population in Washington, other communities, uh, take these, Dan, why should they go ahead and spend a lot of money and go to all, all, a lot of trouble, uh, to prepare their own civil defense organizations? Well, I'd like to take up Dr. Herbsthalter right there by saying, not only, uh, asking the question, not only why should cities spend the money, but most of them do not have the funds. After cities have made an analysis of their civil defense needs, and such analysis would include the necessity of having additional firefighting equipment, stockpiling of necessary medical expenses, auxiliary housing facilities, and feeding facilities, they must find the funds to supply, uh, themselves with these facilities. But most of those cities have no alternate sources of revenue. They are budgeted, so to speak, up to the hilt, and have no means of getting additional revenue. The federal government, however, has taxing powers far beyond those of any, uh, local community. As the federal government is unwilling to expend funds for civil defense, it is not likely that, uh, local municipalities can meet their own needs no matter how desperate their needs are. Supposing a program should arise where there is the necessity of construction of shelters in the more populous centers of our big cities, those cities would find themselves, and their states would find themselves, hard put to raise any funds. It seems to me, therefore, that the federal government must show a token of interest in the program, other than that by, uh, issuing pamphlets and publications by appropriating enough sums of money to meet the country's needs. Well, as a doctor, I must say that, uh, most of us are impressed with the importance that blood and plasma will play in the treatment, especially of the injured, uh, suffering burns, fractures, lacerations, and internal injuries. However, if we were to anticipate the use of blood, uh, or plasma, or the combination of both, to treat shock resulting from these conditions, we would find ourselves, I think, pushed beyond the limits of our capabilities so far as collecting blood and plasma at the present time. Of course, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on substitutes for blood and plasma, and undoubtedly these, uh, will have to be, uh, found and suitable ones, uh, if, uh, adequate therapy or treatment is to be administered, uh, in this early period. Uh, I wonder sometimes if we might not look upon a blood program such as is now underway with the American Red Cross, much as we would look at our, at our income tax problem, uh, that it behooves every citizen between the ages of 18 and 60, or what, uh, local limits may be set, to give blood at stated and frequent intervals, uh, so that at least the plasma portion of the blood may be stored, and we may have large quantities available to work as a nucleus, uh, then using our blood substitutes, uh, only, uh, when it is absolutely, uh, necessary. The problem of irradiation itself, uh, is one that has puzzled us all. I believe we have failed to realize that not only are we treating patients who have fractures, lacerations, burns, and the like, resulting from the immediate effect of the blast, but that in a period of seven days to two weeks, perhaps a little longer, there sets in another type of sickness, one that is foreign to all of us, and that is called irradiation sickness. One thing we do know, that in the course of irradiation sickness, the body's defenses break down materially. No longer are we resistant to infection, and no longer are we able to nourish ourselves as well. There is severe anemia. There is also spontaneous hemorrhage. It would seem, uh, and, uh, furthermore, uh, this is made, uh, almost catastrophic, uh, in some respects, in that local injury, such as a burn or a fracture, is tolerated far less well in the person also receiving irradiation, than were the same wound to be inflicted on a person without irradiation. The first portion of the disaster we can cope with, at least to the capacity to get, or that we have to get to patients. The second pro... the second one, the delayed irradiation sickness one, uh, program, is one in which a lot of work has been done by all aspects of the armed services, and by the Atomic Energy Commission, and a great deal of information is available. Uh, we must, uh, coordinate this, it seems to me, uh, with civil defense. And I'm sure that, uh, the information already available, uh, could be put into such channels. I'm glad, Dr. Allen, that you brought out, in some detail, one of the key problems, which are beyond the capacity of local municipal officials to solve. Uh, namely, how would you handle a great number of casualties in any community at any time, particularly if these casualties had suffered from radiation sickness, which would complicate their problems? Uh, this seems to me to point to the fact that in the field of research and technical, uh, application to the problem of civil defense, the federal government must take a prompt and effective leadership. Do you not agree with me, Dr. Hurtzelter? Absolutely, Mr. Zandert. It's... the... the federal government has to sponsor the research, because this cannot be done on a... on a local or, uh, state basis. Now, Mr. Hurtzelter, why is this, uh, type of research different from that already in function, in the armed services and in the Atomic Energy Commission? Well, Dr. Allen, the Atomic Energy Commission has a need for... to... to investigate the bare workings of their atomic bombs, and the effects... the gross effects of the atomic bombs, but they do not have to have the... they do not have the responsibility of integrating these effects together with the situations in local communities. And the local... the local community problem, uh, makes a... makes a... a different slant on the research, so that a different... really a different type of research must be... must be initiated, uh, making use of all... of the work which is, you know, available. Certainly there, uh, we have... personally, or I can speak personally, that I have found all of these agencies, uh, cooperative and, uh, interested in the best interest of all. And I think we can count on that, but it does need organization to bring it into civil defense problems. Yes, the Atomic Energy Commission and the military agencies have... have done everything they can to furnish information to civil defense as a byproduct of the work which they are assigned. But they do have these... these different angles. Now I think that we have arrived at, uh, point where we can discuss some of the immediate steps that people should take. The first problem I think we have is one, uh, political problem, and I say that in the highest sense of the word. I think there has to be a cooperation between all of the people of this country, no matter what their parties are, uh, to minimize the threat of war. We as a nation should make it quite clear to people all over the world that we are not aggressive, we do not desire war, and we will take every step short of, uh, the loss of, uh, our integrity as a democracy to prevent war. However, if that is not sufficient, then we must begin with the family. Each person and every family should consider what he will do. We should go to the city government. The city government should take its position, a strong and effective civil defense organization through industry, through labor, through all the sections of government. The state governments, the rural portions of the state governments should become interested immediately, and above all, Congress should have a clear and effective voice on this subject. Well now, um, Mr. Hersfelder, uh, you have spoken of the need of a research organization. Could you, uh, very briefly, uh, state, uh, how you would envision, uh, this to function, uh, in the local community? The civil defense, the federal civil defense agency should have a few key scientists, who should assimilate the problems which are, which the, which the local agencies are faced with, and then they should bring together, uh, groups of the outstanding scientists in the country, uh, to work out their problems. Well, gentlemen, we have come to the end of our time, and I think we find ourselves in agreement that civil defense must begin at the family level, and that this can only be done with education and practice. Local civil defense authorities must then gear their plans to their own special needs. The local authorities, in turn, must be integrated at the state level, and that this must be coordinated at the national level. The basis and success of such a plan rests upon the cooperative efforts of all and at all levels. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on civil defense were Frank P. Zeidler, mayor of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Joseph Hirschfelder, chemist of the University of Wisconsin, who was chairman of the board of editors for the Atomic Energy Commission handbook on the effects of atomic weapons, and Dr. J. Garrett Allen of the University of Chicago, who headed a group of doctors who have conducted a six-year study on the effects of irradiation sickness. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of civil defense contains the full text of the discussion and a special article by Joseph Hirschfelder on the effects of atomic weapons. You'll want to read and study this article. Write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the roundtable presents a discussion by four leading doctors and psychiatrists on man and his illnesses. Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of NBC. Join the Blandings on their dream house today on NBC. I'm Matthew Hill. To answer that there are no letters you can wait to check. Ya individu a bed said, the Lunar Republic has passed the bodies of the former Freedom to Penn State Department for nhất. Soy excess corps since theanding effects. Operationidad dramas can mutue BRA � pore. getan aguific requirements By the way he's thrown to the sky one. If you may not benefit him, I'll respect his formerASS ships. I'm so I've got back to a ٰ hashemu of the tape and I'll visit to the point where he's to be right there. The sky on the committee? Hello all. Yeah the sky for us sir and send him to the edge of show that it's possible by far-你想 to interact with, which are being on theGeo of clay. What's the вик Djent for the degree?