There is a pause now while we await the arrival of Judge Joseph Gavigan of the Supreme Court and Mayor Pelletieri. He is to be mayor within a very, very few minutes officially and in his own right. The space of the portico of City Hall is fairly well packed now. There's hardly any additional room. The mayor's young and charming secretary has just arrived and standing by to witness this ceremony, which should take place any moment. We see Mr. John Golden, the distinguished theatrical producer here. There are a host of distinguished people in the life of the city all standing by, waiting to witness this ceremony of making Mayor Pelletieri. And here's the very, very charming Mrs. Betty M. Pelletieri who is being escorted by Mayor M. Pelletieri himself. You can hear the applause from the crowd. And in just a moment, the ceremony will begin. We take you now to the microphones on top of City Hall steps for the swearing-in ceremonies of Vincent R. Pelletieri. As the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. Father John Tynan. Father John Tynan. Direct we beseech thee, O Lord, all the actions of our new Mayor, Vincent Impelletieri, and carry them on by thy gracious assistance, that every work and prayer of his may begin from thee and by thee be happily ended through Christ our Lord. I would ask you all now to join with me in saying the Lord's Prayer so that the blessings of the Father may descend upon our city and upon the mayor we have chosen to rule us. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen. Justice Joseph A. Gavigan will administrate the oath. Mr. Mayor, will you place the left hand on the Bible and raise your right arm, please. And repeat your following oath of office after me. I, Vincent R. Impelletieri, do solemnly swear, Mr. Mayor lemon, , Mr. Mayor Martino, that I will support the Constitution of these United States, Mr. Mayor truly remaincolored, Mr. Mayor, willaan please feel letأneen a special forum. And I will GBP from the Maryland on all 60 gists. And I will PT الح因為 if my legislature was being held accountable and held continue with me Tôiión.これ poupõe qu much? Mr. Mayor! Mr. Mayor David Pakmere l suic절 vedate According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations. The Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere has just taken the oath as the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. Mayor Impeletere waves his hand to the crowd. Here he is now. Father Tynan, Judge Gavigan, Mrs. Impeletere, my mother-in-law Mrs. McLaughlin, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy to be here today surrounded by my family, by my parish priest, by the gentleman with whom I served in the Supreme Court, Justice Joseph A. Gavigan, who swore me in in 1945, who repeated the swearing-in ceremony in 1949. And I'm very pleased and happy that he was available to swear me in today as the Mayor of the great City of New York. Thank you. I'm also happy that on this occasion, so many of my personal friends are present. In addition to that, I'm happy to see here on this platform all of my colleagues in the Board of Estimate. And to them, I want them to know that I'm deeply grateful for their appearance here today. All I wanted to say, I don't intend to make a speech. I think that most people in the City of New York are tired of hearing my voice by now. We had considerable of that. I do want you to know that it's through the support of men and women like yourselves that are assembled here today that it was possible for me to achieve the victory that happened a week ago today. I want you to... I want the people of the City to know that during my tenure of office as Mayor of this great City, I shall at all times do my level best to justify the confidence that you have reposed in me. Thank you very much. I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well, that was Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletari acknowledging the plaudits of the crowd here on the steps of City Hall. The Mayor is now stepping down one step in front of the microphones, along with Judge Gavigan for the benefit of the photographers. Father Gilligan is also stepping down and directly next to the office. Next to the Mayor is Mrs. Impeleteri. James Farley has stepped down to the left of Father Gilligan. The photographers are now having their innings. By all means, one of the other photographers is trying to get through. We're doing the best we can. Pardon me. We're caught in a bit of a crush here on the top step of City Hall. There is a great crowd here. We're doing the best we can to extricate ourselves here. We're having a bit of difficulty here, but nevertheless, we'll do the best we can to describe this scene for you. There are two score photographers down on the lower steps of City Hall shooting up. The Mayor is now simulating the oath-taking for the benefit of the picture-takers. Judge Gavigan has his arm raised, but also has it on the other side of Mrs. Impeleteri. And the light bulbs are flashing despite the bright sunlight. There are hundreds of pictures being taken. And of course, this is a historic moment when the Honorable Vincent R. Impeleteri is sworn in as the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. And of course, Mrs. Impeleteri, who's just looked in our direction and smiled happily, this is indeed a happy day for her. Smile, Vince. The crowd has veritably taken Mayor Impeleteri onto its collective heart. Give them the works, Vince. You can hear a great many of the remarks that are coming up from the members of the crowd, which is really packed City Hall Plaza into one of the tightest packed groups that we have seen. And many, many a day. Judge Gavigan is now shaking hands with the Mayor. Again, all for the benefit of the photographers. You can hear the instructions of the photographers, many of them conflicting. They are now doing the best we can. They're now changing positions. Mrs. Impeleteri is now standing next to the Mayor. And the judge is still holding on to this beautiful Bible, beautifully bound Bible, which was used for the administration of the oath. There is quite a group gathered behind the main characters in today's drama. Borough President Lyons standing directly behind the Mayor now. Mr. James Farley. On the left, on the same level with the Mayor, Mrs. Impeleteri and Judge Gavigan. That was merely a flashbulb exploding. But nevertheless, the photographers are determined to get as many shots of this particular scene as they are able. The police are doing a magnificent job in keeping the people under control. Oh, there they go. They call for a kiss. And Mrs. Impeleteri kissed the Mayor. Another one. This is a very, very pleasant bit of posing. There is no doubt of that. And I guess now the formal ceremony is virtually over. The Mayor and Mrs. Impeleteri are now retiring to the inside of City Hall. And this completes the formal ceremonies here at City Hall for the swearing in of the Mayor of the City of New York. Vincent Impeleteri is the 101st Mayor of this great metropolis. We've tried to bring you a word description of the ceremonies here on the top of City Hall, which was held before one of the largest crowds that had ever been gathered in City Hall Plaza, amidst a great many distinguished guests, amidst a tremendous number of photographers, both still and motion picture, and which we've done the best we can today to have you present during this swearing in ceremony. And now let's check and see whether or not we have anything further that we can say to you. I think Mr. Aaron Carter is still at the other end. And possibly he might care to say another word or so. I don't know. Do you have anything further you want to say? Thank you very much, Mr. Siegel. There's really nothing further to say. It's been a very exciting and very spontaneous ceremony here on the steps of the mayor. the steps of City Hall. And we return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. There is a pause now while we await the arrival of Judge Joseph Gavigan of the Supreme Court and Mayor Impeletere. He is to be mayor within a very, very few minutes officially and in his own right. The space of the portico of City Hall is fairly well packed now. There's hardly any additional room. The mayor's young and charming secretary has just arrived and standing by to witness this ceremony, which should take place any moment. any moment. We see Mr. John Golden, the distinguished theatrical producer here. There are a host of distinguished people in the life of the city, all standing by, waiting to witness this ceremony of making Mayor Impeletere. And here's the very, very charming Mrs. Betty Impeletere, who is being escorted by Mayor Impeletere himself. You can hear the applause from the crowd. And in just a moment, the ceremony will begin. We take you now to the microphones on top of City Hall steps for the swearing-in ceremonies of Vincent Ar Impeletere as the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. Father John Tynan. Father John Tynan. Direct we beseech thee, O Lord, all the actions of our new mayor, Vincent Impeletere, and carry them on by thy gracious assistance, that every work and prayer of his may begin from thee, and by thee be happily ended through Christ our Lord. I would ask you all now to join with me in saying the Lord's Prayer prayer, so that the blessings of the Father may descend upon our city, and upon the mayor we have chosen to rule us. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen. Justice Joseph A. Gavigan will administrate the oath. Mr. Mayor, will you place the left hand on the Bible, and raise your right arm please, and repeat your following oath of office after me. I, Vincent R. Impelletere, do solemnly swear, Mr. Do solemnly swear, Mr. Do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of these United States. Mr. That I will support the constitution of these United States. Mr. And of the constitution of the State of New York. Mr. And of the constitution of the State of New York. Mr. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of mayor of the city of New York. Mr. That I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Mayor of the city of New York. Mr. In the office of the Mayor of the city of New York. Mr. In the office of the Mayor of the city of New York. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations. The Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere has just taken the oath as the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. Mayor Impeletere waves his hand to the crowd. Here he is now. Father Tynan. Judge Gavigan. Mrs. Impeletere. My mother-in-law Mrs. McLaughlin. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy to be here today. Surrounded by my family. By my parish priest. By the gentleman with whom I served in the Supreme Court. Justice Joseph A. Gavigan. Who swore me in in 1945. Who repeated the swearing in ceremony in 1949. And I'm very pleased and happy. That he was available to swear me in today. As the Mayor of the great City of New York. Thank you. I'm also happy that on this occasion. So many of my personal friends are present. In addition to that. I'm happy to. See here on this platform. All of my colleagues in the Board of Estimate. And to them. I want them to know that I'm deeply grateful for their appearance here today. All I wanted to say. I don't intend to make a speech. I think that most people in the City of New York are tired of hearing my voice by now. We had considerable of that. I do want you to know that it's through the support of men and women like yourselves that are assembled here today. That it was possible for me to achieve the victory that happened a week ago today. I want you to. I want the people of the City to know that during my tenure of office as Mayor of this great City. I shall at all times do my level best to justify the confidence that you have reposed in me. Thank you very much. Well that was Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri acknowledging the plaudits of the crowd. here on the steps of City Hall. The Mayor is now stepping down one step in front of the microphones. Along with Judge Gavigan for the benefit of the photographers. Father Gilgan is also stepping down. And directly next to the Mayor is Mrs. Impeletieri. James Farley has stepped down to the left of Father Gilgan. The photographers are now having their innings. Close this door. By all means, one of the other photographers is trying to get through. We're doing the best we can. But we're caught in a bit of a crush here on the top step of City Hall. There is a great crowd here. We're doing the best we can to extricate ourselves here. We're having a bit of difficulty here. We're having a bit of difficulty here. But nevertheless, we'll do the best we can to describe this scene for you. There are two score photographers down on the lower steps of City Hall shooting up. The Mayor is now simulating the oath taking for the benefit of the picture takers. Judge Gavigan has his arm raised, but also has it on the other side of Mrs. Impeletieri. And the light bulbs are flashing despite the bright sunlight. There are hundreds of pictures being taken. And of course, this is a historic moment when the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletieri is sworn in as the 101st Mayor of the City of New York. And of course, Mrs. Impeletieri, who's just looked in our direction and smiled happily, this is indeed a happy day for her. Smile, Vince. The crowd has veritably taken Mayor Impeletieri onto its collective heart. Give them the works, Vince. You can hear a great many of the remarks that are coming up from the members of the crowd, which has really packed City Hall Plaza into one of the tightest packed groups that we have seen. And many, many a day. Judge Gavigan is now shaking hands with the Mayor. Again, all for the benefit of the photographers. You can hear the instructions of the photographers, many of them conflicting. They are now doing the best we can. They are now changing positions. Mrs. Impeletieri is now standing next to the Mayor. And the Judge is still holding on to this beautiful Bible, beautifully bound Bible, which was used for the administration of the oath. There is quite a group gathered behind the main characters in today's drama. Borough President Lyons standing directly behind the Mayor now, Mr. James Farley, on the left on the same level with the Mayor, Mrs. Impeletieri and Judge Gavigan. That was merely a flashbulb exploding. But nevertheless, the photographers are determined to get as many shots of this particular scene as they are able. The police are doing a magnificent job in keeping the people under control. Oh, there they go. They call for a kiss. And Mrs. Impeletieri kissed the Mayor. Another one. This is a very, very pleasant bit of posing. There was no doubt of that. And I guess now the formal ceremony is virtually over. The Mayor and Mrs. Impeletieri are now retiring to the inside of City Hall. And this completes the formal ceremonies here at City Hall for the swearing in of the Mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. Impeletieri, as the 101st Mayor of this great metropolis. We've tried to bring you a word description of the ceremonies here on the top of City Hall, which was held before one of the largest crowds that have ever been gathered in City Hall Plaza, amidst a great many distinguished guests, amidst a tremendous number of photographers, both still and motion picture, and which we've done the best we can today to have you present during this swearing in ceremony. And now let's check and see whether or not we have anything further that we can say to you. I think Mr. Alan Carter is still at the other end, and possibly he might care to say another word or so. I don't know. Do you have anything further you want to say? Thank you very much, Mr. Siegel. There's really nothing further to say. It's been a very exciting, a very spontaneous ceremony here on the steps of City Hall. And we return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. Our next speaker is a distinguished veteran and a distinguished citizen of our country. After the events of last week, I know we have an opportunity today to wish him Godspeed, good luck, and the best of success in a terrific job to which he has been elected. And I know we're all proud of the fact that today we have here a fellow veteran and the distinguished mayor of the city of New York, Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, President Wagner, Reverend Clergy, members of the military, fellow veterans, and fellow New Yorkers. This is the 32nd anniversary of the signing of the armistice that ended the First World War. I can remember that day very well. I was just 18 years of age and had volunteered for the Navy the year before. I was young then and there were many things about life that I did not understand. But on that day, along with all the other common people of the world, I believed that we had seen the last world war. Since that time, vast changes have come over the world. Thrones have fallen. Revolutions have taken place. And here in the United States, our democracy itself has been threatened. But as we celebrate today the peace that was signed just 32 years ago, remember the Second, Greater War, with its millions of dead, its limitless destruction, its wrecking of cultures, and all the cruelty and suffering that made it the worst the world had ever seen. When we think of the Second World War, we understand that science has made war progressively worse, and that any future war will probably destroy the world. As we stand in a great city like this, it seems impossible that it could possibly ever disappear even overnight. Yet, not only great cities, but great civilizations have disappeared, some of them without leaving a trace. The huge military establishments that we created in the Pacific, even now, are sinking back into the jungle, and so are some of the things for which we fought. We are in danger. Our nation is at odds with a relentless force without ethics or morality. A force that is extending itself through all the nations of the world, and has taken over the governments of many of them. The force to which I refer is, of course, the force to which I refer is, of course, communism. We feel its hand in the Far East, in Europe, and we see its obstructive tactics, not only in the United States, but right here in the United Nations, in the capital city of the world. We have been firm. We have taken part in a small war to show that we will fight to prevent a larger one. As our troops stand with the forces of the United Nations, let us pray for them and for peace on this armistice day, just as we pray for the fathers, sons, husbands, and the comrades whose lives have been sacrificed to protect us in the world. Let us pray for the two wars that have gone on before. Let us pray with hope that our nation can help bring peace and freedom to all the world. Thank you very much, Mayor Impeloteri.