Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the voice of New York City, WNYC, speaking to you from the Park Terrace Garden Apartments in Astoria, Jackson Heights, Queens, New York. The purpose is the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund Party, given by the Park Terrace Garden Apartments Development. It's a wonderful thing with hundreds of children gathered here this afternoon. The sun is bright, the air is crisp and cold. The wedding for Santa Claus to make its appearance is going to come down a long, long street with a tremendous white beard, red suit, and drive up to the children's stands. And there, the children will see him, greet him, and the party will then get underway. Huh? Hello, everybody. I want to welcome you to the Terrace Park Christmas Party. Can everybody hear me now? Yes. Can everybody hear me now? I want to welcome you all to the Terrace Park Christmas Party. Santa Claus will soon be here with gifts and refreshments for every little boy and girl. And while he's on his way here, I want to tell you a little about this party. As you all know, Terrace Park is a new community of some 258 families. When our tenants' group got the idea for this party, a first party for a first community, we said, let's have an unusual Christmas party. And so we sent a letter to Santa Claus, and we said, Santa Claus, we think it would be a very nice idea at the end of this year to have a Christmas party. But not an ordinary Christmas party, not something in which everybody would just get gifts, but in which we could do something nice for other people at the same time. And we said, you know what, Santa Claus? We've heard of an organization that gives food and medicine and clothing to little boys and girls overseas. And what we think we will do is we will ask everybody in Terrace Park to come to this party. And we will give them gifts from Santa Claus, and we will ask them in turn to give gifts to this organization. And Santa Claus said, he said to me, that's a wonderful idea. That's one of the best ideas for a Christmas party I've ever heard. In fact, I'm going to come down myself. So we said, fine, Santa Claus. We told him how to get to Terrace Park. Now this party is being run. Now if you look down there, you'll see Santa Claus coming now. All right, everybody sit down. He has to go around the development first. This party is being given. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? This party is being given for the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. Children, I know that you're going to have to go around the world. You hear that tremendous roar that just went up. Hundreds of children gathered in the street have just seen the procession carrying Santa Claus. And we're waiting for him. We haven't seen him yet. Oh, yes, yes, we do. We see him. We hear the noise. And there is a hush of expectation. Here he is. Look at him. He's a little baby Austin. And he's just waving to the kids. The kids have gone wild again. Do you hear the noise now? Children, will you please wait outside? He'll be here in a few minutes. Now, I know every little boy and girl is very anxious to see Santa Claus and to speak to him. And if you'll just be patient for a few minutes, I'm sure he's going to be here. And he'll probably come here with Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. Keep him all around. Now, don't forget. Have your tickets to give to Santa Claus and you will get your gift. And daddies and mommies, we ask that when your child comes to Santa Claus, you remember to give your gift to the UN Children's Fund. Oh. Well, here comes Santa Claus now. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, Santa Claus. And here he is. And a wonderful sight. The sun is shining brightly and Santa's driving up to the enclosed quadrangle. The mothers are holding little children in their arms because it's the first time they've ever seen Santa Claus in their lives. The baby characters are being wheeled at the curb, too. The father's standing about looking very proudly as the young two look at Santa, hear him, and look forward to greeting Santa themselves. Oh, Santa Claus, come on over here. And now you hear the applause and the hand clapping of photographers who take pictures of Santa Claus because could any of the children ever think they hadn't seen him, then there would be photographic proof that they had. And they do see him. Say a few words. All right, Santa Claus, we'll be here in just a few moments, people. Come on, Santa Claus, everybody wants to hear you say hello. All right, Santa Claus, well, well, Santa Claus, welcome to Terrance Park, we're glad you could make it. How do you do, little Dave? And all you fine children, nice to see you all. Santa Claus wears Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer. Well, Dave, little trouble. Coming down from the North Pole. We ran out of snow. We ran out of snow. So Rudolph doesn't like this hard ground. So I said to Rudolph, you stay here, Rudolph, and I'll pick me up my little car. So I picked up my little car, and here I am, right on time. Now, children, can I make it? You want to help me up? Come on, man. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh. All right, children, if you will all go outside of the benches now to the entrance, Santa Claus's helpers will let you in one at a time, and then you can come up to Santa Claus and say a few words to him, and he will give you a present. As soon as you're all outside of the gates, then we will begin. Now, don't forget, give your tickets to Santa Claus's helper. Daddy's and Mommy's give gifts to Santa Claus's helper. All right, children, come on in now and see Santa Claus. Oh, what's your name, little girl? Michael. Michael. Michael, you're a boy. You fool me. You sit up here. How old are you, Mike? Four years. Four years? Four years old. What would you like me to bring down the North Pole for you? Uh? The electric train. Electric train. How many trains? Two more. Let's go, let it go. It's not too long. It's not too long. All right, twelve. I need to do something special for you. Be a good boy. Promise? Oh! Oh! All right, children, please, one at a time, wait over there. What's your name? Wait over there. Susie? Well, here's a nice big present for you, Susie. And you're a nice little girl. Okay, Susie. Atta girl. Now, don't get your milk, Susie. That's okay. Oh, here's another one. And who are you? Sheena. That's a pretty girl. Boy, you're very nice. We have a nice present for you, too. Go ahead, Jeena. Oh, I've got... That's all right. You're a nice girl. Madeline. Oh, Madeline? How would you like that? You gonna be a good girl? That's good. Oh, I see you. Oh, you're a heavy one. What's your name? Susie. Oh, you're a nice. You're a nice. You're a nice. Oh, I see you. Oh, you're a heavy one. What's your name? Susie. Oh, you're a nice. You're a nice. Oh, I see you. What's your name? You're Madeline's sister. Oh, they're two pretty girls. Your mother and father are proud of you. No, they're... Thank you, Susan. Oh, okay. There's a little nice. Oh, what's your name? What's your name? Richard, huh? What do you want for Christmas? A wagon. A wagon? I'll see if I can take care of you. Here's a little boy. Oh, hello. What's your last name? Sally. Oh, here's a nice present to you, Barbara. I hope you'll be a nice girl. Oh, yeah. Here's a little cow, Santa. Oh, you're a pretty one. You are. I want to see your brother. Where's your brother? All right, all the boys and girls at Paris Park are filing past Santa Claus now. Oh, here's the dog. And he's just telling Santa what he or she wishes for Christmas. Uh-oh. Oh, oh. Uh-oh. Help. Oh, boom. Oh. Oh, how are you? What's your name? Jack? Terry. Yeah, you're a good-looking color. You are. What do you want for Christmas? What do you want for Christmas? Oh, can we... electric string? Okay, I'm. All right. That's my brother. All right, all the boys and girls at Paris Park are filing past Santa Claus now. Oh, he's just telling Santa what he or she wishes for Christmas. Oh, oh, Carol! Oh, boom. Oh, how are you? my boy someone down here all right I'll make you a nice big one Michael you're a swell looking boy I'll take care of you for Christmas too okay pro handling off okay pearl handle big western gun good hop along castor all right okay who is this at top of law who is this what's your name Philip huh what would you like for Christmas Philip I'll take I'll have my boy take care of you my little help is up in North Pole working hard you gonna be good boy all year at a boy what's your name Barbara I'll go special time Dale Evans I'll speak to Dale make sure you get one ah well I got a sudden surprise announcement from Santa Claus boys and girls Santa Claus Santa Claus's brownies now are serving refreshments cookies and milk as you get your gift you will find the cookies and milk being served by Santa Claus's brownies now right over here let's have a train I'm off on orders I'll see what I can do okay that's right we interview you we take you to our Mrs. Santa Claus you can tell us how this whole project originated who thought of it how you got such a wonderful group of people to get in well the Terrace Park tenants group is an organization which belongs to the tenants of this particular development called Terrace Park we have one representative for each of our sixteen units and these delegates meet originally they met purely on a grievance space with the landlord and tenant relationship but afterwards we decided to make it into a community activity to carry on with the landlord and tenant we have a family and one of our first affairs is this uh uh Christmas party Christmas party for the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund we felt that it was highly fair to have a party for our kids when there were so many children who were deprived throughout the world and uh everyone was uh in the community uh Christmas party for the United Nations uh international children's emergency fund we felt that it was highly fair to have a party for our kids when there were so many children who were deprived throughout the world and uh everyone was uh in full accord uh with the uh the courts through which the parties being given under the house by the tenants are there any kind of restrictions whatsoever? any restrictions to the use to which the funds may be put? the United Nations will allocate the funds to say please do then this whole idea is completely non-septarian and un-univocal that's right yeah exactly uh is this your son? yeah this is my son oh my god will you say something into the microphone? go ahead buddy we're broadcasting together to NYC say something tell them about the Christmas party why are we always rest and do it for? oh my god you don't have to if you don't want to wouldn't you like to tell the children overseas how happy you are to give them a party for them? and how we got all the presents? you're not feeling right you're not feeling right you're not feeling right you're not feeling right okay thank you thank you very much come on something for your friends something for your friends alright see what we can do oh what's your name little fellow? Harold Harold? well here's a present for you Harold you'll be a good boy to your mommy and daddy now what's your name? what's your name? Jeffrey Jeffrey what would you like Jeffrey? a fire engine with a cannon fire engine with a cannon that's an order come on your mommy will take care of you oh look at the blue eye blonde what's your name? Maureen Maureen? you're a pretty girl here's a big present for you and I'll see you Christmas hello Maureen come on Maureen go over there and get the milk oh what's your name? Maureen hmm? Maureen oh you're Maureen oh you're a little oh you're a little her name was Maureen I think she was trying to pick up how are you? here you are Maureen what am I hoping? thank you very much for coming up with you here's a little girl now hey Red Jimmy oh hey Red Jimmy Jimmy alright excuse me Jimmy here's a present for you oh thanks Jim good boy oh what's your name? alright while Santa Claus is giving out gifts I want to make a few special announcements Santa Claus's brownies are serving milk and cookies for every little boy and girl oh oh oh Red Top what's your name? what's your name? a dog a dog a dog a dog a dog a dog that's a good order we'll take care of it alright girl alright come on let's go oh oh what's your name? Antoinette what would Antoinette like? what would Antoinette like? a dog a dog ok there's something for you now come on Antoinette oh oh oh Charlie what's your name? you have a brother named Mark? oh I just saw him how's that? alright what do you want for Christmas party? good um a goat oh oh oh oh what's your name? Joseph Joseph? I like boys with Joseph they're nice boys come here Frank they're coming for you now we'll see you Christmas Eve I'm like a bicycle and a sled bicycle and a sled you have a sled up where I come from oh oh what's your name? Cheryl what's your life for Christmas Cheryl? I will I will here's a double-edged oh what's your name? there they are what's your name? oh oh oh twin boys how old are you? five two four twin boys well here's a present for each one of you and I'll see you Christmas Eve what would you like? how'd you do it? and what would you like? hmm toy train okay come on okay alright waiting for Santa Claus? yeah what do you think about the party? excited? yeah you are huh? why oh oh now don't be bad this won't hurt you oh that's a microphone oh oh just to talk why can you say something? any other thing you have to talk to us? why sure have you ever seen Santa Claus before? no before yesterday in school now you want to see him again this afternoon huh? yeah uh huh you and me are friends he's your friend? Merry Christmas everybody same to you uh you people like to say something about the party? why you're here? how you feel? where the children here? would you like to say something to you? uh well I'd just like to say that uh the spirit is fine the uh children are enjoying themselves immensely and the parents are all happy that they're able to contribute and are a small way to this marvelous organization that is doing so much for so many children like ours that are not as fortunate elsewhere in the world that's all before no I'm here oh no no hey Merry Christmas and a right back hey here he goes oh are you all excited huh? no I'm not I can do you're not huh? what are you doing online? I need to say one for my um life what what kind of presents do you want? I don't know whatever kind of presents whatever kind you get a bicycle I have a bicycle you have a bicycle you don't want a doll do you? yeah I do you do? what do you got to do with it? yeah she's got a sister oh then you want a doll for your sister? a nice nice doll yeah you do huh? wow that'd be very nice uh I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know what's that mom? Milton Milton Milton tell him that Karen is here he'll give it to you come on honey I don't want a wreck huh? I don't want a wreck no tell her Karen is here cause please yeah tell her Karen is here too of course then he can get two questions Billy see the Karen sitting over there from the stage to come and give the questions oh oh you're a nut I'll do it thank you you've been listening this afternoon not listening really eavesdropping on a Christmas party given out here in Astoria, Queens on behalf of the United Nations its purpose is to distribute clothing and all necessities for children throughout the world children perhaps are less fortunate than those in our own country children whose lives must be preserved to form a more wonderful life for those to follow at the present moment the party is being closed Santa Claus is bidding all the children goodbye and the sun, cause it is the afternoon has just settled behind the building directly in front of me there are a few clouds in the sky, pink tips, the moon has just come out and we think it is fitting closed for this broadcast this is WNYC WNYC FM Voice of New York this is the year and a pretty cool as of the Director and the family now I enjoy coming here with this Thank you for letting me know to go up