Commissioner Monaghan, let me be the first to congratulate you and your department on the tremendous progress that you have made since we last addressed this radio audience. Now, Commissioner, suppose you explain the difference between base, interim, and complete fire defense plans. Thank you, Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner, I'm extremely grateful for this opportunity to tell the people of our splendid city just how much has been done to ensure their safety following an enemy attack. Also, I'd like to remind them that there is still a great need for auxiliary personnel, and I sincerely hope that after the citizens of this city learn of the work we have done and are prepared to do, they will show their appreciation by joining our auxiliary corps. For proper implementation of our plans does depend to a considerable extent upon their active cooperation. Getting back to your question, Commissioner Wallander, a department, whether it be the fire or any other, in its civilian defense planning must prepare three plans. The first, basic in nature, must embrace a complete evaluation of problems presented, facilities available, and possible methods of operation. The fire department was most fortunate in having its base plan completed before international relations reached the critical stage. Since last January, we have exerted every effort to transform that base plan into an interim operating plan, one that will ensure utilization of all available facilities, thus affording the city and its inhabitants a far greater measure of protection than that afforded in peacetime. I am happy to announce the completion of our interim plan. It is activated as well. The third plan is one of long-range planning, which we will discuss at a later date. Well, Commissioner Monaghan, I'm delighted to know that your interim plan is completed and activated. We know, Commissioner, that there are different methods of fire defense, which method will be used to defend our people and their city. Our interim plan calls for the mobile reserve perimeter method of defense, should that prove necessary by reason of the type of attack employed. I wish to point out that the mobile reserve perimeter defense was the most effective one devised in World War II, and should prove even more effective in checking atomic devastation. In this system, fully equipped and trained mobile units are maintained at or near the city's perimeters. When the enemy strikes, they are remote from the high hazard areas and will be deployed to the fullest possible extent. We in New York City are particularly fortunate in that 80% of our uniformed and 75% of our auxiliary personnel live in these outlying sections of the city, or what we'd call the perimeter. By a slight revision of our peacetime plan, we are able to effect complete mobilization of our forces exactly where we want them in the event of an attack. The plan sounds marvelous, but as I understand the situation, you plan to mobilize approximately 30,000 men. Just how will you accomplish this with a minimum of delay? The methods are very simple and effective. It took only a slight modification of our peacetime mobilization method to produce a plan that will guarantee top efficiency. It is basically this. Five minutes after an atomic burst, all personnel will report at the firehouses or mobilization centers nearest their homes. The average traveling time from home to firehouse or mobilization center will be less than 14 minutes, so that speedy mobilization is assured. Upon arrival, both uniformed and auxiliary personnel will be registered and organized into fire defense companies, each consisting of seven men and one officer. Is that your complete mobilization plan, or are there other phases that might be of interest? For at the moment, the question of immediate and complete supervision of mobilization, firemen, is one that comes to mind. What do you propose to do in that event? Well, Commissioner Wallander, all uniformed officers will be notified and alerted before an attack is made. In this manner, the machinery of registration, organization, and supervision will be ready before the call to the uniformed and auxiliary firemen is transmitted. Well, Commissioner, as it is logical to assume that many vacancies in departmental command and company staffs will be created by casualties resulting from an enemy attack, have provisions been made to fill these vacancies automatically? Yes, Commissioner Wallander. That was one of the first problems solved in our interim planning. A chain of command and assignment chart indicating the status of every officer in the department and clearly showing how vacancies created by war casualties will be automatically filled has been supplied to every unit. A mobilization of place Nell in the outlying sections has merit. As you explained it, but it also presents various problems, the most striking being that of transportation. Has any thought been given to the problem of transporting men and spare equipment to devastated areas? As you know, Commissioner, we have requested 500 additional pieces of apparatus. Their procurement comes under the heading of long-range planning and therefore will not be available for some time. The entire department appreciates all that you have done and are doing to expedite delivery, and we know that your support will be nonetheless vigorous in the future. Getting back to the question, the motivating factor behind this request for more apparatus was to provide not only firefighting equipment, but also means of transportation. Unquestionably, we need the additional apparatus, but an interim plan, properly implemented, calls for complete utilization of all available manpower and facilities. Therefore, a vital part of our plan is the emergency personnel and hose wagon program. The services of more than 900 trucks owned by public-spirited civilians has been placed at our immediate call. True, our pumper strength is not improved, but transportation of manpower mobilized at firehouses and mobilization centers is. Further, these privately owned trucks provide full utilization of spare hose stored in company headquarters, thus permitting full use of the department's hose complement. The fire department is, and every New Yorker should be, deeply grateful to private truck operators who have generously placed their vehicles at our disposal. Well, I think we all are grateful, Commissioner. You know that many cities throughout the nation, Commissioner Monaghan, are experiencing considerable difficulty in reducing the hazard presented by the normal peacetime high concentration of personnel and material in probable target areas. Will you tell us something about that, Commissioner? Yes, that is true. And New York City is certainly one of them. A high peacetime concentration of both men and material does exist in our probable target areas. The difficulty arising from a problem of this type is that no one can accurately predict where the target center will be. We know the areas an enemy would like to hit, but when one considers the speed of present-day planes, a near miss might shift the target center to any other part of the city. No section of any city can be considered safe. Therefore, a dispersal plan, providing greater protection within an area rather than complete removal from it, was devised. This plan provides for the relocation of a number of companies housed in downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn to the underground portions of buildings and other structures of unusually strong construction. They are to remain at these locations until all danger of air raid has passed. Commissioner Monaghan, we have covered operations rather thoroughly, but communications have not been mentioned. The importance of uninterrupted fire communications cannot be overemphasized because the duties involved will be both tremendous and vital. A well-conceived plan must, of necessity, provide constant and unfailing contact with the individual units. Have you planned to meet these basic specifications? Yes, we have, Commissioner Wallander. Our communication systems are efficient, but partial disruption by any enemy action, if it comes, is certain. Therefore, our plan covers every contingency. Further, the plans have the necessary flexibility to meet any emergency. Besides our regular dispatching centers, the fire department can, if need be, receive alarms of fire and dispatch units from citywide, borough, and report centers. It is inconceivable that all would be lost in a single attack. Dependence is not placed upon any one means of communication. All forms are embraced. Well, fine, I'm glad of that. As fires following in the wake of an atomic attack will be no different from other fires, therefore, we may assume that additional training in firefighting is not required for members of the uniform force. But training in war-related subjects is vitally important, one such subject being first aid. I know the fire department has such a program. Will you tell us about it, Commissioner Monaghan? We use two-phase method of training. First, we trained 100 firemen, all with previous first aid experience, as instructors. The course was conducted by the Manhattan and Brooklyn chapters of the American Red Cross, to whom we are deeply grateful. Then, using the on-the-job training method with 100 firemen as instructors, every man in the fire department received the necessary first aid training. This tremendous job of training nearly 10,500 men was completed in February. Well, fine. Radioactivity, which is sometimes deadly, is one danger from which the fire service must be protected. Have steps been taken to train and protect your men in this regard? Yes. Our radiological plan not only covers fire operations, but citywide radioactive area determination as well. The fire department will be the first operational unit to respond following an atomic attack. Safety of personnel will depend upon an immediate determination of safe operational areas, which must precede all other action. The department radioactive detection training program follows along the lines of that used in first aid. Fifteen firemen holding degrees in electrical, chemical, or civil engineering were trained as radioactive instructors in the Board of Health Radiac School in Delafield Hospital. These men are now conducting a radioactive self-help training course in every firehouse in the city. Thereafter, they will train three men in each firehouse as monitors. It will be for these monitors to determine safe operational areas for their company units upon arriving at the scene of a disaster. After this has been done, a report of their findings will be forwarded via radio to borough and citywide control centers. The Board of Health radiological experts will evaluate this information, and in this manner, a rough outline of the dangerous area or areas will be quickly determined. Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Monaghan. Your discussion has been very illuminating. The phases of your interim plan covering operations and the training of uniformed personnel are indeed complete. We are indeed grateful to you, Commissioner Monaghan. It's a pleasure to be here with you, Commissioner Wallander. Thank you.