Now we hear the voice of the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. He wrapped for order. All right. Now the photographers just wanted that signal, so the mayor is not ready to speak as yet. Yeah, the mayor, yes. All right, well I get a million signals, what do you want to do? It's a very historic occasion, and again we'd like to say that the mail is very important because as I say we do not get the chance to meet you, and if you write in and tell us your appreciation of this broadcast because it leads to your civic knowledge, why we will very gladly cooperate at all times in the allocation of time. And that of course is a reaction that we need for guidance, and it isn't just merely through any purpose of vanity or anything that we ask you to write these letters because the station has to have a guidance in the matter of public interest in any material that we broadcast. And now the mayor, it looks as though the photographers have finished with him, and now the mayor is ready to speak. Your municipal broadcasting station enables you to attend all these public hearings. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning. Good morning. I'd like to say a word first about the bony structure of this executive budget, and then make some general observations. I filed with you a statement yesterday giving in detail the comments of the Citizens Budget Commission. Well, maybe I'd better stand away from this. Try it again, Mr. Ely. The Budget Commission yesterday filed with you a detailed statement concerning this budget, and I have no intention of repeating what is in that detailed statement, except possibly an answer to your questions. Now, I'd like first to say something about this bony structure. The largest single group. What was the adjective? Bony structure. Was that a B? I beg your pardon? Does that word begin with a B? Yes, that begins with a B. Bony structure. Bony structure. Bony structure. All right. The largest single group of appropriations in this budget, which account for 25% of the budget, are for welfare, hospitals, and charitable institutions. The amount of those appropriations coming to $300 million is the highest point yet reached in this most significant trend in city expenditures. Actually, I think perhaps this can best be appreciated by comparison with the $37 million appropriation for the same purposes in 1930, $87 million in 1940, and $275 million last year. Last year's appropriation proved inadequate to meet the welfare requirements of the city. We have examined with great care the estimated caseloads upon which this $300 million appropriation or group of appropriations is predicated, and in our opinion, the estimated caseloads are reasonable. There is great promise, I am afraid, in this group of appropriations for continuing increases from year to year. As new hospitals are built, the requirements, for example, for that phase of the city's welfare services will increase. I think the most significant thing about this number one item on the budget is that it indicates the city's skyrocketing state and interest in the field of welfare. Now, the second largest group of appropriations is naturally for debt service and tax deficiency account, which accounts for 20% of the budget. The only observation that is appropriate to make there is that it is a constant reminder of the effect of new capital expenditures upon the tax levy budget. The third largest item is education, which accounts for 18% of your budget. And there, I would say that this ambitious, imaginative program for the building of new schools can have but one effect, and that is to increase the operating costs of the Board of Education for future years. The fourth item and the fifth item are police, fire, and correction, which account for 11% of the budget, and sanitation, health, water supply, housing, and buildings, which account for 8%. And these show no appreciable changes percentage-wise from last year's allocation to the same departments. And finally, we come to pensions and HIP, the health insurance plan, which accounts for 7% of the budget. That percentage, with respect to pensions, tends to show the same type of trend as welfare expenditures. One of the contributing factors to that is the action of the state legislature in year after year making minor changes in pension benefits for city employees, the cumulative effect of which is to constantly increase the amount of money and the percentage of the total budget required to maintain these pensions. I'd like to remind you that pensions under our present state constitution are a one-way street. You can increase pension benefits anytime you like, but once they are increased, they may never be decreased. Now as to revenues. The tax on real estate is up about $45 million. This is due in part to the 1949 amendment of the state constitution, which permits you to use full value as your base of assessment, as your base of taxation, rather than the assessed valuation as it was prior to the adoption of that amendment. But despite that fact, and despite the increased valuations and the additions to the assessment rolls, the tax on real estate, it seems likely, will be up by 19 or 20 points more than the current year. Your general fund revenues are going to be down below this year by an estimated $9 and a third million. There is no increase in miscellaneous taxes apparently contemplated and no new miscellaneous taxes contemplated, which I'm sure the public will be very grateful. The so-called other funds available to the city are up $10 million, largely by reason of increased state aid. The transit revenues will not be sufficient to pay off any of the short-term transit debt, and that will have to be met entirely by the city out of other than transit revenues. Now, gentlemen, those are the cold, bare facts with respect to this budget. No one can view a budget of a billion and a quarter dollars for the city of New York without grave concern. The concern is both as to the immediate effect upon the tax burden which is shared by all of the people of the city of New York, and even more so because of the promise implicit in this budget for still larger budgets in the future. And that, I submit, is something really to worry about. I suppose that as long as times continue to be good, the people will somehow or other, by hook or crook, manage to support budgets of this size. But, gentlemen, we can't always count on good times. And if bad times come, it is very doubtful that the city could protect its services against the inevitable loss of revenue that would come with a change in economic conditions. I would say that even a mild and temporary recession would make it impossible for the city to finance a billion and a quarter budget. Now, we've gone through some experience like this in the early 30s. And it took many, many years for the city's services to recover from the sharp and drastic and sudden cut that was required in 1933 in order to keep the city afloat. And that is a situation that we certainly don't want to repeat when the present era of good times and good feeling is at an end. Now, on the budget that I, the statement that I filed with you yesterday, we tried to point out in what areas the city might protect its services against the impact of bad times. And incidentally, where in the meanwhile, it might be possible to lessen the drain of taxes upon the people, even in good times. In connection with that, I... Would you note that sentence? Yes. Mr. Riegelman, I'd like the public listening in to make a note of that sentence. Would you repeat it? Very good. Let us assume. Would you repeat that sentence? Yes. The statement published yesterday, put before the Board of Estimate yesterday, pointed out how and where, in the opinion of the Citizens Budget Commission, the city could protect its services against sharp and drastic cuts in the event of bad times, and how, meanwhile, the drain of taxes might possibly be lessened upon the people of the city of New York, even in good times. Do you suggest the same services as we have now? Mr. Mayor... I'd like an answer to that. I'd like an answer to that. The people listening in would like an answer to that. Very good. I think... Would you or would you not like to maintain the present standard of services? I certainly would insist upon maintaining the present standard of services. And I... And how would you reduce the cost unless you reduce the pay? May I answer that in my further remarks? No, I'd like an answer to that now. And I think the people listening in would like it. I'm sure they would. If you'd rather have the standard of service that you've got today... I propose... It costs so much today, there is just one way of lessening the cost, and that is to pay the help less. Is that what you'd suggest? No, I'm not suggesting that we discharge a single employee or cut a single salary. And I'm afraid I don't understand... And the rest of my... I'm afraid I don't understand the proposal, and I'd like to have it clarified so that the people listening in will understand what we're doing here. I promise to clarify it. All right. And that I'm approaching immediately. Because I'm trying to point out, will now point out, that there are two controllable factors in the upward pressure of these yearly budgets. The first of those controllable factors relates to modifications that are made in the budget as publicly heard, as this budget is now being heard, and as the budget will ultimately be adopted by this board and by the City Council. The process of modification of this budget that is already before you, that is now before you, has already begun. It began on March 15th of this year. It is a process that will continue right up to the time that this budget becomes effective, and then it will keep on continuing throughout the rest of the year. These... Can you give us facts for that statement? Yes. The facts are set forth in this statement, copy of which was filed with the board yesterday. And if you want me to read examples of it, I'll be very glad to do so. But I'm trying to abstain from saying orally what is in writing before you with specific reference to budget lines and to specific modifications. Well, we have looked into your statement, your analysis, and we find some very glaring inaccuracies in it. And perhaps it would be just as well for you to list what you say now are the dangers in this budget. And for your information... I'm talking about modifications, you understand. For your information, even though we've only had a very short time to analyze your analysis, I will ask for some comment from the gentleman who did analyze your analysis in those few hours and point out to you where you're not accurate in the analysis that you released to the press last night. So I'd like to have you make the statements thoroughly. Again, I would like the people of the whole city who are listening in, or that portion that is listening in, to know whether you're right or whether our budget director or our deputy mayor, Mr. Reid, is right. This is a good time and a good place to trash these things out. Well, I shall be very glad to do that, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Regelman is looking for some material in his report. He's waiting to reply to the mayor. Mr. Regelman. The modifications of the expiring 1949-50 budget made after March 15th are of two types. Those that are one-time adjustments and will not be reflected in corresponding modification of the 1950-51 budget, and those that carry over in effect and will require comparable adjustment of the incoming budget. Modifications of either type are, in our opinion, improper unless they are unforeseeable. Now, I shall give you some examples of one-time modifications of the expiring budget. In his report to the Board of Estimate, the budget director says, The President Justice of the Municipal Court has an official car assigned to the court, which is a 1939 Ford five-passenger car. This car has traveled over 100,000 miles and constantly requires repairs. Recently, the rear spring broke and the car had to be towed into a garage. It is not befitting the dignity of the President Justice of this large court to be riding in an old, dilapidated car that is continually breaking down. Now, the need for a new car for the President Justice is not disputed. Most certainly not disputed. But certainly, even according to the budget director's report, the car had been in constant need of repair, and by any fair standard, its economic life and usefulness had terminated long before the process of making up the new budget had begun. The need to replace it was decidedly foreseeable. By any fair criterion, it should have been provided for in the 1949-50 budget. Now, that's example number one, Mr. Mayor, and I don't see how there can be any answer to that. In a budget of a billion, two hundred and fifty million dollars, the question you raise is whether or not we should have bought a Ford for the presiding justice of the Municipal Court last year instead of waiting to buy it this year. Now, Mr. Mayor, that isn't really the question. It isn't the amount that's involved. It's accumulation of modifications that total many millions of dollars for items that should have been foreseen at the time the executive budget was submitted, and which could be the subject of public discussion. Well, I might— Now, the second item— I might respectfully suggest that it's entirely too trivial an item to take up our time here this morning. I'm sorry, I didn't— I'm just wondering what big important item you had in mind. I didn't—I didn't offer to take up your time, Mr. Mayor. I tried to avoid taking up your time. Well, I don't like generalities. I—no, and I'm giving you specific cases. And I—and I'd like to have some example of them, and the example you're giving me of your generality is a Ford car. That's right. That's typical of certain foreseeable expenditures, which are not provided for in the public—the budget that is made public, and the budget that is adopted by this body. Another example— We might have to buy a car for the judge sometime during the year. That's perfectly true, and you— You think that's one of the things we ought to waste a lot of time with now on this budget? Certainly not, except that you've asked me a question. And I'm trying to answer it. I'm very glad I did, because, believe me, the example you gave is not very illuminating. I'll give you other examples. I'll give you the example of dictaphones that were bought for the, uh, Chief Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. Now tell us about that one. Which— Well, all right. The machines reportedly had outlived their usefulness. The money was transferred from the fund for salary and wage accruals since no funds remained in the codes of the court. The, uh—I don't recall what the amount was. $3,000. I'll tell you what it was. $3,075. I'll tell you. Well, I told you first. I didn't hear you when you told me. Now you can say that's a small item. All I'm trying to say is that it's the type of item that should have been provided for in this budget and not, uh, by interim modifications, many of which the public have no knowledge of at the time they're made. Now they're, uh— Can I have a son of a calendar and the public have no knowledge of it? Oh, Mr. Mayor. Oh, Mr. Mayor. Let's be honest and, and, uh, uh, I won't say honest. I won't say honest. We're always honest. I would like to have honesty on the thing. I appreciate it, Mr. Mayor. Let us be, uh, frank about this. The public, uh, has a very difficult time, uh, understanding the peculiar terminology that is necessarily characteristic of notices of that character. And frequently they, they don't know action has been taken until weeks after it's been taken. And even then, they, they don't know about it because the language with which the action is described is technical language that doesn't mean what we're talking about here to the average person who reads it. I suggest, Colonel, that the Citizens Budget Commission understands the language. We didn't hear from them during the year. You know, there are limits to what even the Citizens Budget Commission can do. And when you have 125 resolutions modifying this budget within a period, a short period of time, it becomes almost impossible for any agency, however alert, to keep track of everything that you're doing. It's difficult. It's almost impossible. We do the best we can. I disagree with you. It's not difficult at all. It's published, and you have it in plenty of time. And the meetings here in the Board of Estimate are in the open. And any decision that's made here on these matters is justified by the facts. And we'd be very glad to hear the Citizens Budget Commission on each and every one of them when they come up. Now, the fact that you haven't come and talked to us about them at the time that they were passed, adopted, would indicate that you weren't interested at that time. Now, bringing them up penny by penny. In a budget that runs into a billion, two hundred and fifty million dollars, it doesn't help us. I don't appreciate the criticism at all. Mr. Mayor, all I'm trying to do is to give you examples that you've asked for. We have examples here of salary increases, interim salary increases. We have the example of provision made for the Mayor's Reception Committee for Distinguished Visitors. Yeah, what would you do with that? Well, on June 16th, that's the day after the 1949-50 budget was adopted, the Board of Estimate approved a resolution transferring $7,800 from the Fund for Salary and Wage Accruals, or other available funds, to provide for expenditures for personal service necessary in connection with the Mayor's Reception Committee for the fiscal year. It provided for an assistant to the chairman at $4,200 and a secretary to the chairman at $3,600. If the need for such a committee was apparent in June, it was equally apparent in January and should have been provided for under the usual budgetary procedure. On the same day, the Board of Estimate, by resolution, transferred the entire $300 appropriation for departmental reports and bulletins in the City Registure's Office to provide a salary increase for a key employee. Now, certainly the need for this merited increase was not unforeseeable. Moreover, the need for the appropriation for reports and bulletins in what was described as an exceedingly tight budget is highly questionable, since at the very beginning of the fiscal year it could be wiped out in order to provide a salary increase. Now, I'm not objecting to the salary increase. I'm objecting to the fact that these foreseeable expenditures are not provided for in the budget that comes before you and comes before the public. Why don't you ask for some information when they're before the Board? We'll give it to you. I'll give it to you now, a year later, just because you seem not to know why these things were done. In the case of the mayor's committee, the two positions for which money was allocated on the date that you say were positions that were maintained by private funds up to that point. And they ran out. And the services of those two people were necessary to be continued in our opinion. And for that reason, we allocated the money to pay their salaries. Now, how trivial can you get? Will you add to that that that couldn't have been foreseen in January? I will not add any such thing. It all depends on when these matters are brought before the attention of the Board. Well, let us go on to the resolution adopted on June 30th transferring $5,250 originally appropriated in the Department of Education for general repairs, replacements, alterations, betterments, furniture, fire prevention, safety guards, to pay the salary of a newly created position of public relations assistant, Department of Education. Not only is this diversion of funds from a wholly unrelated and allegedly vital educational purpose most questionable, but if a public relations assistant was needed, why was the line not provided in the 1949-50 budget when it was being formulated? Now, that's a tough one, Mr. Mayor. It's in there now, isn't it? It's in there now, but it wasn't in there in the budget when it was adopted last year. Do you know why? I beg your pardon? Do you know why it wasn't in the budget last year? Do you know why it wasn't in there? I have a hunch, yes. What is? My hunch is that it was the type of a job that the Board of Education probably was hesitant to decide to disclose and discuss at the time that the budget for education was being considered. Your hunch is not only wrong, but it's obviously biased, and I think it is founded on such a nebulous foundation that I'd consider any further remarks you have to make as of no importance whatsoever to this Board and this budget. I trust that you mean that it's in reference to this particular item. That item? As a matter of fact, you asked me whether I knew what the explanation was. You said you had a hunch. I said no. I wanted to see what the train of thought was. Yeah. And your hunch was that the Board of Education wanted to hide from last year's budget this position. Mr. Mayor. That's your hunch, wasn't it? I believe that one of the reasons why modifications running into millions of dollars are made at times other than the time when the budget is up for public discussion is because of a desire on somebody's part not to expose certain types of salary increases and unbudgeted appropriations for other than personal service to public discussion. In any event- Are you suggesting that when the Board of Estimate takes action on them that they're done in secret? I'm not suggesting they're done in secret. Are you willing to admit that they're done openly after notice has been published? I am willing to admit that- Are you willing to admit that you are welcome to come here and oppose them when they come before the Board? Mr. Mayor, I feel welcome here at any time. All right. Then why give out the impression that these things are done in secrecy or because of what you call some fear of talking about the positions? Mr. Mayor- Why should you do that? That's not fair? I'm not doing that and I want to make a statement that will explicitly prevent any such implication. I'm trying to play this game down the middle of the line- The record would be vastly improved by such a statement from you. All right, Mr. Mayor. Now, if you'll just permit me to say it, I think I can ease your mind on that. Not my mind. I want the public listening in to know just exactly what's in your mind. I will ease the public mind and make known exactly what is in my mind. These hundreds of resolutions modifying the budget after it is officially adopted are done in the open by the Board of Estimate on notice through regular city channels, chiefly in the city record. In fact, exclusively in the city record. They occur in such quantity and at such frequent intervals that it is almost impossible for the public to keep up with the stream of modifications, which result, by the end of the year, in millions of dollars of modifications, changes in salary, allocation for items which were not budgeted for non-salary purposes, all- and this is the important point I'm trying to make- all at the immediate expense of the salary and wage accrual fund and at the ultimate expense of the tax appropriation reserve fund, which is the only important cushion- and certainly a most important cushion- What number? Against the impact upon the city services of any reduction in the city revenues as a result of a business recession. Are you suggesting, Mr. Riggleman, that these modifications are additions to the budget adopted? No, they are within the budget, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to have the record clear on that. But if they were not- Are you also suggesting that they're made without an investigation by the budget director in every instance and a favorable recommendation? Oh, I'm sure they're not. Mr. Mayor, we've never had a more efficient budget director than we have in Mr. Patterson. We have the highest respect for him and for his assistant, Mr. Bean. And I wouldn't for the world let anybody get the impression that we are criticizing either of those gentlemen or you or the members of the board on any specific item involved in these modifications. We are condemning the policy of making budget modifications for foreseeable items, thereby defeating the purpose of the tax appropriation reserve account, which is the only cushion this city has against a business recession. And that tax appropriation reserve account today ought to amount to $150 million. Actually, there's only $38,400,000 in it, and it wouldn't be a drop in the bucket if bad times should hit the city. That's the only point I'm trying to make, Mr. Mayor. Furthermore, if these modifications are not made at the expense of the salary and wage accrual account, there would be evidence that the appropriations that were made in one year are perhaps larger than certain departments require in another year. What would you do, Mr. Riegelman? In that way, tax reduction might be accomplished. What would you do in the course of the year after the budget has been adopted if you found, for example, that due to the prevailing rate of wage, a decision that's made in the course of that budget, that an amount of $645,000, $632.70, had to be transferred to meet a legal obligation that occurred in the budget. That is an unforeseeable contingency, and I would certainly approve modifying the budget for that purpose. All right. The controller did it last year, and I think it amounted to $600,000, and it was a perfectly proper modification. And while I'm talking of the controller, I want to say that one of the commendable features of this budget is the realism of his estimates with respect to general fund carryover and general fund receipts. Mr. Riegelman, on your report, your analysis of the budget, on page five at the bottom, you include this very item as one of the things to which you object. Well, just let me look at it, Mr. Mayor. Page five, bottom of the page. Page five. Number two, We already have that subscription program here. To help you out, it's a part of that $647,379 Dollars. It's a part of that lump sum. Modifications of the outgoing budget that had to be carried over into the new budget necessitated the modification of the 4950 budget on June 16, 1949, to the extent of $1,647,379. The magnitude of this one resolution modification on the day after the new budget was officially adopted presents a strong presumption that it contains items of foreseeable expenditure. The fact that similar modifications occur year after year bears out that presumption. I don't see any reference to the prevailing rate of wages there. By what right have you to presume what that money was used for?