Mr. Chairman, Ms. Tolstoy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it's a stirring thing to meet the survivors of the heroic group of Russians who fought their way for four years across a thousand miles of desert and a mountain to escape communist tyranny. And I congratulate the Tolstoy Foundation for having made it possible for the Chernov group to come to America. If some of them still feel a bit strange in this country, they will soon discover they belong here. Our own ancestors, for the most part, came here to escape from religious, political, or economic oppression. Chernov refugees have now joined the world's greatest family group opposed to tyranny, the American people. You are welcome here. Because the United States of America was born as a result of a revolution and became a home for the oppressed and persecuted, because it has been people by freedom-loving pioneers of every nationality and creed, the quest for human liberty and brotherhood has always been our cause. From the earliest colonial days, people of different stock, religion, and traditions have lived together here in a harmonious community. Our society might indeed be called a functioning united nations without the veto, ever since the early English, Dutch, Swedish, and Scotch-Irish settlers joined together to fight for our common freedom. Our strongest weapon in that fight was our belief of the dignity of man and the existence of a moral law greater than the divine right of rulers. We did not invent that faith. It was handed down to the colonists from the Old and New Testaments, and these teachings exercised a powerful influence on their daily lives. This new nation, erected in strife and based upon biblical admonitions against arbitrary power, had to be revolutionary from the start. So it was, and so it has remained. I think that is what Woodrow Wilson meant when he said, the American Revolution was a beginning, not a consummation. It was something that was born into the world, not to please it, but to regenerate it. Our pride in the continuing American evolution has nothing in common, however, with narrow-minded nationalism. After all, our greatest revolutionary document, the Declaration of Independence, reflected not only a religious heritage of much older than America, but the ideas of John Locke and the French liberals. Moreover, in our fight for liberty, we were glad to accept the aid of Lafayette and other European champions of freedom. And those who drafted our Constitution made certain it would protect future generations of Americans from worshipation by any branch of the government. Our debt to other people does not end there. Each decade of our existence has brought new people and new impulses from abroad. After the revolutions of 1848, we welcomed political exiles from Germany, who added new vigor and richness to our country. Later there came many immigrants from Italy and Austria-Hungary, and hundreds of thousands who left Tsarist Russia in order to find equality opportunity here. For the Americans rise to power, some of Russia's finest scholars, scientists, and artists joined us, along with all the others who have come to America. And the latest are the group we honor this evening, the group who made the incredible trek across the Gobi Desert and their menus. Theirs is one of a thousand other sagas, no less thrilling, all tangible proof of the opposite search of human beings for a freer life. To all these people, America represents liberty, and justice in a world beset by despotism, privation, and the threat of another world war. To these men and women, our Declaration of Independence will be the most revolutionary document of all time. It would not surprise them to hear that John Thomas Jefferson once said, the flames kindled on the 4th of July 1776 have spread over too much of the globe to be extinguished by the feeble engines of despotism. On the contrary, they will consume those engines and all who work for them. Millions in World War II fought and died for the promise of the Declaration of Independence, as we stated by Roosevelt and Churchill in the Atlantic Charter, and used again in the preamble of the Charter of the United Nations, with its affirmation of fundamental human rights and the dignity and worth of the human person. But this promise has not been fulfilled. One totalitarian despotism was destroyed, another emerged intact. Although millions of Soviet soldiers and civilians died, together with some of the others in the trident faith that after the war their peoples would enjoy greater liberty. Stalin encouraged them to die in that belief. In his very first radio address after Nazis saw him Russia, he said, in this war of liberation we shall not stand alone. In this great war we shall have as two allies, the peoples of Europe and America. Our war for independence of our fatherland shall fuse with the struggle of the peoples of Europe for their independence, for democratic liberties. There is no need here to reveal how poorly the hopes of the peoples of Russia and of all mankind were betrayed. At this freedom dinner it is important to remember, however, that many of those who died in World War II looked to their comradeship with us as their deliverance. This is the America, the America of the continuing democratic development, that the people still look for and the tyrants still fear. America. Because America owes an immense debt to the courage of the freedom-loving people who built it, and because we owe a lasting debt to those who fought together with us in the war against Nazi tyranny, we do no more than repay a small part of our obligation when we extend a hand of friendship and aid to those who are still denied their rightful liberties. If we owe nothing today to the communist rulers of Russia except our dead in Crimea, and the diversion of much of our creative energies from the works of peace to those of rearmament, we do owe a great deal to the peoples of Russia. In our admission over the aggressive policies of the Politburo, we must be careful not to play into Stalin's hands by identifying the peoples of Russia with their present despotism. There is no better symbol, I think, of the moral chasm that divides the peoples of Russia from their despotic rulers than the man whose name the Tolstoy Foundation bears, and whose spirit guides its great humanitarian work. We would make a grave mistake, indeed, if we were to believe that we cannot find a common language, a common purpose, with the people who gave us the heir of Tolstoy. Moreover, we would have only a shallow concept of our own deeper freedom if we did not recognize the contribution of the peoples of Russia to it. If we measure freedom not only by the absence of restraint, but also by its spiritual content, we realize how much the peoples now enslaved by communist despotism have given us. Today, when the communist rulers try to whip up synthetic and nationalist pride by laying preposterous claims to all the achievements of the human mind, we should not go to the other extreme and forget how much Russia has contributed. Consider how much poorer we would be without the music of Tchaikovsky, without the Russian ballet, without Stanislavsky's contribution to our theater, without the works of Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, and Chekhov, so where I did wed in this country. It is no small wonder that the communist regime, which boasts and has published millions of copies of Russian classics, frowns on Dostoevsky, and has not printed a new popularized edition of his work for many years. For the communist regime has built its entire edifice on the unavenged tears of its victims and daily insults the intellectual capacity of its subjects. Nevertheless, we should not suppose that the Kremlin has been able to banish altogether the influence of these great spirits, for educated peoples will think for themselves and will resent the arrogant pretensions of Moscow to prescribe that they may read what they may read, what they may see, and what they may hear. Thus, we see there are two Russians, the Russia of communist propaganda and the Russia of the people, a people whose ancient Christian faith has not been eradicated by communist perpetual war on religion. Only last November, the young communists proudly complained, unfortunately there are still people in Soviet society who have not parted with their religious beliefs and customs, ruled for centuries, even if the conditions of their life have changed profoundly. What better if unintended tribute to the moral tenacity of the peoples? I have touched on Russia's heritage and spiritual roots because we cannot hope to win the present struggle against communist despotism without a recognition of the great moral gulf that divides the peoples of Russia from their present regime. Let us regard just briefly the manner in which the communist party treats those who are so contemptuously turned the masses, those 200-odd millions who are ruled by coercion and persuasion, according to Lenin's formula. It falls to the Bureau of Agitation and Propaganda, the party's central committee, to instruct the masses as to what they should believe, what they should think. Every medium of mass communication is controlled by agitprom, so that the masses may only learn what their masters decide is good for them to do. Is this not a form of thought control insulting to the human intellect, this denial of freedom of choice in the realm of education, or of freedom of religious belief? What wider gulf could be imposed between the rulers and the masses, and what more cynical or presumptuous attitude by the self-styled elite towards that great mass of human beings, the masses? From 1906 to 1917, while Russia enjoyed partial liberty and quasi-constitutional government, America followed with great interest and sympathy the efforts of Russian liberals in the Duma to bring about a transformation to truly representative government. At the same time, public opinion in this country did not hesitate to voice its disapproval when the imperial regime violated human rights. In 1903, President Theodore Roosevelt protested against the Kislyev pogrom. In 1911, we abrogated our commercial treaty with the Tsarist government because the latter refused to grant Americans of Jewish faith the same rights in Russia as other bearers of American passports. These actions helped Russian liberals in their fight against religious discrimination. It is not surprising, therefore, that when the Democratic Revolution of March 1917 gave full civil liberty, abolished minority restrictions, and recognized the independence of Poland, all of American public opinion, led by President Wilson and Mr. Elihu Root, acclaimed the event. We regarded the democratic revolution as the natural climax of 100 years of struggle for freedom. When the United States government finally recognized the Soviet regime in 1933, many Americans sincerely believed that the establishment of diplomatic relations, together with the expansion of economic and cultural relations, would soften the worst features of communist rule. And the American engineers who helped build industries in Russia during the first five-year plan could well believe that their efforts would improve the living standards of the people. They could not know that the Kremlin's main purpose was not to give the people better housing, food, and clothing, but to prepare for war. For most Americans, the great purges that began in 1936 were overshadowed by the growing menace of Nazism. As Hitler began to move, we listened hopefully to Limpinov's pleas in the legal nations for collective security. Those of us who had not followed the Kremlin's policies closely were shocked by the Nazi-Soviet pact. But after Hitler invaded Russia, the heroic fight of the peoples of Russia in defense of their homeland became intimately linked with our own war effort. We sped Limpinov's arms, trucks, food, medical supplies to the Soviets to help stern Hitler's bid for world domination. And the government of the Soviet Union, the Politburo, has never to this day honored its debt to the American people. I'm sure there are people in this audience whose knowledge of communist cruelty and duplicity was gained from personal experience who recognized even then the folly of our trust in the word of the Politburo. But the mistakes we made between 1941 and 1946 were the result of a determined, if futile, effort to build a peace that would certainly have benefited the peoples of Russia as much as anyone. Our large contribution through UNRWA for the rehabilitation of war-ravaged areas in Russia was a further effort to help the peoples. Today, all of us now know that Stalin never wanted real peace with us or between us and the peoples of the Soviet Union. The agitprop daily attempts to undermine every basis for a real understanding between our peoples. We see clearly now that communist despotism has never spoken for the people it rules. And we are very much aware that freedom and liberty for the peoples of Russia must be the foundations upon which true peace can be built. As we look back on the grim story of communist rule, we see that the struggle for freedom has never ended in the Soviet Union. For the first days of communist dictatorship, a civil strife has ranged between the regime and the people. To gain the power, the Bolsheviks had to disperse with bears their freely elected constituent assembly. On battlefronts that extended from Archangel to Vanovistok, all the peoples of Russia fought communist rule. The first civil war lasted more than three years. No sooner had it ended than others began. The sailors of Kronstadt, who had believed Lenin's promises of bread and peace and land in 1917, revolted in 1921, as did workers in Petrograd and peasants in central Russia. To reinforce collectivization, a decade later, the peasantry of central Russia, the Ukraine, the North Caucasus, fought pitched battles against Stalin's armored police troops. Inside the communist party itself, as well as the Red Army command, massive purges were conducted to eradicate opposition. Here today, some three decades after the destruction of the regime's so-called class enemies, the concentration camps are filled with millions of new enemies, and each inmate has relatives and friends with new cause to hate the regime. Is it too much to say that the communist regime as such is as much at war with its people as it is with the free world? What better potential allies can we have than those who have suffered most under communism? If we view the panorama of Russia from the freedom-seeking Decembrists of 1925 to those from the Soviet Union who join us today against the background of our continuing evolution and see our charter as tyranny's victims as always seen it, as Jefferson, Lincoln, and Wilson saw it, as the flames must consume the enemies of despotism, as a beginning and not a consummation, as a torch for all men at all times, we know what it is that we must do. Today, we know enough about the silent conflict that raises between the Kremlin despots and their subjects to realize that Stalin simply cannot thrust the Soviet army and people into battle. To order Russia into war, he must not only be convinced that he has the necessary weapons and resources, he must also be confident that the officers and soldiers of the Soviet army will obey his command and hurl themselves against us and not against him. Therefore, as we and our partners of the free world continue to build our strength to deter aggression, we must at the same time establish firm ties with our best potential allies, communism's first and oldest victims, the masses. We must remove all traces of fear and suspicion of us that communist propaganda seeks to plant in their minds. We must make it plain that we seek nothing for the peoples of Russia that they do not themselves desperately want. A social order based on respect for human beings and a peace built on friendship among nations. We must aid Soviet and other democratic allies who fought for freedom with all the resources we can muster. If, despite all our efforts, war comes, this work will not have been wasted. For, if we have convinced Stalin's subjects that we are truly their allies and friends, the weapons and divisions that would otherwise be used against us will be readily and quickly turned against the Kremlin. We can create this freedom alliance with the peoples of Russia if we believe in ourselves and the mission of liberty in the world. Every lasting change in history has come to the power of an idea that unites rather than divides men. Such has been the conquering force of all great religions and all true revolutions. Such and such alone stirred the deep occurrence that known either frontiers nor nationalities nor differences of language. The deep occurrence of the great change that will end communist tyranny have long existed beneath the surface of Soviet life. Their symptoms are apparent to those of us who have lived in Stalin's Russia in recent years. One of these symptoms is the extreme precaution the Kremlin rulers take to isolate their occupation troops from contact with the world. And the systematic jamming of the Voice of America and the BBC broadcasts to Russia is another sign that the Stalin has grave fear of the power of democratic ideas to explode once more inside Russia. No police regime no matter how powerful can plug indefinitely all the holes bolt all the doors seal out all the air and light from a great country any more than it can give eternal life to an aging dictator. It cannot forever prevent aroused armies and peoples fully convinced in the righteousness of their struggle for freedom reawaken to their great liberal traditions and determined to grasp the hand of friendship we hold out to them from taking destiny in their own hands. Our task, therefore, is plain. We must extend that hand of friendship to the peoples of Russia for their freedom and ours. administration graduates this, you will<|en|> Admiral Kirk, on behalf of the Tolstoy Foundation, of this wonderful audience, and of the radio audience, I want to thank you for a most brilliant exposition of the situation in the Soviet Union and for your sound premises established so clearly in connection with the future tasks that confront all of us. We are deeply indebted to you, Admiral Kirk, for such an intelligent exposition. I think... I think inasmuch as I was unable to indicate to you the brilliant record of our distinguished guest, I'd like to state now that from the time he was a midshipman at Annapolis, he distinguished himself academically and on the dance floor. Thank you.