Radio's microphones are now on the gymnasium at police headquarters, and the occasion is the appointment of 483 patrolmen and 35 policewomen here at the police headquarters. The mayor of the city of New York and the commissioner Wallander have just entered the gymnasium here, and we're just waiting for the regular order of program. The mayor and commissioner are taking a few moments for personal greetings. The cameramen are starting something even before the party begins, and the commissioner, Commissioner Wallander, that is, and the mayor of Dwyer are posing for some pictures now, but I believe the mayor has made a few statements that has quieted that situation down, and they may go right ahead. Nope. They're apparently going to take some pictures, and that is that. The gymnasium presents a very interesting picture here because it is in this particular room itself, when it is not a gymnasium, that the classic lineup is held every morning at 9 o'clock, when the previous evening's catch is exhibited for the benefit of the detectives. And now the policewomen are being sworn in. Vincent Finn, executive clerk of the department, is now way too far away to pick up Vincent Finn's voice, but they're being sworn in now by the mayor and police commissioner Wallander, the 35 policewomen. Vincent Finn is reading the oath to them, and the cameramen are busy taking pictures. Now there's 35 more policewomen added to the police force of the city of New York, and now there's 483 patrolmen. Just what disposition they're going to make of that? I guess they'll all stand together. Yes, that's right. The 483 now barbed up, and viewing it from the gallery here, it looks like a waving sea as they all stood. Vincent Finn asked these 483 patrolmen to raise their hands, and he's about to administer the oath in the presence of the mayor and commissioner Wallander. He's now administering the oath. You may hear the I do. That's 483 more patrolmen, probationary patrolmen, added to the police force for the enforcement and the preservation of law and order within the gates of our city. The mayor is still shaking hands with a few of the ranking officers here at police headquarters. And this is a promotion. We have a list here. We'll get it in just a moment. Here it is. Will you unfold that? That's the other one. That ain't the one. Here it is. Who's the first one? The cameramen get a very good record of all these things, and you'll see them in all your daily papers tomorrow. And Assistant Chief Inspector William T. Whalen was just sworn in, commanding the Detective Bureau. And now possibly some of the other ranking officers to be promoted will be sworn in as well. We're just waiting now. And now First Deputy Commissioner O'Brien is being sworn in. This is a historic moment. You saw the newspapers this morning. They all carry Commissioner O'Brien's picture. They're getting over there by the microphones. The cameramen are ordering this picture, and it's very special. Commissioner Wallander. You will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Police Deputy Police Commissioner in the Police Department of the City of New York, according to the best of your ability. We so swear. Thank you. Fine, Bill. Congratulations, Bill. Congratulations, Bill. Thank you. Thank you. Oh. General. Okay. And now Commissioner Wallander is pinning the badge on First Deputy Commissioner O'Brien. The mayor is looking on smilingly, and the ranking officers of the police department here are all smiles, and nobody looks happier than Commissioner O'Brien himself. And Commissioner Wallander is holding the medal, so the photographers will get the real good view of it. The mayor looks on very close to Commissioner Wallander. As Commissioner Wallander holds the medal, so that we'll get into the right focus for the cameras. This is a very interesting picture here in the gymnasium and police headquarters. It's always interesting to watch the cameraman. We always cite this instance. But you see those pictures in the newspapers, and you think they just happen. They don't. The pictures as you see them are posed and ordered and regulated by the prodigal of the cameraman. He's very informal in his methods, but he works fast because he doesn't want to delay his ceremony too long. And yet we do know that because of the excellence of these pictures, we're able to recapture the scene years hence. And for literary reasons, news or any other reason, we like to look up the picture and see who was there. And very often we're surprised at the familiar faces and the memories that come up when we look at some of these pictures years after they're taken. No doubt in the annals of police history, Inspector O'Brien will find this. Commissioner O'Brien, I beg your pardon, will find this picture, the most interesting one, as he looks back at the time and this moment today when he had this medal pinned on his coat by Commissioner Wallander. The mayor is doing a little joking and kidding with Commissioner O'Brien now, although he looks very serious. It can't be too much kidding. The mayor looks as though he's speaking seriously, but I imagine that's just so the cameras will have a little action and the faces will look animated. The cameramen are still ordering the mayor and the commissioner and the first deputy commissioner around. And now a few of the members of the police department, Frank Doyle among others, are shaking hands with first deputy commissioner O'Brien. Now there's a little conference between the commissioners and the mayor. Possibly he'll have a regular ceremony ready for you in a few moments. Frank Doyle has just... There's again a little conference, a little huddle, like you see in a football game. There's decisions being made. No doubt they're very important to the five heads together down there on the floor of the gymnasium. They seem to have reached a decision and they're going back now to their chairs. Well, I believe the television wants a picture now and they're going through the thing again for newsreels and television. And Commissioner Wallander is reading a citation. Commissioner Wallander. You solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Place Deputy Police Commissioner in the police department of the city of New York according to the best of your ability. Do you so swear? I do. Thank you very much. Congratulations. That's rich. Good luck, sir. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. into the picture and now there's four people there Commissioner Wallander, Mayor O'Dwyer, Commissioner Mitchell and Commissioner O'Brien. This time it's the mayor that holds the badge so that we get the right focus on the cameras because it's inclined to go a little bit off center as it hangs loosely on the lapel of Commissioner Mitchell's coat. He looks very happy smiling like a big school boy and his hair is nicely combed. He looks very neat just like a young fellow just ready for school and what a school he's been through and what a school is ahead of him. He accepts this new responsibility as one of the commissioners of the police department of the city of New York, one of the greatest institutions anywhere in the world, one of the most expert, one of the most thorough and one of the most responsible. Charged as it is with the preservation of the life and property and the safety of over eight million people and all relative matters that that takes into the picture. Commissioner Wallander is having a smiling conference with the mayor now. Now here's Commissioner Wallander. John Coleman. There he is. Look up there, John. John Coleman has just been called up. He's going around with the swearing side. There's one place you can swear and get away with it. Raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that you will faithfully The duties of the office of honorary deputy police commissioner in the police department of the city of New York according to the best of your abilities? Do you so swear? Thank you, John. And I use the flag. John Coleman has just been sworn in as honorary deputy police commissioner. He's just shaken hands with mayor O'Guire. The mayor's having a great big smile and so has Commissioner Wallander. Now, Vincent Finn has just handed the badge to the mayor and he'll be very busy now pinning it on the coat of John Coleman. That very fine, upstanding citizen, that man of finance who also knows his civics as thoroughly as we know he does. The mayor's just shaking hands with John Coleman. Now it's Commissioner Wallander's turn, Commissioner O'Brien. Well, they're all jumping up to shake hands with John Coleman. And believe me, he's a very popular man here at police headquarters. And now Commissioner Wallander. Bill Whalen, present himself. Right there, Bill. Well, Mayor, I'm very happy to present William Whalen, who has been an assistant chief of detectives in our department. He rose from a very humble job of patrolman when he was elevated to the ranks of captain shortly after the use of office. And since then, he rose steadily in the ranks until the day we see fit to promote him to the high office of chief of detectives. It's a pleasure to meet a commandant for you. It's a pleasure to be medical. Thank you, sir. Commissioner Wallander is now about to pin the badge on the assistant chief of Inspector William C. Whalen, commanding the detective bureau of Brooklyn and Richmond. The mayor is... He has risen from sergeant in 1928, lieutenant 1936, captain 1945, deputy inspector 46, inspector 46, deputy chief inspector 47, and assistant chief inspector 49. That was the 6th of January today, commanding the detective bureau of Brooklyn and Richmond. The mayor is posing now with assistant chief inspector William T. Whalen. Very fine-looking man, very naturally dressed, and a man that no doubt has had a great experience in line with the promotions that he has received so rapidly from the police department. Commissioner Wallander. I'd like you to have assistant chief inspector John P. Schmidt present himself here. John? Congratulations, John. John? John, you've done a great job on the west side there, and I'm sure that everybody agrees that you're deserving of this motion. We've really got Lauren out of there, and we appreciate the fine work you've done. And it's a happy thought for me today, Mr. Mayor, to commend them to you as an assistant chief inspector. John, do you have your shield yet, or... Fine, well, congratulations to you. Good luck, sir. Good luck, sir. The mayor and Commissioner Wallander, shake hands now with assistant chief inspector John T. Schmidt. Commissioner Wallander. Johnny? Johnny? John, too. Mr. Mayor, I want to reaffirm what I've always said about Johnny. He's a very able fellow. He's not only a good career officer and a commanding officer, but he's a great protector. He's persistent. He's a hard worker. And we see fit to recognize him today and promote him to the rank of acting assistant chief inspector, with the hope that he'll be next in line for that shield on a permanent basis. So today, Mr. Mayor, I commend him for that high office. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mayor, just shake hands now with Deputy Chief Inspector Comrade H. Rovengast. Deputy Chief Inspector Howard Steele here. Comport, Howard. Howard, great to see you here. Howard has always been a good detective. He's a hard worker. He's an assistant and he's helped to break a lot of cases, Mr. Mayor. He's certainly deserving of this here promotion. And I commend him for you as Deputy Chief Inspector in charge of looking work. Thanks, Mayor. Acting Deputy Chief Inspector William Walter C. Sullivan. Walter, why don't you come forward? Walter, no. Walter, it's a pleasure to see you. Mayor Walter Sullivan, as you know, has worked very hard. He's done a very fine job under Bill Whelan and Howard O'Leary. The three of them have worked hard over there and they've earned this here promotion. I'm very happy to commend you all of Sullivan's. Say congratulations. Well, Patrick Fairley, if you forward, Pat. Pat Fairley served in many directions. He's been a great narcotics protector at one time and he became a fine superior in uniform ranks. We don't have... You know that he's a great hair-liner? No. The general tells me he was a great hair-liner, too. That's a great game. Must have been tough to engage in that. But anyhow, Mr. Mayor, if Pat is a great fellow and I know he'll do a great job. I can end him through you for the job inspection. Congratulations. Pat. Next we have Deputy Inspector Stephen P. Kennedy. Steve or... How about? Dave? I'll save. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Uh, Mr. Mayor, I know he'll do a great job. I can end him through you for the job inspection. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have Deputy Inspector Stephen P. Kennedy. Steve or... How about? Steve? I'll save. Thank you very much. Uh, Mr. Mayor, I'll save. Thank you very much. Uh, Mr. Mayor, I'll save. I'll save. Thank you very much. Uh, Mr. Mayor, Steve has worked very hard on the east side. He's a young man. He's come up very fast. He's got a lot on the ball, as they say, and, uh, I think we're going to hear a lot from him in, uh, in due time. He's been successful in breaking some very difficult cases on the east side, and I, I think it's fitting that we recognize him at this time. And so, Mr. Mayor, I commend him to you for the position of Deputy Inspector in the fleet of the east side. Steve, it's a great pleasure. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Uh, Captain Stanley, we have already promoted. And now, Mr. Mayor, it comes my difficult task to, to separate myself from this department. I do so as much regret. An opportunity has presented itself to, for me to engage in another field of endeavor. It offers a little more in the way of finances and to help me to better provide for my family. I don't think the job is going to be quite as hard. It's going to be a little easier on me. So, Mr. Mayor, I, I want to read my letter of resignation, and I'll hand it to you immediately thereafter. I hereby attend to my resignation as Police Commissioner of the City of New York to become effective on March the first, 1949. I am taking this step with reluctance and with real regret, not only because of my 35 years' association with the Police Department of the City of New York, but because of my warm, personal friendship with you for over 31 years. A friendship which I know will remain unbroken down through the remaining years. In tending my resignation, I want you to know that it was a distinct privilege for me to head so valiant a group of men as those who make up the Police Department of the City of New York. I cannot praise them too highly for their fine support during my tenure of office. I am resigning to take a position with a consolidated Edison Company, which will not only give me more time with my family, but will permit me to provide better for their future. In conclusion, Mr. Mayor, I want you to know that I will always be ready at your command to assist in whatever way possible, you and your administration in the interest of the people of the City of New York. It has been a great pleasure to have had the privilege to save under your excellent leadership, with warm and professional regard, and dearly yours. Mr. Mayor, I do this very reluctantly. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I have a question among the... Mr. Mayor, Reverend Chaplin's... Mr. Mayor, Deputy Honorary Commissioners... Mr. Mayor, ladies who have now joined the Police Department of the City of New York, boys... Mr. Mayor, the commanding officers have been promoted to this day. Mr. Mayor, the reluctance with which our beloved Commissioner Wallinger... Mr. Mayor, the hand of me, his resignation... Mr. Mayor, was only matched by the reluctance with which I accepted. Mr. Mayor, I'd like the record to be straight. Mr. Mayor, I don't question at all that your new endeavors may be less arduous than the duties imposed on the Police Commissioner. Mr. Mayor, I do deny, in your case above anyone, that your leaning... Mr. Mayor, the commissionership had anything to do with the hard work. Mr. Mayor, because for my 31 years of close knowledge with you... Mr. Mayor, close friendship with you... Mr. Mayor, years in which I have learned your makeup... Mr. Mayor, hard work never bothered you in all those years. Mr. Mayor, neither did that sense of fairness... Mr. Mayor, that characterized you as a youngster... Mr. Mayor, 31 years ago when you drilled a house... Mr. Mayor, rookies like those young ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Mayor, here this morning, in this very room... Mr. Mayor, the unquestioned... Mr. Mayor, good judgment with which God blessed you... Mr. Mayor, and the kindness of your great heart. Mr. Mayor, there were many police commissioners that we have known... Mr. Mayor, down to the 31 years. Mr. Mayor, some are still alive, God bless them. Mr. Mayor, great commissioners. Mr. Mayor, we are seven years at the very beginning of this morning. Mr. Mayor, I'm a bean soy, but no police commissioner was greater than Arthur Waller in my book. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, of course, Arthur, the times apart... Mr. Mayor, will come to all of us. Mr. Mayor, of course, Arthur, the time to part will come to all of us. Mr. Mayor, I cannot express this morning the two emotions that are going through... this morning, the tools, emotions that are going through me as I accepted your resignation and handed it hurriedly to John Bennett, because while it was one of the things that must be done on an occasion of this kind, it's something upon which I, for one, would prefer not to dwell. In this room, you, ladies and problems, it might have been passing interest to you to know that Commissioner Wallander was our drill master on this floor. But you're young, and it may not mean as much to you this morning as it does to me, and I don't expect that it will. But you saw Bill Whalen sworn in here in charge of detectives. He was in that class in 1917. He won the gun for outstanding excellence in our class. Up there on the balcony, after the drill was over, when we dressed in the sleep clothes, the man alongside of me was Howard O'Leary. He was the class ahead of us. And I think that's my recollection serves me right, Howard Wunders, young in his class. Downstairs was one of the best stenographers in the police department. You saw him here today, having gone through those years of struggle and service to the people. You saw him today, promoting Conrad Rovengas. Everyone that you've seen come up here this morning were men that I knew as a boy right in this room. It was a great pleasure to me to welcome all of you. And on behalf of the city to congratulate you for the outstanding work that they have done in the police department, for the example that they have given to hundreds and hundreds of members of the department, for the fine impression of our police department that they have helped to give to the public, so that today, thanks to them and their fellows, the public of this city has the confidence in its police department that it rarely enjoys. It's nice to go back over those years, Arthur, and it will be while God spares us. There will be years of our living. There will be years that will bless our memories of his will. And you will be foremost in that picture, taking the spotlight that you deserve from all of us. You've been through the mill in the last three years, Arthur. Times were difficult. Occasions came up that called for. Every ounce of good judgment that you had, that you command. And now that you have made the decision that the time has come for you to leave, you leave this room, symbolic as it is to you and to me, and to all of those who have promoted here this morning, with the affection of the department, in a greater degree than I have ever known it, with the confidence of the people of this city, and gratitude of the people of this city, for the manner in which you have handled this difficult assignment. The emotions of saying goodbye to you from this department couldn't possibly be happy ones. Yet, we know that there are family considerations. There is that home and that lovely family and those beautiful children that have to be educated. And we can go on through. However, the time does come when we have to think, first of all, of this. And I would not, despite the feeling of sadness that I do have, I've seen you, girl. I would not raise one finger to change your mind. I would prefer to think that what you're doing is done as you have done everything, in good conscience, out of your sense of fairness, and out of your love for your family. And keeping that in mind, there is the other emotion of happiness, because I believe that you will accomplish, in this way, the things that are dearest to your heart. So, we come to the final moment. We begin here to look forward, Arthur, to continued friendship, which I know you will give, not only to me, but to everyone in this department who appeals to you for your help, your wisdom, and your guidance. I ask the kind and providence that has brought us here this morning to guide you and make you happy. Thanks. Thank you. We've just heard the mayor of the city of New York pay his great tribute to Arthur Wallander, one of the greatest commissioners of the police department of the city of New York, and now the commissioner replies. Thank you very much, General. I don't know what to say after that. A very fine response to my designation coming from you, General. I... I... I... I... I... I feel it very deeply because you've always exhibited the kind of spirit and friendship that makes a fellow work. To know you is to love you. You've never regaled me for anything that I... or any of the mistakes I might have made, and I did make some. You simply encourage me to go on and forget about it and... and after that. Those things are... only come from great men. So, General, I... appreciate from the bottom of my heart the great privilege of having been able to serve under you. You've been a great leader, highest type, and... I thank you for much so. I thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Wallander has just replied to the mayor's felicitations on the occasion of the tendering of his resignation to the mayor as police commissioner of the city of New York. In the conference now, in a few moments, we'll see what the next move is before we report you on the radio. And now the cameraman again demand a picture of this momentous and historic occasion here in the gymnasium at police headquarters. Possibly in one of the most well-organized and beautifully detailed ceremonies ever to be held in this building is the assemblage here in the gymnasium at police headquarters where in the presence of the clergy, distinguished citizens, the ranking officers of the police department, the 483 new patrolmen who were sworn in just previous to the ceremony, and the 35 police women, all these fine young men and women have the inspiring sight of this leave-taking of Commissioner Wallander in the presence of the mayor, the members of his cabinet, the board of estimates, and all those concerned with the good and welfare and the dignity of this great and wondrous city of New York. Cameramen now are snapping pictures. And is there anything more, Mr. Segal? Yeah. And now we take leave of Commissioner Wallander and I know you, the people of the city of New York, we echo the sentiments of the mayor in wishing him in his new undertaking with the consolidated Edison, the very finest of opportunity and achievement such as he has had and achieved here in the great police department of the city of New York, New York's great army of blue. Combined with the fire department and the other army of blue, they themselves concern with the preservation of life and property from different angles within the gates of our busy and wonderful city. And now we take leave of you from the police headquarters gymnasium, Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Wallander just dismissed the ceremony and that is it. We return you now to the studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.