From the Mayor's reception room at City Hall, your city station is bringing you a transcribed account of the reception tendered His Excellency, Taga Erlander, Prime Minister of Sweden. With the Prime Minister is the Swedish Consul General, Lennart Nylander. The Honorable Grover A. Whalen, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, is presiding. Music will be provided on the program by the Police Department Glee Club under the direction of Sergeant John Dillon. The program will open with Patrolman James Smith of the Police Glee Club singing the Swedish National Anthem, and then the Glee Club itself will offer the Star Spangled Banner. The Mayor's reception room is flanked with the Fire Department Color Guard. There is a staff of photographers and reporters present, and an invited crowd has gathered to witness the reception that will be tendered the Prime Minister of Sweden. Now here is Grover Whalen. I see the Honorable Mr. Whalen standing in front there and issuing orders to some of the people who are present. And in just a moment, the Prime Minister will arrive. The Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, is standing at WNYC's microphone at the head of the reception room. And at the moment, there is complete order. Everyone is standing, although seats have been provided for the audience. I believe now they are being seated at this particular moment. The Consul General also, I believe, is standing there at the head of the room. And now, the Honorable Mr. Whalen has joined Mayor Impeletere at our microphone, and in just a moment, I imagine the program will begin. The Honorable Grover Whalen. The Honorable Grover Whalen. Occupy the National Anthem. Harry, hold it. The Honorable Grover Whalen. ln哦, Harry, hold it. DCV. The Son of theесть. There, I do. The Honorable Grover Whalen. Cannot ding if there in BB, Shahqroon, populist, Hobbs, Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light Was so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched was so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Your Excellency, Mr. Mayor You can note from the singing of the national anthem By one of the members of the police glee club The influence of a Swedish police commissioner Mr. Mayor Arthur Wallander It's a great privilege for me, Mr. Mayor, to present to you His Excellency The Prime Minister of Sweden Mr. Whelan Prime Minister Mr. Ambassador Mr. Council General Ladies and gentlemen It's a great honor and a great privilege For me as Mayor of the City of New York Mr. Prime Minister On behalf of all the people of our great city To extend to you A very warm hand of welcome We've had a great number of city hall receptions Particularly since the City of New York became the world capital of the entire world Including many other dignitaries Only two or three years ago We had the honor of receiving in our city Prince Bertil And that was really a wonderful, wonderful reception Here in the City of New York We have a great number of our most distinguished citizens Who come originally From the strain of the wonderful country you represent Seated to your left Mr. Prime Minister Is a fellow named Wallander Who is one of our greatest police commissioners And today Is president Or director, rather Of our civilian defense set up here in the City of New York Right next to him Is a fellow named Claussen Who is the president of our Board of Education Who also comes from Swedish stock We have a great number of other men and women in this room That have added luster, dignity And a great deal of the things that we believe here In the City of New York That come from the country you represent on this occasion And may I tell you, Mr. Prime Minister That I don't take second seat to Wallander or the Claussen In that respect at all Because right in my own family I have three nieces and one nephew Who are half Swedish So that today It gives us A great deal of pleasure Mr. Prime Minister That you have taken time out From your own very busy schedule To spend some time with us Here in the City of New York We're honored by your presence We will extend to you During the course of your visit in our city The warm hospitality For which the City of New York Is so very well known We want you to Convey to the people Of your country When you return After what I hope will be A very interesting And very fruitful trip here in America The very warm appreciation Of the people of the City of New York For the friendship Of the people of Sweden Sweden And America Have been traditional friends For generations For as far back as history records itself Your country And my country Mr. Prime Minister Today Are allied With the other freedom loving countries Throughout the world In espousing The cause of democracy And the cause of freedom Please convey that message To the people of your country We will stand shoulder to shoulder With you In preserving the integrity In preserving the dignity And preserving the freedom Of countries like yours and mine That believe in democracy May I again Extend to you A very warm hand of welcome Thank you Thank you Mr. Mayor It is a great honor For my country And for me Personally To receive This greeting Welcome From the great city Of New York I have never before Visited Your magnificent Metropolis And I must admit That I feel somewhat bewildered That I believe Is inevitable The impression of Skyscrapers And gigantic proportion Is overwhelming Overwhelming But at the same time There is a spirit Of kindness And goodwill That you immediately feel And which make Your will dwellment Less hard to bear In the history of relations Between America And Sweden New York Has played An important part It has Among other things Seen Swedish immigrants Arrive In a large number Altogether About one million And a quarter Million Swedes Have entered The United States Mainly during The latter part Of the 19th century That means Mr. Mayor That more than One-fourth Of all people Of Swedish birth Or descent Live in this country The conditions That caused The messy Immigration From Sweden To America Do not exist Anymore Today Sweden Is actually A country Of immigration But The fact That so many Sons and daughters Of Sweden Made their homes In the United States Will always Will always be a bond Between our two countries In addition to all That we have in common In traditions And ideals I will now take The advantage Of a short recess Of the Swedish parliament To take A trip In your great country To see something Of all That we have achieved In different domains After that I will visit The capital Of the United States I am looking forward Very much To this new experience I know That the two weeks That I have At my disposal Will give me Something Of great interest And usefulness And memories Which I will always Treasure Once more I wish to thank you Mr. Mayor For your sympathy And kindness And may I say From the bottom Of my heart All the best To New York It's not only The imperial city Of the United States And the biggest Business city Of the world Today When all of us Are vitally concerned With the efforts To establish A lasting And true peace Our thoughts Are directed To New York The home Of the United Nations And of the Noblest Aspiration Of humanity Mr. Mayor I thank you Thank you very much The police department Will render A few selections The police department Will render A few selections The police department Will render A few selections The hands are up With the chests Around the arms A swing in a cadence count Sound off Three, four cadence count One, two, three, four One, two, three, four I had a good home When I left You're right You had a good home When you left You're right Jody was there When you left You're right Jody was there When you left You're right Sound off One, two Sound off Three, four Cale's count One, two, three, four One, two, three, four Left my Calaway Out West I thought that army Life was best Now she's someone Else's wife And I'll be marching The rest of my life Sound off One, two Sound off Three, four Cale's count One, two, three And four Eeny, meeny, miny, moe Let's go back And count some more Sound off One, two Sound off Three, four Cale's count One, two, three, four One, two Three, four If I get spanked In the combat zone Give me a whack To take me home The captain rides In a jeep The sergeant rides In a truck The general rides In a limousine But we're just out of love Sound off One, two Sound off Three, four Hades count One, two Three, four One, two Three, four One, two Three, four One, two Three, four Sound off Thank you very much This concludes the Official reception To his excellency The prime minister Of Sweden From the mayor's reception room At city hall Your city station Has brought you A transcribed account Of the reception Tended his excellency Taga Erlander Prime minister of Sweden By the honorable Vincent R. Impeletere Mayor of the city Of New York With the prime minister Was the Swedish Consul general Leonard Nylander The honorable Grover A. Whelan Chairman of the mayor's Reception committee Was presiding And music was provided By the police department Flee club Under the direction Of sergeant John Dillon We return you now To our studios In the municipal building Marching along together Whistling till the skies are clear Swinging along the highway Over the wall that's wide Without a view Without a drum We need to chase the jinks Oh, runky-diddly Here we come We're happy hicky-dicks We're marching along Together Life is one All side by side The preceding was another program Presented in the public interest By the municipal broadcasting system takeaways andiiiiis 근데제 lider In the public interest We're happy hick-dick plant and food Was the notification Booty And We're happy So We're happy It I just I just I just You This侍 That Advance We We're상이 We'reuffed In the public interest If you That Is You Right41 demise