We take you now to City Hall. City Hall The Honorable Vincent Impelitari, Mayor of the City of New York, is receiving the offices of the American Bankers Association and the chief executive offices of the member banks of the New York Clearinghouse Association in the Board of Estimate Room at City Hall. And now, Mr. Whelan. It's a great pleasure and honor. It's a great pleasure to offer me to present to you the offices and a committee of the American Bankers Association who are here in the City of New York to attend the diamond anniversary of the organization of the American Bankers Association. May I say to you, sir, that it has been a privilege for the Mayor's Committee representatives to work with the committees charged with the responsibility preparing the plans of the reception for thousands of bankers and their families who are presently in the city. And in this connection, I'd like to pay particular tribute to Mr. Percy Abbott, president of Chase Bank, who has worked so diligently and so faithfully in the discharge of his important duties. Mr. Mayor, I give you the president of the American Bankers Association who will respond to your greeting. But Mr. Abbott, I've asked him to present him to you first. Mr. Abbott. Mr. Mayor, this is the 75th anniversary of the American Bankers Association, but the first time in 28 years that the New York bankers have entertained our friends from out the country. Having been entertained in Los Angeles, in Atlanta, Seattle, Chicago, St. Louis, Atlantic City, and various spots all over the country, we finally remembered our manners and thought that it might be a nice idea for the New York Clearinghouse to reciprocate some of the favors that have been extended to us for the last 28 years. Well, I might say that you're familiar with the housing, with the halls and the number of halls in this city and the number of people that can be housed in those various meeting places. And I think for the next three days they will all be full with out-of-town guests, and that is under strict orders that all the New York bankers and their wives all stay home so that we can entertain our guests. But I want to say to you, sir, that we in the New York Clearinghouse knew that we were amateurs when it came to entertaining something under 7,000 people. So we immediately went to Mr. Grover Whalen, who's had some experience, as you know, in this kind of business. And I can say without any persiflage and in all honesty that without Grover's help, I mean the Honorable Mr. Whalen, I've learned to call him Grover in the last year, we, and through his help, with the police department, the Board of Transportation, the various departments, I can't name them all, but I want to thank them all, but we have had the most helpful cooperation in the task which was before us. And I want to thank you, sir, for that because it's been beautifully done and we're most appreciative. It's my pleasure to present the gentleman on your right, the president of the association, Mr. Peterson, the president of the American Bankers Association. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Abbott, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a privilege for the bankers of America to meet in your city. We have a registration, I judge, for somewhere between 7,000 or 7,500 out-of-town members who are enjoying your wonderful city and who are very grateful to you, Mr. Mayor, for the treatment they have been accorded in New York. I know they're very appreciative of the action taken by your reception committee, by the courteous treatment of your police and fire department and others in the city of New York who have been very, very helpful. Also, I know, speaking from out-of-town bankers, we're very appreciative of the work done by the members of the New York Clearing House of Bankers. They have made our stay here very enjoyable and I know over the next few days we are all going to have a fine time in your wonder city seeing all of the sights and the views as well as a constructive convention. I think you know, Mr. Mayor, this is our 75th anniversary of the American founding American Bankers Association and we are one of the, among the few organizations that have existed or trade organizations that have existed down through the years. I know that to most bankers, New York is not an unknown city. I think you have possibly some three billion in bonds outstanding which I think are well distributed throughout the United States and we bankers are quite familiar with the credit of the city. However, sometimes we have a hard time understanding the statement as published. But nevertheless, again, I want to stress it is certainly a privilege to be in New York and we are enjoying ourselves very much, enjoying all the facilities that your town provides. And again, I want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your kindness and for your reception and also the bankers for their kindness and treatment of us. Thank you. Thank you. His honor, Mayor Impelteri. Thank you. Thank you. To Waylon, officers and members of the American Bankers Association, those of us who control the government of the city of New York in this historic room do transact a lot of business. This is, so that you'll understand it, this is the room where the board of directors of the government of the city of New York actually functions. The directorship of the government of the city of New York is not much different from the board of directors in one of your banks. And this is where the only difference is this, that your meetings are held in executive session. We have that, too. But the executive session chamber is over the other side of the hall. That's where we meet with our advisors, with our commissioners, and go over the various problems of the city of New York, and particularly the problems that affect the pocketbook of the city of New York. However, there's just a little different twist when we come out here. You see, every item that we pass upon is numbered. The item clearly indicates exactly what we seek to do, and it also indicates the amount of money that will be required. And after we get through in our executive session, and long before that, that calendar is printed. And that printed calendar is available to the public free of charge. And every time the board of estimates meets, the board of directors of the city of New York, every one of these items have to be called one after the other. And then for each item, there must be a roll call in public. But in addition to that, any taxpayer of the city of New York has a right to come into this chamber, and that right is accorded to them under the law, and we're glad to give it to them. And then they have a right to get right behind that rail and tell their board of directors just how they feel about an item, and sometimes how they feel about the board itself. I just wanted to give you that little insight as to how the government of the city of New York operates. You see, the mayor sits in the middle. To his right sits the president of the council. To his left sits the controller, and they have three votes apiece on the board of estimate because they're what we call citywide officials. They're elected by the people of all the five counties within the city of New York. And then comes the borough president of Manhattan with two votes, the borough president of Bronx with one vote, the borough president of Richmond with one vote, one vote, then right next to the controller on his left comes the borough president of Kings with two votes, the borough president of Queens with one vote. So you see, the scheme of it is to give the three citywide officials a majority vote in the board of estimate. They combined have a total of nine votes, a total of nine out of seventeen. the borough presidents, nine out of sixteen. Thanks for the correction, Mr. Melody. Nine out of sixteen. The borough presidents, the five borough presidents, have seven votes distributed among the five of them. And the basic reasoning for that is that, as you can probably understand, is that the three citywide officials have the needs and the welfare of the entire city at heart, and the borough presidents do too. But you can well understand that the borough presidents being elected from their respective counties have their primary interest in promoting the needs of their particular borough, and that's understandable. So that if you have thirty million dollars or forty million dollars to spend in schools for one year that should be distributed among the five boroughs within the city, you can well understand that a borough president would want that whole forty million to go to his particular borough, so that the three citywide members are able to look at it just a little, with a little degree of impartiality, to see that that forty million dollars will be distributed in a fair, reasonable proportion among all five counties. That's just a little aside. I thought you might be interested in knowing that, but today we're glad to welcome you here to the city of New York, and particularly to City Hall, because you are in probably the most historic chamber, the most historic building in the entire city. And so that you might know just a little about that, and it's interesting, this building goes back to 1805. And when, if you'll notice this building as you go out, the front part of it is considered a very good piece of colonial architecture. The rear part of it is considered an architectural monstrosity. And that's due to the fact, believe it or not, that when this building was built, Manhattan Island, for City Hall. And from City Hall north was a dense forest with a lot of Indians. And the planners as of that time thought that New York City would never go further north than this building, and that accounts for the rear end of this building. Now, if any of you bankers had been in business at that time and had taken a few options on some of these farmlands and forests that were directly to the north of City Hall, you wouldn't have had to worry about being bankers, and I wouldn't have had to worry about being mayor. If I'd been that business. As the representative of the people of the City of New York, I am, of course, happy to greet your officers members on the occasion of your diamond anniversary convention here in our city. We think that New York City is the best convention city in the world, and that includes Los Angeles. And to that end, to that end, here in the City of New York, we have set up as part of the city governor, a full-time convention bureau, and they're doing a swell job. Time and time again, we have sought people from other cities to come to our cities and to avail themselves of our facilities. I'm very happy that both your president and your retiring president have given warm words of praise to Mr. Whelan and to his committee. They always do a splendid job. Mr. Whelan has had a great amount of experience in doing exactly this kind of job, and I want to publicly commend him and his staff for seeing to it that your convention in the City of New York will be not only fruitful. But in addition to that, these things that you've already talked about will continue on during your entire stay in our city. We want it that way. We want to make you happy here. We know that when the job is done properly, and you go back home to your respective cities, you go back to your people and say to them, New York is a well-run city. They did a splendid job for us there. The facilities of the City of New York are excellent. I think we should hold our next convention there. And that's what we would like. And we're going to give you that kind of treatment so that when you go back, you will want to come back here again because, believe it or not, that happens time and time again. Grover, you'll recall that just recently we had a very large convention here, and I don't think I have to give them names and dates, but it was really a very, very large convention. They were here two years ago, and they kind of liked the job we did. It was the first time that that particular convention had come to the City of New York. The following year, they voted to go to Washington, and they went to Washington. They'd been to many other cities before that, but within the short space of two years, after the hiatus of one year, they unanimously decided to come back to the City of New York. They did come back, and I wouldn't be surprised if they come back again next year. Thanks very much for selecting New York City as your convention city. I would like to talk to you at length about bonds and all that sort of business, but you know more about that than I do. If I had the controller here, perhaps he could tell you just a little more. I'm acquainted with it, but I don't want to set myself up as an expert. I am the people's choice, you see. Thanks very much for coming here. I know that you're going to be happy, and I know that Grover Whelan and his committee will continue to do the kind of job that you say is all right. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, on behalf of your committee, I acknowledge with grateful appreciation your kind words, but I want to assure you that it could not be done or anything that we ever attempt to do, the mayor's reception committee, could not be accomplished without the full and complete authority and cooperation of the mayor. This is the powerhouse of the city of New York. It looks like a small little place, but it is a terrific powerhouse, and present it is the capital city of the world. So that added to the vast responsibilities that come to the mayor under the charter, he has the additional responsibility of being the mayor of the capital city of the world. And if you read the papers on Friday, you discover some of his problems. Not of his own making either, or that of his committee. But nevertheless, they were problems. And I want to thank you publicly, Mayor Impelteri, for the generous generosity and your support which you have given the committee. I'm sure that you will want to meet the individual gentlemen who are here who are all kings in their own right. All of them. And they all have boardrooms, too. And vast responsibility is in only one field. And they're interested in the continuance of good government. That's right. And you have 102 departments that you are responsible for, without saying anything about the agencies and other instruments of government that you have to preside over. And this particular function, you and I have always felt, selling New York is an important duty of the mayors. And I want to compliment you with your salesmanship about inviting the American Bankers Convention to be here next year. I'm sure they'll carry out your orders when they get up to the next meeting. Mr. Abbott, will you please introduce the gentlemen that accompany you? Will they come up here and meet the mayor, please? With a little music to air. Come right around. You've met Mr. Peterson. Yes, we met Mr. Shelton. The Hannibal Vincent and Pelletieri, mayor of the city of New York, is receiving personal introductions to the various bankers who form the convention members here of the Diamond Jubilee visit of the offices of the American Bankers Association and the chief executive officers of the members of the banks of the New York City Clearinghouse Association. This meeting is taking place in the beautiful colonial and historic board of estimate room in City Hall and Mayor Pelletieri is now performing the function of mayor of the city of New York in greeting these men on this hallowed spot where the great government of the city has established its tradition as one of the greatest governments, one of the most responsible governments anywhere in the world and as Mr. Whelan says, with the added burden we might say as well as honor of being the capital city of the world. The Honorable Grove Ray Whelan was chairman of the mayor's committee of reception today. Mr. Percy J. Abbott, chairman of the executive committee of the ABA, American Bankers Association, and president of the Chase National Bank, introduced Mr. F. Raymond Peterson, president of the American Bankers Association. Your department of sanitation band, Maestro Celebrate Conducting, furnished the musical program before the broadcast and during the reception by Mayor Palletary. That is all from the Board of Estimate Rome. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Music by Michael SchALLenberg,いました mínimo WPF, restaurant. Music by Michael Schall at the shockwreckedatch Ohr. Howard Evacutenberg JAMIE Huffin, Whitney respected and ickong Un 0634. million K, employees of the American хотите c-c-c-c-o-payokeude and how to display a iş kadhe registered. Band-MJ-646. And nine Moon for Miss or and another curse service is the May metro festivalutter Totally is the okay far. The majority of the