Violent attacks of food poisoning, both in humans and in animals, have occurred for hundreds of years. What caused it, no one knew. Until a doctor, a doctor of veterinary medicine, isolated the virus present in contaminated foods which caused the trouble. How he then developed an antitoxin which has practically eliminated this disease is today's story beyond teaching. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. The End Fevers, epidemics, and plagues have darkened the European continent since the beginning of time. But in 1735, an entirely new disease struck in Germany. The first time a case of this type was recorded, and then other cases began to appear. Here, here, let's have another toast. To the bride. It won't be many hours now. And already our young groom-to-be seems a little pale and shaky. Come, come, another toast for courage. Yes, Hans, what's wrong? I'm afraid I'm not feeling too well. There's always a moment when a man's nerve is shaken. No, no, it's not that. Perhaps something I ate. Well, another toast and you'll feel better. I think perhaps someone should get a doctor. See, he does look pale. A fever? No, my stomach. Get a doctor. And hurry. I can't understand it. He was taken ill so suddenly. I hope it's nothing serious. Ah, here's the doctor. What's wrong with the boy doctor? I'm very sorry, but there was nothing I could do. Well, will he be all right? He's dead. Very violent. And very quick. Dead. What was it? It's very hard to say. I've seen few cases like it. Sometimes there's one, sometimes seven or eight people are strict. Appears very suddenly. We don't know how to cure it. We don't even know what causes it. Well, there's nothing more for me to do with it. Someone had better notified his family. Cases of this new disease continued to appear throughout Germany and Europe for a number of years. Then, early in the 19th century, physicians in southern Germany believed they had determined its cause. It's a type of poisoning from food. Spoiled sausages, to be exact. And so, the disease was called botulism because of the German word for sausage, botulus. And until 1895, spoiled sausages alone were blamed for the outbreaks in Germany. But in that year, another German physician found that 23 persons had been made seriously ill by eating spoiled ham. Before scientists could find a way to fight botulism, they had to find out more about it. In fact, they had to learn what it was. After years of study, they discovered that botulism acts in an entirely different way from most infectious diseases. Other diseases are caused when germs get into the body, multiply, and produce their poisons. But in botulism, the germs do not multiply within the body. They multiply and produce their poison in food before it is eaten. The disease then strikes when food containing the poison enters the stomach. But botulism did not confine itself to humans. It affected animals, too. While European scientists were studying the malady and its cause, it struck in the United States. Botulism came to the attention of Dr. Robert Graham, professor of veterinary science at the University of Kentucky, when several horses died of the disease. After studying these cases, Dr. Graham and his associates developed a botulinus antitoxin for horses. The animals had contracted the disease by eating contaminated corn silage. It was found if horses were given this antitoxin before they became ill, it would prevent botulism from developing. But still, no preventative had been found for humans. In 1917, Dr. Graham joined the faculty of the University of Illinois, where he continued his studies. That same year, the United States found itself in the middle of a world war, and Americans came face to face with rationing and shortages of canned foods, staples, and meats. A familiar slogan came into use. Eat it up. Whirl it out. Make it do. And included in this program of President Wilson's was home canning. More home canned food for human consumption. And then... Seven persons have been stricken with a disease which physicians have diagnosed as food poisoning or botulism. The attack occurred after the family had eaten dinner. A local physician recognized the symptoms, probably due to home canned food improperly. Three of the seven people stricken died within a week following the poisoning. Medical science still had not perfected any cure. But there was the botulism antitoxin which Dr. Graham had developed for animals. There must be something we can do. How about this antitoxin they've used for animals? But that's a medicine for horses, not humans. It's the only thing we've got. Why, it may kill them. They're going to die anyway if we don't do something. I'm going to see if we can get permission to use this antitoxin on two of these patients. Even so, it's a preventative, but not a cure. So far as I know, no one's ever used the serum for humans, at least not in this country. We have to do something. We can't let them die without trying. I'm going to call Dr. Graham and see if I can get caught. And so, for the first time in the United States, a botulism antitoxin was used as a human treatment. One of the two persons, on the point of death when the antitoxin was administered, did not recover. But the second did regain her health. News of this case spread rapidly. But at the same time, other cases of botulism or food poisoning were noted throughout the country. And most of the outbreaks were attributed to home canned foods, which had not been cooked long enough in the canning process. Most common among the foods were home canned spring beans, asparagus, corn, pears, spinach, and occasionally spoiled meat. By 1919, the antitoxin was being used in a number of cases. But, Doctor, I understand this food poisoning can be fatal. It can be, yes. But I believe we've caught it in time. You mean there's a cure? No, not a cure. But we're using an antitoxin. And when it's administered, before really serious damage is done, it's helpful. Your boy's going to be all right. Oh, thank heavens. I'm glad to hear that. I thought there was no help. I've heard of people dying of food poisoning. As a matter of fact, this antitoxin is pretty new. They developed it first for the use and treating of animals. Then the same doctor, Dr. Graham, conducted some more research at the University of Illinois and developed this antitoxin for humans. But it seems odd that they should find a cure for animals before they did for humans. Well, not necessarily. In this case, it was very natural. Dr. Graham is a doctor of veterinary medicine. But he used the poisonous bacteria which was found in corn silage and caused the disease in horses in making the same antitoxin for man and which I used for your boy. And you're sure the danger's over, doctor? Yes. Here's a list of things to do and some medicine. You won't need a nurse any longer. Dr. Graham's preventative for botulism or food poisoning was helpful in saving many lives. And in later work, and substantiating the work of other scientists, Dr. Graham found that a disease in chickens known as limberneck was a type of botulism and could be treated with a similar antitoxin. Since Dr. Graham's investigations, manufacturers of biological products have made antitoxin available for use in both animals and man. This, together with careful methods of canning foods and care in the feeding of animals, has practically eliminated the terrors of botulism. One of our most significant developments in recent years is the new understanding of the close relationship between animal and public health. Physicians now realize that their battle for better human health is being handicapped by the prevalence of animal diseases that can spread to man. And research to find new and better ways to control diseases of animals has been continued at the University of Illinois. More than 550 people in Illinois suffered from undulant fever during 1947. Undulant fever is spread by swine, cattle, or goats infected with a disease known as brucellosis or Bang's disease. It can be spread by contact with infected live animals, by contact with their meat, or by drinking raw milk produced by infected cows or goats. Recently, veterinarians at the University's College of Veterinary Medicine began an experiment which may throw new light on the use of vaccines in controlling brucellosis in cattle. New experimental vaccines are being used in a limited number of selected, privately owned herds by the investigators from the College of Veterinary Medicine, in cooperation with local veterinarians, in combating the disease in cattle. Perfection of a satisfactory vaccine may be the tool by which a $5 million yearly loss in beef and dairy cattle to Illinois farmers alone may be reduced and eventually wiped out. Still another disease in cattle, known as mastitis, affects about 22% of Illinois dairy cattle. To the dairy farmers of Illinois, this means 20% loss in milk production, or some 242 million pounds of milk each year. Enough milk to give over 3 million children a quart of milk every day for an entire year. In dollars and cents, this means over 7 and 1 half million dollars lost annually by Illinois dairymen. And what is the University doing about this problem? Its College of Veterinary Medicine, in cooperation with the University's Agricultural Extension Service, has developed a plan of good herd management, early diagnosis and treatment. Penicillin has been found effective in the treatment of this disease. This new remedy, in combination with good management, has already eradicated the disease from many herds. An organized effort to control this disease is underway in thousands of Illinois dairy herds. The University's findings mean dollars to poultry raisers too. Particularly in the treatment and control of foul pox and foul cholera in chicken and turkey flocks. And in working out a satisfactory method of fumigating hatcheries to prevent incubator spread diseases, without harming the young chicks. There are more than 70 other diseases of animals which menace public health. Some of these are rabies, tuberculosis, Tullurumia, parrot fever, and irisipeloid contracted from swine infected with irisipilis. Through research, the University is striving to perfect cures and controls for these diseases, in both humans and animals. Now, what does this mean to you? It means first, greater safety. The knowledge that there is less danger of contracting these diseases from animals or from food products. It means too, greater production of wholesome meat, eggs, milk, and other dairy products. More food for consumers. More profit for the farmers of the state. And it means we are gradually winning out in our battle against sickness and disease. That research has perfected preventatives and cures for many of these diseases, and has aided in stamping out others. And it means research work, conducted in the interests of science and health. In your interest, by your state university. Research which has gone beyond teaching. For many places calledMEKlls, California,Alright Desde yours, that dizaine ours, our technology, healthcare, and experts... For sono statimes, informat, lavenderano, phosphorus, artificial奶, artist es decir. The End
