Well, I must say I was fortunate in serving aboard the Essex, and I can say from my own experience that Commander McCampbell certainly was a pilot. I won't forget the day that he managed to bag six and one-half planes. How he managed to bag six and one-half planes was in this manner. His wingmen riding with him, why, they just couldn't decide who had knocked the plane down. So Commander McCampbell graciously agreed to divide the plane, and so they both had six and one-half stars on their plane, and at that time both of them had shot down that number of planes. Now, Lieutenant, I'd like to ask you one or two more questions, and they are this. What do you think of night operations aboard carriers? I've seen some of them. I think they're immensely practical. What do you think of future night operations aboard carriers, sir? Well, from my experience, I believe that it can be done very easily. The important thing is confidence that the pilots have. If you can develop confidence in the pilots and make them believe they can actually do it, and make them believe that it's not too difficult, you have no trouble at all. The mental attitude, though, is the greatest thing in night operations. It's not too difficult, but you do have to have good night vision and a lot of confidence in your pilots do a good job. Well, thank you very much, sir. We are very happy to have you with us and have you up to our microphone. And now we're going to bring to our microphone Mr. Thomas Demion, who is the Yeoman 3rd Class from Edwards Grill, Pennsylvania. How do you do, Mr. Demion? I'm glad to be back here in New York City. Very nice city. Best Liberty town I could ever be in. Who has learned the job well and we appreciate being in this town. Thank you very much, sir. We appreciate your coming up to the microphone here. And I'd like to say at this time, it is raining very hard out here. However, as I said before, the spirits of the men have not been dampened at all. It's indeed damp here, but the spirits of the men here are very hard. They're very happy to come into New York. And now we want to bring to the microphone Mr. W. F. McGuire, who is the chief signalman of the Franklin D. Roosevelt. Mr. McGuire, how long have you been in the Navy, sir? Almost 26 years. Mr. McGuire, I take it that that job that you have there, which keeps you out on the signal bridge all the time, you know, it's really an outdoor one. There's no question about it. And what do you think of it? Would you change your work? You've been doing it for 26 years. Would you change your work for any other type of job, sir? I'd just say that I'd really enjoy it. I wouldn't change it for the world. And Mr. McGuire really says that as though he means it. I can honestly say that. He said that with an infectious grin then, which really meant it. Well, thank you very much, Mr. McGuire. That was Chief Signalman McGuire of the Franklin D. Roosevelt. And now we'd like to bring a man to the microphone, who is perhaps the most, one of the most important men on a hearing. He is the aerological officer, the man who takes a look into the crystal ball, a crystal ball which is filled with a good many statistics, and tries to determine what type of weather the ship will operate in for the next week or so. Incidentally, I asked him today if he would forecast for us the future weather for New York. And he diplomatically disagreed. He said, of course, that he would. And he saw rain for the day anyway. But he said that he wouldn't forecast the weather for New York for the next week or so. But he promised that it would rain today. And he's been right. Well, anyway, I'd like to bring to the microphone Lieutenant Commander Jerry McCarthy, who has been very helpful to us aboard here, and whom I am very proud to know. Lieutenant Commander McCarthy. I'd like to mention passing at this crystal ball that Mr. Halper and his both about is indeed very clouded. This weather that we're going to have tomorrow, it'll probably be a little approximately like it is today. We weathermen don't like to stick our necks out too far, but I'll say the day after tomorrow, it'll become good. Commander McCarthy, there is a certain development that I'd like to talk to you about, and that is the development of Paxsimile. We understand that in the very near future, portions of view statements will be printed and received over radios in the home. And we understand that weather reports are going to be originated at some central point and received on the ship's radios in a manner comparable to the facsimile that is used nowadays, that is in the home. In other words, there won't be any need for each ship to collate so much material and so many statistics. There will be a central bureau which will provide it with a map giving the essential weather information in certain areas. What do you think of that idea, sir? The fact of the recordings that are now being developed will be very valuable to us when the facilities will be installed for our use. We hope, however, that they will give us all the information that we need. We do not want, however, that they should do our forecasting for us. We wouldn't then like to do that for ourselves. Well, thank you very much, Lieutenant Commander McCartney. Before I go ahead and bring more people to the microphone, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the history of the Franklin D. Roosevelt. It's the ship that was commissioned, or the ship was made December 1st, 1943, at the New York Naval Shipyard. She was sponsored by Mrs. Johnny Towers and launched April 29th, 1945. The commissioning date was Navy Day, the 27th of October, 1945, and the principal speaker was the Commander-in-Chief, President Truman. The Roosevelt is one of three vessels of the CVV, the large carrier class. The others are the Midway, the first to be commissioned, and the Coral Sea, now building at the Newport News Shipbuilding Corporation. The vessel includes berthing accommodations for 422 officers and 3,650 enlisted men. For the crew's messing, six. Six cafeteria lines are provided working from two galleys. Each galley has its own bake shop, butcher shop, vegetable preparation rooms, scullery, and refrigerated stations. To maintain the help of the crew, a completely equipped fish bay is provided, which includes two orcs totaling 65 beds, dispensary, treatment, and pharmacy. Of course, aboard the ship, I must say that it is a floating city in itself, and if I describe a number of the facilities, you can quite understand it. The library, and the laundry, and the post office, the tailor shop, the cobbling shop, two barber shops, clothing, and small stores sales. And now turning about us on the flag grid here, we're looking about, and we witness, the tugs. Some of the tugs have cast off, and we're just opposite Pier 88 here, and there we see alongside a merchant ship of the French Line is Angus. Here at Pier 92, a pair that has a distinguished history in the recent war, Pier 92 was the receiving and focal point for a large number of men, and some of these men are standing outside on the dock there, and they're watching the shooting, the FDR, and the men's flying. And there it goes, I'm going to go. Old Seattle, and the old Camden, uh, one in here, a generation two, but they still have been removed. The Camden was a vessel, captain from Germany in the last war, and if Seattle was one of the most distinguished vessels in the World War I streak. Now, I see a four-stack destroyer over here, and, uh, it seems to be, well, I can't see very well here, the fog is closing in on it, uh, uh, uh, but there is another vessel anchored alongside of it that looks very much like a Camden, so apparently the Camden may still be here. Well, it's good to see a good many of the merchant ships back in port. I remember a year ago today, there weren't very many, and so as we return to ways of keeping, we can see the harbor again starting out. And now I'd like to bring a man to the microphone, who, uh, he has quite importance in the working company. Yep. He's instructed with a good deal of responsibility. He checks cars, checks weather, and he has to take over the operation of the freight for a time. And he has to be a four-and-a-half-way. He has to be a four-and-a-half-way. As the pengamb Increaseur MCM ви depends on the line of the cables. It has to be a three- aconteceing park this season, which knows how it ends up in 2-in and couples down their way . I had no idea of telling the jokes overall how long the audience invest paper, and the way there is, like, let's say if our young men never can come from, but with just. Thank you.