The Man in the Iron Mask Suggested from the thrilling version by Alexander Dumas and written specially for radio by Eric Scott A George Edwards production There is no subject more shrouded in mystery and at the same time more generally discussed in Europe than the strange case of the man in the iron mask who lived and died in the 18th century Everybody knew he was an exalted person and in spite of his activities he was paid all the respect and homage due to one of high rank Yet nobody knew his name nor saw him all because of a forbidding steel mask which locked his face from the world What was the career which this man exchanged for a life of silence and seclusion? Was it the dissolute life of a courtier? The intrigues of a diplomat? The scaffold of a state criminal? Or the renown of some warrior? What had he given up? Was it love? Was it glory? Or was it a throne? History tells us he was placed in the dark arches of the prison of Pignarol and Exilis The Bastille also hid him And eventually he was transported to the island Saint-Marguerite as it was known in those days A charming island of sandy beaches, wooded groves marred only by a grim fortress rising high on forbidding brown rocks Time and death can perhaps erase the pain and suffering which might have been in the life of this mysterious masked man But time has not effaced the lovely island itself For now on a beautiful morning in this present day we see a small motor yacht idling on sunlit waters off the coast of France quite near this island Manila cane chairs littered with gaily coloured cushions are to be seen on the aft deck and there are two red and green sun umbrellas drinks on a small cane table and a coil of cigarette smoke rising heavenwards which betokens the most calm of days The smoke comes from the cigarette of a good-looking man in his middle thirties He is in the act of gently waking a pretty girl who sleeps in the long chair beside him Louise? Hmm? Louise, wake up! Look, Lens inside Oh, Michael, what a charming-looking island There's a nice white beach Wonderful, we can swim Anyhow, I'll ask Bowling all about it Are you happy, darling? Happy Oh, Michael When you suggested a honeymoon on your yacht I... I never dreamt it would be as wonderful as this Darling, I'd like this to go on for hundreds of years Hundreds of years is a long time Incidentally, there's something on that island which seems to be very old It looks like a castle unless the rocks are playing tricks with my imagination It's built high up Hmm, I can't see No, no, but use these binoculars Oh, yes Ah, Captain Bowling I was going forward to have a talk with you Lens inside Yes Louise and I thought we might swim There seems to be a beach Michael, that is a castle I can see the turrets and the walls Do you know the island, Captain? Yes, yes, I do When I came through here three years ago there was a sort of caretaker then a man called, um, Nicklaus I don't know what the island's inhabited now Still, we can start up the engine and make for the place straight away Oh, incidentally that's where the man in the iron mask spent his last days The man in the iron mask? Yes, you know about him I seem to have heard a story about the man in the iron mask Oh, there's not one story and there are a hundred, Mr. Dent A hundred? Yes But who was he and why did he wear a mask? Certainly wasn't his own choice Apparently, this man was forced to wear a mask and was imprisoned on that island for many years This old fellow, Nicklaus, can tell you more than I can, really But whoever he was his name was kept secret and his face hidden from everybody Oh, how weird He was probably a well-known political prisoner Yes, that is a popular theory But some go even further than that Some say that he was the son of Anne of Austria Anne of Austria? Oh, Anne of Austria, of course was the wife of Louis XIII Oh, anyway, I'll give orders straight away and we'll make a landing It'll be most interesting, darling won't it? Exploring the island and the fortress Yes, I suppose so, Michael Except that Well, it's all so weird, isn't it? To think that nearly 300 years ago a man had his face locked in a mask and his body locked in a fortress Oh, it makes me a little frightened Frightened? But, darling, that was nearly 300 years ago Yes Ghosts of the past, I suppose But still, people may die and be buried but some say their thoughts still remain alive Their hates, their loves, their torments and their souls, as it were Did you know that spiritualists believe that a tormented soul often revisits the scene of its torment? Up the steps, monsieur and madame As you can see, well-worn steps The wear and the tear of centuries I think the fortress is in remarkably good condition, monsieur Nicolas Up here on the heights, yes But down below The dungeons You would not believe Water rats The size of young dogs And ooze and slime Where a hundred living things call Up these stairs, though And along this passage The rooms in which the prisoners were locked Are, yes, the pair is good Because here was the best workmanship The strongest bolts And the strongest bars Here is a very special room Which I will show you It's all very interesting, isn't it, darling? This place is over 300 years old Yes, I suppose it is interesting What's the matter? Oh, the place depresses me, Michael There's something about it Will you go this way, dear? Ah, this is the showpiece of the fortress, Marguerite Indeed You have heard of the man in the iron mask We've been talking of nothing else on the yacht Well, this is where he lived, these two rooms High, high up on the cliff The barred windows looking down Into that foaming cauldron below Look, monsieur Come right in, darling There's no need to stand back So this is where he was imprisoned, eh? Yes, for some years This was the sitting room And beyond the bedroom Some say that he was an Englishman An Englishman There is a report that he was the Duke of Monmouth The natural son of Charles II But the Duke of Monmouth was executed For organizing an armed rebellion Ah, monsieur But the story goes That another man was executed In the place of the Duke of Monmouth Others say that this man Was the son of the Duke of Buckingham The Duke of Buckingham He came to France in 1625 To escort to England Henriette of France The sister of the French king You are a student of history, monsieur Although my husband is French He took all honors at Cambridge But these are only the English tales If I could tell you what I have heard Ah, these walls If they could only speak It might interest you to know That everybody who came into these rooms To talk with the man in the iron mask Always remained standing Always remained bare-headed Then he must have been a man of noble birth He had the finest linen The best of books Food was always served to him Upon silver and gold plate And when he died Everything was burned All his belongings His linen His clothes Mattresses Bedclothing And even the bedstead and the chairs But why, why? So that none would discover his identity Even the silver plate was melted down And these walls here were washed In the fear that he may have written messages Why, even this floor The stone flagging Look at it, monsieur, madame But what about the floor? Every piece of flagging was taken up For fear that he might have hidden a note underneath Or made some mark Which might disclose his identity You know, monsieur The more I hear of this man The more astounded I am Ah, details I could tell Once this prisoner threw his shirt Through that window Down into those foaming waves below A servant found the shirt Three days later Washed up on the sandy beach And it was covered with writing Writing, monsieur Nicholas? Yes, madame He was brought before the governor And asked if he had read any of the writing He said he had not But mark this well Three days later That servant was found dead in his bed Oh Oh, Michael It'll be dark soon You promised to swim Could we go now? Hey, even this prison door now The wonderful workmanship You unlock with the key But to lock You just pull the door shut And it locks automatically Even in those days There were clever craftsmen Now, stay just for a moment, monsieur Now, I will walk again The candelabra at the stairs Has been blown out by the breeze Amazing This door locks automatically What clever craftsmanship And we think we're so modern Aren't you coming, Michael? Yes, darling But I just want to see how this works Oh, Michael I'm being a beast I know I am And I suppose it's almost terribly interesting But this whole place depresses me Even on the yacht I told you how I felt The horror of those days The torment I've been thinking of that poor tortured man Oh, what was it you said? Some people believe that the soul comes back To revisit the scene of its torture Michael, you must come I'm not staying here another moment All right Michael You've locked yourself in Oh, how stupid of me I'm so interested in the door Now I'll have to go and get monsieur Niklaus With his keys to unlock it again Monsieur Niklaus Yes, madame The candle's very light now It is a dark turn at this day Oh, monsieur Niklaus My husband He was so interested in that contraption The door that locks automatically And now he's locked himself in Will you come back and unlock the door, please? Oh, but certainly, madame You are not pleased with the island Oh, the island's very pretty But this place is so gloomy And no wonder The broken hearts That have stopped beating within these walls The torment, for instance Of the man in the iron mask It is said That sometimes He walks in these rooms Oh, please open the door quickly I have not seen him For I keep well away In my quarters Outside the fortress After dark But there was one woman My wife's sister She has heard him wailing So she said Oh, it's all such a lot of nonsense Please, why are you fumbling With the keys? Why, madame This particular key I have left on the little table inside Oh, how stupid of me Your husband, Monsieur Den He will be able to open the door From the inside Michael The key's on the little table inside Michael Monsieur Den Michael Monsieur Den Why don't you answer, Michael? Michael, can't you hear me? Can't you hear? But he must hear, madame Two small rooms He must have heard Michael Michael, answer me Michael, what happened? Michael, Michael What has happened behind the locked door Of this grim old fortress? Louise's fear now becomes A most awful panic As she beats her fists Against the great oak door And panic becomes a frenzy As her repeated cries Bring nothing but complete silence From the other side Make sure you hear The next exciting chapter Of the man in the iron mask It says that he is Andchos The next villainsauge registry That he is Tall That he isじり川 That he is Of theози Grants And His Onjiateur The Man in the Iron Mask. Already we have heard of the amazing significance in Europe of the Man in the Iron Mask. In fact, nobody ever knew his name, yet many were prepared to put forward theories as to his identity. The Man in the Iron Mask lived and died in the 18th century. And in this 20th century, one beautiful summer's morning, Michael and Louise Dent, honeymooning on their yacht off the coast of France, suddenly come upon the island where the Man in the Iron Mask had been imprisoned. During their inspection of the fortress, Michael has been accidentally locked in the rooms of the Man in the Iron Mask. He does not reply when his wife calls from the other side of the door. Why don't you answer? Michael! Michael! Monsieur! What is the matter in there? Oh, something's happened in the room. I never wanted to come near this hateful place, but Michael insisted. Oh, quickly, Monsieur, you must open the door. But it is not matter. Well, surely there's another key. Michael! Michael! There is a key downstairs. I will go and get it at once, Madame. You will come too? No, no, I'm staying here, but hurry, please hurry, Monsieur. Oh, goodness knows what happened inside there. Oh, Michael, why don't you answer? What's happened to you? Hurrying down the stairs, the old caretaker took some time to find the duplicate key of the prison rooms of the Man in the Iron Mask. But eventually he was back again with this second key on a great ring. Louise, white-faced, tight-lipped, stood aside quickly as he pushed the great key into the lock. I... I feel almost afraid now. Almost afraid to walk inside there. Enter, Madame. Michael! Michael! The room, it is empty. Then he must be in the other room. Oh, good heavens, this room is empty too! Oh, dear. But surely he couldn't have... Oh, no, not through the window. A terrible drop to the sea below. It would be impossible for him to climb through the windows, Madame. Look at the iron bars. But there's no other way out. Monsieur Nikos, there's no other way out. He must be here. But he is not, Madame. It brings fear to my heart. Remember I told you that I've been strange tales of these rooms and the Man in the Iron Mask. Oh, don't talk like that. He must be here somewhere. Perhaps he's behind this writing desk. He could hardly hide behind that, Madame. Let us leave this room, Madame. He is not here. There must be some other way out. Perhaps a secret door, a secret panel. Madame, did I not tell you that when the Man in the Iron Mask died, all the walls of these rooms were washed, all his personal belongings burned, and even his flagstones were taken up and examined underneath. There is no other exit from this room. But that's absurd. He couldn't just disappear. Madame, are you quite sure that he was inside the room when the door automatically locked? As you know, the passage was dim, the candles were blown out at the top of the stairs. Perhaps he was outside all the time. Yes, that seems to be the only explanation, Monsieur. Either that or else I'm going crazy. And yet I'm sure I saw him on the other side of the door before it closed. Oh, dear, my head is going round and round. I don't know what I saw now. I don't know what I'm seeing. Monsieur, we've got to find him. We must search the fortress through and through. You've got to help me. I must find my husband. So the search began. Every room, every passageway, the battlements and turrets, and finally the dungeons underneath, oozing with slime. Nicholas had a plan of the fortress and the job was done methodically. But there was no sign of Michael Dent. Now the sun was sinking and a quick darkness was spreading across the sky and over the island itself, turning the lush green and the brown rocks into sinister and menacing shadows. And finally a great fire was lit on the beach, and by this fire Louise sat waiting, hoping against hope that her husband would see its brightness and come to her. And all this time her thoughts flew to the two rooms in the fortress, and the fact that they belonged to the man in the iron mask. This strange person who lived in his seclusion in the middle of the 18th century. Towards three in the morning there was a movement in the darkness, and Louise sprang to her feet. But soon the leaping flames of the fire showed the face of Monsieur Nicholas. Louise hurried towards him. You have news, Monsieur? I am sorry, Madame. There is no news. There is no news. But my wife, she insists that you come to our quarters. There is coffee waiting for you. Oh, thank you, Monsieur. You're very kind. Take my arm, Madame. Although I have a lantern, it is dark and the path is very rough. Madame, I have been talking with my wife. She has decided that she will not stay here any longer. Tonight it is the finish. She was frightened before? Very frightened. As I told you earlier in the day, she believes that the rooms of the man in the iron mask are haunted. She firmly believes that he revisits the scenes of his torment. Oh. Just a moment. Keep still. Keep perfectly still. What is the matter? In the undergrowth there. I heard the snapping of a twig. Just a moment while I raise my lantern. Are you there, Louise? Michael! Monsieur Tent. Oh, Michael! Michael, where have you been? Oh, darling, what happened to you? I have been really out of my mind with worrying. Why did you disappear to me? We have been searching, searching frantically. Oh, I didn't realize it was so late. The time has gone so quickly and I was so absorbed in... In... In what? Never mind. Oh, darling, when I looked at the time and I discovered how late it was... Where have you been? What does this all mean, Michael? I'll tell you later. Not now. Not now? Why are you being so mysterious? Darling, don't you understand? I've been almost frantic. The old island has been beside itself, Monsieur. Oh, but this is wonderful news. I must hurry and tell my wife. Bring him with you, madame. The coffee I promised. Perhaps we will learn more then. Darling, what is all this? I don't want to say anything in front of that Frenchman, but I have discovered something, Louise. Something that might rock France from border to border. But what is it? Shh. Let's have our coffee. Then I take you to the rooms of the man in the iron mask. Michael dense silence over coffee made the old caretaker's wife more nervous than she had been before. She was convinced that this man had had some visitation from the past and was frightened to speak of it. And later when Captain Pauling had been given no explanation either, he too had his reactions. But they were reactions of anger. He felt that Michael Dent had been playing some practical joke. But later, much later, with the first light of dawn, when everybody was asleep, Michael roused his wife and together they climbed the stone steps of the fortress and into its cavern-like interior. And to the suite of the man in the iron mask. Louise gave a frightened gasp as he walked inside and locked the door. There is no need to worry, darling. There is nothing to be afraid of. Nothing other supernatural is that what you are thinking. The door is locked. We will be uninterrupted. As you know, Louise, I was so interested in that lock because it was like one of our modern ones. The automatic fixtures and the workmanship. And then I noticed on this side of the door this ornamentation in the shape of a bull. See? This side of the lock just where you push the key in. Oh, yes, Michael. Well, then I happened to look above the door. There. Just above the middle of the door. On the wall, see? The freest match? Yes. More ornamentation in the shape of bulls. But that one above the door is different somehow. It's made of the same metal as this lock, the same color. That is why I pulled up a chair. Well, I got on the chair so I could examine it more closely. And then the wonderful thing happened. I placed my hand on the metal. There seemed to be some kind of movement and... Look! Good heavens, Michael, it moves! Yes. A secret door, Louise. And of all places above the original door. Who would ever think of finding a door above a door? Oh, this is extraordinary. Do you blame me when I scrambled up there? I was so excited I had no thought of anything else. But didn't you hear me call? No. But I thought you had gone for the key. When I climbed up inside into that room up above, the panels shut and I couldn't open it again. I waited for you to come into the room but heard nothing so I started exploring. Well, I couldn't get in because the key was inside. Yes, I discovered that later. Anyhow, my discovery. What did you find up there? Better come up and see for yourself, my dear. Then you'll understand why I've said nothing. Here, let me help you. Yes. This table is much higher than the chair. If you can manage that with my help. Yes, Michael. Oh, it's all so odd. The rooms of the man in the iron mask. Surely he didn't use this room too. And if he did, to what purpose? You'll see. Now stay up there, my dear. I can manage quite easily. Why, what a strangely furnished room. Furnished as all rooms were furnished in 1760 or thereabouts. 1760? Something like that. This desk. Isn't it beautiful? Oh, yes. I wiped the thick dust away there but the rest, as you can see, is covered in grime. Half an inch thick. Michael, what's that? I was waiting for you to see it. Oh, how hideous. Oh, what a horrible face. Do you know what it is? The mask. The iron mask. Yes, darling. It's your privilege and mine to look at something that hasn't been seen for nearly 300 years. Michael. This dreadful instrument which locked a man away from the world. And here by this instrument is the secret which all French men have been seeking. The life story of the man in the iron mask. Who he was, what he did, and why he was imprisoned here in this fortress. Oh, Michael. Sit down, darling. Now you'll understand why I forgot where I was, what was happening. Why I forgot time and place and even my lovely wife. Sit and listen while I read an amazing story from this faded diary. The secret of the man in the iron mask. The secret of the man in the iron mask. So Michael and Louise Dent have stumbled across an amazing secret in this extraordinary room. At their feet is the hideous grinning contraption known as the iron mask. And now in Michael's hands is a faded book with even more faded writing. The secret of the man in the iron mask. The secret of the man with an iron mask is a very terrifying criminal man. ML режet ranks as much as the ion black form. The secret of the same alt inspiration. Of truth唄 re-war from the iron mask. Thank you.
