Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what how proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, who brought stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that a flag was still there. Oh, say the last star-spangled banner yet wave, for the land of the free and the home of the brave. The invocation will now be delivered by Reverend John B. O'Mara of Our Lady of the Snow's Church. O'Mara of Our Lady of the Snow's Church. In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost, Amen. O Almighty and Eternal God, who hold us the destinies of mankind in the palm of thy hands, look down upon the people of this community who have gathered here this morning in their common interests of self-help and preservation in the midst of the world and its dangers. Bless especially the men of our city of the New York Fire Department who have dedicated their lives and their wholehearted interests to the support of this one common purpose of defending the people of our community against the great enemy and danger of fire. Keep far from our homes, from our families, from our children the danger of anything that might take them from our midst. Bless especially these men in their pursuit of their dangerous occupation that Almighty God and His Blessed Mother might watch over them and keep them safe from harm. In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost, Amen. We will now have a selection by fireman James Welch of the Fire Department Glee Club. Bless this house, O Lord, we pray. Keep it safe by night and day. Keep it safe by night and day. Bless these walls so firm and stout, keeping want and trouble out. Bless the roof and chimney tall. Let thy peace lie over all. Bless this house that it may prove ever open to joy. To joy and love. Bless these windows shining bright. Letting in God's heavenly light. Bless these windows shining bright. Letting in God's heavenly light. Bless the heart a-blazing there. With smoke ascending like a prayer. Bless the heart of God. Bless the people who dwell within. Bless the folk who dwell within. Keep them pure and free from sin. Bless us all that we may be fit of God to dwell with thee. Bless us all that one day we may dwell, O Lord, with thee. Thank you. This firehouse would not have been possible except for the Department of Public Works. It was designed and built under the direction of the Department of Public Works. It gives me great pleasure at this time, therefore, in the absence of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, Commissioner Zermuelen, to introduce to you Mr. Albert H. Morgan, Acting and Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. Thank you. Reverend Clergy, Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Commissioner Grumet, Mr. Lawson, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to have this opportunity to represent the Department of Public Works in the absence of Commissioner Zermuelen. You may wonder why the Department of Public Works should be involved in the design and construction of a firehouse. Well, that happens to be a function of our department in accordance with the provisions of the city charter. We design or supervise the design and construction of a great variety of buildings, including hospitals, health stations, prisons, markets, police stations, firehouses, and others. In this case, we were the architectural and engineering agent for the fire department. The actual planning of the building was by Mr. Vita Batista, architect, in accordance with a contract awarded to him by our department and approved by the Board of Estimates. The preparation of the plans and specifications required about a year. During that time, our own civil service architects and engineers consulted with the architect to assure that the final result would be a building that was functionally sound and architecturally attractive. Now, after the plans were approved by the Board of Estimates, we took bids and after due consideration of the qualifications of the architects, of the bidders, the awards were made to the low bidders for a construction cost of approximately $200,000. There was a delay of about four months due to our inability for time to get the necessary government approval. But the construction got underway last, a year ago July, and has therefore been completed in a little bit over a year. During the year, our own engineers supervised the work of the contractor to make sure that the construction of the contractor was made to make sure that the construction of the contractor was made to make the construction of the contractor. And therefore, that he followed the specifications and complied with the requirements of his contract. Now, I think the final result is that we are in a position to turn over to the fire department a structure that is well built, has been well designed from a functional standpoint, and I think it is architecturally pleasing and in keeping with the surroundings. It's my very happy duty then to say that we have completed our end of the job and we are very happy to turn this fire house over to the fire department and to Commissioner Grumet. And in behalf of the fire department of the city of New York, we are very happy to receive this new fire house and I want to congratulate the department of public works on a job well done. We will now have a selection by the fire department, Glee Club and band. And this is a good day for singing the song and it's a good day for moving along. Yes, it's a good day. How could anything go wrong? A good day from morning till night. Yes, it's a good day for shining your shoes and it's a good day for losing the blues. Everything to gain and nothing to lose cause it's a good day from morning till night. I said to the sun, good morning sun, rise and shine today. You know you've got to get going and you're going to make the show and you know you've got to get going. And you know you've got to get going and you're going to make the show and you know you've got to get going. Cause it's a good day for paying your bills and it's a good day for curing your ills. So take a deep breath and throw away your pills cause it's a good day from morning till night. darker than night. I said to the sun, good morning sun, rise and shine today. You know you've got to get going and you're going to make the show and you know you've got to get going. And you know you've got to get going and you're going to make the show and you know you've got to get going. Cause it's a good day for paying your bills and it's a good day for curing your ills. So take a deep breath and throw away your bills cause it's a good day from morning till night. Yes sir, a good day from morning till night. And now, representing the Honorable James A. Lundy, President of the Borough of Queens, it is my privilege to present to you the Secretary of the Borough of Queens, Mr. Charles O. Lawson. Mr. Commissioner, Reverend Clergy, and honored guests, I bring you the congratulations of Borough President Lundy. The Borough President could not be present today, although he would like to have been, to offer his congratulations. So I have come up here to pinch hit for him. Oratorically, I may not be a master of speaking as the Borough President is. However, I will do the best I can and I hope that you'll know that we are sincere in being here today at this great project. I say congratulations are in order. And those congratulations are varied. You have many people and many agencies to congratulate on a matter of this kind. First, you have the congratulations to the Mayor of the City of New York. You have the congratulations to offer to the Public Works Department. You have congratulations to offer to the Commissioner of the Fire Department. You have the congratulations to the Public Works Department. You have the congratulations to offer to the civic associations who worked so diligently in order to get this edifice. And you have the congratulations of the citizens of this particular community for aiding in securing this protection. And when I speak of the citizens I include of this particular section, I include myself. Because I too am a resident of just down the street here on Union Turnpike, right off Union Turnpike. So I have a little bit of selfish motive in being happy to be here today. I think the next move for we people out here is to have the insurance companies rezone this section so we'll have smaller premiums to pay because of this protection. I often think that this particular section of Queens County are thrice blessed. Because it has been recognized that the growth of this particular section, that the needs for projects such as this and other things were so badly needed, and were so quickly brought to pass. If I might recall to you, and not in a political vein, that it was the... You elected a borough president on the very issues pending in this district. And the result was that you are now seeing the culmination of a drainage system aided and abetted by the state of New York in order to relieve your flood conditions in this section. Immediately, you had the recognition of the mayor of the mayor of the city of New York in the fire department in order to put up this beautiful firehouse. This is the first firehouse, as your program will tell you, that has been built in Queens County in 11 years. And it's been done for you thrice blessed people of this community. I'm very happy to be here today, as I say, not only as the Secretary of the Borough of Queens, but I'm happy to be here because I am one of your community and one of your citizens that are being honored today. Thank you very much. We shall now have another selection by the Glee Club. Boys in blue, starch and true, stand ready to go when they hear the bell. Without fear, when danger's near, while they're rolling, you'll hear folks yell, We take our hands off to our firemen, who show them bold and brave. You'll find them night and day out fighting flame, there is their lies to say. And when the bell hits in the firehouse, they forget their cares and joys. For the best words known to firemen are stretching their voice. So do you, while firemen, we will sing a grand Amen. At the very outset, I said that the invocation would be delivered by Reverend John B. O'Mara. Unfortunately, Father O'Mara was not here at the time. Father O'Mara arrived a little late, and I would like to present him to you for a word. It gives me great pleasure to present Reverend John B. O'Mara of Our Lady of the Snow's Church of Belrose. I'm very grateful indeed to the commissioner to allow me the privilege of congratulating the city of New York on the establishment and the opening of this firehouse here in our community. I was a little taken back because I didn't think city functions started on time as promptly as we start our masses. By way of excuse, I may say that we're building a $350,000 school auditorium to share with this firehouse in community service and community abetterment. And if I were late with the other priests of the house, Father Clark, Father Quo, and Father Frankie, it's not because we weren't alerted to a three alarm fire. It's because we were delayed. But I feel as a representative of an integral part of the community that I should relish the privilege to congratulate the city of New York, the various organizations, civic and other organizations, that may be the best. And certainly we congratulate, and we also pray God's blessing on this agency. this agency and we ask that these men who will serve you day and night that they have the protection of the guardian angel of this community that as they watch and watch the top watchtowers day and night God's strength and God's blessing will be with them greater love than this no man hath that he lay down his life for his friends and these men not only as a civic duty but also as an expression of a philosophy of life even beyond the reasonable call of duty will serve us as as we do you day and night we congratulate all concerned and may God bless you all Father O'Mara we are happy that you were able to get here and now in the absence of our mayor Vincent R. Impelletary I deem it a great honor and privilege to present to you our distinguished deputy mayor Charles Horowitz Reverend clergy borough secretary Lawson commissioner Morgan commissioner Grumet other distinguished guests here today ladies and gentlemen as the official representative of mayor Impelletary I deem it a real privilege to be able to participate with the citizens of this community in the dedication of this new double company firehouse I bring you the warm greetings of mayor Impelletary and wish to express on his behalf his keen regret that he cannot personally be with you this morning because of other official business in which he is engaged at city hall as the people of Queens know only too well this double company firehouse is the first fire station built in your borough in 11 years the very nature of the structure which from now on will house engine company number 251 emphasizes that the city administration had the phenomenal growth of Queens in mind when space was provided here for additional firefighting apparatus should more protection be required for this area residents of some sections are concerned over the proposed elimination of firehouses in their immediate neighborhoods those proposals are now being studied by the national board of fire underwriters and after the mayor receives its report you may be sure that the city and its fire department will act in the best interests of all of the people of our city no firehouse will be eliminated in Queens or in any other borough if its elimination will endanger life or property but firehouses have been eliminated or relocated in the past and in making these changes the sole thought was to improve the protection provided by our excellent fire department and not to impair it the members of the board of estimate and the members of the city council are familiar with your problems here in Queens whether they are concerned with fire protection or any other service our municipal government renders and in the field of fire protection we must remember that there are vast areas in this borough where thousands of one and two family dwellings mostly of frame construction have been built throughout the years and we must not forget that in Queens with its 118 square miles you have more than 2,381 miles of streets by way of comparison let me observe that Manhattan with an area of little more than 22 square miles has but 502 miles of street as a consequence of its miles and miles of magnificent highways Queens is a borough where distances are greater than elsewhere and so we must see to it that every section of this rapidly growing community has adequate fire protection you have the mayor's assurance that Queens will continue to have adequate protection from fire in conclusion may I again assure you that it was a real privilege to appear here as the official representative of the mayor in his behalf I want to congratulate the citizens of this community upon their keen interest in the civic affairs of this community and in the advancement of public improvements for this community and particularly place the citizens of this community of this community of this community and particularly on the urban their keen interest in the civic affairs of this community and in the advancement of public improvements for this community and particularly for their cooperation in the construction of this firehouse. I am certain that with the experienced personnel and top-notch firefighters assigned to this new firehouse together with the modern firefighting apparatus and equipment furnished to Engine Company 251, the people of this community may feel secure in the service and protection they will receive. And I cannot let this occasion pass also to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the mayor and the people of the city of New York may well be proud of the fine and noble and modest and devoted service of the men of the fire department to the people of the city of New York. And we are also very proud of the distinguished man who heads the fire department as its commissioner, the man who has presided here. Test, test, machine two, test, one, two, three, four. Test, test, machine two, test, machine two, test, machine two, test, machine two, test, and the people of the city of New York and certainly the people of this community owe to him a vote of thanks for this contribution to your safety and to your protection. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And now we shall have another selection by the Department Glee Club. give up I'll be the same, I'll be the same, we'll meet again, sweetheart. This lovely day has blown away, but time has come to a part. We'll kiss again, like this again, don't let the tears drop stout. With a love that's true, I'll wait for you. Happy Lezane, sweetheart. Happy Lezane, Happy Lezane, we'll kiss again, sweetheart. This lovely day has blown away, but time has come to a part. We'll kiss again, like this again, don't let the tears drop stout. With a love that's true, I'll wait for you. Happy Lezane, sweetheart. Before closing these ceremonies, I think that it would be only fitting and proper that we hear from the man who is responsible for protecting the lives and property of this great city from the hazards of fire. It is my pleasure now to present to you the Chief of the Department, Peter Loftus. Mr. Acting Mayor Horowitz, Commissioner Grumet, Reverend clergy, distinguished guests, neighbors. I want to report to you, Commissioner, that as well as many other things growing in Queens, I am happy to see the fire department is growing. I wish to report further that we have made special effort in selecting and training the officers and men assigned to Engine Company 251 in this comparatively new community. I feel that while all the firemen of the department are good, I've been especially careful to train and select men who would conduct themselves and work correctly in keeping with the neighbors and the neighborhood under all conditions here in Queens. These men know the type of homes and buildings and stores and all other kinds of fires they are going to encounter in this neighborhood. They know exactly what to do under all conditions that we can visualize. We have further, Commissioner, selected the most suitable apparatus, the best possible apparatus in which there is a full complement of hose, appliances and every known fitting and tool needed for the control and extinguishment of fire. We have every modern type of nozzle, foam, carbon dioxide, forcible entry tools, jacks, water-cutting tank and anything that is in any place throughout the fire department in fact. I would like to ask my good neighbors and the citizens of this community to become acquainted with your new neighbor firemen to help them in every way. First, if you need them, clear the street of traffic. Give them room to get around quickly because, as you know, the fire won't wait. Firemen are always in a hurry. Firemen are always in a hurry. Discover the fire in your good time without delay. Know your fire alarm box. Know how to call the fire department. Be at a conspicuous place on the scene to tell the first firemen or officer that arrives just where the fire is. In that way, your fire department will work efficiently. Train your children not to light grass fires. They're dangerous. They'll burn in under the cellar. Burn your house away in your home. Train them not to pull false alarms. They're dangerous. You have your company running around the town when you need them for a fire in your home. I want to say, Commissioner, this is a happy occasion for me to be among my neighbors, just to encourage them to tell them as best I can to do the right thing, and just say now, thanks. Thank you, Chief Loftus. And now we shall have the benediction by Rabbi Sidney M. Bogner of the Bell Rose Jewish Center. Heavenly Father, we ask thy blessing upon all assembled here, and in particular upon this new fire, Unit 251, we have dedicated today. May its members serve to protect our community from harm and destruction, and do thou guard over them in mercy and loving kindness. Bless our distinguished mayor, his honored representative, and their associates of this great metropolis, whose fame, based on warm human hearts, may grow ever greater. Bless our nation and state, their rulers and counselors, that they may preserve our country as a model of harmony of peoples, races, and creeds, and its advocate amongst the council of the nations. And to all thy children of men, do thou vouchsafe thy most precious blessing of peace. Amen. And now we'll conclude by singing God Bless America. God Bless America. God Bless America. Stand beside her and guide her through the night with the light of the law. From the mountain to the fairy to the ocean, white and small. God Bless America. God Bless America. God Bless America. And now we'll stand beside her and guide her through the night with the light of the law. From the mountain to the fairy to the ocean, white and small. God Bless America. God Bless America. God Bless America. My host, we hope. God Bless America. God Bless America. I hope, God bless America. God bless America. God bless America. God bless America. And now we'll stand beside her and guide her through the night with the light of the law. God bless America My home, free home And now, neighbors and friends, here are the men who are going to man this firehouse. I'd like the captain of the firehouse to come up here and take a bow so that you may all see him. And may I suggest that the firehouse is open to all of you. You are welcome to come in and inspect it. Come right in and it's open house. Captain Charles H. Cook Well, as our chief of the department says, I'll call you neighbors. Because that's what I want you to be. I want you to come in at any time. And we'll do anything we can for you. I want you to be friendly with us. I feel greatly honored in being selected the captain to command engine company 251. And, as I said before, we want to be good neighbors. And we will serve you in the usual manner that the New York Fire Department, for which they are so well known. We will do it the best we can out here. And I know you'll be satisfied. I thank you. Thank you. Let's understand, I know you've holding the Wrights of its precisivos and by now, my responsibility is so that ... and we'll do it the same way actually at the BEFET just like, so we want to be having the 90s, but I'll keep you over and the them top part ofurbainey. Because that's what we wanted. And we want you to keep in mind. We'll be gathering in theFreeıma 50, theórce which is funny.
