Russia may control vast land areas and have millions of humans for armies, but as long as we control the seas, and we do control the seas, we are safe. And that is the reason that our committee is proud, Mr. Chairman, during the week to be tied up with Maritime Day and the Men of the Sea. Thank you, Mr. Carson. It is now my great pleasure to introduce Ms. Evelyn Sachs, a distinguished contralto who graciously consented to join us in our tribute to the American Merchant Marine. A star of opera, the concert stage, radio, and television, Ms. Sachs will sing as her first number, the Habanera from Carmen by Bizet. Ms. Sachs. When I would like you, and my faith, I don't know what to hear. When I will love you, my faith, I don't know, I will never be able to be here. But not today, it's certain. I have heard languages with an l imprita money And connoisseur of the styles and settled He talked well, the other was And he's the other I prefer He said nothing but he liked me Love, love, love, love Love is your fault of a poem He's never known any law If you don't like me, I love you If I love you, I'll take care of you If you don't like me, if you don't like me I love you But if I love you, if I love you Look at you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you Love is your fault of a poem I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you If I love you If I love you If I love you If you don't like me If you don't like me I love you But if I love you If I love you If I love you I love you I love you If I love you If I love you If I love you I love you I love you I love you If I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you I love you Thank you very much, Miss Sacks Now we take particular pleasure in introducing to you One of the most outspoken champions of the American Merchant Marine I should add following Mr. Durning's remarks of a few minutes ago that our next speaker is probably the best known booster of the part of New York We are honored today to have with us and I present to you now the commissioner of the Department of Marine and Aviation the Honorable Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr. Mr. Maloney, Collector Durning, Admiral Cochran, distinguished members of the Armed Forces, Reverend Clergy, other distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen After listening to Collector Durning, Mr. Maloney and Mr. Cawson, in their review of but a few of the deeds and accomplishments of the American Merchant Marine, I think you can well appreciate the honor and privilege it is for me to participate briefly in this honor to that great honor to that great honor to the American Merchant Marine. It is though a matter of regret that I must bring the word of the Mayor that because of the unavoidable change in our plans here today, he will not be present. He will review the midshipmen in City Hall later in the day and he has asked me to pay his respects and give his greetings to Admiral McClintick and the staff of the United States Merchant Marine Academy. The Merchant Marine Marine Academy at King's Point. The Merchant Marine, whose deeds and exploits you have heard about, is so intimately entwined with our national security and our national welfare and the welfare of this port that they may almost be considered as one. Our nation in the 133 years since the sailing of the steamship Savannah with the first American Merchant Marine crew has grown to its greatest glory. It has survived the decay and destruction of many other nations. Our port, too, in that time has reached its point of greatest development. And needless to say, as symbolized by the arrival in a few weeks of the new American liner United States and its American crew, our merchant marine has now reached the high point in its development. It is, however, very, very important we continue this healthy development of our American merchant marine. It seems to me there are three things that we must keep in mind as being fundamental to that development and well-being of that arm of our national services. First, we have the courage and the morale of the merchant seamen to consider. And I think we can have no misgivings as to those qualities. Recently, the dramatic episode of the flying enterprise, its courageous crew, and its heroic captain, Captain Carlson, served as a symbol of the great courage and the great morale of our American merchant marine. I say it served as a symbol because although that episode, by its dramatic and spectacular impact on people all over the world, came home to all of us, similar exploits, similar courageous deeds are carried out by our merchant marine every day in the week on every sea on the face of the earth. These deeds go unpublicized as far as the general public is concerned, but to those of us associated with the shipping industry, we have a deep and warm appreciation. And so, we have no misgivings about the first fundamental characteristic that must be safeguarded. Secondly, there is the matter of ships. We have no more in the future. We have no time to say that later from those who are informed on that subject. But now, equally important, is the matter of port progress and port development, because without ports, in which our ships may have a haven, and in which we may develop commerce, our merchant marine would soon become anemic and die on the vine. And it is in that connection that I believe we have a keen interest and an intimate familiarity and knowledge. The port of New York, and make no mistake about this, is today, as it has been every day in the past, the finest and busiest port on the face of the earth. It may seem strange that we would have to stand up here on National Maritime Day and emphasize that point, which only a few years ago was considered as idiomatic by people all over the world. The reason we must emphasize it today is that the changes over the years have developed ports all around our great land, and that's a good healthy thing for the security of our nation. A one port land certainly would not be too secure. The development of these other ports, the public relations which attaches to them, the peculiar advantages that they may have, the careless approach to public relations in this port, the lack of a unified approach to the well-being of this port, and last but not least, the irresponsible and baseless, self-seeking critics who continue to cover certain portions of certain papers with their idle gossip, have made it essential that on every occasion such as this, we must stand up, and once again bring home to all of us who are interested and those who wish to be interested in this port, that it is without exception the finest and busiest port in the world. We are more port-minded today than we have been in decades, but there is great room for improvement, and that port development must be carried on to greater heights. As we look about us here in a city of eight million people, we have to but consider the services and advantages of our tremendous parks and parkway systems, our tremendous hospital, plant, and hospital institutions, our vast and effective and honored police department and fire department, our sanitation departments, looking right here at these granite and steel towers that almost touch the skies of lower Manhattan, and knowing the tenants that are in these buildings, strikes a thought, and we can safely say that none of these things, not one of them, municipal departments, great buildings, successful tenancies would exist in any measure as we see them now if it were not for the well-being and size and wealth of our port. That came first, and without it, these others will soon stagnate. And so I say port development must be carried to the point where the waterfront and the port of New York takes its place in the proper perspective as one of the few, and I emphasize few, primary municipal responsibilities in this city. In closing, I join the other distinguished guests and with all of you in a very warm salute to the commandant and the officers, and the men of the United States Merchant Marine Academy who have been delayed, and two are... ...as a public service feature of your city station. We return you now to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the mating call. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. Walau Degas Tell how I feel For this timeless passion is real I am loved, I am blessed All that eager money is made to rest Stars in my eyes will always shine While your heart meets with light Till your love upon me dies There'll be stars in my eyes Till your love upon me dies There'll be stars in my eyes There'll be stars in my eyes Thank you very much, Miss Sykes. Several months ago we began our preparations for our part in National Maritime Day And our first and perhaps most important function was to see that we could have for this ceremony the best available speakers In that we feel we have been eminently successful Since we have as the principal speaker today the chairman of the Federal Maritime Board Up until the very last moment, or at least until yesterday We were somewhat fearful that the speed trials of the new liner Might prevent or at least complicate his trip to New York But that only makes our pleasure greater When he is available today And I take great pleasure in introducing Vice Admiral Edward L. Cochran President Maloney Mr. Durian Vice Admiral Badger Vice Admiral Delaney Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen As you have been reminded already this afternoon The President of the United States Very willingly, very gladly In response To a joint resolution Of the Congress approved nearly 20 years ago Has again this year Urged the people of the United States To observe National Maritime Day A day to commemorate The departure On May 22nd Of 1819 Of the little auxiliary ship Savannah On a transatlantic voyage Under sail and steam And steam A voyage As epochal As was the flight Of Charles A. Lindbergh Over 100 years later When he first crossed the Atlantic By air As frequently happens The instrument In which commercial history is made Turns out itself To be commercially unsuccessful Which makes the courage Of the men Who undertake such operations And thereby chart the course For others to follow The more courageous The more memorable The poor little Savannah The poor little Savannah Made but one Transatlantic round trip And then Was converted back To sail alone And finished her life In very mediocre style And I believe Generally regarded As a failure And yet today 130 years later We find in her successors The very bond Upon which depends The freedom And the happiness Of men Throughout the world Maritime day And particularly Maritime day of 1952 Is however A day upon which The citizens of this great country Should take inventory A day upon which They should stop To consider calmly And without emotion Or sentiment The reasons Why a merchant marine Is of importance To them And what steps May wisely be taken Not only by their government But by their own effort To preserve an asset Upon which their Very stake May well depend I am not here To rattle skeletons Or to make dire predictions But to draw attention To a few simple But exceedingly important facts Shipping, true enough Is to the average businessman Merely a service Shipping, true enough Is to the average businessman Merely a service The means Through which his company Receives Either directly Or indirectly The raw materials Or the finished products Of other nations Which are his stock in trade Or the means by which he delivers To customers overseas The products of his establishment The products of his establishment Businessmen Are properly guided By the economics Of the day But the prudent businessman Should not Cannot ignore the future American businessmen Cannot ignore the simple truth That this country Is no longer sufficient Sufficient unto itself Has not Within its borders The natural wealth Necessary For our civilization Cannot absorb completely The products Of its farms And factories We are dependent Upon our commercial relations With the rest of the world And can assure the maintenance Of these connections Only if we have control Over a substantial part Of the shipping services Upon which they depend I say this In all understanding Of the importance of shipping To other nations And in full willingness That we should share The shipping business With them I do not agree And any man Who has studied history Will share my concern Over the occasionally expressed And I am afraid Frequently held view That the continued survival Of American shipping services Is not in fact Of importance I can think of no more convincing evidence Than that Which has confronted me personally During my two years As maritime administrator In Washington I went to that assignment After the trouble in Korea Had developed It was only because there were ships American merchant ships Actually in operation Which could be immediately diverted That it was possible for us To stem the first rush Of the communist attack In June of 1950 It was necessary for us In the months immediately following To break out of the National Defense Reserve fleets Over 700 vessels This was possible This was possible Because we had immediately available The three essential elements Of shipping operations Namely The ships themselves And the laid up fleets Skilled seafaring men Both licensed and unlicensed To man these ships And what is equally important And what is equally important A substantial group Of American companies Qualified And willing to undertake The management Of these vessels Up to 1952 These factors have continued to exist As a result of wise legislation And the fortunate economic conditions Which have obtained In the short interval Since World War II No one of these three elements However Neither ships Nor men Nor operators Will continue to be available In the years ahead Unless action is taken Not only by the government But by the businessmen Of this company Of this country In assuring That a share Of our overseas traffic Is carried In American ships As a matter of fact I believe And very strongly That the shipping companies Of the United States If they follow a wise path Will be able to furnish To you businessmen Better service Than will be available Under any other flag Ships of higher speed Larger capacity Operating on the essential Trade routes Of our commerce With frequent sailings And with cargo delivered In the best possible condition I believe that there are Other advantages To the use Of American flag shipping And that the very arrival In foreign ports Of fine American ships Wearing the stars And stripes Of this great country Are the best advertising That you businessmen Can get Of the confidence And high quality Of the products Which those ships Are delivering Of the future Of the country I urge upon you Therefore No contribution To a charitable effort Nor simple patriotism Although in these troubled times I am convinced That patriotism Is worthy of your thought But the simple realization Of the fact That it is to your immediate advantage As well as to the long time prosperity And security of this country That ship American Is a wise motto Worthy of the serious consideration Of all businessmen Whose products come from overseas Or leave our shores for delivery To other lands Travel American Will need no advocate When the American people realize That within six weeks This country will have at sea The finest And the fastest Passenger vessel That the world has known Before the summer is out You will have at sea The first of the 20 knot Dry cargo ships Of the mariner class And soon after that You will have at sea Some of the new Fast tankers Which are building In our shipyards today With these ships To chart a new course Shorter Faster More reliable Than that somewhat shaky path Chartered by the old savannah Your prosperity individually And ours collectively Will surely grow I have spoken of the value Of American ships Almost completely aside From their part In the common defense Of this nation For that, however They are invaluable For that They are indispensable Thank you very much Admiral Cochran We are deeply grateful To you To our other speakers Our guests To Miss Sachs For your kind participation In this program Our ceremonies Will close With a number By the United States Customs Choristers Under the direction Of Leviticus Lyon Which group will sing This is my country The Choristers Of the National Maritime Day We have been listening to the ceremonies attending the celebration of National Maritime Day National Maritime Day Our speakers this afternoon were the Honorable Harry M. Durning, Collector of Customs for the Port of New York, and the National Maritime Day Our speakers this afternoon were the Honorable Harry M. Durning, Collector of Customs for the Port of New York, Walter E. Maloney, President of the American Merchant Marine Institute, James S. Carson, James S. Carson, James S. Carson, James S. The Honorable Harry M. Durning, Collector of Customs for the Port of New York. Walter E. Maloney, President of the American Merchant Marine Institute. James S. Carson, Chairman of the New York World Trade Week Committee. The Honorable Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr., Commissioner of Marine and Aviation. And Vice Admiral Edward L. Cochran, Federal Maritime Administrator and Chairman of the Federal Maritime Board. Our soloist this afternoon was Miss Evelyn Sachs Contralto. You are listening now to the U.S. Customs Carster's Leviticus Lyon, Director. This broadcast has come to you direct from the steps of the Customs House at Bowling Green as a public service feature of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.