Transcribed. Transcribed by — In accordance with the policy of the President to keep the American people informed to the fullest extent consistent with our national security, the President has directed me to make this statement and to stress again the necessity for that effective and enforceable international control of atomic energy which the United States and the large majority of the members of the United Nations support. Further details cannot be given without adversely affecting our national security interests. I'm sure most of us have read or heard this announcement made by White House News Secretary Joseph Short on Wednesday, October the 3rd. The White House did not say when the Russians exploded the atom bomb, only that it occurred recently. The announcement of previous Soviet atomic development said that there was an atomic explosion in Russia. This announcement said flatly it was an atomic bomb. It came without any advance hints, just as abruptly as this government first announced the use of the atomic bomb in 1945. And like so many other news stories these days, it heralds more menace to our way of life. The great menace, of course, the greatest in the history of mankind, atomic war. No, we don't like to think about it. Nobody does. But as we've said before, somebody has to think about it and think about it seriously. That's where volunteer civil defense work comes in. In our studio is Mr. William J. Flynn, Director of Recruitment and Training for the Erie County Civil Defense. Mr. Flynn, I'd like to ask you, what's being done here in Erie County to organize a real civil defense? Well, approximately six or seven months ago, the Erie County Civil Defense Office, under the direction of General Ziegler, opened up a volunteer recruiting center located at 831 Washington Street in Buffalo, in order to encourage the people of Buffalo and Erie County to join the civil defense organization. We thought that if we opened this center, the people of Buffalo would come in and join our program. Some of them did, but many of them did not. So we felt that perhaps if we set up depots in the various department stores in downtown Buffalo and in some of the outlying districts, we might be able to encourage the people to join up. But that was rather unsuccessful. So we have finally decided that we will go out and recruit the people who are more or less mandated to join our program, like the doctors and nurses and public utilities people and other groups located in Buffalo and Erie County. And how did you make out? Well, just two weeks ago, we had a gratifying response from the doctors in Erie County. We visited the 13 major hospitals and enrolled 700 doctors. Wonderful. The following week, we visited similar hospitals and enrolled 2,290 nurses, nurses, aides, and technicians. Great. I think that's a very satisfying response. But do you need more? We certainly do. I'm glad you asked that question. We have registered approximately 25,000 people. In other words, those people signify their intention to join the program. But we have actually only enrolled 11,000 people. So with a quota very close to 70,000, you can understand our problem. We need help. The situation is alarming as far as the civil defense officials are concerned. You still need almost 50,000 people to enroll. That's right. Volunteer for civil defense. That's right. In Erie County alone. That's right. What types of activity do you want to put these people in, Mr. Flynn? Well, we would like to fit them in with the warden groups or the auxiliary fire, defense welfare workers, rescue squads, or in the aircraft warning unit. We have plenty of units to fill if we only would get the volunteers. I expect you particularly are anxious to get people who served during World War II. We certainly are. And so on. We certainly are anxious to get experienced people, but we will be very willing to have anybody come in and join our program. We appeal to them. I see. Speaking of new people coming in who have had no previous training, I understand you have a very efficient setup for training and new recruits. And in that connection, I'd like to talk to Mr. and Mrs. Elmer E. Clavoon. Mrs. Clavoon, Mrs. Charlotte Clavoon, is an air warden and instructor. And her husband is the assistant director of air raid warning, Mr. Clavoon. I'd like to ask you folks why you got into civil defense work in the first place. Mr. Clavoon, how did you happen to get started in civil defense? Well, a good friend of mine, Dr. Heave, the Board of Education, I believe he is director of training of warden service, approached me one evening and asked me if I believed in it. He was a professor of training, which I most surely do, believe in any protection for our own country here. I believe he served in the last world war. And he asked me whether I would consider being one of his assistants, as you need more than one person to try to direct a city or a county, which I did. I was trained over in Hutchison High School. And with that, I stepped out further, undertaking the problem also of an instructor and beginning to organize Lackawanna, stretched out not alone to South Buffalo, but also over into East Buffalo. Wonderful. What sort of training do you give, Mr. Clavoon? We have five classes, which we give. The first one is on organization, which is two hours a night. And then we have the air warden's job and the fire, what to do in case of fire, which everyone should know. Emergency or not, they should know that. Emergency or not, every person should know what to do in case of a fire. This is a wonderful place and a time to learn it. I see. Mrs. Clavoon, you particularly should be familiar with the woman's place in civil defense. Can you tell us a little about what you think women should do in the emergency that we have at the present time? Well, I personally think there aren't enough women in this organization. There should be two women to every man, because the woman is in the home. And I really think that in a case of emergency, they have more nerve and they can take care of things and they can take care of the people that do get high-minded and don't. They're going to be nervous. They won't know what to do. You think a woman's nervous? I really think that a woman is more level-headed in case of an emergency. So you suggest there should be two women? I definitely do. There can't be enough women in this organization. And you are ready to train any woman who volunteers, is that right? We never, neither Mr. Clavoon or I know when we go out of an evening just where we're going to begin or where we're going to end. But for all of this, it's all for civil defense. Now, this training that you put the recruits through, is there anything difficult about it or is there anything a woman wouldn't like about going through the training? Nothing. I really think that a woman should know and I think that anyone can know it. It's very simple and it doesn't take up too much time, only two hours of an evening for five evenings. And anyone can and should give that much for their own city safety. Lawrence J. Emmerling, who's here in our studio this evening, is Deputy Chief of the Exiliary Fire Corps. Lawrence, what are your problems in recruiting volunteer firemen in case of atomic attack? At the present time, we have, we started recruiting last October and we have fallen short of our allotment of approximately 3,000 men. The reason for this, I believe, is due to the fact that the war is in Korea. But the Auxiliary Fire Corps presents a very interesting program to any able-bodied man between 21 and 55 for the Auxiliary Fire Department. They are given the auxiliary lessons, that is the evolutions that take place in the fire department. And after that, each man is examined, given a physical examination. And if he passes, is issued a civil defense card. And he is then given the privilege of writing the regular Buffalo Fire Department apparatus and working with the firemen. And under the leadership of Fire Commissioner Becker, in the late, in the last war, we had a volunteer auxiliary corps of approximately 300 men. 3,000, I beg your pardon. And we urged every able-bodied man between the ages of 21 and 55 to sign up for the auxiliary fire corps under Chief Becker. We now have a Chief of the Auxiliary Corps, two Deputy Chiefs, nine District Chiefs and Assistants, auxiliary alarm operators, captains and lieutenants in each fire station. And you need more men, don't you? We need more men. We'd like to have them. Thank you, Mr. Emmerling. Very interesting. Maybe this United Press news story, Dateline Chicago, October 9th, will give us some indication of the magnitude of civil defense work and the many phases of civil defense work, like their medical section, for example. A Navy expert said today that five persons and a small mountain of medical supplies would be needed to treat a single atomic bomb victim. Lieutenant Albert W. Kenney, Safety Officer of the U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, told the American Society of Safety Engineers that these things would be required to treat a person burned over 40% of his body. 42 tanks of oxygen, 36 pints of plasma, 40 pints of blood, 100 pints of other fluids, an undetermined amount of antibiotics, 27 miles of gauze, three nurses, two physicians. Kenney said a person's chances for surviving an atomic attack were good, provided the individual was not inside the area of a direct hit and if he observed the proper safeguards. Blast effect, heat and radiation, Kenney said, are the three killing forces of an atomic explosion. Experiments with atomic weapons, he said, have shown that the force of an atomic blast is about 800 miles an hour at the center of the explosion and decreases to about 50 miles an hour, some two and a half miles from that point. And the heat of such an explosion, he said, is about one million degrees Fahrenheit within an area of 45 feet of the center. Kenney said radiation, notably that of gamma rays, may cause casualties within 4,000 feet of the center of the blast. At the heart of the explosion, these rays can penetrate one foot of concrete or about three feet of earth. However, 4,000 feet away, walls of this thickness and construction would be effective in stopping the killing rays. Kenney said that the greatest single factor in reducing casualties in an atomic attack is the knowledge of what to do at such times. He urged individuals to acquaint themselves with self-protection measures advised by their local civil defense forces. A story like that really gives you something to think about, doesn't it, Mr. Schwarzenberg? That's true, sir. In our studio is Mr. Edmund R. Schwarzenberg, who is the public information officer for the Erie County Civil Defense. What are some of your problems, Mr. Schwarzenberg? What are you doing to organize civil defense locally? In my capacity as an assistant director of civil defense for Erie County, I want to assure you that step by step we are building a civil defense organization that will be manned and ready for whatever may come. Whether you survive or not in an emergency will greatly depend upon how well this organization functions. But your survival depends also on another factor. You, yourself, and your knowledge of what to do and how to do it. At the present time, three control centers, which will be the activating headquarters of this vast organization, are rapidly nearing completion. They are strategically located in Erie County. The reason for having three alike is that in the event the number one center is rendered inoperative, the number two control center, which is an exact duplicate, will immediately be activated. And likewise, if the number one and two centers are bound out, then the number three center, which is a facsimile of one and two, will be placed in operation at once. Every unit of civil defense will be represented in each control center and three deep in personnel. The reason for this is obvious. For instance, if the director of a unit cannot reach the control center quickly, then either one of his two assistants will take command. More volunteer workers are needed now for training in every vital section of local civil defense. Workers for the medical section, transportation, rescue, shelter, evacuation, aircraft warning, administration, communication, supply, welfare, and first aid, recruiting and training. Your services are needed now, whoever you are, whatever you do. Your help now in volunteer civil defense work is the best thing you can do to protect your future security, a nation's future security. This week's Plan for Survival program, The Story of Civil Defense in Erie County, was produced by Station WGR in Buffalo. Be with us next week at the same time for the interesting dramatic presentation entitled Ground Zero. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is NBC, the national...