Annacent, for the quick relief of headaches, presents Real Stories from Real Life. Victoria Sterling married Robert Marlborough, the fourth, on a lazy day in July of 1938. Life was easy and graceful for Victoria, and it was completed when her daughter Gwendolyn was born. But her world changed when Robert, true to the tradition of the Marlborough family, went off to war, never to return. One year was all we had, Mother Marlborough. One year together. Both my husband and my father gave their lives more. It's such a waste. Such a waste of life. I felt like you at your age, but I made my peace with life. I drew peace and strength from my memories and my home. Strength for what? To stagnate? To sit here year after year? To grow old alone? No thanks, Mother Marlborough. I'm going east and build a life alone. What about your little daughter Gwen? After all, she's my granddaughter. I'll leave her with you now. Later we'll decide about her. We will return you shortly to the real story of Victory for Victoria. But first, when a headache strikes, the first thought of millions of people is anicin. They know from experience that anicin brings an incredibly fast release from the pains of a headache, neuritis, and neuralgia. You see, the reason anicin works so incredibly fast is that it's made like a doctor's prescription. That is, it contains not just one, but a combination of medically proven active ingredients in easy-to-take tablet form. There are probably thousands of people listening to me right now who, at one time or another, received an envelope containing anicin from their physicians or dentists. Perhaps you, too, were interested, introduced to anicin in this way. If so, you already know of its fast, effective action. If not, be sure to try anicin the next time you suffer the pains of a headache, neuritis, or neuralgia. You'll be delighted by the wonderfully quick results. Anicin is sold at all drugstores. Take only as directed. If headaches persist, see your doctor. Remember, it's A-N-A-C-I-N. Anicin. And now, back to the real story of Victoria Marlboro. Within a year, Victoria came to New York, started work on a magazine. She took advantage of her opportunities, and in March of 1945, she was made assistant editor to Jonathan Weiss. Look over these layers, Victoria. I have. I think we should leave more space for advertising in the front page of the magazine. It'll ruin the editorials. Mr. Todman doesn't seem to think so. Oh, you've seen the boss already, Vicki. Fast work. He wanted me to have a cocktail, and I... I just mentioned it. Next thing you just mentioned is the possibility of getting rid of Jonathan Weiss. An installation of yourself as editor-in-chief. No telling where your ambitions might lead you. Unless you suddenly develop a feminine streak. I don't know what you're talking about. I'd like to think of you with your head crammed full of girls' foolish nonsense. Fellows and dates. Rose-covered cottage. Maybe a baby or two. I don't think that comes under the heading of business, Mr. Weiss. It might. Maybe I'll try to turn your ideas to feminine pursuits to protect myself. And I thought I liked you once. Sorry. I'd rather like you, Vicki, or I could. You've got such beautiful hair and lips, lovely eyes, and it's all wasted. Wasted? You are wasting it, Victoria. There never was a copy proof that could substitute for love. Jonathan? Come in, Sam. I was just about to leave, Mr. Todman. Oh, don't go, Miss Marlboro. You're in on this discussion. What's on your mind, Sam? Well, do you remember last month I was talking to you about the consolidation deal with Fiction Magazine? Yeah. Well, it looks as if the fiction people were ready to move. We still want to consolidate, and I do. Jonathan, what time could you be ready to leave town tomorrow? By noon. And, Miss Marlboro, could you take over the magazine for a little while? Certainly, Mr. Todman. She'd be glad to, besides. Fine. Then I'll get your ticket for you, Jonathan. Come to my office early tomorrow morning, and we'll go through the details with you. Sure, Sam. See you then. He's such a nice guy, and you could take such advantage of him, Vicki. This is your opportunity. What are you talking about? To stick a knife in my bag. Change the magazine all around. Don't be absurd. I'm not. I'm being realistic. But before you do, how about having dinner with me? So you can't insult me again? Oh, no. There are a few problems on the current issue with the magazine that you better know about before you take over. You see, I'll even help you stick a knife in my own back, because I'm not quite sure I still want this job. Very well, Jonathan. That's a lovely gown, Vicki. I can hardly believe you're the same efficient young lady who was in the office two hours ago. Why? You're so beautiful when you act like a woman. Why do you torment me so much, Jonathan? I'm trying to find out what makes you tick. I prefer not to talk about it. Have a little more champagne. It might loosen your tongue. We'll drink a toast to your success. I'm going to need that success. Why? Oh, for lots of reasons. Vicki, were you ever in love or married, maybe? Both. And you lost that beautiful temper of yours, so your husband divorced you, and you're out to prove to him you're smarter than he is. You think you know everything. Well, what's the real story? If you must know, my husband was in the army. He was killed. I'm sorry, Vicki. Now I see why you're so ambitious. It's not for money. But I needed something to keep myself from going off the deep end. You love them a great deal? Please. I'd rather not think about it. Sooner or later, Vicki, you'll have to think of them as just a memory and go on from there. That is my affair. Where is your hometown? Green Bay, Mississippi. His family, the Marlboro, practically own the whole town. Green Bay, Mississippi? I'm going through that way on this deal. Shall I stop in and see your folks? If you did, my mother-in-law would toss you out. Any bets? Why not? I know you don't know me, Mrs. Marlboro, but I happen to be passing through this town, and I thought I'd stop off and have a talk with you. What about Mr. Weiss? I'm your daughter-in-law's boss. Oh, yes, Mr. Weiss. Victoria has written me about you. Not nice things, I suppose. Well, won't you come in and sit down? You certainly have a lovely place here. Thank you. But, young man, you didn't come here just to look at Victoria's home. What is the real purpose of this visit? Victoria's health. She never told me she was sick. She doesn't know it. Oh, don't talk in circles. I like my people to say what they mean right out. Well, Vicki hasn't reconciled herself to living without her husband. As a matter of fact, she hasn't reconciled herself to living. I know that. But there's nothing I can do. She doesn't want any part of me or her home. She doesn't even want to see her own child. Child? I didn't even know she had one. She has a daughter, Gwendolyn, five years old. It all adds up. Don't you see, Mrs. Marlboro? When she's in New York, she can pretend that her husband is still alive, living back here. Mrs. Marlboro, somehow we must bring her back home and make her face the truth. I've tried to for three years. It's no use, though. But tell me, young man, why are you so interested in Victoria? I'm in love with her. I have been for two years. Does she know it? No. She's trying to kill any feelings she might have. She's trying to live with her head, not her heart. I like you, Mr. White. I like you a lot. And I'd be mighty proud to have you as a second son. You know, together, we might work this out. Miss Marlboro? Yes, Mr. Chodman? I'll just read you a telegram I got from Weiss. Maybe you can make some sense out of it. I can't. Go ahead. I'm listening. Deal with Fiction Magazine completed. Consolidation takes effect January 12th. Papers signed are coming to you by the mail. I'm allergic to Fiction Magazine. I'm also allergic to my job. I quit. Tell Victoria she'll make a rotten editor-in-chief. Also tell her that since she neglects the job of taking care of Gwen, mother-in-law and I are pleased to do it. Stop. Have a good market for fiction, Sam? I can't support a family without a job. Jonathan. Well, what's that about? I don't know. I'll show that, young fool. Miss Marlboro. Jonathan Weiss is out of a job. You ought to be promoted to the editor of this magazine. Oh, thanks, Mr. Tadman. But first, I've got to go home immediately. Mother Marlboro. Yes, Jonathan? It's a telegram for you from New York. Shall I read it? Well, since you've opened it already, you might as well go ahead. Listen to this. Can't understand you're entrusting Gwendolyn to care of utter stranger. Am coming home to investigate. Arrive 10 p.m. Oh, it worked, Jonathan. It worked. She's coming home, all right. But I'm not so sure she's going to take kindly to the idea of my being here. I'll get it. Welcome home, Victoria. I thought you'd at least send the carriage to the station, Mother Marlboro. At least since Jonathan has elected to stay here, he could at least be decent enough to call for me. And since when do you expect folks to jump to your commands, Victoria? I'm sorry, Mother. Not quite myself. I accept your apology. Come in. Jonathan's upstairs playing with your daughter. Didn't he know I was going to arrive? Of course. He read your rather rude telegram. Then why didn't he bring Gwendolyn to the station to meet me? Because Gwendolyn doesn't want to go to the station. She doesn't want to see you. What? It's quite true. She thinks you don't love her. You refuse to come home so often. Gwendolyn! I wouldn't call her Victoria. You'll have to do something to deserve your daughter's love. Hello, Temper. I heard your voice clear upstairs. How's Gwendolyn? Healthy. Happy. You know, she likes me. She called me Daddy twice today. Don't. Jonathan, please. A kid needs a mother and father around. Please, Jonathan. Am I right, Mother? Of course you're right. If you'll excuse me now, I'm going upstairs and lie down. If my daughter-in-law is rude to you, Jonathan, you have my permission to strangle her. That's some gal. I wish when my husband died I had someone along like Jonathan to help me carry the load. It was awfully lonesome all alone. Mother. Mother Marlboro. Vicki. Oh, Jonathan. Don't. That's right. Cry hard. Here. It's more comfortable with sob on my shoulders. Oh, Jonathan. I wanted to hate you. I should hate a man without a job. Without income of any sort. Ha ha. Would you love me if I had a job, Victoria? You're teasing me again. I've got a job, Vicki, at the magazine. You see, I sent two telegrams. One for you to see and a real one for good old Sam Todman. I told him I report back to work after our honeymoon, if that's okay with you. Oh, Jonathan. How can I ever tell my friends I'm going to marry a double-crosser? No matter what you now take for headache relief, try anicin and see what really fast relief means to you. As you know, anicin is made like a doctor's prescription. That is, it's composed of not just one, but a combination of medically proven active ingredients. In anicin, you get the combined action of several ingredients, and as a result, get remarkably fast, prolonged relief. No wonder thousands of physicians and dentists have given their patients envelopes containing anicin. In all probability, you, like so many thousands of people, were introduced to anicin in this way. Get a box of anicin the next time you want fast, effective relief from the pains of a headache, neuritis, or neuralgia. If you don't get all the relief you want, as fast as you want it, your money will be refunded. Take only as directed. If pain persists, see your doctor. Easy-to-take anicin tablets are available everywhere in handy boxes of 12 and 30, and economical family-sized bottles of 50 and 100. The name is anicin. A-N-A-C-I-N. A product of the Whitehall Pharmacos Company. Real Stories from Real Life are brought to you by anicin, in the cooperation of the editors of Real Story magazine. In these stories, real names are never used. When you're eating tempting foods that disagree, don't suffer. Take mint-flavored bisodol powder. Get amazing triple action, relief from the discomforts which are due to excess stomach acidity. One, quick relief. It goes to work instantly. Two, prolonged relief due to a special delaying action ingredient. Three, soothing relief. Protective ingredient eases upset stomachs. Remember, there's no fast relief from acid indigestion than by the Spicodol. Spicodol mint-flavored powder. 25 cents. Spicodol is also available in handy carry mint-flavored tablets. Listen tomorrow night to the startling story of a woman who says, I thought I was an invalid until a man loved me enough to prove I wasn't. Listen again tomorrow night to the story called, Looking Out of the Window. The real story of Lydia Snowden. Real stories are brought to you by the Whitehall Pharmacal Company, makers of anacin and many other dependable, high-quality drug products.
