45 daily is New York City Good Health time and Thursdays we have the cooperation each week of the Medical Society of the County of New York in discussing your good health. Today we present as our Good Health speaker, Dr. Solomon Fagan, who will speak on the subject of Preserving Your Child's Eyes. Dr. Fagan. Care of the Eyes is a very important topic in discussion of prevention of disease and promotion of health and well-being. Preserving the eyes and utilizing their function is important at all ages, but particularly in childhood, which is the period of development. Preventive medicine has been the problem of medical profession for a number of years. In the last century, great strides have been done in prevention of disease of childhood. Many are prevented by immunization and vaccination, while others are under investigation for prophylaxis and cure. A point to be aware of in prevention of disease of the eyes is that the organs of the body in pairs may complement each other, while in diseases of the eyes, when one eye is affected, the other one may be sympathetically involved. The eyes are the most important and most wonderful organs in the body, but to get the best use out of them, we must give them good care. The main function of the eyes is vision, but in order to see, we must have light. Light and vision are therefore dependent on each other. Good vision includes the sensation of color as well as of shape and form. These things we demand of our eyes constantly under an amazing variety of conditions. The eyes are very willing to do the work we ask of them, but unfortunately, they are liable to get out of the water very easily. Many diseases of the body, like diabetes, heart trouble, and kidney trouble, may bring changes in the eyes. Even improper diet may cause certain diseases of the eyes. The most common abnormality is defective vision. About 20% of children of school age have defective vision. In colleges, the percentage is almost twice as much. Among older people, probably about half require glasses to help them in one way or another. Although people use their eyes constantly, few are aware of how they work. Yet, a knowledge of the seeing mechanism is essential to an understanding of many eye illnesses. The mechanism of seeing is similar to that of a camera. In the camera, the rays of light from the object, if you want to photograph, enter through the lens or a little glass eye of the camera, and strike the film in the back of the camera, forming a picture. In the human eye, the rays of light enter through a little opening in the center of the eye, which is called pupil, and strike the back of the eye, which is called the retina, and a picture is formed and sent to the brain by means of nerve connections. The brain then tells us what type of picture we have. To form a good picture, the eye, nerves, and brain must function in harmony and coordination. But they are all delicate instruments. If any of them is out of water, we do not get a good image. Either we can't see it all, or the picture is blurred and distorted. The proper care of this delicate mechanism of sight starts with childbirth. When a baby is born, drops of a preparation are put in the eye to kill certain germs that may be there which cause sore eyes and sometimes develop into blindness. In addition, the baby's eyes are to be protected from glaring light. So sensitive are the child's eyes to light that even in the first days of life, the baby will follow a light in the room. As the eyes move, six pairs of muscles are employed, and all must act in harmony to produce proper vision. In addition, there are muscles and nerves that close and open the eyes, and also makes the pupil larger in dark and smaller in light. In the first few months of infant's life, those muscles do not act in harmony. With the growth of the child, however, these muscles start to coordinate. We must, therefore, be careful not to abuse them in the period of development. When the child begins to go to school, its eyes get many new tasks, and these new duties tend to bring out hidden defects in the eyes. The first symptoms of trouble manifest themselves in a feeling of pain or tiredness in the eyes, in headaches, and sometimes in inflammation of the eyes. The child, because of defective vision, may hold the book too close to the eyes in order to read, or incline its head to the side while reading. Such symptoms indicate that attention must be given to the eyes. A proper examination is necessary to determine whether there is defect in the eye structure, or whether there is some disease condition of the body, or even faulty diet, as deficiency in vitamins, which may also cause eye strain. The changes from normal vision that are caused by defects of the eye formation are as follows. Nearsightedness, farsightedness, astigmatism, and cross eyes. Nearsighted people can see well near at hand, but distant objects appear blurred. For proper vision, the rays of light that enter the eye must come to a certain point in the back of the eye. In nearsighted people, the eyeball is longer from front to the back than among the normal sighted people. The rays of light, therefore, fall at a point in front of the retina instead of exactly on it. As a result, when the object that they look at is near, they can see it well, but if it is far, it appears blurred. Nearsightedness develops early, particularly when the child grows rapidly, and the demand of the eyes by schoolwork is great. This condition, if not corrected properly, as soon as discovered, may grow progressively worse. In slight cases of nearsightedness, the child may wear his glasses only for distant vision and for near if necessary. In more severe cases, the child has to wear them all the time. It's also important that the amount of near vision work a child has to do to be restricted and reading on artificial light, and when the illumination is insufficient to be curtailed. In far-sighted people, the eyeball is shorter than normal, and the rays of light entering to the eye fall behind the proper spot of the retina. Far-sighted people can see the object better at a distance. When it is brought closer to the eye, they have to strain the eyes in order to see it, and constant straining of the muscles of the eyes cause eye strain. While the muscles, particularly in children, have a power of accommodation, the constant straining of the muscles cause them to get tired, and this in turn affects the eyes causing eye pain, headaches, and eye strain. Interestingly enough, infants at birth are far-sighted. When they begin to grow, the eyes also grow and become normal in size. In some children, the eyeballs get too large and they become near-sighted. Where the eyes do not grow rapidly, the eyeball is shorter and they are left far-sighted. The amount of far-sightedness does not change much with age. On the other hand, near-sightedness may get worse progressively. Far-sightedness and near-sightedness should be corrected by means of properly selected glasses to enable the child to see distinctly without straining the muscle of the eye. Another form of eye defect is astigmatism. It develops early in life and may be hereditary. Astigmatism is a condition where the rays of light entering the eye do not fall at any particular spot in the back of the eye due to abnormal structural defect of the eye. This causes the person to see things indistinctly, and sometimes even the form of the object looked at appears different. This may lead to eye strain and attacks of dizziness and headaches. Astigmatism should be corrected as soon as discovered by the precise kind of glasses. Screamed or crossed eyes are caused by the fact that the muscles that move the eye are not working in harmony or that one or more of these muscles may be paralyzed. Normally, a person sees the same object with both eyes. But if one or more muscles of the eye gets out of water, then when an eye looks at an object, the other eye crosses, turns in or out. Sometimes, both eyes are crossed, either they turn out or in. This condition is mostly found in children following some children's diseases or it develops shortly after birth. It's a very serious thing if not taken care of as soon as possible because the cross-eyed child, in order to see, will use only one eye. For the other that is crossed can be focused on the object. Since the child does not use the crossed eye, it may eventually become a blind eye from not being in use. The treatment of crossed eyes should be started as early as possible because the cause is always chronic and it takes a long time to cure. At first, glasses and exercise are tried. And if it isn't successful, operative procedure may be necessary. Injuries to the eyes in children are a common occurrence. Most frequent is the fine body. Refrain from probing the eye if there is a fine body in it because it is liable to scratch and injure the delicate membranes of the eye. During play, children are apt to injure their eyes by being struck or by burns. A physician should be consulted as soon as possible because sometimes neglect to properly take care of injuries may lead to serious consequences. Parents should caution their children against rubbing their eyes with dirty hands to prevent injury and infection. Great care should be taken of the eyes during attacks of certain children's diseases like measles, scarlet fever, chicken pox, whooping cough, and also communicable diseases of the eyes like pink eyes, inflamed and sore eyes. Early care may prevent a great deal of suffering later. But even healthy eyes should not be abused. We must remember that for many centuries the human race had mostly an outdoor life and the eyes were used for distant seeing. With the invention of printing, the eyes' tasks began to meet with greater difficulties and each succeeding generation had had to use the eyes more than the previous one. At present, most of our functions are performed indoors under insufficient light at times. In the majority of homes there is insufficient light for work or play. We have both two eyes as we have two legs, two hands, and in order to get the best use out of them, they both must function properly. Shouldn't we take good care of them? Children going to school should not be allowed to look too closely at a book or to read fine prints. They should have sufficient hours of sleep and eye rest and have their eyes periodically examined. Even preschool children should have their eyes examined at the times when they have a general physical examination. In doing their studies there should be sufficient light, not much glare, and particularly as soon as the effect is discovered, it should be immediately remedied. The eyes are very delicate organs and we must take good care of them. And if we do our part in good care, they will do their part in good service. Thank you, Dr. Fagan. Our good health speaker today was Dr. Solomon Fagan, who came to us through the cooperation of the Medical Society of the County of New York in bringing you your Thursday health message. He brought to the radio audience the timely subject of the discussion of the preservation of your children's eyes. Since the school sessions are right in their beginnings and any eye defects that may be detected, following Dr. Fagan's advice, they should be diagnosed and treated at once. Early diagnosis and cure is the particular stress of these health programs daily at 1145 over your city station, WNYC. You have a grounds thing. That is only one thing, but due to the SOS Wellich difficuér euuttering if you are within a school and at any level of high precision ageов, there must be so much of a performing Courtney Sargent calleockлаг there for trouble. You must be able to set up two measures in the ministry systemlied Kem план-es like the other study phosphorus in public! Your Zimmerum and Irresets provided the public spirit of Microrial Epoch самыеược nagre