The New York City Health Department, in cooperation with WNYC, presents Dr. Helen Wallace, Chief of the Maternity and Newborn Division, Bureau of Child Hygiene. Dr. Wallace will discuss the third in her series of child care talks. Today's discussion is of interest to all mothers. The topic is care of the school child. Dr. Wallace. Good morning. I'm happy to return again to discuss care of school children. When our youngsters approach their fifth or sixth birthday, they eagerly look forward to a brand new adventure, school. Some youngsters may not be too enthusiastic because of rumors they have heard from older children. Others can hardly be restrained. But all of them are excited when the day rolls around, and they have plenty of reason to be. It means the opening of a new world. And have you ever stopped to consider just what the first days of school pull forth to children? Up to the time they entered kindergarten or the first grade, they've led a sheltered, comparatively secluded existence. Now they are suddenly thrown together with dozens of other children. Formerly, they could do pretty well what they pleased. If they didn't like playmates, they could leave. At home, they were the center of attention. Now they have to learn to get along with other children. They'll find in this school world of give and take that they must learn to consider the others in the group. Youngsters who go into tantrums at home soon discover that this behavior doesn't pay off in school. And sooner or later, all normal, healthy children adjust themselves to this new life and are happy in it. In school, youngsters also find, for the first time, that they must compete with others on an impartial basis. This competition is more keen than we adults outside the school system usually realize. The youngster must be in the best possible health so that he can go forward with the others. In fact, your health department feels that the physical condition of our younger set is important enough for us to maintain a health service devoted exclusively to school children. For example, a complete physical examination is required for each child being admitted to school. It should be done preferably by the doctor who sees the child regularly. However, if this isn't possible, an appointment will be made to have the school doctor examine the child. It is very important that the parent be present at the examination to give the child's past medical history and to discuss and plan with the doctor and nurse the proper care of the youngster through the school years. Vaccination against smallpox is also required for school admission. It is important to protect your child against this serious disease. If your child has already not been vaccinated, take him to your doctor or neighborhood child health station for this protective measure. If your youngster has never been immunized against diphtheria, have him immunized before he goes to school. Children who have had injections against diphtheria in infancy should be given a booster dose of diphtheria toxoid before entering school. Once the youngster is in school, the health department's school nurses and doctors will do all they can to discover any unfavorable health conditions. Teachers are also on guard for signs of illness in their pupils. Whenever necessary, pupils are referred to the school nurse. The school nurse may recommend that the child be checked over either by the family physician or school doctor. If the youngster is examined by a school doctor, the mother is notified in advance of the examination so that she can be present. The examination by the school doctor may result in his making some recommendations for special medical care, changes in diet, or a change in daily routine. Since these suggestions are made in the interest of the child's health, they should be carried out as soon as possible. We've found that more school children are bothered by poor vision and poor hearing than by any other handicaps. Now, bad vision or hearing are serious and can interfere with a child's school work. Very often he may be considered dull when actually he doesn't see or hear well. In one case that occurred not so long ago, the child's trouble made itself obvious before he had gone far. This youngster was a bright six-year-old in the first grade. However, he was fast becoming a behavior problem. His teacher knew he was intelligent, yet he made no attempt to answer questions on tests and spent most of his time throwing spitballs and disrupting the class. Matters kept growing worse, and the youngster was getting into more trouble. One day, the teacher made an appointment with the school doctor for an examination. At the examination, it was found that the troublesome pupil was nearsighted and couldn't read the writing on the blackboard. As a result, he missed quite a bit of school work and couldn't understand what was going on. The less he understood, the more mischievous he became. His mother was told, and she had her son fitted for glasses immediately. He was also coached in the school work, which he had missed, and he picked up the work quickly. In only a few weeks, the change in that boy was unbelievable. He took a new interest in his subjects. His behavior at school and at home soon showed great improvement. He laughed more than he used to, and his native intelligence began to show itself. Now he's getting along fine. Fortunately, teachers are experienced in spotting youngsters who seem to be having some difficulty. Some children are referred to the school nurse, who in turn arranges for an examination when necessary. The health department cooperates with the board of education to give your school child a carefully planned health service. This service is all the more effective because teachers, nurse, and doctors operate as a team to spot adverse health conditions so that definite guidance can be given the parent to get the child under good health care. However, it's a child's care at home that has the greatest effect on his health. You have seen what the schools do to protect a youngster's physical condition. Now I would like to discuss some of the things a wise mother does to safeguard her child's health. She doesn't forget the all-important last-minute checkup before her child leaves for school each morning. What looks like only a sniffle may in reality be the first symptom of a communicable disease. If during the morning checkup at home, she notices any of the following symptoms in her youngster. She keeps him home for observation. First, a flushed face or sign of a temperature. Second, running nose, sneezing, coughing, or sore throat. Third, a skin rash. Fourth, sores or blisters on the skin. When the school child appears unusually tired without an obvious reason or if he vomits, he should also be kept home and the family physician should be called. If he finds the youngster has a contagious disease, the fact should immediately be reported to the school. The wise mother also realizes the importance of a wholesome, well-balanced diet, which includes the basic seven foods. During the early school years, food habits are being formed, which may stay with the youngster throughout life. That's why we ought to be specially careful to prepare a variety of foods and prepare them temptingly. Meals that are prepared appetizingly and served in pleasant surroundings go a long way towards encouraging good food habits in children. However, no attempt should be made to threaten the child or force him to eat. Scoldings make for unpleasantness and meal time should always be a happy time. If your youngster looks forward to his meals, you'll know you're on the right track. Mother should see to it that the youngster has a leisurely, substantial breakfast. By leisurely, I mean that the school child should have ample time to eat his food without rushing. Scanty breakfasts grabbed on the run with constant reminders to hurry, hurry, hurry may cause restlessness and difficulty during a school morning. Another important factor is sleep. School children require at least nine hours of sleep. Sufficient sleep is essential if young bodies are to grow and thrive. When a youngster has had enough sleep, he shouldn't have any trouble getting up in the morning. He should waken easily. If he doesn't, it may be he isn't getting enough rest. Of course, wholesome food and adequate sleep are basic necessities in building healthy young bodies. But every mother knows that there's more to bringing up a child than just taking care of his physical needs. We also have to consider a youngster's emotional needs, his mental growth. How a youngster is treated will determine the kind of grown-up he will be. All of us want our children to grow up and become mature, well-balanced adults. This cannot be accomplished by doing everything for the youngsters, giving in to all our whims, and choosing what we think are the right friends. All of these things make for spoiled, overprotected children. We shouldn't try to make perfect little adults of them. Children simply aren't miniature adults. The key to child training lies in understanding and making allowances for the child's age. For example, an occasional tantrum in a child of four is nothing to get excited about. It may be the only way he can express his rage and frustration. However, if this child acts the same way at 10, we should give the matter serious thought. As youngsters grow, they become more mature emotionally. They also become more independent. It's up to parents to encourage this feeling, so the youngsters will gain the self-confidence all of us need to get along. This can best be done by allowing school children to do things for themselves as much as possible, provided, of course, the children are capable of doing them. For example, if our young school child wants to take a bath by himself, we should encourage it. By that age, he should also be able to dress and undress himself, get himself ready for bed, and help himself in other ways, as well as do little tasks around the house. On the other hand, we shouldn't push a youngster beyond his capacity. One intelligent couple was the cause of their daughter's unhappiness and didn't realize it for a long time. Their bright little girl was an eight-year-old. She was doing fine in school, but her folks weren't quite satisfied. They wanted their daughter to be first in their class and kept harping on their marks constantly. The odds, however, were too great. The youngster was never satisfied unless she got the highest mark, which she was unable to do most of the time, and so she began to feel she was a failure. Ever since she had started school, she had been impressed with the fact that there were only two alternatives. She must be the best, or a failure. The parents felt that they were doing what was best for her future. But when their daughter showed signs of a constant strain by having nightmares and acting fearful and uncertain, they became worried. The mother was very much surprised when it was explained that she was driving her daughter too hard. She had never realized it. She changed her attitude at once. Today, the girl is a happy, cheerful child. Because she is no longer made to feel that high school marks are the most important thing in the world. And she has found that school can be a pleasant place instead of a grind factory. School days are the beginning of a new world for children. We can help this new world, make this new world an intriguing, exciting place for them. It is our job as parents to see to it that our children are in tip-top condition, so that they will be able to work successfully with other children and prepare for a wholesome adult life. You have just heard Dr. Helen Wallace, Chief of the Maternity and Newborn Division, Bureau of Child Hygiene, in the third of her series of four talks on child care. If you would like a copy of today's talk, Care of the School Child, simply send a postcard to this station or to the Department of Health, 125 Worth Street, New York 13. That's the Department of Health, 125 Worth Street, New York 13. Dr. Wallace will discuss adolescence in next week's broadcast. We invite you to be with us then. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.