Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand considers the role of the public library in adult education. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will present a critical analysis of the functions of the library in serving individuals and groups. How far should the library go in promoting community discussion of public issues? You're listening to James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech at Northwestern University. I'm happy to introduce as our speakers on today's discussion Mr. L.H. Adolphson, Director of the Extension Division at the University of Wisconsin and Chairman of the Council of National Organizations of the Adult Education Association. Mrs. Florence Stevens Craig, Director of Adult Education in the Kahuga County Public Library in Cleveland, Ohio and Chairman of the American Library Association Adult Education Board. Malcolm S. Knowles, Administrative Coordinator of the Adult Education Association of the United States of America. And Jack Spear, Director of the American Heritage Project of the American Library Association. Now Mrs. Craig, what is the role of the public library in adult education? How would you put that? Well the role of the public library in adult education is two-fold. First of all, it's what it always has been, to provide materials for the people who are interested in education. Education both formal and informal. And then its role is its newer concept, not only of having the materials that are there in the library if sought out, but its ability to go out into the community to call attention to those materials and its ability to establish groups where these materials can be evaluated. Well are you saying then that the role of the library is changing? I would certainly say so. I remember very well a university library in which I worked. The architect had designed it to resemble a church. All the windows were stained glass. It wasn't possible for any ray of light to come in whereby you might see a book. And one of the librarians who worked in that institution said every morning when she came to work and the library door clanged shut behind her, she said to herself, abandon hope while ye who enter here. Are you suggesting we don't have libraries like that today? We have fewer and fewer of them. Well, Eddowson, what other agencies other than the library engage in this business of adult education? Well, there are a great variety of agencies engaging in adult education at the present time. They range through the schools themselves to all sorts of women's clubs, men's clubs, labor unions and so on. And from what I have observed of the more progressive library, shall we say, in my own state, the librarians are making a very real effort to get into working relationships with all of these agencies within their own communities and then externally to deal with agencies like my own university and the extension services of universities which can give a great deal of support to the adult education activities in local communities. No? Bernie, it seems to me we're operating at a fairly abstract level here. I'd sort of like to get us down to a town we all know, Podunk, Missouri. And in the process, Noles, tell us something about adult education. We're taking that term for granted. Yeah. Well, now let's look at Podunk. And here we have several thousand people working, playing, living in homes and so on. All of them requiring increased skill, increased knowledge as the world changes. In other words, people can't stand still. The world is changing and people have to change with it. They have to learn new things, new skills, new ideas, and so on. Now, in Podunk, we have these women's clubs, we have the schools, we have perhaps the university extension center to which people are coming to learn something. The role of the library, it seems to me, in this picture is to help them to use the tools of learning better than they use them without training. In other words, it seems to me that what Mrs. Craig is saying is that the change that's taking place here is one from being a passive depository of physical objects, books, films, and so on, to one of actually going out into the community and helping people to do a better job of learning. Is this right? I'd like to get back to what you said as you first began to speak there about a changing world. I remember so very well what I heard Robert Blakely of the Fund for Adult Education say. He pointed out that you can drive a car by looking in the rearview mirror as long as the road ahead does not curve. I think we realize now our road ahead does curve. And the library, one of the library's functions is to help people recognize the fact of change and want to learn how to change with change. Is that right? Now, Spirit, you go along with this conception of the library. Well, basically I'll go right along with it. Yes, I have seen the library, seen its role changing. The people in the community used to think of it as a storehouse of books, primarily books. Today we think of it in the modern community as an information center. And the emphasis on that collection of books and films and pictures and pamphlets and magazines. The emphasis is on giving the people of that community help in using it. Well, I introduced you as the national director of this American Heritage project. That's a library project, isn't it? Yes, it is. And what is it, briefly? Very briefly, it's a discussion program sponsored to the American Library Association by the Fund for Adult Education, which is an independent organization of the Ford Foundation. A program of discussion in public libraries on, well, it gives men and women an opportunity to meet together regularly and to discuss the problems of today. And on the light of the basic documents, the ideas and the experiences which constitute our American heritage. Well, now, Spear, this is suggesting that the library is going beyond its function, as you stated, of providing information into the area of providing a training opportunity for people to think critically about this information. Is that right? That's right. One of the aims of this project, or one of the objectives, is to help people become better informed. It helps them also gain an awareness of their responsibilities as citizens in a democracy. And, of course, to achieve a willingness to apply their very own thinking in building better communities. Now, am I to conclude from this preliminary discussion, Mrs. Craig, that the library is less interested in its traditional function, that of providing books and reading materials for adults? I would say not less interested, but that something new has been added. They realize that if they go out into the community and point out the things they have, and also if they encourage people to talk about books. I want to go back to Mr. Spear's American Heritage Project a minute. You have no idea what a hopeful thing it has been, how it has given people hope. Because as they have re-examined their American heritage, they have been able to cast away some of their fears about present day. Because they have been reminded of the fact that we have gone through very difficult times before. And because we believed in democracy and freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and so on, we have come out very well. And that we can again if we have more hope instead of fear. I'm enthusiastic about that program. But before we get too far afield, I'd like to strike a sort of conservative note here, Bernie, if I might. And that is that there are no real shortcuts to learning. Not even discussion. Not even discussion, perhaps. It can help learning. It can help motivate it. But I like to come down pretty hard yet on the traditional role of the library of providing the books, the serious reading, if you please, for large numbers of American adults who may or may not purchase books. It seems to me that this is a role that is extremely significant in a democratic society to make available these free materials and books and reading matter of a serious character upon which genuine study and thought is based. I would agree with you because I do think that sometimes somebody is certainly willing or should be able to get into a corner quietly by himself and have the joy and the inspiration of a really good book. Well, now, could I just say that while I don't want to convey the impression that I don't think that reading books is important, I think it is. But I don't think that the library would be performing much of an educational function if this is all it did. And for this reason, there are a number of research studies that have been made of the effect of what we might call passive activity. Reading books, just seeing motion pictures, and so on. And all of these studies come out pretty consistently with this kind of finding. That by the mere fact of reading something or of seeing a motion picture about something, attitudes are very seldom appreciably changed. But if you add into this picture the discussion with other people of what you have read or what you have seen in a motion picture, then attitudes change a good deal and the change is a good deal more permanent. What you're saying is, isn't it, that we may read to bolster our own prejudices. Precisely. I agree with your point of view entirely there, Knowles. There are two things in your statement that disturbed me a little, Knowles. In the first place, you seem to assume that a change in attitude or a change in position is necessarily a good thing. That's number one. Well, it's not necessarily, McBurney, except that in building an educational system, in building an educational program, and let's think of the educational program for our country now, there is certainly no purpose in having an educational program unless it's directed toward improvement in some way. Now, building directions toward improvement involves setting up some values. What are the values that we wish to achieve, that we wish our education to bring about? But might not reading a book bring one's values into question? Well, you see the... It might not be a very active experience, a very active collaboration between the... the reader and the author. Well, McBurney, it can be. And this is what I'm saying. It can be, but it doesn't have to be. And without guidance, it's not likely to be. For this reason, the people who already believe the way Whitaker Chambers does, are the people who tend to read Whitaker Chambers. The people who already believe the way the Communists do, tend to read Communist writings and so on, you see. Now, it seems to me that the role of the library is to stimulate people to read the opposite point of view from what they already believe, do you see? I'd simply... I'd like to add this, that change in and of itself is not necessarily good, but at the same time, change we must have. It's almost a truism today that, for instance, our technology is moving so fast that the technical skills learned, whether on the vocational level or in professional engineering schools, are such that in 20 years they're outmoded. And if these professional people are going to keep up, they simply have to change their ideas and the technical knowledge they have. Well, similarly, I think in the political world, in the place of the United States, in the world as a whole, and in terms of our own internal governmental relationships, there is so much change going on that we simply have to get new ideas. We've been speaking of the word change, and I think you mean, Knowles, certainly the larger definition of that word, don't you? I would prefer to call it informed or information. You wouldn't? No. Do you disagree with me? No, yeah. Very few people change by virtue of simply having more information. This is an educational axiom. When we limit education to information, we're cutting out, Jack, attitude, we're cutting out value judgment or appreciation, we're cutting out skills. I think sometimes we librarians don't talk too much about this, but it's something we're doing every day in our libraries. We are giving people, handing people, we know what they're reading. And the person that comes into the library, talks to the librarian, the librarian is vaguely aware that he has been reading books along a certain line. She will introduce him to other books. Again, it's a basic thing in the way we operate. We probably don't talk about it too much, I guess. Well, following that, I would say that let us suppose that the person is a rugged individual, much opposed to the welfare state, so-called. Now then, we might try and get that rugged individual to do some reading on the welfare state. But I do want to point out that the librarian and the library, certainly, we do not try to say, this is the way you should think. But we do try to say, here is material on the rugged individualism, here is material on the welfare state. Do read on both sides. Well, let's say you get somebody that's thoroughly committed to the welfare state. Do you get him to read a little about the rugged individualism? We try to do that, certainly. And you would approve of that? And we don't try to convert him, but we say, here is this material. There are two sides, or four or five sides to controversial questions. Well, Fernie, my point is that I don't think that it's enough to do, in becoming, in being a really educational institution, for the library simply to, say, read both sides. I think the library has a further responsibility here to help people to develop skill in reading critically, so that they're able to make some judgments about what they read, not just, as we typically tend to do, believe anything that we see in print. Go ahead, Mrs. Craig. I like to point out to people, in following that, Mr. Knowles, I like to point out to people two books by two honest, reputable authors, and show people how two honest, reputable authors can differ in their approach to the same thing. Then that begins to help. That's the kind of thing you think I mean. Yeah, could I just, now you, then the library is serving as an educational agent in this way, in these ways. Let me see if I can get it clear. First, as an individual counselor, you do a lot of this, do you? Individuals come in, want help in selection of reading, and the librarian, by talking with this individual, can help him to learn to read more critically. Secondly, by group discussion within the library itself, the American Heritage Project, I take it you have some great books discussion groups probably in the library? Yes, world politics, council, world affairs. Uh-huh. And then third, somebody has said something about the library serving as a resource to groups that are not organized by the library, but meet outside the library. And you send librarians out, do you, to help them develop their programs, and how does that work? I'll speak to that. I think Mr. Adolfson would like to add something to it. We certainly do, and it's, no library can do anything which makes it more popular in its community than to give help in program planning. For instance, working with just the PTA program planners is a most helpful thing to do. They want, they know that they have some women in the group who say, my child has tantrums, or they have some women in the group who say, my child won't eat. We say, all right, why don't you use the film, why won't Tommy eat, and why don't you, in addition to using the materials that we have on this, call in the discussion leader from the Mental Hygiene Association. We mentioned to them specific films, specific organizations that can help them add to the knowledge they get from our books, and they like that. The Film Council of America sent through a press release that I saw the other day saying that you are, the libraries are having preview centers for films. Is this, is this kind of thing very general, the training of, uh, of leaders in program planning? Oh yes indeed. We, uh, for instance in my library regularly we have film showings for PTA groups, for garden clubs. They're beautiful films for garden clubs. We, we do that. Now this discussion has, uh, centered it seems to me on really the larger libraries which have resources of staff and other facilities. Uh, in a state like my own where the great bulk of libraries are relatively small, in many cases with only a part-time librarian, obviously that librarian is not able to do all of these things. And it's that point at which, uh, a university, particularly a state university, can enter the picture through its extension services by providing, uh, program planning services, by providing films and package libraries and so on to supplement the facilities. And, uh, the resources available locally and, uh, and can actually go into a great many local communities and do this service perhaps in cooperation with the local librarians. So that in effect you can get, uh, a sort of statewide library service of the character you've been describing that applies perhaps most particularly to the larger urban centers. Well, now, Mrs. Craig, what has been the effect on the, uh, reading habits of people of all of this, uh, uh, discussion, this, uh, change function of the library that we're talking about? Are they reading more books? Fewer books? Uh... I think they're reading a few more and they're reading, uh, more non-fiction. That may be due to two things. One, that the, uh, uh, fiction and so on, it is available in, in other places, in the women's magazines or the corner drug store and so on, that they can get that there. But, uh, this modern world of ours presents so many problems to people every day and they hear about it through many places, uh, that they come to the library, the person who takes the trouble to come to the library, leave his home, come to the library, comes for a non-fiction book. Well, this would seem to suggest that the library is, uh, uh, is really performing an educational function here of changing the tastes of people then, uh, toward, toward, uh, more, what we might call more serious reading? I would think that the library is certainly not, uh, doing this alone, that, uh, other educational institutions in the community are doing that, such as the, the fine TV programs that the universities put on. Mm-hmm. Um, in Cleveland, for instance, we've had some wonderful morning programs on child psychology, uh, on great literature of the world, and those programs have sent people flying into the library for material I never thought of asking for before. McBurney, could I, uh, raise a question here that may not be on this central point, but it's something that worries me a good deal. I think that implicit in our discussion here, we've been saying that for the library to serve as an adult educational instrument, it must be in a position to be able to present, uh, materials on all sides of all cases to its readers. Now, I know that, um, there are strong movements in our society today to restrict what, what educational institutions, what libraries, I suppose, are, uh, are able to carry, uh, to the people. The, the, the movement is toward, uh, drawing a narrow boundary of conformity, uh, and causing people to, uh, forcing people to conform. Has this been, has this seriously, uh, impeded the library in its, uh, role as an adult education instrument? Historically, I like to look back, and in examining the record, we find that, uh, where books are burned, and people are not allowed to gather together in small groups for free discussion, dictatorships of one type or another tend to creep in to the picture. Uh, where books are kept in free access to the public, all sides of, of public questions, uh, are presented to them, and equally free for them to read, we find that, uh, the type of government that we know, and like, and love, continues in strength. Have you experienced the kind of pressure that, uh, Knowles was talking about in your library, Ms. Craig? Uh, no, uh, we have been fortunate. There have been such pressures. Now, the, uh, American Library Association has its Library Bill of Rights, which states very clearly that we believe in the right of the people to know. And, uh, libraries, I'm quite proud of the way libraries have stood by this, that they believe it firmly, and in some, uh, some areas they have had to fight for it, uh, fight for their right, uh, to have ideas on all questions. But this Bill of Rights to which you refer doesn't, uh, uh, confer on you the privilege of, of operating as an advocate in a library for a public, in a library for a point of view, does it? Never. No, never. And if the library, uh, tried to be the advocate of, of any point of view, I should think that library should be snuffed out. Well, now, wait a minute. I don't agree. I, I think that as an, as an educator, the library has to have a point of view. And that point of view has to be democratic values, doesn't it? Uh, uh, in, in a democracy, every education, every educational institution has to have, as its point of view, education for democracy. Which means, now, can we all agree, or do we all agree, or does our society agree, among other things, uh, education toward freedom to think, and to think critically. Oh, certainly. I, I agree that we have to have, uh, that kind of, of democratic values. That's implicit, I would think, in everything we're saying. But it's a point of view. Sometimes you better make it explicit. Yeah. Well, I'd like to make another thing, uh, explicit here. Why are, why are you people so interested, and there seems to be considerable unanimity on this point, in extending the library's function beyond that of reading books critically? Mm-hmm. Uh, why, why are you so interested in encouraging, uh, community discussion groups? Well, let's let Jack, uh, take a whack at that. Why do you have an American Heritage Project, Jack? I'd like to go back just a little bit and explain something, uh, basically important about the public library. The public library today is really the only place in a community where an individual, as a person, can go, can read what he wants to, when he wants to, as fast or as doggone slow as he wants to. And, uh, as he has the time for it. We, uh, have rolled along with mass communication. Radio has come in, and there was a time when librarians were worried about radio. It would take people away from reading. Uh, it hasn't. Uh, baseball games, for instance, were broadcast on the radio. What has happened in our libraries? We can't get enough material together on, on baseball. The shelves are empty most of the time. Has television had that same effect? Yes, the television has come along, another technological improvement. And, uh, uh, a few librarians have said, uh, well, this is going to mean that people won't read. But most librarians have accepted it, have rolled with it. And, uh, uh, what they're finding, as Mrs. Craig pointed out a moment ago, that when a good program is put on on television, people rush to the library to get other information about it. So that there is something to television, and we're looking forward to it. Most librarians are. I'd like to, uh, add, too, that, uh, uh, American democracy, uh, was really built on discussion. The town meeting of the air, uh, was not a figment of someone's imagination. It was very real, uh, as a part of our, uh, uh, not the town meeting of the air, but the old New England town meeting. It was very real as a part of our history. Now, in trying to recapture it, you, uh, in searching for a place, it is probably true that in most communities, the library is the most natural center for, uh, a development of that kind of discussion activity again. What bothers me most of all, I think, in, when I look at the world around me, is the passive role that so many people assume. Uh, the library is a place where we can say to them, uh, get away from this passive role. That is the role of just listening, uh, to the radio, looking at a film, or, um, listening to a record. That is passive. And we want to get away, I think, from the passive, uh, point of view, because it's more fun to be active, and in a sense, it's, uh, in an educational sense, I believe it is more valuable. I believe it is more valuable to be active. Well, now, I get the impression that, uh, as a result of this newer role of the, of the library, we're getting more talk and less, uh, reading. And do you think that's a, uh, healthy, uh, development, Knowles? Uh, need it be less reading in order to have more talk? Uh, if this were the case, I would, I would be very disturbed. But I, I'd like to ask Mrs. Craig if, if there is less reading because people are talking about what they're reading more. No, I, I think there's more reading because they're doing more talking. Uh, for instance, in, in some groups that we have in Cuyahoga County, they were reading in the American Heritage Project, and suddenly they said, well, we keep coming back to Jefferson. And what, after all, do we actually know about Jefferson? So, three people in that group took different biographies of Thomas Jefferson, uh, to read about. Now, you see, if they hadn't talked about some things in the American Heritage, it never in the world would have occurred to them to read three biographies of Thomas Jefferson. That, uh, is coming up all over the country, I might say, in the American Heritage programs. Uh, we, we were dealing with the individual a moment ago. Uh, in a group we have, a group, of course, is only made up of individuals. And in an American Heritage discussion group as any other discussion group, that person comes as an individual, he throws his ideas out to the people. Uh, the person across the table throws his ideas out, and, uh, we do find, through information-free exchange of ideas in the discussion group, that, uh, people do change their minds. Of course, if that, uh, that, uh, exchange of ideas is not an informed exchange, uh, I wonder if anything very constructive is, is happening. Uh, isn't there a possibility that you're going to get people in communities, uh, talking for talk's sake, uh, rearranging their prejudices in the library, uh, basement, uh, when they might better be occupied in reading some good books? I think there's a, uh, a possibility of that. In fact, I'm certain some of that actually takes place. But on the other hand, uh, again, from, from what I've observed, uh, that in the main, uh, there is, uh, real information to back up these discussions. And the fact of the discussion has tended to move people to, uh, critical reading, which then they pour back into succeeding discussion. And earlier in the discussion, you said with, uh, apparent satisfaction, Mrs. Craig, that people were reading less fiction. Uh, don't you still have good detective stories in your library? Yes, we have good detective stories, and you know when a person comes in and says, I want a book with five murders in it, you wonder if there are five people that they'd like to kill, and since they can't, they're taking out their aggressions and reading a detective story. If that's, if that's what they're doing, uh, maybe that's a good thing. Perhaps, uh, McBurney, the library, has the attitude that, uh, the development of a sense of humor is a perfectly respectable educational objective. And I, I would agree that, uh, learning not only ought to be fun in itself, but it ought to be toward how to have fun. And may I add that there can be great fun in participating in a very lively, informed, uh, discussion. Well, having written our text... I'm, I'm very sorry, but our time seems to be up. The time seems to be up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Role of the Public Library in Adult Education. We want to thank our guests for today, L.H. Adelson, Director of the Extension Division at the University of Wisconsin, and Chairman of the Adult Education Association Council of National Organizations. Mrs. Florence Stevens-Craig, Director of Adult Education at the Cuyahoga County Public Library in Cleveland, Ohio, and Chairman of the American Library Association Adult Education Board. Malcolm S. Knowles, Administrative Coordinator of the Adult Education Association of the United States of America. And Jack Spear, Director of the American Library Association American Heritage Project. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask, What is the significance of Canada to the United States? Our guests will be Arthur F. Broadbridge, Canadian Council in Chicago, F. Kenneth Hare, Chairman of the Department of Geography at McGill University in Montreal, Canada, and Malcolm J. Proudfoot, Professor of Political Geography at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion. What is the significance of Canada to the United States? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. What is the N9 15 hold on? We will be reading of tabernacles Extension. Who is running according to the olduğative for May 16th? This is the N9 15. This is a Ken Kent helmets nu. This is кого- deinem Twitch media committee has been комментарbing time. You are ready to try it. And it's going to try the Whose active eclipse. We will be hearing things on those cousin-p 자주 forecasts such folks that help them. You can grid of you all use Facebook rather than that. You can do what is to do with the solid passions of Canada. Journal of this meteor Language of Internet and Health Center in South Africa, We will be able to display your약 Someone who is holding vehicles around here, and why doesn't matter whether it is that at hand. You can do this money in the politicalbberg way ahead you can do you watch the esempio