Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to welcome you on behalf of the Museum of the City of New York and the Metropolitan Museum. This is a lone exhibition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the granting of a charter to the City of New Amsterdam, which, of course, was the predecessor of the City of New York. Most of the material in the lone exhibition that you will see immediately after these ceremonies was brought to this country as a loan from the Netherlands government. And it was brought here by Dr. Weisenbeek, who is the director of the Municipal Museum at The Hague. Dr. Weisenbeek brought the material over, was largely responsible for its exhibition, and I think we'd all like to hear a few words from him. Dr. Weisenbeek. Mr. President, Your Royal Highness, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, The people of the Netherlands are very proud that they could cooperate in the celebration of the centenary of the incorporation of New Amsterdam by sending over the relics existing in their country of the earliest days of the New Netherlands settlement. We are sorry to say that they are not as many and not as important as we wished them to be, but I hope to be able to explain to you why there are so few. At the beginning of the 17th century, the Dutch were a young people, were still fighting the greatest world power of their day, Spain, to achieve freedom from the Spanish regime. Their struggle had started in 1568, and the first 40 years had made it clear to themselves and to the world at large that eventually they would become a free nation and those who had depth of foresight knew then that the Netherlands would be an important factor in world politics in the coming centuries. Holland itself, the so-called Seven Provinces, had chased the Spanish soldiery from its territory. Antwerp, blockaded, could not maintain its former role as the most important port on the continent, and Amsterdam was taking over its position rapidly. In that city, and in a great many others throughout Holland, the notion arose that Dutchmen had to sail out to far-off countries in the East and in the West from where the Spanish monarchy derived its riches to strike at the root of that Spanish world power. So, in the middle of the 90s of the 16th century, the fleet sailed out to the Indonesian archipelago with specific orders to found settlements in those outlying districts from where the Spanish ships could be harassed. Then others, in the first place, William Asselinck and Michael Powell, thought of going even further and tried to intercept the famous Spanish silver fleets, which brought at regular intervals the wealth of the Americas to Spain. A company was founded called the West India Company, mainly through the efforts of Asselinck's to serve this purpose. And they did not think of Latin America only, because at the same time they took over the liabilities contracted by the East India Company, which had sent out Henry Hudson to the coast of North America, where they expected to receive shipments of valuable furs. So, in 1624, the ship New Nederland, New Nederland, set out from Tessel to the Hudson River with 30 families on board. They were to be the first Dutchmen in those parts, and they built the first settlement at the now Albany. In 1626, the then governor of the colony, Peter Minwy, purchased the island of Manhattan for the now fabulous sum of $24. You will find in the exhibition the record of this purchase in the original letter written by Peter Skagen to the States General, at that time the governing body of the Netherlands. Everyone here may understand that the purchase of this island from a tribe of Red Indians was just a minor event amongst the very notable feats of colonization achieved by the Dutchmen in those years. The colony always remained a small one, and although the vision of men like Jonas Michaelius, the first minister of the newly founded colony, foresaw the opportunities that the opening up of the American mainland by the new settlement offered, nobody in the motherland had the time or the opportunity to look into these future possibilities. Time went on. The little colony prospered in a way, although internal difficulties, which rose regularly, checked its growth considerably. It might interest some of you that even then, traffic problems were a major issue, even to such an extent that Stufusand, on account of the many traffic accidents, warned all horse-drawn carriages off the streets of New Amsterdam. A series of hard and not-too-clean governors thwarted the endeavors of the colonists, and time after time, remonstances were sent by the advisory board of the burgers of New Amsterdam to the board of the West India Company, asking to let them have home rule free from the unjust handling of their governors. At last, the board of the West India Company acquiesced, and on the 2nd of February 1653, New Amsterdam was incorporated as a city under its own chosen city board. The Dutch group of New Netherlands enjoyed its home rule for not more than 14 years. At the peace treaty of Breda, the English, in 1667, the English got full possession of the New Amsterdam Dutch colonies, which they had acquired without any struggle a few years before. Why can we still speak of a notable Dutch influence in the United States, although its little band of Dutch, never more than 6,000 persons in all, lost most of its connections with Munderland after they became inhabitants of a British colony? I believe that the origin of this influence lies much deeper than the founding of that Dutch colony in the beginning of the 17th century. It lies in the inner parallelism between two freedom-loving peoples. On New Year's Eve 1563, William the Silent, Prince of Orange, father of the Dutch liberty, expressed in a famous speech in the Grand State Council of the then Spanish Netherlands, his belief that the monarch is in a way the servant of his people, and if he tries to rule the people tyrannically, such a people has a moral right to take its own fate in its own hands and fight for its freedom. At the time, this was an absolutely revolutionary notion when a few years later the Dutch could no longer tolerate the injustice of the Spanish monarch. they started the uprising very much aware of those beliefs expressed by their leader, William of Orange. And when in 1581 they finally set themselves free of the Spanish domination, they expressed in that solemn act the same belief that was at the core of William of Orange's words. This has been a trumpet call to the world and ever since freedom-loving peoples all over the world have used these same expressions to justify their fight for freedom. So in 1689 we'll find these notions in the English Bill of Rights. And when in 1776 the American Commonwealth promulgated its Declaration of Independence the far-off sound of the first expression of belief in people's freedom by Dutch 200 years before that event was distinctly heard in that wonderfully worded announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that here lies evidence of the solid ties between our two democratic peoples. This is why we Dutchmen feel ourselves so much at home in the United States and I hope that the same applies to Americans in Holland. And this is why we are still proud that we have been able to stress again the old tie between both peoples with these visual means so admirably exhibited by the Director of this great institution, Mr. Taylor, with the help of Mrs. Perl Perl and Mr. Knott's and with the most generous assistance of Mr. John Walden Meyer, Director of the Museum of the City of New York. We utterly hope that from this exhibition the American public will become aware once again of the intrinsic brotherhood of our two peoples. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Eisenbeek. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the rare privilege of having with us today his honor, the Mayor of the City of New York. He is an ex-officio trustee of the Museum, but his other duties rarely permit him to come to these halls, and I think it is only appropriate that he should undertake to introduce our guest of honor to you. His honor, the Mayor. Mr. Taylor, Mr. Sloan, Mr. Ambassador, our guests this afternoon, His Royal Highness, Prince of the Netherlands, Prince Bernhardt, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great pleasure for me not only as an ex-officio trustee of the Museum, but as the Mayor of the City of New York, to extend, first of all, in this beautiful museum, a very warm hand of welcome to our guest of honor today, Prince Bernhardt of the Netherlands. This is not something new for me, because the Prince in company with Queen Juliana visited our shores last year. To be exact, last April 7th, he and Queen Juliana completely captured the hearts of all New Yorkers on their memorable visit to our city. city. And we and on that occasion, we had a very colorful and a very warm greeting in the historic council chambers of the city of New York, where both Queen Juliana and our guest this afternoon, Prince Bernhardt, received the city of New York's distinguished service scrolls, as well as the city's Medal of Honor. Only yesterday, and it's only fitting and proper that it should have happened, because our traditions are very, very rich in the tremendous contributions that the Dutch have made from the very beginning of the origin of the city of New York. If you'll notice the beautiful flag of the city of New York, which is up there to my left, that's really almost completely Dutch in origin. As a matter of fact, the official colors of that flag are, in reality, the colors of Holland, blue, white, and orange. When the Dutch colony was first organized here, the legislative body of the city of New York, which is today known as the city council, was originally known in the days of the judge as the Schaltern. I think, I hope, Prince, that I pronounce it correctly. only yesterday, as I started to say, we had a very beautiful ceremony starting off the 300th anniversary of the birth of the city of New York. And very properly, that service was held in St. Mark's Church on the Bowery. Prince Bernhardt officially came here to participate at the beginning of our 300th anniversary celebration. Those of us who were privileged to join with him, with Mr. Lee Thompson Smith, who is the chairman of the 300th anniversary celebration, church, and with the high church dignitaries who participated in that ceremony yesterday, were very, very much impressed by the words of Prince Bernhardt. And I want to assure him this afternoon that the people of the city of New York share with him the grief on the tragedy that once again has inundated almost one-sixth of the total area of that very small country. We want him to know that we send our warmest sympathy, our warm hand of friendship, and the traditional knowledge that Americans hold their Dutch brothers and sisters in very high esteem when, either in time of peace or in war, we call upon the people of Holland for aid or assistance or for moral support they have always proven their friendship towards us. And in that very same spirit, I say to Prince Bernhardt this afternoon that as the representative of the people of the city of New York, we want you to know, we want your queen, Queen Juliana, to know that we stand on that same bond of friendship and that we know in your hour of tragedy, you will still be able to count upon the friendship and, if necessary, the generosity of the American public. So, today, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you would want me in your behalf to say to Prince Bernhardt that we are happy to have him here, and I know that you would like to hear from him at the present time. Thank you very much. Prince Bernhardt. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, for those very kind words which you have just addressed to me. I am very touched, deeply touched, by the sentiments you have expressed, especially at this moment when our country is suffering so much. I am I should be glad to transmit those feelings, very glad to transmit them, to my wife and to our people when I go home tomorrow, because as you know, I've cut short my visit and I'm leaving tomorrow morning in order to be there at this moment. You will understand that I don't feel like making a long speech this occasion either, but at the same time, I am very proud that I've been asked to come here and very honoured to represent our country and open this exhibition too, which shows you some of our art, and it's not only one, there are two exhibitions as you know, it's this exhibition in the Metropolitan Museum, at the same time, also a second exhibition in the Museum of the City of New York, which want to convey to you a picture of 17th century Holland and the influence that it had on these shores. In that century, the energies of the Dutch people, emerging from a long struggle for national independence, blossomed out into an abundance of activities in the fields of arts, science, philosophy, religion, and economic expansion. nation. We like to think that present-day America also is heir to at least some of the qualities which radiated from that small country on the North Sea. And that is why I am so glad to have the privilege of opening these exhibitions, which give to you a tangible proof of the closed ties between my country and your United States. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the formal part of our entertainment. We will proceed now through the exhibition to the new galleries at the north end of the building, where there will be an informal reception. Yes.