Good evening. This is Ed Hart speaking to you from Washington. In the war years, this nation has developed a new type of public servant. That is, a successful businessman who is willing and really enjoys making a sacrifice to take on a public task that he believes in. Mr. William Howell Wells, our guest tonight, is such a man. He came here at the beginning of the war to work as an official in the Information Department of OPA. He wrote the plan for the distribution of our first ration book used in World War II. After graduating from Harvard, he was a magazine writer, film critic, editor, and then a successful businessman. Before the war, he was vice president of the Documentary Film Producers Association. Movies have always been his hobby. Now he's the director of film production for UNRWA, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. He believes that in the use of international films lies the best chance for the people of various countries to understand one another. Tonight, Mr. Wells is going to tell about conditions as he saw them in Greece. Bill, not long ago, you were in France, Italy, and Greece. And in your work, I know you're constantly in touch with UNRWA personnel who serve in the many countries helped by your organization. But before we get around to a discussion about Greece, I'm going to ask you a general question. Would you tell us whether conditions in Europe are as morbid and as desperate as we've been told? Ed, the countries I saw are like a man who has been in a bad smash-up and is just regaining consciousness. They are still in a daze, in the middle of a smoking wreck. In the cities, the shops are empty of food most of the time. People's clothes are worn out and they can't replace them. A child that has shoes is lucky. The streets are full of people out of work because factories lie in ruins. And even where they don't, there is no coal to run them. Men and women don't know where to turn or what to do. All they know is they can't hold out much longer unless they get more help and quickly. Well then, Bill, the stories from abroad we've been getting aren't exaggerated at all. That's right. No report, no article, no book or movie can possibly tell the story of the destruction of a whole continent. Figures merely dull one's powers of perception. For example, can anyone comprehend the full meaning of this cold fact? There are 570,000 war orphans in Yugoslavia alone. I see what you mean. It's difficult to grasp a horrible fact of such magnitude. Not only the fact, but the fact's implications, its effect on the present and the future. Here are some more items to ponder. The Greeks, a hardy people but never very numerous, lost 400,000 dead. 260,000 of these from starvation. Most of the people on the large island of Sardinia today have a bad form of malaria. Violent diphtheria has been contracted by several millions all over Europe. There is hardly a warm house on the whole continent right this very minute. Well, Bill, you've answered my question. Now tell us about Greece. Is her plight as bad as most other nations of Europe? This summer, Greece got along better, perhaps, than much of Europe because she's easily accessible and was one of the first countries to be liberated. Unra was bringing stuff in there a month before VE Day. But what supplies we have sent in were immediately distributed and used up. We never could stockpile anything. So great was the need. Well, how will the Greeks fare this winter then? As badly as the rest of Europe, I'm afraid. But not as badly as they did during the black days of 1941. That's the year the Germans swarmed over Greece like locusts. Yes. And when they deliberately set out to starve the entire nation. Conditions got so bad that the people were unable to produce enough to take care of the Nazis in Greece. So the German high command permitted a neutral relief commission to bring in grain. Actually, the grain came from Canada and the United States. So you see, we were getting some supplies into Greece while the Germans were still there. No place else, in no other country, was even this possible. Today, what is Unra sending to Greece? Since the first of April, we have shipped in 190 million dollars worth of supplies, amounting to a million, 168,000 tons. And what does this, uh, consist of? In tonnage, about 80% has been food. Grain, lard, powdered milk, peas and beans, sugar and canned meat. Well, is the United States shipping most of the supplies Unra sending the Greeks? No, indeed. Her coal comes all the way from South Africa. Soap from Canada. Fertilizer nitrates from Chile. Coffee from the Dominican Republic. Her sugar comes from Cuba. Mules, she's getting from British and U.S. Army surplus. And from us. Mostly, livestock, used clothing, some machinery, medicines, hospital supplies and some of the food. And we're making it possible for the Greeks to rebuild their fishing fleet. Before the Nazis left, they sank it. We're sending them tools to build ships and boat engines and fishing nets so that the Greeks can eat fish. That was always a big part of their diet. Now, where do the large cargo ships land Unra's supplies? Both the ports of Perea's and Salonica were pretty badly smashed up, weren't they, Bill? I didn't get to Salonica, but I went to Perea's often. Well, Perea's was a sorry mess even in peacetime. It's a lot sorrier today. Every warehouse, every dock and crane was dynamited into rubble. And the Germans sank all the ships left in the harbor. Incidentally, the harbor is still full of mines. Even so, three-quarters of the shipments going into Greece today are landed at Perea's. How's that possible, Bill? The Greeks and British first cleared a path through the minefields. Ships unload onto lighters by hand. And the lighters come in and they unload by hand. Then, still by hand, the supplies are put aboard what's left of the Greek coastal fleet. These little sailboats carry the supplies to the islands in small ports of the country. And there, they're distributed to the people. Well, inland transportation's pretty well smashed out of business, isn't it? The railroads are completely out. The bridges are gone. Tunnels were blown up by the retreating Nazis. The rolling stock was burned and locomotives were rammed into each other. Get away from the cities and people travel by donkey. If they're lucky enough to have a donkey. Well, how did you travel? By an old army jeep. The acme of luxurious travel in Greece today. There are a few dilapidated trucks and buses in use. It's a sight to see them on the road. Besides passengers, inside and out, they have to carry pigs, goats, chickens, vegetables, and they break down every ten miles. That's why UNRWA is giving number one priority to getting more trucks into Greece. In your travels around Greece, Bill, did you actually see the supplies distributed to the people who needed them? Yes, Ed, I did. In Athens and in the country. It was more picturesque in the country. Well, tell us about it. Early one morning, I arrived in the mountain town of Carpenicia, about 150 miles north of Athens. That town had been blown up by 200 Nazi SS men in four hours. Two churches were all that was left standing. One of these served as an UNRWA clothing storage center. The other, older, somewhat damaged, is the warehouse for UNRWA food. Around this, and in the village square just below, I saw the UNRWA rations distributed. The country people poured in with their mules from 50 odd places. I learned that some journeyed two and even three days to get there. Rations of dried peas went into bags, home-woven, of every sort. Dried milk went into cans or bags. And lard into old tin cans. Did they have to show a ration card? No, but every name was written down on a list. As each person's name was read off, he'd check in, and the man who kept the list also weighed out the supplies. This went on all day. When it was time to eat, sheep were slaughtered in the square and roasted on a spit over a charcoal pan in front of the ruins of what was once the taverna. The Bank of Athens had erected a shack in the ruins of its former building and was carrying on business as usual. In the square is a marble fountain under a large plane tree. And about this, garments from UNRWA's clothing center were passed from hand to hand until someone got something that fitted. There were enough coats, hats, and dresses to go around, but trousers are mighty scarce. An unexpected thing happened while I was watching this procedure. Well, come on out with it, Bill. Well, an old ragged shepherd wrapped in a long black coat stepped up to me, took a homemade pipe out of his mouth, took my pipe out of mine. Not a word was spoken. He smiled and then dumped a little piece of his tobacco in my pipe until it started to burn. Then he took his piece of tobacco back and thus lit his pipe. Thanks to you, he said. He had been a waiter at the Hotel Astor twenty years before. Bill, there's another yarn I wish you'd tell. The one about that Nazi film you uncovered. That was a lot of fun. I met a chap who had served with the Greek underground. From him I learned that the Nazis had left behind a documentary film showing how they destroyed the Corinth Canal. He took me to the man who had the film, Spiros Skouris, nephew of Spiros Skouris who heads Greek war relief and 20th Century Fox in the United States. The Athens member of the Skouris clan runs several theatres there. I saw his prized film. It showed German fury in all its thoroughness. It even shows close-ups of the watch on the wrist of the Nazi officer who gave the order to set off the first explosion. And it shows the Germans pushing railroad trains off the broken bridge so that they would block the canal. Are you using any of that film, Bill, in any of your own productions, Forunra? Yes. Shots from the film will appear in a picture showing the ruin and rehabilitation of Greece that's being made for us right now by the National Film Board of Canada. I have a notion that at least two members of the Skouris family will see that picture and get quite a kick out of it. The sequel to that little story is that the member of the underground who told me about the Nazi handiwork is now working in Athens for Unra. Besides what Unra is doing, Bill, is there any local industry going on in Greece today? It's showing signs of life. I saw an iron foundry operating in Volos, using scrap metal from military scrap dumps and plates from ships sunk by the Germans. And I visited a factory where they are making shovels, hoes, picks, and rakes. Unra is shipping in bales of cotton now so that the mills can get back into production. Before the war, Greece produced about 90% of her cotton requirements herself. But without fertilizer and insecticides, her cotton crop fell to nothing. For the same reason, her olive and olive oil production is way down, and her current crop also. But she did manage to keep her tobacco production up enough so that Greece ended the war with a little tobacco on hand to export. Bill, in your opinion, how have the Greeks come out of the terrible ordeal they've just gone through? Simply magnificently. For one thing, they don't have an occupation psychosis as Italy and France have. It's not so many years since the Greeks endured four centuries of enemy occupation. They learned how to remain resilient, and so they'll bounce back quicker than others. They're still hungry, and you don't see any fat Greeks, rich or poor. Their economy is in deplorable shape, but the nation has guts. Unri's in business to help people who are willing to help themselves. The Greeks are not only willing, they're working hard. Thanks, Bill Wells, for your first-hand report on conditions in Greece. And by the way, let me know when that film comes to town. This is Ed Hart in Washington, returning you to your announcer. Good evening. This is Ed Hart speaking to you from Washington. Just a few days ago, Mr. Spurgeon M. Keeney arrived here from Italy. An hour or two after this broadcast, he'll start back to Italy. There, he serves as chief of UNRWA's mission. As you'll gather from his story, Mr. Keeney is strictly a field man who wants to see what is going on. Mr. Keeney has an enviable background which makes him a natural for his present post. After graduating from Gettysburg College in 1914, he went over to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar. But England was at war, so he joined up with the YMCA attached to the Indian Expeditionary Forces in Mesopotamia. Later, still with the YMCA, he went to Siberia with the Czech Legion. And in the early 20s, he did relief work in Estonia, Poland and Russia with Herbert Hoover's American Relief Administration. Then for many years, he served as director of publications of the National Council of YMCA. After Pearl Harbor, he spent a year with the State Department. The day that UNRWA was born, Mr. Keeney was on hand. And since then, he spent most of his time in Italy, where, as I said a moment ago, he heads the UNRWA mission. Mr. Keeney, Italy was an Axis nation. It will probably come as a surprise to some listeners that UNRWA is serving Italy at all. Would you explain why UNRWA operates there? As a matter of record, Ed, UNRWA today is operating in Italy only in a very limited way. Fifty million dollars was authorized by the UNRWA Council at Montreal, Canada, way back in September 1944. That fifty million dollars is being spent now to give children and mothers supplementary food and to supply medical aid to the population generally. They are also helping displaced persons and refugees to return to their homes. Well, is that UNRWA help you mentioned, is that all the help Italy is getting from any source? No, indeed. The Allied armies did a magnificent job in caring for Italian civilians in the face of tremendous difficulties. But military assistance ended September the first. Then began a three-month interim program of aid carried on by the Foreign Economic Administration. This is strictly an emergency relief affair that takes up where the military left off. FEA has a hundred million dollar appropriation for coal, wheat, gasoline and other necessities. And they'll bring in some cotton, wool and rubber to help get Italian industry going again. Well, after those terrific bombings our Air Force gave Italian industrial centers up there in the north, cities like Genoa, Milan and Turin. Is there any Italian industry left to get started again? Oh, yes. Our bombers did destroy about a third of each of those cities you mentioned. But on the whole, the industries of northern Italy are ready to go if only they can get raw materials and coal. If they can get cotton and wool, they can make the clothing they need. We won't have to give them clothing. If they can get rubber, they can make tires for trucks and provide their own transport. And what about coal? Italy hasn't any. And the claim has been made that Hitler just about conquered Italy by using coal as bait to catch the Duce. Where does Italy get her coal today? Not from the Ruhr or Poland to be sure. She gets what she gets and not nearly enough from the United States and a small amount from South Africa. Ed, this is terribly unfortunate because the coal situation is the heart of the recovery program. Not only for Italy, but for a number of other European countries. One of the first things that must be done to bring about any semblance of order in Europe is to make available for the people of the continent European coal. And that includes the coal in the Ruhr. Tell me, Mr. Keeney, are any Italian houses to be heated by coal this winter? In January and February, the coldest months, 20% of the coal Italy receives will be allocated for domestic heating purposes. And that's all. Most of the coal Italy gets will be used for utilities and industry. Are the utilities again operating in Rome for a while? They were just about knocked out, weren't they? When I first got there, a little over a year ago, 90% of Rome's and central Italy's utilities had been knocked out. There was practically no electricity in the city. People were paying fabulous prices for candles. My secretary once told me that she was glad there would be a full moon the following week. I asked her why. She said that she wouldn't have to buy a candle. But that sort of thing's all changed now, isn't it? Partly changed. There is some electricity. There's some hot water. Not much. Rooms will be frigid this winter. There's no elevator service. Tram cars run on nearly all the lines in the city once in a while, but just try to crowd your way onto one. And trains, do they run on time? That was one of the Duce's great achievements, according to some Americans, you'll recall. Well, Ed, the Duce's train schedule was messed up a bit while the Duce was still around. The Allies bombed those north-south trunk lines just about out of business. And when the Nazis retreated, they blew up or burned what was left. I saw the Littorio yards just outside Rome, about at their worst. I saw 1,500 cars there that had been burned and tracks and switches that were so much junk. The Nazis took away all the copper wire in their retreat. So the Duce's trains that had run by electricity never got going again. Recently, however, the service between Milan and Rome has started again. Not electric trains, but pulled by small military steam locomotives. It takes about 30 hours to make the trip. And before the war, if I remember correctly, it took eight or nine hours to make that Milan or Rome run. Well, Ed, it's the freight traffic by rail, what there is of it, that runs on a schedule that will really shock you. You know how long it takes for a freight car to load in Naples, to go to Rome and unload and return to Naples about 150 miles? How long does it take? Nine days because of bad bridges, shortage of locomotives, switches and so forth. That seems incredible. Is Naples and southern Italy much worse off than in the north? By far. For one thing, the south bore the brunt of the fighting. And then, southern Italy always was poor. Today, parts of it have dropped back to an almost completely medieval economy. Suppose I tell you about a visit I made to Calitri, just to the south of Naples. Go ahead, Mr. Keeney. I went to that town to visit some relatives of an Unruh employee. His uncle was a blacksmith, and in his spare time he was making hobnails by hand. The women of the family were spinning and weaving by hand. Well, in that town of Calitri there had been a village bus, but the tires were worn out, and the new set would cost $2,000, and so the bus was just jacked up. There were two bridges leading to the town. Both of these had been destroyed. So Calitri and my friends were isolated from the rest of Italy and the world, and were living in the economy of a thousand years ago. And how did you get there, Mr. Keeney? By means of a seat, that is, an amphibious jeep. Oh, you really get around, Mr. Keeney. Did you travel often by seat? No, and 4,000 miles of travel in Italy, I have generally gone by car. What's the diet like when you travel in Italy today? It used to be awfully good. If you're lucky enough to find a chocolate bar, you can have it for about 50 cents. A fairly good meal will cost you from $5 to $10. The Italian government has to pay drivers of Unruh trucks about 800 lira, or $8 a day, for the simplest food and lodging. And what does the ordinary Italian eat? And the food's still rationed over there, isn't it? The official government ration consists mostly of bread and pasta. In addition, one gets about a quarter of a pound of sugar a month, and incredibly small amounts of fats and olive oil. The total never exceeds 1,000 calories of food a day per person across the country. This means that an individual has a chance to buy at low controlled prices, 1,000 calories of what he eats each day. The other 1,000 calories that he needs to live, he has to buy on the open market. And how much has the cost of living risen since the war? About 10 times. This means that those on fixed incomes are worth 10% of what they were worth. And how does such inflation affect the peasant in the country? He's pretty thoroughly disillusioned. In the South, he's very pessimistic. His children, who never knew anything but fascism, are duck soup for the communist organizer. And does that hold for labor too? There must be tremendous unemployment in industrial centers, with little coal or raw materials to run industry. Well, in the North there is some hope, some signs of confidence, because most of the plants are standing. The workmen, even though they're idle, have been paid 75% of their wages by industry until recently. Now I believe the government has had to take over that burden. But labor too is cold and hungry and grumbling. A shirt costs $15. A pair of shoes, $50. And what in your opinion can save the situation? Timely, enlightened aid. Well, for example? Italy needs coal, and needs a lot of it, as I've indicated. She imported a million tons a month before the war. She needs phosphate for her tired soil that hasn't been enriched for five years. She needs ships, and lumber for ships. Her shipyards, once so productive, are idle. She needs more transport, and she needs to get what transport she has back into operation. She needs rubber for tires. She needs wheat for bread. I saw her wheat crop this year, the worst in 20 years, because of the drought. She needs at least 150,000 tons of wheat a month until the next harvest. Mr. Keeney, from what you've just said, Italy needs about everything. Now, she's a defeated nation. She has no money. How can she get what she needs if she's broke? Italy needs a lot, but she has a lot. She can help herself if the United Nations will help to get her on her feet. She has a skilled craftsman, she has good industrial plants, and she has good farmers, and they're not afraid to work. In my travels around Italy, I haven't seen a single piece of tillable land left unworked, except land that was marked as dangerous because it was mined or because it had been flooded as part of military operations. One tiny detail sticks in my mind. Well, let's have it, Mr. Keeney. When I drove up to the monastery atop Mount Casino one evening and wondered about the yard. Most of the monastery there was scattered around the landscape, having taken a thorough drubbing in the war. But there in those ruins was a tiny plot of land, hardly bigger than a dining room table. Smashed masonry must have been two feet deep all over it, but someone had carefully piled up those bits of masonry and the land. And placed them around the border of a minute garden. And you feel that there's hope for people who love the land like that? I certainly do. The Italians respond to friendly treatment. Even those who still live in chalk caves in the side of the hills because their towns were smashed. Towns such as Vallamonte, Fondi, and Valletri near the Pontine Marshes. And being an UNRWA man, you want to see UNRWA get Italy started on the road back. Yes, and we have an expanded program mapped out. We have been asked by the Allied governments to take over when the FEA interim program ends in December. Ours is really the merging of the present limited UNRWA effort, and that carried on by the military and the foreign economic administration. In addition, or rather parallel with this relief, there must be developed a program of commercial credits for Italy. That would make it possible for her to buy raw materials and industrial supplies. Trade with Italy could, I believe, soon revive and relief could be ended. Italy has finished an era, one of the saddest in her long career. Today, she's in a truly desperate flight, but not a hopeless one. She regrets her mistakes, and her people acknowledge them freely. I believe they're sincere. They don't want to be fascists. They want to be themselves. I said before, and I'd like to repeat it. Italians respond to friendly treatment. Can we afford not to give it to them? Well, thank you, Mr. Keeney, for your comprehensive report on Italy and the Italians. Since you're going to return to them right after this broadcast, here's wishing you a very pleasant journey. This is Ed Hart in Washington, and now a friendly word from your announcer.