Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, from one of the greatest and most historical spots in the world, here at the Battery on the tip end of Manhattan Island, the point at which the great continent of America really stretched out from the early beginnings of the early Dutch settlement. Certainly, as the early Dutch settlers came back, they'd never recognized their old territory. And the occasion today is the link between two great arterial highways, the West Side Highway linked by this underpass at South Ferry with the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Drive. It is now our privilege to present to your chairman, the Hon. Charles Zahand, Commissioner of Borough Works for the Borough of Manhattan. Commissioner Zahand. Distinguished city officials, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commissioner of Borough Works of Manhattan, I welcome you to these ceremonies which mark the completion of this very marvelous underpass, and it's turning over to the public. We will begin with the Star Spangled Banner, appropriately, by the police band under Captain Krause. Star Spangled Banner,How Nicki launches in Managed ٍ'. Level 7. Star Splichenогда. The End Ladies and gentlemen, the invocation will be spoken by the Reverend Raymond S. Hall of the Siemens Church Institute. Dr. Hall. May we rise, please. Almighty and everlasting God, we ask thy blessing upon our mayor and all those who administer the affairs of this city. Keep them mindful of their obligation to give our city clean and honest government. As we gather to dedicate this underpass, bless the work of our hands. In these days of emergency, grant that we may seek to know and to do thy will, realizing that with thy help all things can be accomplished, all of which we ask through thy blessed Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very distinguished gathering on the platform. We have no fewer than one, two, three, four, five, six former borough presidents, all of whom are here today to witness the fruition. Little interruption. All of whom are here to witness the fruition of this work. Mr. Rogers. I think I should really name them. Mr. Isaacs. Mr. Rogers, our predecessor, under whom this was begun. Former borough president Levy. I don't think Mr. McInerney is here. Mr. Miller. The sponsor of the Miller West Side Highway. And Mr. Nathan. Judge Nathan, if you please. The boroughs are represented. We have Mr. Lyons, the borough president of the Bronx. I think he would take a bow. Unfortunately, the other borough presidents seem to be quite busy with their own affairs. Borough presidents perform a very useful function. And when occasionally there is an event of this sort, the public reaches the conclusion that our friend Bob Moses, while the father of most public works, is not always responsible for this or that one. True, he has given great aid in this situation, but we claim this is our own. We have with us today, of course, my dear friend and the present borough head of Manhattan, Mr. Robert F. Wagner, son of a distinguished father, and I must admit, quite a borough president, in view of the fact that I am his assistant. I give you Bobby Wagner, if I can find him here. Commissioner Hand, reverend members of the clergy, Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Jim Lyons, commissioners, distinguished guests, and friends. This is truly a historic moment for the people of Manhattan. And I'm very grateful for the opportunity I enjoyed in completing this project. With completion of the battery underpass, we have forged another link in the borough's arterial system and are bringing closer to reality a dream of a quarter of a century ago. I am happy indeed that we have with us on this occasion some of the men who shared that dream and pushed forward the plans for improving and consolidating our waterfront and for construction of broad highways along the periphery of the borough. I refer specifically to the past borough presidents who have joined with us in celebration of this occasion. Samuel Levy, Judge Julius Miller, Stanley Isaacs, Judge Edgar Nathan, and Hugo Rogers. There is certainly justification for us to derive a great deal of satisfaction from what has thus far been accomplished. On the west side, the Julius Miller Highway provides a broad artery for motor vehicles and protects the port and shipping interest from interference by through traffic. On the east side, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive carries through traffic along majestic housing developments, growing hospital centers, the United Nations and parks and playgrounds. All of these are dramatic proof of the improved living conditions of the people of the borough of Manhattan. They symbolize our unyielding faith in our democratic form of government and in the future of our city. It is true, however, that a great deal remains to be done. We know that traffic congestion and parking problems saddle millions of dollars annually on our business enterprises and on our consumers. I think the people of Manhattan are fortunate in that my colleagues on the Board of Estimates recognize the special problems of our borough. They have been most cooperative in understanding the special needs of our borough and have approved plans advancing our arterial system to completion. In fact, I can announce on this occasion that within the next two or three weeks, we will begin construction of the South Street overpass, which will carry traffic from this underpass over the Fulton Fish Market and the active downtown piers to the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive at Houston Street. We are moving forward, too, with plans to restore the inherent beauty of this part of the city. Battery Park will be rebuilt, and the historical grandeur of this area will be preserved. We are also planning a bus terminal for the comfort and convenience of passengers to and from Staten Island. Progress can also be reported in the construction of bulkheads, preliminary to the ultimate construction of the Harlem River Drive, the last link in Manhattan's arterial system. I believe this battery underpass is a thing of beauty and will play an important role in the rapid movement of vehicular traffic. Construction of the underpass was a truly cooperative undertaking, and the people of this city owe a debt of gratitude to all those who had a hand in it. It would certainly be impossible to name all the groups who contributed wholeheartedly to its completion. Certainly, we cannot forget the mayor and the board of estimates for their vision in appropriating $10 million for this project. And no great work like this can be undertaken without the sympathetic and wholehearted support of Commissioner Robert Moses, the great builder of our day. Commissioner Ed Kavanagh is here and personnel of the Department of Marine and Aviation have not only been most helpful in resolving mutual engineering problems, but suffered most sympathetically and patiently when construction activity blocked the paths to their offices. Commissioner Sidney Bingham and engineers of the Board of Transportation have been most cooperative in coordinating our activities with those of their department. The Law Department and Corporation Counsel John McGrath were most helpful in construing the fine print in our construction contracts and in resolving the countless legal problems which have arisen in the course of construction. The Civic Center Association has given its wholehearted support to this project in the warm and unstinting manner that it has supported all public improvements in the downtown area. Our contractor, the National Structures Corporation and its president, Joseph Meltzer, the subcontractors, the labor unions, the workers on the job, all cooperated splendidly in the single effort to complete this structure in the most expeditious and economical manner. Commissioner Thomas Murphy in the police department, Commissioner George Monaghan in the fire department, Commissioner Andrew Mulrane, and the sanitation department have given us the utmost of cooperation in planning an integrated program for the safe and secure maintenance of the underpass. As we dedicate this underpass, I want to express to all of them my deepest appreciation and to many of the public who were seriously inconvenienced during construction go my sincerest apologies. I also want to take this opportunity to pay special tribute to a group of men in whom I take particular pride, the engineering staff of the borough president's office. The underpass was completely designed by our engineers. Every phase of the work was performed under supervision of our engineers. All inspectional activities were undertaken by our engineers. I think they did a great job, and the people of this city should be proud of them. I want to take, make a special point at this time about our engineers and other civil service personnel generally. It is indeed unfortunate that every year at this time, when the city is preparing its budget, too many irresponsible persons take this opportunity to slander the civil service employee. Here is striking proof of the vision, the ability, the energy, and of the conscientious manner in which civil service employees discharge their duties. It is a matter of record that our engineers receive salaries below those prevailing in private industry and in state and federal employment. These men and women, in all phases of the city's service, the engineers, the nurses, the police and firemen, and in all other classifications, are dedicated to public service and should not be obliged to carry on under the strain of great personal and financial sacrifice. They build our bridges and tunnels. They protect our lives and our property. They educate our children. They operate the safest railroad in the world. They provide for the needy and minister to the ill. Today, as we dedicate another one of their projects, let us not forget that it is because of their loyalty and devotion that eight million people can live in so small an area in peace, security, and tranquility. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in calling upon the next speaker, I hardly have to mention his name to identify him. He occupies more positions, more niches of importance in this city than any other official. They are innumerable. He has as many officers as he has positions. He is a man of great genius and a man of fine heart. If you would know of his genius, look around the city to the many monuments testifying to his greatness. There are many between One Talk Point and Buffalo. Robert Moses. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hand, Borough President Wagner, members of the fraternity of Borough Presidents, and friends. I would like to make it very clear that I'm not one of those fellows who thinks he's the ancestor or daddy of everything around. We have, at best, a little brief authority of relatively short time to get things done. Some of us have been fortunate in lasting an office long enough to get long-range programs carried out. The only privilege and immunity I enjoy, which is not enjoyed by some of my friends on the right here, is that I don't have to get elected. In this particular case, the original improvement was the Miller Highway. I don't think that's debatable. It took not only a good deal of vision, but it took a whole lot of force and character to put that through. People take it for granted today. Matter of fact, I don't know what we would do on the west side without it. And that was part of the whole west side and Henry Hudson improvement. Now we have the new tunnel to Brooklyn. And with that tunnel goes this improvement. The moving of the barge office. Expansion and reconstruction of Battery Park. Eventually, the reconstruction of Pier A. Removal of the elevated highway. The improvements of both the Staten Island terminals, the one here and the one in Staten Island. And many other things that carry you miles away from this particular location. They're all part of one big plan. That's all nonsense for people to say that these are isolated things, projects that we do here and there, just odds and ends that don't add up to anything. They're all part of one big program and they require, as Borough President Wagner has said, the cooperation of many people. in public service and out. Not only the elected officials, the commissioners and administrative officials of many departments, the consulting engineers, the contractors, and last but not least, the members of the unions who actually do the work. and the problem of bringing all these people together into one program where you have, in addition to local control, you have by-state problems that involve the Port Authority, you have problems that involve the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority and many others. They all have to be brought together. Each one has to do his part. He's perfectly foolish for any one group to claim any precedence or any special credit. I'm happy to be here to congratulate the Borough Presidents and the Borough President and his predecessors and his assistants. It's a great undertaking. There's much more to be done. Now let's buckle down and do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we had expected Mayor Impilateri. Unfortunately, one of his very, very dear friends died and this is his funeral this morning, this day. In his stead, we have with us his popular Deputy Mayor, Mr. Charles Horowitz. Mr. Chairman, Borough President Wagner, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I bring to you the greetings of Mayor Impilateri and his congratulations to Borough President Wagner and all who participated in this splendid public achievement. Up to the end of the 18th century, the development of Manhattan Island was rather haphazard and extended only from here up to Houston Street. Beyond were the trails, post roads, and sprawling farmlands. At that time, our wise forefathers envisioned the fact that if the city was to assume anything of an orderly nature, planning was necessary. To achieve this plan, a commission was appointed under the authority of the state, which employed the famous but somewhat forgotten engineer, John Randall. In 1811, they brought forth the most comprehensive American city plan achieved up to that time. The street pattern you see today in Manhattan Island, between Houston Street and 125th Street, is substantially identical identical with that laid down by Randall and the commissioners in 1811. This plan has often been criticized in recent years by our modern city planners. Their criticism was mainly that there should have been more north and south avenues and less crosstown thoroughfares. Hindsight, of course, is generally superior to foresight. history and experience are our best teachers. It is only fair to the original planners to recall that at the time this street pattern was prepared, there were no automobiles, no trolley cars, no buses. The area to the north was relatively remote and inaccessible. The buildings that had been erected were low and to a large extent detached. Greenery in the form of native trees was abundant and the life of the area came from the port, which was then served by sailing vessels berthing along both the north and east rivers. The main traffic was cross-town between these waterfronts. Even the prospect of steamship rail and other rapid means of transportation was not in sight. Under those circumstances, no one could have foreseen the revolutionary transformation in transportation that would have warranted additional avenues and fewer cross-town streets. Up to the early part of this century, traffic had not yet begun to present the myriad problems that were to accompany the increasing use of motor freight, personal passenger cars, and motor buses to serve the growing working population concentrated on this small island. By the early 1920s, the major part of the street system laid down by Randall had been constructed, but this was inadequate to meet traffic needs. In order to meet the situation, a bold traffic plan had to be and was formulated. This plan, I am happy to say, was put forth by the office responsible for the structure we dedicate today, the office of the president of the borough of Manhattan. That office recognized at that time that little could be done to the built-up avenues to provide additional traffic roadways through Manhattan. The cost was too prohibitive. They realized, however, that a practicable means of traffic relief through this long, narrow island would be to utilize the waterfronts which had not been developed for through traffic purposes. The underpass we dedicate here today is the next to the last link in Lower Manhattan's circumferential highway. This underpass was only a paper plan up to the time the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel was conceived. That tremendous enterprise involved major changes in the then-existing street pattern at the Brooklyn and Manhattan termini. Foresightedly, those who were engaged in the task brought about a tripartite agreement with the city, the Trivaro Bridge and Tunnel Authority, and the federal government to achieve a comprehensive plan for tunnels, streets, approaches, and expressways. Of this, the underpass is a part. The borough president of Manhattan and his engineers have taken advantage of their prior experience on structures of this kind to incorporate in this underpass the most modern developments in the engineering field. On behalf of Mayor and Pelletary, I wish to compliment the architects, the engineers, and the craftsmen who produced this work. The opening of this underpass will provide a useful and necessary link between the lower Manhattan waterfront on the west side of the island and the lower Manhattan area on the east side. It will serve the maritime interests of the port, the heavy and growing passenger traffic, and provide a new cross-town thoroughfare free of grade crossings between the east and west sides of Manhattan Island. With the completion of the South Street elevated highway, which will extend from the other end of the underpass on South Street to the southerly end of the East River Drive near Montgomery Street, and the contemplated elimination of the traffic lights along this drive, a waterfront throughway will be created around Manhattan Island from the Tribera Bridge on the east to the Henry Hudson Bridge on the west. It is a major accomplishment of which our city is indeed proud, and on behalf of the mayor, I wish to congratulate the borough president and his staff for a splendid job well done. Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the benediction, and I confess to you I am in somewhat of a quandary. We have two clergymen, both distinguished here, one Jewish and one Roman Catholic. How to decide? It was up to me, so I decided that Rabbi Herbert Goldstein of the Westside Institutional Synagogue should accompany us to a luncheon and pronounce the invocation there. And I trust that the Reverend George B. Fagan, who was pastor of the Church of Our Lady of the Rosary and who will now pronounce the benediction, will not be a little bit out of sorts. As a consequence, if he is, he can accompany us to the luncheon. I might say that Father Fagan, known in New York for many years, has his church across the park here in a historic, gorgeous old church which under his pastorate has promoted the size of its congregation and increased the popularity of the church in this section, Father Fagan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. O Lord, God of heaven and earth, we pray for many things, for we acknowledge our dependence upon thee for all the material things of life and for these spiritual qualities by which we can gain everlasting life. But most of all, we pray for thy wisdom to enter the hearts and the minds of those assembled here to benefit their fellow man and guide them in the many problems they must face in this existence. Be with all those who make use of this thoroughfare, we pray thee, endowing them with an understanding of man's relation with man and of his greater relations with thee, his creator. let thy light shine upon them enlightening their paths and enabling them to see the road to eternal glory. Amen. And now, ladies and gentlemen, as the final function, we shall have the cutting of the ribbon, the tape, which marks the formal opening of the tunnel. The ceremony will be performed by little six-year-old Robert F. Wagner III, son of the borough president. Seven. Huh? Seven years. Seven-year-old, I'm corrected, not six. We thank you for being present. Thank you. Thank you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we'll just give you the atmosphere of the cutting of the tape and this underpass here at the battery, running as it does in one of the most populated sections and being constructed all the time that all of the traffic to Staten Island, to and from Staten Island by the ferry service, which is one of the factors here at the tip end of Manhattan Island, well, the ferry service was maintained all the time that this construction was going on. And those of us who had a chance to peek down into that huge hole there at the tip end of Manhattan Island were amazed at the amount of water, mud, and slush that this underpass had to be constructed in because when we figure it out, in the early colonial days, for instance, we take the west side here, Greenwich Street was the river road and all this land from Greenwich Street down to west, and that would mean Washington and West Street, has been reclaimed the land underwater. and the extent of Manhattan Island, of course, has been greatly increased by fill from time to time. moving on to the plains and listening to the how to win on our