Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson, E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. I wish to remind all of you here that there's a water shortage, and that it is our duty to save as much water as possible. There's a lady over there who doesn't think so, but nevertheless, we all should do that. And I am doing my civic duty in cooperating with the Department of Water and Water Supply in New York City by reminding you of that. We have finally reached an evening in our series of the psychology of emotional growth, which many of us have been waiting for eagerly. And others have been afraid would creep up on us, sure, sure, and time and everything else. And that is we have reached the stage where we're discussing and thinking about middle age. Fortunately, there is one very bright spot, and we have the very excellent and famous Dr. William Niederland who talked to us on this topic. Dr. Niederland is a psychiatrist, a physician associated with the psychiatric staff of Mount Sinai Hospital. Dr. William Niederland is an author, author, and lecturer. He's author of a book, Man-Made Plagues, A Primer of Neuroses. And in addition to that, he has found time, in addition to doing all this other work, he has found time to be a professor at the University of the Philippines and in Tampa. That is the University of Tampa in Florida. And I am very happy to present to you tonight, Dr. William G. Niederland. We have a special dispensation here that allows the speaker to have a half glass of water every 45 minutes. Professor Fairchild, ladies and gentlemen, if by some miracle the word middle age spoken before a group of illustrious men and women could be reflected in a magic mirror and at the same time the feelings and inner thoughts which the mention of this word arouses in the minds of the listeners. If these feelings and inner thoughts could also be registered in our imaginary magic mirror. It's now the time of Christmas and even a psychiatrist is allowed to speak occasionally of magic and similar pleasant things. If, then, all that had been registered and reflected in this very mirror could be collected and gathered and studied by us, what would you think would we find in this a somewhat spectacular and, as I said, magic device? Well, I suppose we would actually find that some people in the group would really think of middle age. In an actual, objective, factual way, they would perhaps visualize some powerful pillars of community life or perhaps a successful businessman or a grown-up person, which are not always necessarily the same thing. In other people, however, we would find that the very mention of middle age arouses some inner reactions, which would be probably considerably different from this factual, realistic, concrete approach. In others, for instance, our secret mirror reflecting people inner thoughts would perhaps reveal that vague feeling of inner uneasiness. That uncertain sensation of discomfort and insecurity that we so often find at the root of what we are in the world. In others, for instance, our secret mirror reflecting people inner thoughts would perhaps reveal that vague feeling of inner uneasiness. That uncertain sensation of discomfort and insecurity that we so often find at the root of what we call neuroticism. And indeed, one of the almost paradoxical and, in a way, perplexing facts, is that the sense of inner uneasiness. That towards the middle age is that not immerse the thinking is one of the non-现ail sins and all those Richardson第一ization estimates. So if the fact of inner paradoxical and in a way perplexing facts is this, that at middle age when the human being seems to have reached the peak of his life, of his achievement, of his creativity, or at least should be expected to have reached this peak, it seems that at the same time and quite often a process in reversal takes place as it were. That instead of, after all middle age is so to speak the summer of life, if we start out with early spring as infancy and later spring as adolescence, it seems that here, having reached the summer time, the phase of greatest warmth and sunshine and strength in human nature, it seems that at the same time quite something different so often takes place. It seems that up to the middle age, and perhaps just a little bit beyond that, a great number of people are able to keep up a certain precarious balance in their mental equilibrium. That over years and years they have been struggling with certain inner conflicts, with feelings of uneasiness, with neurotic and over emotional attitudes and behavior patterns, and yet with all the difficulties and all the problems and all the personality troubles, up to 35, to 38 and 40 things went fairly well. And then, it seems that this precarious balance of inwardly disturbing forces kept up over years and years with increasing difficulty. That then so often, at the age of 35, 38, 40, 42, this precarious balance becomes disturbed. And the actual problems of neuroticism, of over emotionalism, and sometimes even of psychotic reactions make their appearance. This is, at first sight, not so easy to explain. And many attempts at explaining the psychological phenomenon have been put forward. For instance, the well-known psychological and biological phenomenon of so-called change of life, of menopause in the women, or of the so-called male climacteric in men. However, we shall see still tonight that this alone is not always sufficient to explain these emotional reactions and phenomena of which I spoke just before. If we try for a moment to analyze this feeling of inner uneasiness, this vague sensation of discomfort and discontent, which makes a sense of its appearance, we find that it is really composed of two different sensations. And the one is the one is the fear. The one is the fear. The great fear, one could call it, of having missed something. Of having lost and wasted the preceding years during youth. And at the same time, the fear that this is the end. That now, at the age of 40, things become very different and end. And I remember an excited, rather youngish, female patient, very sweet, very lovely, and very intelligent, who came to me actually during the first interview in the office telling me, why did nobody tell me that at 35, things look different than before? That things change. And then discussing with her what really had changed in her. After all, there is no mark that at 34, everything is so. And at 35 or 36, everything changes completely and is different. Then she said, analyzing her frame of mind, that fear attacks her. The fear, as I said, of becoming useless. That some period in life comes to an end, and another less useless, less important one begins. And because of that very fear and that very feeling that things come to an end at 38 or 40 or 42, well, such phenomena like bestsellers, life begins at 40, comes from this very psychological fact. And all the other studies, aging successfully, and so forth, fall into the same category, of course. and so our question as to the special psychological principles and rules which dominate the psychology of middle age, as to our question of this kind, we really can boil it down to the question which is much simpler, how old is old? And here you know, that, a number of answers are possible, which usually don't provide the full answer, because you know all by your own experience, that the chronological viewpoint, for instance, which tells us that a person is now 38, and next year 39, and then 40, does not mean anything in this context, because you are fully aware that there are teenagers of 17, 18, who may be more mature than their mothers of 40 and 42, and vice versa, and that, in other words, the chronological point of view does not count. The biological, medical point of view, which bases itself on certain medical examinations of the blood pressure of the arteries, of the vessels of the heart, of the skin, and so forth, also is not a definite measure of the problem, how old is really old. And for an answer, perhaps also not a full answer, but an almost secure way of answering this question, we have to look for psychological criteria and characteristics. And so, in order to get better acquainted with the psychology of middle age, let us see really, what are the psychological, emotional, and if you wish, psychiatric criteria of this phase of life, in a healthy, in a normal person. the first, the first, well, there are seven such criteria to immediately give you the answer, and the first is very simple. It is the ability of people to feel with others, to see things not only from the subjective point of view, but also from an objective point of view, to be creative and cooperative, rather antagonistic and indifferent in one's relations with others. The second is the ability to recognize and accept one's own emotions and limitations and limitations as natural. As natural. And to develop in this way a certain objectivity toward oneself. The third characteristic in the normal psychology of middle age is the ability to deselect suitable worthwhile long-term goals and to organize one's thinking and acting around these goals. The fourth is the ability to make adjustments to situations, a certain amount of personal flexibility which is necessary to bring one's concept into line with reality. The fifth is the ability to meet unexpected stresses and disappointments without experience emotional or physical collapse and without giving up established lines of interest and activity. The sixth is the ability to give as well as to receive affection. and the ability to give as well as to receive affection. And the seventh and last in this series, the ability to form opinions based on sound reasoning and to stand up for them without giving up willingness to accept such compromises as do not violate fundamental convictions. the things. Now, all this sounds, of course, extremely academic and it is. So, let us hurry to get out of the field of pure academics back again into middle life, into real life. Middle ages, if I may use term, which is built after the common expression teen ages, middle ages can be roughly divided into these two groups. Those who have those abilities which I just mentioned and those who have not. have been done. I believe a little story about President Lincoln is perhaps even more illustrative to explain what is meant. There is a story of Abraham Lincoln's advisors who urgently once recommended a certain man for a post in the President's Cabinet. When Lincoln declined to follow the suggestion, he was asked to give his reasons. The President said, I don't like the man's face. Immediately, these people became very nervous and told him, but Mr. President, the poor man is not responsible for his face. Well, Lincoln's answer was, at 40, every person is responsible for his or her face. What he, of course, meant, and what you understood, is not the outward face, is the personality, what is behind the face, the underlying, but through the face, shining through personality of the human being, and this personality has to be able at the age of 40, when they reach middle age, to live up, more or less, at least, to the seven characteristics just presented to you. However, while I was presenting to you, these criteria, perhaps one or two of you, certainly not more, may have felt in their, deep in their hearts and minds, it's not quite the same with me. Perhaps I do not quite, have quite yet attained this situation, this ability, integrated phase of, psychological phase of good personal integration, as presented here. And therefore, you will understand that they are attainable of, of, and at any time, at any period of life. This is one of the findings of modern psychology, that, for instance, the mentioned psychological criteria can even be reached already at the age of 18, 19, 20, and that again, as I mentioned before, at the age of 40 or 45, they may not yet have been attained, and then when that is so, then really those inner misgivings, those vague feelings of uneasiness, of discomfort, of which I spoke before, then they arise strongly and make themselves felt as real personality problems and personality difficulties at that age. indeed, if these psychological criteria are not fulfilled, certain specific problems of a psychological nature are apt to arise. in some cases, they are almost bound to arise, and they are. First, the fear of which I spoke before, the fear of becoming useless, that means really old. Then we have the answer how old is old. if a person at the age of 40 or so develops a feeling that I am not anymore of use to others and to myself, and all that I do is just so much superficial surface stuff, and so forth, and this feeling gets a hold on him for certain psychological reasons, then he's really old, and maybe 70, although his chronological age is only 38 or 40. of the specific problems, which at that age may arise, is an intensified struggle against certain inner conflicts which then may break into the open and wreak havoc with mind, life, and career of this person. You remember when I spoke to you earlier in the lecture of this precarious balance, mental balance of inner forces, when they have remained in a state of non-solution, these conflicts resulting from the forces. And for instance, over a long period of time, certain desires, certain aspirations, certain strong and deep-seated inner wishes have been suppressed, then they are apt to break into the open at that time, when middle age starts. to mention an example, the suppression of sex desires, when over a long period, the human being has not had that gratification, that full and like a state of bliss, enwrapping him feeling of satisfaction which comes from the mutual sharing of feelings of love in the act of physical and psychological union, if that has been suppressed over a long time or non-gratified for other reasons, then at the age of 38 or 40, these forces are apt to break through and make themselves felt, not always as sex forces, but as a tremendous fear and anxiety as every conflict is apt to create. In a lecture just a couple of weeks ago in another place, I told those who were present then, that always inner conflicts which mean opposing sides in emotional forces and contradicting and opposing each other are apt to create to produce anxiety just as for instance the friction of two metal pieces in an engine produces heat. Therefore, the frequent types of anxiety like phobias, like free-floating anxiety, like inability to make up one's mind, like that feeling of uneasiness and discomfort of which I spoke before, like inattention which cannot be well defined but is inwardly felt and destroys the person from within. These feelings we know today arise from inner conflicts and may make their appearance of course at any period in life but they do it more frequently more intensely at the phase of middle age for reasons which we'll see presently. the third difficulty in the psychological makeup of a middle-aged person is his confronting reality in a different way or being expected to confront reality in a different way than the very youngish person. that is to say those personality problems which come from a test of ego strength and ego adjustment linked to middle age. For instance again coming back to practical life at that phase of life every person must have reached the ability to bear losses severe losses to stand up under grief and mourning and the loss of belovedness. That is one of those inevitable inexorable loss of life that the middle aged person must have reached an inner position where he can endure pain live up to pain without breaking down. Without even impairing his inner achievements and for instance his career in life. Let me give you a classic historical example. If for instance Queen Victoria after the loss of her beloved Albert life when she retires withdraws from public life and almost from life completely for a period of ten years let things run as they are and lives just to her grief and to her sorrow and refuses to come out of it. Then she does not act like a grown up middle aged person should act but like a person who has regressed to infantile modes of behavior because she reacts to such a loss as it was historically the case as if she were being deserted like the little child who at the age of five or six is hit by such a loss and has a feeling of being abandoned being deserted by the grown up who leaves him whether the grown up really leaves him in reality by his own will or is taken away from life by life itself makes no difference to the child however to the infantile mind however the mature mind of a middle aged person must be able to stand such a loss and not to withdraw and not to go into a state of regression and without experiencing as I said before emotional or physical collapse loss the same holds true our financial losses or a loss of a career or whatever it is if you remember what just happened 20 years ago in this country that when a number and a great number of people unfortunately were badly hit by the depression some of them because they lost fortunes in Wall Street if they had come to the lectures on Union Square instead of taking part in the lectures on Wall Street 11 perhaps they would have been more immune to these vicissitudes but if you remember those evil days a number of people jumped from the 80th or 90th or 40th floor whatever they preferred for the platform of their activity of their final activity which was really the end and the end was felt as being come now in this moment and nothing more beyond it because of that very reason because they had been successful businessmen they had attained an outward good status and material status in life but what they had never attained was the emotional status in life the feeling of having reached the end overtook them under the impact of this loss and the result was disastrous to them and to their families the fourth characteristic here among the specific problems which may occur at middle age is the problem of achievement and the recognition of one's own limitations this has to do with a certain usually unconscious psychological mechanism which we call the image of oneself every person has a certain secret portrait as it were of himself and the secret portrait as a rule has nothing to do with reality every person sees himself not as he really is but as he thinks he is and he usually thinks of himself either far above and instead of living on the ground or in the first or second floor of a building he lives for instance on the top of the Empire State Building with his image he's really not here somewhere but he's there 300 or 400 feet on top and I use the Empire State Building symbol advisedly because that has at least looked from below a rather pointed top and living there on top of the needle is certainly not such a well founded strongly based situation for a person especially such high up there are many winds and storms and gales possible and even living on the top of a needle even a smaller wind and just a little breeze of air may sometimes be sufficient to throw that person down that image that portrait of oneself from the top of the Empire State Building all the way down and that would be plenty however it doesn't stay that way we know from the findings of modern psychology and psychiatry that if the image is placed so high above then it is bound to fall not only all the way to the ground but right through the ground all the way down the same 300 feet below this is almost a psychological law and here you have then those people who become so severely depressed and dejected and miserable inwardly and don't feel only miserable within themselves but make also miserable those who are around them their families their friends and so forth they have done something which is perfectly permissible in childhood and in adolescence they have placed that secret portrait of themselves which each and everybody has and which is a perfectly normal psychological thing they have placed it too high above and since it cannot remain there as I said untouched it is bound to fall down and so they vacillate they fluctuate these are the people who are one minute or one hour full of good humor and happy and amiable and you like them and then perhaps the next hour or the next day or the next week you find them cold and dejected and hostile and deeply discontent and then again some outward event or some inner reaction may lead them to the top of the building there they feel happy there they are fine there they get everything they want they are on top and then again the same process takes place the image falls it drops down and the period of depression comes and therefore especially at that age what is called the severe psychiatric condition of involutional melancholia or mental depression or manic depressive is especially frequent it was an old psychiatric problem that one never knew exactly why are these manic depressions you know the manic limb of the curve that is one feels manic one feels happy one owns the whole world one is great one is strong and so forth and then again a day a week a month later the opposite has taken place and all the greatness all the good feelings all the happiness are gone and the misery and the despondency and the dejection have got a hold on the individual who is in the grip of such over emotional reactions especially frequent at middle age as I said before and now to the specific problems here mentioned already of a biological nature more the first the other of a psychological nature I mentioned the menopause the change of life which is felt or feared dreaded almost as the great enemy of womanhood by virtually every woman I have come to know more personally in my professional work in reality the menopause is not an end but is a beginning and in reality the menopause is not a change of life but a transition period through life and can be well the stepping stone for higher values for greater sublimation and more personal achievements than before the attitude people have to the menopause to the change of life is really the thing which determines its outcome not the biological process at all at such age about a hundred years ago perhaps at the time when this beautiful institute was erected our grandmothers or great grandmothers when they had reached the age of thirty or thirty two at the most they put on certain dark little hats and got dresses which had collars with certain fish bones here on the sides and said they were old and felt that way and finished life that way that was the accepted cultural psychological pattern in those days and so a woman who had reached the age of thirty or thirty two felt not only that she was entitled but bound to declare that now the end of her emotional life of her love life of her artistic interests and so forth have come and now the period of old age of withdrawal into the home into the kitchen or wherever it was begins well this fortunately has changed as you know and from this very change you see that it is the inner attitude to certain biological events which determines the outcome the effect of this event menopause and not at all the event itself menopause does not mean an end in life at all and especially it does not mean the end of love life this is one of the strangest things that even today among well informed people one finds a great number of persons men and women alike who think when the menopause comes then love life ends and things are now led on a more platonic basis to use this term for the intimate events in marital life menopause and love life have nothing to do with each other just as love and sex have not basically to do with the procreative periods in men or women you know very well that very young adolescents who are not at all as yet able to take part in procreation of other human beings can be very powerful in love extremely much in love and out of this love feelings of love and passion can even grow very severe disturbances and tragedies as we just I believe two or three days ago we found it here right in the city where such a young couple of people I believe the girl 12 or so and the boy about the same age ended their lives under the influence of their passion I very greatly doubt that they would be able to take part in procreational activities but very much obviously in love activities and you see from this simple though tragic example that love and sexuality basically have nothing to do with procreation and the same holds true when it goes to the older age groups procreation alright if a woman is 43 or 45 perhaps her menses stop and she will not be able anymore to procreate and give birth to children that is quite true but she will be able to love very much so if she only has the inner desire the attitude the feeling for it for another 10, 20, 30 years perhaps will be able to love much better much more profoundly much more inwardly and altruistically as in the period of adolescence and early middle age and so you see from this fact which cannot be able is a very simple one but cannot be overemphasized because so often forgotten that the elimination of love life and sex life and sex interest out of middle age because the change of life has taken place is one of the I'm tempted to say wrongest inner attitudes I can imagine in this particular place of life as a matter of fact I stress this so much because I feel that love is really the forgotten factor in middle age and because it is forgotten because it is neglected because it is overlooked or even sometimes eliminated people fear so much people think so much that they become useless at that time because this pillar of psychological life they think is taken from them they are not useful anymore as love partners as marital partners and just the opposite holds through and should hold through the late George Apley was such a movie the late George Apley or a book or a play or Appleby or whatever his name was but I remember I saw it a few years ago on the screen and this middle-aged man very virile looking very powerful outwardly approached the bookshelf took a volume out and looking at it said there is a certain Dr. Freud in Vienna who has said that sex is quite important well I agree with him he adds in other countries I would like to disagree very much with or whatever his esquire I believe Mr. George Apley because sex sexuality understood as a physical psychological consummation of love life is the most powerful factor in every human being at every period of his life and especially at the middle age age because of the very fact I mentioned before that at that phase of life these long suppressed forces may break through this established and precarious equilibrium of the mental inner force of which I spoke before may become upset just because of that the only or at least the most efficient remedy to make middle age a happy a full and a great and healthy one love cannot be dismissed but must be added to if it has been eliminated or if it is still there and just simmering it must be newly established and newly increased to the same strong flame it was in the years preceding middle age this is not always easy but it is a task and whoever sets out to fulfill the task by understanding by inside by developing those altruistic forces and inner abilities of which I spoke before in my seven points he will be successful and his middle age will be a happy one and will be the groundstone for later developments than when real old age overcomes he however who is neglectful and thinks he can do without love that love is a romantic feeling which belongs into the life of the teenagers or at best which should be finished and done with at the age of 25 30 35 is greatly mistaken and instead enriching his life he will impoverish it and his life will not only be impoverished emotionally and psychologically but it will then be influenced more easily by the host of those psychosomatic feelings and conditions and diseases which at that time try and often succeed in overcoming a human individual it is not by coincidence that for instance all those well known rheumatic and arthritic pains and neuralgic feelings and headaches and migraine situations and so forth which people complain of so frequently that they so often come just in those years between 38 40 and 55 and 60 that is not by coincidence at all and people then are always looking forward well my blood pressure must be high or my blood pressure must be low or my arteries must be too large or they must be too narrow or whatever or my work my overwork or whatever the lungs are not enough ventilated or they are too much ventilated or the weather is too hot and then again it's too cold and so forth that all is then is then used utilized rather as an explanation of those many ills of those many psychosomatic conditions of which I spoke about and which could be multiplied of course ad infinitum in reality it is just the opposite the muscles are good still and the bones are good and in nine out of ten all the arteries and blood vessels and blood pressure is good what is not good in these people are their feelings their inner thoughts their secret inner reactions which they keep inside and never show to the world and to those who are around with them I spoke of the late George Appleby let me let me mention another movie I just saw a few months ago which is worth seeing this by these four short movies by Somerset Moeham Quartet there you see such a middle aged man 55 or 60 that tall colonel if you remember who lives with his wife for 30 or 35 years and has not the slightest idea that she is one of the greatest lyricists in the country that she writes poetry of such subtle of such delicate nature as nobody has read in those days and he just cannot understand it he cannot understand it because he of course already as an adolescent has become not only a middle aged man but a petrified stone ager and runs around as such outwardly a very presentable shell but inwardly devoid of any understanding inside feelings of love feelings of warmth for the other human being and if he has such feelings certainly not for his own life therefore let me close this lecture on a point of warning and perhaps also of medical psychological encouragement the point of warning is never get petrified never get rigid never make a routine out of your life at least not you yourself circumstances do it anyway if you have to be at a certain desk in a certain office at a certain hour and have to leave this desk at the same hour as every preceding day over a number of years you are anyway in the danger of becoming rigid by outward circumstances which are beyond your control and I admit also beyond of mine however this holds true only for eight or nine at the most ten hours of the day the other hours the use of leisure time for good purposes for instructive purposes I have not to tell you you come to Cooper Union Forum and you show by your very presence how much you are interested in these things and how you cooperate but your friends perhaps or members of families and so forth and so on who have developed a certain pattern of rigidity and have become the slaves of this pattern and have eliminated from it all the feelings all the warmth all the tenderness and all the strong inner reaction which they once possessed when they were younger tell them to get it to get it quickly and if they cannot get it in life they should become interested in poetry or in literature in general or in art or in music and again recreate the condition the healthy inner expectancy and the feeling of inner vibration and inner happiness which they had when they were 17 or 18 or 15 or younger and that can be done and should be done in addition to those characteristics which I mentioned before as the characteristics criteria and psychological dynamics of middle age this was the note of warning and the note of encouragement is even shorter it is that middle age or old age or adolescence or whatever phase in life there is no end for the human being there is no end at all until the last press is free to the devi Thank you very much, Dr. Niederland, for that very, very nice talk. I do hope you don't take this for a performance, but for a lecture. And if you do take as a performance, then remember that the continuation of the performance, not the end, the continuation is all up to you. For those of you who would like to ask your questions directly, would you please come down and use this microphone over here? Some others may care to write in their questions. We'll have a short intermission at this time. Thank you very much, Dr. I would like to say that when you were discussing this man who was way up on this steeple and way down the ground, I was all I could think of was a chairman of the Cooper Union Forum. You know, we reach pinnacles and then we take awful falls, sometimes several times in one evening. I've known it to happen at least four times once in an evening, but not this evening, sir, thanks to your coming down here. I have a question here. How are frustrated old maids to fulfill their love life in order to be happy in their way? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. We can. Bevention is doing well. their love life in order to be happy in middle age. I am happy and glad, I'm very happy about this question because it gives me an opportunity to make an important point which perhaps during the lecture did not quite come across. When I speak of love life, I mean love life in the broadest and largest sense of the word. I mean love of human beings, high and low, and I also mean love of God and love of books and love of music and love of good deeds and love of charity and love of goodwill to men and love of understanding toward others and hate against discrimination and fight against prejudice because of this very love to all men and to all human beings and to all good principles. And I think every maid, young or old, can develop some aspects of this sort of love life I just pointed out to you. Thank you very much Dr. Niederlund. There's a gentleman over here. Your name, sir? My name is Arthur Adolph. Doctor, I was wondering whether senility, I was wondering whether senility is a psychosis made manifest in the middle-aged years. Can you say something about that, doctor? You all heard the question? The question is whether senility is a psychosis, was that your question? A psychosis which when in middle age, what? Is made manifest. Is made manifest in middle age. Senility is no psychosis and fortunately is very rarely manifest in middle age. If in some cases it is, one has to find out what are the underlying factors which produce the state of the nility can be a physical factor. It can be hardening of the arteries. It may be also a mental factor. But senility is a symptom which arises on the basis of certain underlying pathological conditions to be determined by the work of the physician or the psychiatrist. Fortunately, in middle age, not very frequent problem. But a sort of pseudo-senility I spoke already of before, when I spoke of those people who petrify themselves by their way of living, by their rigid behavior pattern, by eliminating all worms, all inner feelings, or most of them from their lives. That is a stage of petrification which may produce a sort of pseudo-senility. But in itself, senility certainly is no psychosis. Thank you very much, Doctor. Now here is a very serious and personal question a gentleman handed in. He needs some help. My son is a veteran. He is now in Kings Park State Hospital. For three years, and for some time before that, he was overseas as a corporal. And when discharged, he had received a presidential citation and received other honors and then married a girl when he came back here. A few days after that, the girl had the marriage annulled. Since that time, this young man, who his father advised this young man to forget the girl and make the best of it. But he, being very much in love, chased her, followed her. She called the police, said he was annoying her. Once again, he's been sent back to Bellevue for examination. Can you tell us and tell the gentleman whether there is any way in which people like that can receive help and advice and anything that can be done for this son or this man? Well, as Professor Fairchild said, this is really a serious psychiatric problem. A problem, and I must tell you frankly, I don't know what it has to do with the subject of tonight's lecture. However, since this is a veteran who did a good job and received a presidential citation and is certainly a valuable human being, I must say my heart goes out for the patient as well as for the family, for the father who suffers so much under the impact of this tragedy in the family. The treatment is up to the psychiatrist and the doctors in whose care he is. I have not the slightest idea of what really happened mentally with him. I think, I almost feel on the basis of such similar experiences I had with patients of mine, that perhaps the story with a young girl is only a coincidental one. That it perhaps started earlier while he was overseas or perhaps still before while he was a young boy. And I cannot say more. It is one of those tragedies which overcome human beings and have dealt, have to be dealt with psychiatrically and medically in the setting where they are at the present time. Thank you for helping us with that, Doctor. Are there any drugs that will relieve the ailments connected with menopause or is it just a waste of a person's money? That is spending it on the drugs, I assume. I am not concerned with drugs. And if I come across drugs as a psychiatrist, I have only to do with drug addiction. Although this question, I feel, is up to the doctor who treats the person. And if there is, there are severe menopausal physical disturbances, I can imagine that certain drugs are quite well, just like a headache or something else is quite well to take. Aspirene, why not? I am not against drugs in this sense. But other decisions must come from the doctor who treats the patient. Dr. Niederland, just where can one put the bookmark which says a person is moody or enthusiastic? Like all psychological feelings, these things are fleeting. They are in continuous motion. I called them before vibrating. And that is good so. Human beings are not robots. Human beings should have feelings, especially feelings for other human beings. The problem is only the... It is a question of degree. When the feelings become over emotional, overly intense, to the one side or the other side, then of course something can get out of balance and can become a disturbing element in that person's life. So as long as these feelings, even these daily up and downs, these general mood swings, which we more or less all have, as long as they remain within the controllable limits, nothing wrong about it. Very good. But when these ups and downs become excessive and very up, high and very down below and so forth, then of course some measures of control, either self-control and self-discipline or in severe cases psychiatric help should be installed. Thank you, Dr. Miedelin. The lecturer has admitted to mention one of the major causes of disturbance in middle age, that is fear to die or fear of death or unwillingness to die. How do you go about adjusting to that? Now, this may come properly under the next meeting under the subject of old age, but if you would like to comment on it, why go right ahead, doctor? No, I think that Professor Fairchild is right. Perhaps these things are better taken up by the following lecturer. I'll remind him of that. Very good. After all... Can people be made to understand that they are neurotic? Very difficult. Extremely difficult. Extremely difficult. And it is almost axiomatic that those who oppose most to the idea that they are neurotic, they certainly are. just as those who always say, psychiatry for me, impossible, out of the world, racket, nonsense, or whatever they say, pad, or so forth, they are usually most in need of psychiatry. Dr. Diedel, as you referred to the woman of the past, who at 35 or so retired to her place in the home, thought of herself as an old person. It seems as if perhaps this attitude has its healthy aspects, the attitude of classic acceptance, contributing to serenity. Isn't this so? Well, there are many disturbed people then, I guess, as 30 or so years ago as right now. Well, I have no quarrel with the questioner here. If this is really an attitude of serenity and placidity, this withdrawal, then it can be accepted. And, as I said, I have no quarrel with it. Only unfortunately, we psychiatrists very often see that under the mask of apparent serenity and placidity, there are hidden such feelings of rage, I must say occasionally, in psychiatric cases. But control over that, but an union that's the idea good, can be captured because now I cannot survive You can shouteth to the general science right now. so hostile. What tons of hatred can be buried in the human mind under the apparent mass of smoothness and serenity. If you wish to get more information about this, then read some psychiatric books. There are some good out. I'm not talking of mine, but I'm talking, no, I purposely mentioned one which comes to the answer to this question. In my book, there's only one case of this sort, but there is a book devoted to all of this, to this one question, which is by Dr. Carl Menninger, and its title is Love Against Hate, or Man Against Himself, two books even. And both books deal basically with this problem. What can one do to correct a situation of hopelessness with regard to one's own inadequacy at 52? This is a question that's been handed in, don't you? Well, the root, the origin of this feeling of inadequacy has to be established. And perhaps you allow me two minutes to take out for that, because I can't just give you out of my daily observational clinical work. Such a case of not directly hopeless feeling, but lonely feeling. I didn't speak about lonely feeling before, and so I want to add a few words to that, because that is also one of the feelings which often accompany middle age, the fear of getting lonely, or feeling, or being always lonely. And so here, with the permission of the friendly patient, former patient who is in this room, I can just give you the analysis of this one feeling of loneliness, which was taken up a few hours ago. The woman patient, young middle age really, still almost still a youngster, but just entering middle age, asked me, what is that feeling of loneliness which so often assails me, and although married to a nice husband is not dispelled with my living and being with him? My answer, well, she found the answer herself with a little analyzing, was that this feeling of loneliness belongs into an earlier period of her life. When we analyzed why she felt lonely being with her husband, we found out it has nothing to do with her husband, nothing to do with herself at the present time, but it has to do with her feeling of being lonely and being deserted when she was a little child, and she developed those lonely feelings as a little child when her parents, both father and mother, had to go out for work and had to leave her alone. At that time, she became lonely and unhappy, and from that time on, she has a longing for some kindred soul, and we found out what really the loneliness was, is longing for the mother, for the mother's closeness and warmth, which never was given to that child, due to circumstances beyond control, but which had actually happened when she was in her childhood. She was not deserted in the usual sense, and that even happens too occasionally in this rough and tumble world, but father and mother had to go out to work, and the child of seven, eight, or nine at that time had to remain alone. Thus, her loneliness and her strong longing for somebody to be with her could not fully be fully fulfilled by her husband, because her husband was not the mother. She wanted mother with her when she was seven and eight, and ten and twelve, and then carried this longing throughout life, and still had it, I hope, now less, and perhaps partly or fully removed until the very day this analysis was done. Here you see, in a way, how one has to approach such a problem, and how such feelings originate in early years in the mind-formative years of childhood. Thank you, Doctor. Here's another question. As most people of 40 are not happily married, how can they have real love life? That sounds like a statement. Now, Juan, do you agree with it? Oh, I hope this is untrue. As most people are not happily married, well, I know that there's a tremendous number of divorces and separations and so forth, but even as a psychiatrist, I wouldn't go so far to say that most people are not happily married. I would say, I hope at least, that most people are. If they are not, and especially here the questioner seems to have serious personal doubts about that, if they are not, he should look at these seven points, whether he or she lives up to them, fulfills them, or whether he falls short, and then perhaps he will discover the cause, or one of the causes of this marital unhappiness. There are several questions here. I'll try to combine in one. Doctor, what do you think would be the best thing for a person of 58 to do? Do you think that they ought to go out for a little fun in the evening or go to lectures such as the Cooper Union Forum? Of course! Professor Fairchild gave the answer. I have nothing to add to that. Doctor, how long does manic depression last? Well, that is extremely variable. That is a question just how long does a tonsillitis last or a pneumonia? Sometimes it lasts two days and sometimes two years if one has a chronic tonsillitis. This is a question which cannot be answered. Doctor Niedel, you suggested that a middle-aged person, a mature individual, was able to exist in spite of great grief and losses. Somebody wrote in, don't you think it's rather cruel to forget ones, dear ones, entirely after they have departed, I gather? Oh, am I glad about this question? The question is, don't you think it is rather cruel to forget ones, dear ones, entirely? Was that ever said in this lecture? One should never forget ones, dear ones. One should always keep them in mind and in the heart. On the contrary, one should live, so to speak, in their footsteps and do only not good for oneself, but also in their own name. In their name. One should, for instance, in their name, contribute to the cancer fund and to the Red Cross and to other good things and do a lot with the memory and upholding the memory of the dear ones. But one should not go into oblivion for ten years like Queen Victoria and close oneself in some enclosure and live in a selfish way. That is a thing which I felt should not be done. Dr. Niedel, I just wanted you to have a chance to be able to express yourself again on that point of view. Thank you. Somebody has written in, will you please express my appreciation to the doctor for a most inspiring message that they will never forget? Thank you. And two, will this lecture be published anyplace? If so, how could I get a copy or some information about it? Unfortunately, I give my lectures only on the basis of a few notes, which you see here, and so they are never published. It is a serious shortcoming on my part. However, I was just informed before that our station here, WNYC, recorded the lecture, and I was told that at some time or other the lecture will be broadcast by our city station, WNYC. So if the questioner writes to the station and asks for the time when the broadcast will be and sits then at the radio with a... I spoke very slow, I believe. I always do. Unfortunately, English is not my mother language, and I have to struggle and grope for words and so forth, as you all realize. So with my slow speaking, it's perhaps not too difficult to put that down in shorthand. It's certainly been a pleasure to listen to what you call a struggle. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.