The Mayor of the City of New York, the Hon. William O'Dwyer, is host today to His Excellency, the Prime Minister of Australia, the Hon. Robert G. Menzies. The weatherman must be a good Australian because he sent very beautiful weather today, a most perfect day here in front of City Hall Plaza. And now the various military organizations are lining up here, that wonderful bank of silk flags which the fire department uses to decorate these festive occasions, these formal scenes here in front of City Hall, is now taking its steps on the place, on the steps of City Hall, here under the orders of Chief McGinty. And the square is dressing very, very beautifully. One of the flags caught in one of the guy ropes attached to the Australian flag flying in front of City Hall. And we're just awaiting now the arrival of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Hon. William O'Dwyer. And he will conduct his guests, and here is the Mayor, the Hon. Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, and the distinguished guest of today, the Hon. Robert G. Menzies, Prime Minister of Australia. They're now taking their place on the platform here. Mr. Whelan in a white suit, Mr. Menzies in a blue suit, and the Mayor in a grey suit. There's the Ruffles. awaits, Mr. Brick. A collection book series . Téoners, Fame preceding glutes, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and tendering the honors of the city to the Honorable Robert G. Menzies, Prime Minister of Australia. There's still some handshaking and greetings. While we're waiting, Mr. Whelan is acting as host and seeing that our distinguished guests get convenient and good seats here on the platform. And now Mr. Whelan's about ready, and we'll hear his voice in just a moment. Mr. Menzies is being introduced to some of the military. Mr. Man, ladies and gentlemen. It has been our great privilege today to escort the honored guests through Broadway to the City Hall with the enthusiasm of the people marking the great friendship that we have for the country our honored guests represents. And it's a special pleasure for me, Mr. Mayor, to present to you the Prime Minister of Australia, Robert Gordon Menzies. Robert Gordon Menzies, Robert Gordon Menzies, Your Rescellency, distinguished guests, I'm extremely happy to welcome here today in the name of the people of the City of New York, the Right Honourable Robert G. Menzies, the scholarly statesman, and the amiable Prime Minister of Australia. Our eminent visitor has been active in the service of his country for many years. And I wonder how he found the time to write so many articles, as he has written on legal subjects, and to publish such informative and authoritative books as his studies in the Australian Constitution. But those who are familiar with his career are not astonished that he has long been recognized as an authority on the constitution of his young, vigorous and growing nation. For at the age of 25, he was arguing constitutional cases before the High Court, Australia's equivalent of the United States Supreme Court. One of the things that have endeared him to the people of Australia is not only his sincerity, his great personal charm, his unswerving public interest, and his fighting qualities, but his ready wit and his sense of humour. And I am sure, sir, that you will agree that a sense of humour saves a man in public life from worrying over the machinations of his political enemies from time to time. Our distinguished guest is not a stranger to American law, to its history, its politics. He studied them all of his adult life. His knowledge of our politics is not wholly derived from books. But he was here in 1948, and he saw the presidential candidates of the two major parties campaigning. And he made a special flight to Indianapolis during the campaign of two years ago to visit President Truman. That visit, translated by the events of today, two great men. Meeting then and now, in Bureau of World Events meeting again, is entitled to the heartiest applause that the people of New York City can give. Our distinguished visitor is an outspoken advocate of the closest cooperation between the United States and Australia, and the other members of the British Commonwealth of Nations. In this regard, he was one of the tens of thousands of Australians who gave unbounded hospitality to our American soldiers who visited his country in World War Number Two. Your Excellency, one of the results of this Australian hospitality, and I believe your own record, sir, will show it, is that some ten thousand of our returning soldiers brought back to these shores has many beautiful Australian brides. And just to equalize matters somewhat, about two thousand American veterans returned to Australia to marry and settle down in your delightful country, sir. I mention these intimate things about your land, your people, our veterans, and their Australian brides, and your own country. So that the people of our city may understand why your government so quickly sent your fighting planes to join our own in Korea. I mention this, sir, when the United Nations called upon all nations who love freedom and peace to repel the communist aggressors who had invaded the Republic of South Korea without warning of provocation. You, sir, as Prime Minister of Australia, took the lead in your country's response to the call of the United Nations to put down this communist aggression. But with your background, you could not have been at your country's response. But your background, you could not have done otherwise. It was the thing that those who know you would expect you to do, just as those who know your people would expect them to do when the freedom and the peace of the world were at stake. It is indeed, Your Excellency, a real pleasure and a high honor to welcome you to our metropolis. I'm sure that when you return to your own beloved land, you will take back with you a still greater fondness for our country and its people, which know you and love you so well. Thank you. Now Mr. Whelan. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, and ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that I'm a simple Australian, and I come from a country in which the capital city is a small country town of 20,000 people. And I don't mind telling you that I feel quite overwhelmed by getting the reception that's been accorded to my country through me this morning in the most dramatic city in the world. Because this is a dramatic city in enormous contrast to most things that we're accustomed to seeing. The mayor was, in the course of his very, very generous remarks, pleased to make some reference to the association between the United States and Australia in the Great War, the last Great War, indeed in the First Great War, and now again in Korea. I was irresistibly reminded of it when we arrived here this morning and the two national anthems were played. Because from quite early in 1942, right on to the end of the war, I never remember attending any public occasion in Australia, or for that matter, any place of entertainment in Australia, without becoming accustomed to the fact that these same two national anthems were played. You know, it all had a tremendous effect on our minds in Australia. We began to think of your great national song as being, in a sense, ours. And we like to feel that you began to think of ours as, in a sense, yours. It brought us very, very close together. And now again, it's our melancholy fortune to have to stand once more side by side to deal with an act of aggression in Korea, to deal with an act of aggression in a country of which very many people in the world had scarcely more than heard only a month or two ago. But, sir, I take great pride in saying to this great audience that before long, I believe that my own country will have the unique distinction of serving with yours in the Korean campaign in every arm of the fighting services. In fact, Mr. Mayor, I don't want to betray any of the high secrets of state. There are a few enough that I know. And those that I know, I should be very reluctant to betray. But I'm betraying no secret when I tell you that our feeling towards you is such that you'll have to be very, very wrong for us to think you're wrong. You'll have to go into some very, very curious places if we're to refuse to follow you into those places. There's a very deep feeling. And it's not merely a feeling of gratitude for services rendered. Quite true you've done great service to my country. Quite true that there was a feeling that swept over the whole of Australia when the first American forces arrived there in 1942. Quite true that Douglas MacArthur was almost as much of a national institution in Australia as he could be anywhere else. All these things are perfectly true. But I don't want you to think that Australia is merely being politely grateful. We're not. You've never believed, I'm sure you never have, that countries that are helped by you should become subservient to you. We're not rather gifted at being subservient in Australia. If I had gone through the streets of any large Australian city in an open car, I shouldn't have been received entirely by cheers, you understand, Mr Mayor. In fact, privately afterwards, I'll write down for you some of the remarks that would have been made. We're not a subservient community. But we know, and you know, that unless the free people of the world are really friends and mean it, whether they're great or small, then the forces of slavery will dictate the future of the world and not the forces of freedom. The whole purpose of American policy in helping other nations is not to help them to be weak, but to help them to be strong. And so we know that you wish us well. We know that nothing would please you better than to see Australia go out on this great path of development that has marked your own remarkable history, particularly during the last hundred years. And we know so that in all those matters, we shall have your friendship. It will be a very great comfort to me to go back to my own country and to be able to report not only that the United States and its administration, its most distinguished president, are on our side, not only is the city of New York immeasurably generous in its welcome, but that I'll be able to say that the mayor of this famous city, the very famous mayor, if I may say so, of this famous city, and I speak with all the bigotry of a Scotsman, you understand, the very famous mayor of this famous city has also, in a few short moments, become my own friend. That's what I shall take back with me to Australia, and I shall take back with me the memory of this most magnificent gesture that you have extended to the representative of a people so many thousands of miles away. The mayor of the city of New York and the right honourable Mr. Menzies is now about to receive the scroll from the mayor, and in just a moment, we'll keep you informed of what transpires. Ladies and gentlemen, we're casting in. And those who are present, it is now my honour to present a citation to our distinguished visitor. It reads as follows. Office of the mayor, city of New York, know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service and the right honourable Robert G. Menzies, the right honourable Robert G. Menzies, Prime Minister of Australia, under whose leadership Australia stands side by side with our country and other nations who love peace and freedom in the United Nations' fight against communist aggression and whose many public services have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. To you, sir, with all my heart. Thank you. The mayor of the city of New York has handed this script now, or scroll, to His Excellency Robert Gordon Menzies. Now the cameramen are issuing their orders so that the mayor will move over to the railing a little closer, away from the platform here where the cameramen can get a better picture. And the mayor obligingly reverses the scroll so that you can possibly read the scroll when the pictures are published. And now Mr. Menzies. I would like to thank the mayor and to thank all of you for this great honour. I hope that our two countries and our two peoples will stand side by side forever. Now Mr. Whelan. The Police Glee Club will render a selection this time. Glory and love to the men of all Their sons may copy their virtue bold Courage in heart and the sword in hand All ready to fight, all ready to die for fatherland Who needs spinning to bear by a trumpet blown Who likes spinning to spare when the field is won Who would fight for the men of all Who would fight for the fall For long or last And boasting as true as Calum You The world of strange and fair Is waiting here to greet a true and soldier lover And many a heart will fail and growl Go fail to hear, to hear the tale of cruel peril he has won And many a heart will fail and growl Go fail to hear the tale of peril he has won We are at home, we are at home, we are at home, we are at home Glory and love to the men of all Their sons may copy their virtue bold Courage in the heart and the sword in hand All ready to fight for Fatherland All ready to fight, all ready to die for Fatherland All ready to fight, all ready to die All ready to die for Fatherland Your Excellency, Mr. Mayor, there are There's a band that's come down all the way from Canada To do honor to the Prime Minister And I'm sure that he would like to wave to them They're over on my left, the St. John Philharmonic band from Quebec Is down here from Canada to Waniot There are many vulgarุ submissions and play With your name OK, you're welcome Now I'm now going to the place Anissa in the party Next day next day You can participate There's no reason To join the party I have to use A few black heures And Ialle Warum The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Now Mr. Whelan. The End Colonel Salimony, United States Army, will you prepare and pass a review? Thank you. The End With that final word, we take leave of you from City Hall Plaza and return you to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The End