Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents transcribed the Reviewing Stand. In 17 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses the peacetime uses and problems of atomic energy. Our unrehearsed, give-and-take discussion will center around the use of atomic energy for heat and power, and the means of accomplishing these applications. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are George Granger Brown, Chairman of the Department of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering at the University of Michigan, and Director of Engineering for the Atomic Energy Commission. Mr. Farrington Daniels, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin. Sidney D. Kirkpatrick, Editorial Director of Chemical Engineering and Chemical Industries. And Paul E. Klopsteg, Professor of Applied Science and Director of Research at the Northwestern University Technological Institute. So far as atomic energy is concerned, public attention has centered very largely on the atomic bomb. On atomic energy as a method of warfare and defense against its use. Today, we discuss the peacetime uses and problems of atomic energy. Brown, what are the more important areas in which we may expect to use atomic energy? I'm talking now about peacetime uses. Well, it seems to me that for peacetime application, there are really two fields of use. Perhaps the one of widest range of interests is in the production of special products or isotopes, which might be useful in industry or in science and also in medicine. And along with the operation of these nuclear reactors, we always find that heat is given off. And if this heat is given off at a sufficiently high temperature, it can be used for useful purposes or for the production of power. And therefore, the second use of atomic energy for peacetime purposes is for power, either as a byproduct of the reactor or possibly as a major objective under certain conditions. Do you have anything to add to that, Kirkpatrick? Well, I think we could detail the application of power, bring it down to a few points such as the use in aircraft and ship propulsion, both of which are active fields of interest today and are being investigated and their peacetime as well as military applications. Daniels, do you have a word on this? Well, one might add that the neutron beams from these atomic furnaces are useful for scientific purposes as well. But the great hope from a general point of view is for the use of atomic power. How sanguine are you, Klopsteg, about these developments? Do you think they're practical? Well, they're practical enough, given enough time and enough incentive. But as I see it, the development of power from the nucleus is a long ways off because at the moment industry doesn't have the incentive. And besides, I don't believe that for years to come power from the atomic nucleus can compete economically with power from our usual sources. I agree with what Klopsteg has said from one standpoint only, and that is if the power is to be the only purpose of the reactor. For example, at the present time, we know that the major purpose of these reactors, in fact, almost their exclusive purpose is for the production of material for use in weapons. If we can combine this use of the reactors for the production of weapons with the use of the heat, which is given off as a byproduct for the production of power. And that is certainly within the realm of practicability within a few years. Then, the use of nuclear energy for the production of power seems to me to be an economic possibility in which private enterprise could be actively interested in a very short time. Do you other men go along with that point of view? I would like to go still further than that. I feel that we do not know at the present time how competitive atomic power might be with the present fuel power. We just haven't run pilot plants yet. We don't know how frequently the fuel has to be reprocessed. We don't know how serious the radioactive contamination of the machinery is. It might turn out that it's not as bad as we now feel. I feel, I believe that we should make rapid strides in putting pilot plants into operation to find out what the cost will be. Well, you gentlemen are talking about these peacetime developments, power, heat, these radioactive isotopes, as a byproduct of war production. In what sense would these be a byproduct? Explain that a little, Brown. Well, in the production of plutonium, which is a major ingredient in our atomic bombs. And that derives from uranium, I take it? That is automatically produced when we operate a reactor on natural uranium. There is, of course, a large number of neutrons that may be available for other purposes as well. And these neutrons in the pile or the reactor can be applied to the production of isotopes. And in the course of this reaction, which takes place in the reactor, heat is evolved in all cases. Therefore, the heat is a byproduct. And I'm saying that if we utilize this heat as a byproduct, which is now being wasted, then it is economical to generate power from this heat. Why isn't the heat that is being developed in the piles that are operating at the present time being turned to practical use? Well, the only real reason is that the heat is absorbed at substantially room temperature. And in order for heat to be useful for generating power, it must be available at some elevated temperature. Let's say 900 or 800 degrees Fahrenheit. Therefore, it's going to require engineering development to operate these piles at a higher temperature. And once that is done, then the heat can be put to some real useful purpose. It really constitutes an economic crime at the present time to be producing all this heat at a temperature so low that it can't do any useful work. All it does, as I understand it, is to warm the salmon in the Columbia River. Very slightly. Well, now, tell us a bit more about the use of heat. Am I to look forward, Daniels, to an atomic furnace in my home in my lifetime? No. Uh, small installations of atomic power will always be impractical. It calls for a large investment, a large unit. Central heating stations would be quite possible, but private furnaces and private automobiles would be out of the question. How does this atomic heat compare with gas, coal, fuel oil, electricity? Well, in quantity, one pound of these fishable materials, plutonium or uranium-235, is theoretically equivalent to a whole trainload of coal. This might be worth $10,000, I suppose. But the chance of getting this into any useful form requires a very large capital investment. So these figures are misleading. Well, now, let's get down to brass tacks on this, if we may. You talk about the possibility of a central heating plant. For a city like Chicago, I take it? Uh, this is a byproduct of, uh, of war production. Uh, are we to look forward to that? Is that in the cards, Brown? Something of that sort? Well, something of that kind, I think, is very definitely in the cards. I don't know whether the, uh, plant would originally be located in Chicago, but at least it can be located so that the power generated would tie in with the high-tension distribution systems of the various states. So that the power could be made available to various industries and cities throughout the country. And, uh, it seems to me that we can look forward to that happening, uh, in a relatively short time. Do you think that's the case, uh, Klopstig? You were... Well, it could. Uh, I, I can't see industry putting any money into it, though, so long as there hasn't been a, a better defined, uh, uh, statement of policy on the part of government as to where industry fits in the picture. Well, now, before we, before we come to that, uh, problem, and I, I, I, I think it is a problem, uh, let's talk a little about the, uh, power uses here. Uh, I'll come back to you again, Daniels. I asked you about my, uh, furnace a while ago. Am I to look forward to a car that's driven by atomic energy? Or to an airplane that's driven by atomic energy? Small units would be absolutely out of the picture. Large units, uh, seem possible. Theoretically are possible. A great deal of effort to the atomic energy program is now going into, uh, atomic energy for ship propulsion and for airplane propulsion. These, uh, are taken seriously. They, they will come. As you mean to say that you can make, uh, an atomic engine and put it in an airplane or in a ship. That's right. That's right. Well, why not in an automobile then? Well, you'd have to have, uh, a large capital investment and then you'd have to have six feet of concrete all around your automobile for shield. Well, I can see that that might be a bit inconvenient. It'd be a little difficult to design a modern streamlined car around ten tons of concrete. Uh, how about these, uh, these power developments? Is, uh, do you go along with Daniels on that, Ron? Uh, yes. In, uh, general, uh, it seems to me that, uh, due to our limitations of our presence of the city, uh, our present knowledge at least, it does not seem that we can have a small unit such as would you put an automobile or a bus. However, when we come to, uh, vessels, either airships or ocean ships... Of course, it'd be a little difficult to have a ton of concrete around an airplane I was about to observe a minute ago. Well, I think I can say that, uh, our knowledge of shielding is improving very rapidly, taking great strides, and we can perhaps get away from this, uh, limitation of five feet of concrete and use some other means of shielding these reactors. And, uh, when that is done, then, of course, the dead weight that must be carried by the vessel is greatly reduced, and it looks as though we can expect within a reasonably short time, uh, practical power units for special uses, such as submarines or airships. And when that is done, we meet, that means we have solved the technological problems of giving off the heat at high temperature. And if we can combine that knowledge with the knowledge we have of these large piles that are on land for the production of military purposes, we then can get the heat from these large piles that are producing plutonium and utilize that heat for the generation of power. And it seems to me that these two developments ought to go forward hand in hand because each one will assist the other in solving the key technological problems. Now, we haven't said anything about these, uh, isotopes and their, uh, possible use. You mentioned that as a, as a second peacetime use, I believe, uh, in opening the discussion. Uh, what are they and how would they be used? Well, they're used, uh, in many ways. Uh, I think, uh, one of the other gentlemen here mentioned the use of isotopes for following chemical reactions and for following, uh, many scientific developments. Also, these products are useful as a substitute for x-rays in industry. You can take, uh, some of these isotopes around in a little box and hold them up against a steel tank and, uh, take an x-ray photograph of the structure of the steel tank while it's right in position. And developments of that kind are extremely promising for scientific and industrial uses. And I think, uh, there have been very important developments in the field of medicine. Perhaps others are more capable of speaking on that than I am. Uh, do you think that if, uh, if the reactor had not been developed as a wartime emergency, we would still have had isotopes, uh, since we already knew before the war that some isotopes could be produced by accelerators such as cyclotron? Certainly. We can produce isotopes by... So these are also a byproduct of a wartime development, really. That's right. Well, now, uh, Klopsteg a minute or two ago introduced, uh, what he thought was a practical problem involved in these, uh, in these, uh, these developments. Uh, who's going to finance all this? Uh, is it, uh, is it essentially a, uh, a government project? Is it something that private enterprise ought to get into? How about that, Klopsteg? Well, it's, uh, it's a little difficult to, uh, to see clearly just, uh, what that, uh, the economic, uh, situation is going to be. Um, if, uh, if we are discussing this question on the basis of the government's getting plutonium at as low a price or at a lower price than it is getting now, by drawing industry into the picture, then we have a situation that might justify, uh, considerable development, uh, of power for peacetime purposes, distinctly as a byproduct of plutonium production. If, on the other hand, the government, uh, suddenly lost interest in plutonium, it seems to me that the whole thing would either have to be dropped or else there'd have to be government subsidy purely. For the one purpose, namely, of finding out how to produce power economically from uranium. Do you accept that analysis, uh, Kirkpatrick? Uh, I do, uh, I, I think we, we should emphasize the fact that Brown brought out a moment ago that, uh, plutonium need not be, uh, bomb raw material 100%. That it, it could also be a source of power generated from natural uranium. And, uh, in that basis, on that basis would, uh, industry, I think, uh, could, uh, afford to put money into a, a project. I think, uh, right now we might mention, uh, what we had previously, uh, uh, discussed in a general way, the proposal made by, uh, uh, Charles Allen Thomas, uh, the, uh, executive vice president of Monsanto, who last June, I think, at a, at a, uh, commencement address suggested that, uh, a plant of some 75,000 kilowatts might be, uh, built out in Idaho. Uh, uh, uh, atomic, uh, furnace, if you will. And, uh, that that furnace be supplied, uh, by the government with uranium raw material from which, uh, uh, power, uh, would be generated. And that power would be, uh, used to produce, uh, fertilizers from the abundant supplies of phosphate there in that territory. Uh, a peacetime, uh, application certainly. Uh, then the, uh, after the uranium had passed through the furnace, it would be taken back to the government for, uh, processing. And in that way, Thomas thought he saw a way for industry, for private enterprise, to participate in this program and to offset the high capital cost by the, uh, reduction in the, this X over two that Brown refers to a reduction in the cost of plutonium to the government. Well, actually, industry would be playing only a minor role in, in that whole picture, it seems to me. Isn't there a parallel Klopstag with, uh, what's happening, uh, down in the, in the Tennessee Valley? Uh, Dr. Thomas's own company, uh, is making elemental phosphorus there with power generated at, uh, Mussel Shoals. That power is a byproduct, uh, so the politicians tell us of, uh, Well, I can, of course, the users of the power would be private industry, but I'm, I'm thinking of the, the private industry that has to get into the, into the picture and, and put up the capital to develop a plant for producing and distributing the power with huge government subsidies. Well, uh, I, I think they're government subsidies because unless the government were in the picture, I don't think industry would be at all interested in getting into it. I think perhaps that is true, but, uh, the, the same statement goes for the railroads. When the railroads were built across the continental United States, the government gave extensive grants of land to the railroads to, uh, uh, give them additional incentive to, uh, put their tracks over the Rocky Mountains. The same thing has been true with the airlines. They have a subsidy, as it, what it is, for carrying air mail. And the same thing is true here. It would be a subsidy to, uh, the, uh, company for the production of plutonium. And, uh, in fact, our steel industry, you might say, grew up under a subsidy of a high protective tariff. And it's common policy of this country to grant subsidies of either direct or indirect natures to the various industries that are in the country. And the various industries who are developing, uh, new uses for our raw materials. Well, would you say that industry has manifested a great, uh, interest in getting into this field of nuclear power development? I would say yes. If you use as an indication of that interest, the, uh, amount of energy that industry is putting forth to have their story heard, and, uh, coming forward with proposals for getting into the picture. How much information, Kirkpatrick, does industry have about, uh, uh, atomic, uh, developments? Well, I think I would take a little exception with what Brown said there. Two years ago, the commission appointed, as you'll recall, an industrial advisory group, uh, headed by, uh, uh, Mr. James Parker of, uh, Detroit. Uh, that time, president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Uh, Dr. Robert Wilson of Standard Oil, Dr. Egloff, a number of, uh, Chicago citizens were on that very important committee. At that time, they reported that they had the feeling, anyway, that there was a vast fund of information that would be helpful to industry, uh, in participating in the program if that were made available. Subsequently, the commission appointed a group, an ad hoc committee on technological information, which has been studying the patent files, and, more recently, uh, the, uh, one of the projects, complete project at Oak Ridge. We find in the main that the commission is releasing and declassifying this information, that there is not this vast fund that the Parker committee referred to. On the other hand, I, uh, I feel very strongly that until industry gets a better, uh, look into the problems of the commission, and the problems of the atomic energy program, we can't have this, uh, full participation that, uh, is the desirable thing that we need. Well, do you think they ought to get that better look? I think they, I think they should. Well, isn't it true, Kirkpatrick, that even those industries that have had large contracts with the Atomic Energy Commission for operating commission properties haven't, haven't shown too much eagerness to invest private capital in atomic energy development? Well, I, I think that is perhaps true. They're a relatively small group, uh, that have. But they have had an intimate look at it. That, that is... Well? Well, all of those contracts have been what we call cost-plus contracts. That's right. And, uh, in many ways, if you give a company a cost-plus contract, it becomes a sort of a parasite industry. It's not a free industry in the sense of free enterprise. On the other hand, if we can, uh, get the private enterprise to come forward with a proposal to build a reactor for the purpose of producing plutonium and power, and build that reactor on a lump sum basis, and then process the material to produce plutonium on a unit price basis, and allow that company to retain any profits that accrue due to their efficient operation of the plant, then we have free enterprise in the picture. And I think that is what, uh, Dr. Thomas had in mind, and that's, uh, substantially what he proposed. Well, in the Thomas proposal, wasn't there one other point? Namely, that if government found that any of these, uh, shall we say, restricted things, such as fissionable materials, are being misused, then government could come in and shut down the plant. Well, government can do that in any industry of any kind. They always have the power in wartime to come in and shut down. Even in peacetime, though, I should think that that, uh, might possibly be invoked, and under those conditions, I doubt whether industry would be too keen to get into it. Well, I think we can offer all kinds of reasons why industry might not wish to get into it, but the only way to prove the thing is to give them a chance to come in by asking for proposals. And if they come forward with proposals, I think that's the proof of the pudding. I agree. I think you'll be surprised to see how many of them will come in. Well, how has industry received this, uh, Thomas plan that we've been talking about? Or has had, has that had much, uh, currency outside, uh, your circles, scientific circles? I doubt very much if industry has, uh, really had an opportunity to study it. Uh, personally, I would like to encourage industry to study those proposals and see what they can come up with. And I have hopes that they will be given that opportunity. Well, now, we're talking about, uh, the government role in, in, uh, in this business and the role of private enterprise. I think the general public would be interested in the location of these, uh, these, uh, uh, power plants that you gentlemen are talking about. Uh, what if one blows up? Uh, is there any danger that they'll contaminate the atmosphere or contaminate, uh, nearby waters? How about that, uh, Daniels? Atomic Energy Commission has adopted a very conservative policy on this matter, and rightly so. Uh, no large reactor can be operating near to, uh, cities. There's a proving ground established out in Idaho. But I think that after a little practice on, in Idaho, then it'll turn out that it'll be quite safe to put these plants near, uh, cities. Obviously, we shouldn't do it until we try these pilot plants. You don't think that practice in Idaho will be hard on our listeners in Idaho. No, no. I think there's a very little danger. You certainly won't get an atomic explosion under any conditions. The worst that could happen would be something equivalent to a boiler explosion, with, uh, serious addition of, uh, radioactive materials. But I think these can be kept under control. I, I think it was true, was it not, that when automobiles came in, many conservatives were afraid of sitting on top of, uh, ten gallons of gasoline. Yes, I imagine that was, uh, that was the case. Are you as sanguine about these, uh, uh, dangers as Daniel's, uh? Oh, yes. I think, I think development has, uh, already proceeded pretty far so that we can say that, uh, there is relatively little danger even now if, if a reactor is properly built and, uh, under, under good automatic control. I'd like to make one more point before we close. We think in terms of plutonium only for atomic bombs. We must realize that when the world really gets into a proper state of peace that we can use this stockpile of atomic bombs for, uh, peacetime power. One pound equivalent to a trainload of coal, theoretically. Well, now, uh, how about the supply of, uh, uranium, uh, Daniels? I take it that all of these developments that we're talking about stem from that, uh, shall I call it a chemical? From uranium? Element. Element. Element. Element. Element? How about the supply of uranium? Well, I'm not prepared to say, uh, uh, according to pre-war estimates, there wasn't enough uranium to be very significant for power purposes. But, uh, uranium wasn't very much sought after. Intensive prospecting is going on now. I would be surprised if we don't find new deposits and, uh, ways of using more low-grade ore. Mr. Brown, why I am not sure how accurate estimates might be, but estimates have been made that indicate the heat that can be obtained from nuclear reactors operating on plutonium, based on the estimates as to the availability of uranium, would indicate that the heat that can be obtained would be approximately equal or would exceed the heat that has been obtained and is to be obtained from our petroleum reserves throughout the world. That gives us a sort of an order of magnitude by which we can gauge things. Well, now, is that uranium that you're discussing available to us? Well, it's... Is it... where is it, anyway? Well, it's... Or are you prepared to say? Well, uranium is found at various places all over the Earth in small areas where it can be recovered according to present methods. And just as we have to drill deeper and deeper for oil as the years go by, we may have to use leaner and leaner ores of uranium as the years pass. Well, now, gentlemen, this has been an exceedingly interesting discussion. I take it that if we are to look forward practically to these peacetime developments of heat and power, there is going to be, as you see it, a partnership between government and private enterprise. Does that put it correctly, Brown? I think that is necessary at least for some time. And that the government will be in the business to produce atomic bombs. And as a byproduct of those bombs, we might reasonably look forward to the use of atomic energy for heat and power. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, peacetime uses and problems of atomic energy. You can obtain a copy of today's discussion and an extensive list of books and articles about the subject by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Farrington Daniels, former chairman of the Board of Governors for the Aragon National Laboratories and professor of chemistry at the University of Wisconsin. George Granger Brown, director of engineering with the Autonomic Energy Commission. Sydney D. Kirkpatrick, editorial director of chemical engineering and chemical industries. And Paul E. Klopsteg, director of research at the Institute of Technology, Northwestern University. Next week, the reviewing stand presents a discussion of the question, what should be our national water policy? Our guest speakers will be Julian Hines, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, W.W. Horner, consulting engineer from St. Louis, and past president of the American Society of Civil Engineers, T. R. Halston, consulting engineer from Chicago, and Thorndike Seville, dean of engineering at New York University. The Northwestern Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Today, the program was transcribed. Your announcer has been Marshall Kent. This is the World Series Network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.
