Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Before beginning today's program, a special announcement. May we remind you that today, and each Sunday hereafter, the Roundtable is heard at its new time, 1.30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. Today, the Roundtable discusses, what do Europeans think of American foreign policy? Taking part are Frederick Kuhl, formerly London correspondent and now Washington correspondent of the Chicago Sun-Times, James B. Reston of the New York Times, and Hans J. Morgenthau of the University of Chicago, who recently returned to this country from several months in Europe and is now a visiting professor at Harvard University. Now to open today's discussion, Mr. Morgenthau. The Korean War has sharpened up many of the problems which confront the foreign policy of the United States today. And among those problems is our relations with our allies. Some of our allies think that we are going too far and too fast in our foreign policy. We sometimes think that our allies don't go far and fast enough. With the armistice negotiations in Korea about to begin, I think it is time to take stock of our relations with our allies. Reston, how does the situation look to you from the vantage point of the armistice negotiations in Korea? Well, Mr. Morgenthau, I think that nobody really, no people ever really think very much of the foreign policy of their allies. I think that's almost the first point where we have to begin. I should have thought on the whole that our allies in Europe would feel rather good about the outcome or the way it looks, the outcome that we're going to have in Korea perhaps in the next few days or weeks. I can remember in the days just before the, after the attack had taken place and before we had got into the war, the general assumption among the Europeans was that perhaps we shouldn't get in and they certainly were not very confident that we would get in and do anything effective in Korea. As it's turned out, I think on the whole it has been an effective foreign policy in Korea and therefore I should have thought on the whole there would have been less tension rather than more. On the other hand, of course, there were also many Europeans and not a few Americans, even in high places, who thought that after we had gotten in we ought to get out and as quickly as possible. What do you think, Koo, about that? Well, I think Reston is right that the Europeans will feel rather good, that the shooting is probably soon to stop. At the same time, they haven't got short memories and they will also recall that we were on roller skates right near the edge of an abyss for several months, an abyss at the bottom of which was the danger of general war and I believe that they will still have misgivings and uneasiness as to the next incident which might bring us to that same edge with some doubt as to the side on which we will wind up. Well, I have no doubt, Mr. Koo, that they'll be worried about the next incident, but I'm afraid that's the way we're all going to have to live for a long time to come. It seems to me the question is not whether we are going to live dangerously or not because obviously we're going to, but whether by so doing we avoid that abyss rather than falling into it. Now, I would have thought on the whole that Korea suggests that perhaps we can avoid it if we have courage enough to face up to it. I think it will mean that to some Europeans. To other Europeans, it will mean that the decisions, the major decisions, are no longer in their hands. And I think that their pleasure and relief at the impending end of the Korean War will be partly offset by the uncertainty as to what decision will be taken out of their hands next time. Mr. Morgan, though, you've just come from Europe, do you think they want to have the decision on these great issues of war and peace in their hands? Well, I think they want to have the decision, if they could, of not being forced to go to war. I think the first thing that strikes one when one talks to people in Europe is the almost biological fear of still another, a third world war. Virtually all older people to whom one talks tell you that they have gone through two world wars, and they are not going to go, if they can help it, through a third one. Well, isn't that a very understandable reaction after the history of the past 25 years? Well, it's certainly understandable, but it poses obstacles into the path of American foreign policy, and not only of American foreign policy, but of the foreign policy upon which we and our European allies have agreed. The real problem, it seems to me, is that when we speak of an abyss which we are approaching or which confronts us, that we and our European allies talk frequently about different things, or about things which have a different urgency for us and for them. For when we speak of a third world war, we still speak of something which is fairly remote from us, and which may hit us disastrously, or may not do so. For the European man in the street, a third world war means of necessity an unmitigated catastrophe. And it makes absolutely no difference to him whether he believes that we are going to win that war, and most Europeans, I think, believe that the United States is going to come out as victor, whatever that may mean, of a third world war. But he also feels, and he's convinced, that he is going to come out of a third world war as a smashed individual and as a smashed civilization. Does he think of this in the way in which you phrased it as the United States and Russia in a conflict, or does he think, is there a sense of community with the United States in this? Well, there is, in a way, a sense of community, in that sense that he hates the Russians and is afraid of the Russians. But, strangely enough, you can talk to any European, except, of course, to Europeans in the government, but talk to the man of the street, in the street, and everybody will tell you that he isn't afraid that the Russians are going to attack, he rather is afraid that we are going to start the war. You can talk to a man in Vienna, or a man in Frankfurt, or in Munich, or in London, is the fear that the Russians are going to start a war is much less outspoken than the fear that we are starting it. And regardless of whether this is true or not, and I am convinced it's not true, but still, this is the opinion which is very prevalent in Western Europe. Well, I have an illustration of just that point of view in a letter I had the other day from a well-known writer and historian in England. And this is what he says. I have the letter before me. I wonder whether people in the U.S. realize how very strongly the mood this side of the Atlantic has been drifting away from American policy in the course of these last few months. Bevan, that's an iron Bevan, who recently resigned from the Labour government, has undoubtedly gained great popularity and respect by his resignation. Most people saw in it a protest against rearmament and war. A protest much stronger than that to which Bevan has actually been prepared to commit himself. One need not exaggerate the importance or the immediate political effectiveness of this widespread disgust and horror with which people here view the drift into war, for which they are inclined to blame primarily American policy. Immediately, Western European governments, including the British, will undoubtedly follow American policy. But in the longer run, the underlying mood is of great importance and is likely to prove a tremendous liability to the Atlantic bloc. I personally think, he writes, that if war comes, the whole of Western Europe will enter it in a mood comparable to that in which France entered the war in 1939, to say the least. Resignation, sense of doom, defeatism, and in some countries, open, widespread and active sympathy with the nominal enemy. In France and Italy, the present mood in the working class is characterized by an eager expectation of the arrival of the Soviet army. The workers' general attitude is, we need not do much fighting now for anything at all. Very soon the Red Army will be here and will do the whole job for us. This is not the mood in Britain, of course, but I doubt it very, very much, whether a new appeal for blood and sweat and tears will this time evoke even a small part of the response it did evoke in 1940. It's interesting to see, he concludes, how far even into the conservative ranks the conviction has spread that it is not only on Russia that the blame for the present situation rests. One can find reflexes of this even in Churchill's speeches. Well, Kuz, this is certainly a letter which paints a dismal picture of a European opinion concerning the vital objectives of American foreign policy. Well, Mr. Kuz, you're almost making an isolationist out of me here because it seems to me that that is a most depressing and I would say extremely unfair picture that people may feel that way in Europe. And we're talking about the feelings, the emotions of people rather than the logic of the situation. But it would seem to me that such a viewpoint had lost all sense of historical perspective. After all, in the past 25 years, Europe has been crying to this country to come and make common cause with them in their struggles to maintain peace. Now, this country has surely, in the past four or five years, done about as much as it's possible for any country to do in the defense of common interests. It has not only helped to bind up the wounds of the battlefield after the last war, but it has gone through with the Marshall Plan, with the North Atlantic Treaty under which we have committed ourselves to about as great a commitment as any sovereign state can possibly take. And yet, if that were it really to be proved to be the prevailing view of Europe, I should have thought that the reaction in both countries and the hope of this coalition would have been very poor indeed. Well, I would like to say at once that there was no suggestion on my part that this is the prevailing view. It may be. I think there is no way of ascertaining that. The fact is that there is a large proportion of people in Europe who are strongly in sympathy with our foreign policy. The fact equally is that there is a large segment which is out of sympathy and in opposition to it. And I think that the sentiments and emotions expressed in that letter do convey quite accurately a feeling which embraces many millions of Europeans. The strange thing is that in Europe you find that sentiment which that letter expressed combined in one and the same person with great admiration and support of certain aspects of American foreign policy. In other words, you have in Europe really a kind of psychological contradiction in the minds of many. On the one hand, most Europeans know that they cannot exist either economically or politically or militarily without the all-out support of the United States. At the same time, and on the other hand, those very same Europeans resent the fact that to such a degree they must depend upon the assistance of the United States. Quite right. And when Mr. Reston recalled quite exactly that for many years before, during, and since the war the Europeans have called on America to stand at their side, they did not conceive of the balance of power as it is today. As a result of which they regard themselves as being an American protectorate, which they feel is humiliating and to a certain extent they resent it. And furthermore, they resent even more and fear even more the possibility that their countries might become the battlefield of a third world war. And they want to get out of that dilemma. And for this reason, what we call the third force, the group which tries to stay neutral between the conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union, which thinks that, and quite wrongly, that this conflict is none of their business, is much stronger than one would guess from the mere counting of election results, I think there is again almost a biological attempt, a biological escape from that dilemma of being smashed between the two, the colossus of the East and the colossus of the West. Let me frame this question for you, Mr. Morgenthau, see if I can state it exactly. As I see it since the end of the war, here we have had this enormous new force in the East, the Soviet Union, and at the same time the enormous force of the United States in the West, both of them coming out of isolation. Certainly in Europe, I don't think even in the gloomy picture that's been painted here this afternoon, that anyone has said that in Europe they fear the aggression of the United States upon them, but merely that our acts might induce the Soviet Union to make war. Is that right? Exactly. It seems to me that since the end of the war there have been three or four specific attempts by the Soviet Union to use force in order to achieve its objectives. There was, first of all, the retention by the Soviet Union of the Red Army in the northern province of Iran in Azerbaijan. Then there was the use of indirect aggression in Greece and in Turkey. Then there was the attempt to blockade Berlin against the agreements made at the end of the last war. And finally, there was the proxy war in Korea. Well now, in each of these cases, in each of these cases, the United States, I think, did show, perhaps inexpertly, perhaps rather emotionally from time to time, a very direct opposition to this policy. And in each case, where that opposition was shown by the United States, the Soviet Union did pull back. It pulled back in Iran. It pulled back in Greece and Turkey. It finally ended the Berlin blockade as a result of our airlift. And now again, it has sued for peace in Korea. Now, does this catalogue of events make no impression whatsoever upon the thinking people of Europe? Well, it makes an impression, but it might well make the wrong impression because it strengthens the belief of many Europeans that they are not threatened by the Soviet Union, but that what threatens the world is the impetuousness of the United States. You see, they draw quite wrong conclusions from those facts which you have enumerated. And I myself am not sure at all whether those partial retreats on the part of the Soviet Union are the result of lack of aggressiveness or merely of lack of preparedness. Well, now, so you're a historian and I'm just a reporter, but it seems to me that under that kind of logic, the British and the French should have been the source of adulation in Europe in the 1930s for giving in to Hitler at Munich because that avoided war and so on. And you know that in the 30s the overwhelming majority of the public opinions of France and Great Britain supported that policy of appeasement. Yes, that's right. I do recall it. And of course you have... I think you're assuming that the four retreats of the Soviet Union that you listed are bound to have reassured the Europeans. But I think that their feelings on that point are quite mixed and that they ask themselves whether the United States will not become what of all people Stalin once described as being dizzy with success and the next time perhaps venture a little further and commit the Europeans to a degree to which they are very reluctant indeed to be committed. Well, I can see their worry, Mr. Koo. certainly, as I said before, these things are not entirely reasonable. And even if you avoid four... if you avoid war four times the fifth time, it's still as unpleasant as it was before. I was merely trying to make the point that I thought Korea had indicated that the United States not only was able to oppose the aggressive tendencies of communist imperialism but that it had done so in such a way as to avoid that great war. I think that's what the great debate over MacArthur has been about in which the administration has insisted that in opposing communist imperialism it ought to do so in such a way such a restrained way that it did not in the process bring about that big war. I think you're entirely right, Reston. I was in Europe when the MacArthur controversy broke in the United States and I must say that probably nothing since the end of the war has made such a deep impression upon many Europeans than the way in which that issue was settled. It was not so much that the Europeans were relieved of the fear of war which the policies advocated by General MacArthur conjured up. It was much more the fact that here was democracy in action. The fact that an immensely popular and successful general could be relieved overnight by the civilian authorities and that those civilian authorities could afford to allow that general to stump the country and to make its case against that same administration and that Congress could applaud him and then investigate the circumstances of his dismissal. This was a lesson in applied democracy which sank deep into the consciousness of the Europeans and which they will not so easily forget. I think in order to do justice to ourselves as well as to our European allies we ought to be clear in our minds that there are certain sources of misunderstanding which are inevitable which cannot be helped and that there are others which can be helped by ourselves as well as by our allies. First of all I think we should not forget that the traditionally great European powers or the great world powers such as Great Britain have now sunk into secondary if not third rank place and on the other hand we have risen to the top of the ladder as far as power goes. Now this in itself is a source of resentment and disappointment and especially the British have their difficulties in adapting themselves to that place of playing second fiddle to Uncle Sam and to a certain extent this is also true of the French who of course have sunk still deeper than the British have in the scale of power. Well I think you are quite right but I think you could go on with the factors that you mention that arouse and will continue to arouse European distrust of our policy things such as our support of German rearmament things such as the pressure which we are placing upon our allies in Europe to speed up and enlarge their own rearmament those things have very serious implications for masses of Europeans rearmament on the scale on which they have embarked of course promotes inflation it means that the savings of the middle class and as far as they exist of the working class dwindle or disappear it means that their social services are threatened because so much money is going into rearmament that they must trim here and there on social security. And then also isn't it true Mr. Q that you've just come back from over there and you've seen it much more clearly I'm sure than I have here but isn't it true that our policy from time to time backs and fills and looks pretty inconsistent to them from time to time over there doesn't it? It certainly does and you see if it is difficult for us sometimes to understand what our foreign policy is all about take for instance our Far Eastern policy it is certainly not to be wondered at that the Europeans are sometimes unable to understand how we conduct our foreign affairs and what we are aiming at take especially the political and constitutional system under which we operate which has no parallel anywhere in Europe who can understand in Europe that the president can pursue one policy in foreign affairs and Congress quite a different one take certain speeches which high placed officials in the State Department make about our foreign policy in the Far East and elsewhere which are the exact opposite so it seems at least to the uninitiated reader to what the Secretary of State and the President have said for years and then find in the papers a statement on the part of the Secretary of State that that particular speech on the part of the high official it does not constitute any contradiction at all to what he has said all along now we don't understand that should we be surprised that the Europeans don't understand it no I think it's perfectly understandable why a young country taking over suddenly the range of responsibilities and dangers that this country has taken over should from time to time show evidences of this hangover of the old days when we did not train a diplomatic service and so on but surely in Europe they do understand if they are condemning us for being young and emotional I should have thought at the same time they would have understood from time to time these inconsistencies and the element of accident that so condemns our policy from time to time it's very difficult of course to understand for a country such as Great Britain which has such an old and distinguished tradition in diplomacy and on the other hand there is a young and powerful country which has no such tradition in other words the British have all the wisdom to make foreign policy a success you mean such as they're showing in Iran at the present time no well but traditionally I say of course they don't have the power and their lack of success in Iran is in considerable part the result of their lack of power we got all the power but we haven't gotten all the wisdom of course I think there's another factor in this European mentality which is quite unpolitical but which has very distinct political implications and that is a certain European envy of the American people and that is perhaps most clearly illustrated by the films that they see of course we don't need to be surprised about that either because every rich man is caused envied by those who are less rich and ones were more rich it is not only that it is a false picture I think we ought to consider that our relations with our allies are necessarily difficult and that great wisdom is required from us and from our allies to minimize those difficulties it would certainly be the extreme folly for us to say that we should go it alone for we are in the defense of Europe not primarily for the sake of Europe but for our own sake it is a the tradition of American foreign policy to defend Europe against aggressors thank you gentlemen taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on what do Europeans think of American foreign policy were Frederick Kuh formerly London correspondent and now Washington correspondent of the Chicago Sun-Times James B. Reston of the New York Times and Hans J. Morgenthau author of the new book In Defense of the National Interest and director of the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy University of Chicago The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and additional supplementary articles and materials Write to the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37 Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet Single copies are ten cents in coin A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars Next week the roundtable will again be heard at its new time 1.30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time Today's program originated from station WRC in Washington D.C. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation by NBC John Batchelder speaking Be sure to hear Phil Baker and the 64 dollar question tonight on NBC coincide with Milk