This, I think, will be the seventh, if not the eighth season, the company has had at the City Center since it began in 1948. Mr. Kirstein is here to tell us a little more about the company and to check me on my facts. Am I right about that eighth season? No, this is the seventh season, actually. This is the seventh. Tell me, Mr. Kirstein, would you please, if we could backtrack a little here to 1948, your principal concern at the City Center, as I understand it, has been not only the presentation of works that have been developed before 1948, but new works. That's right. We're trying to keep a balance of innovation and an established repertory. But on the other hand, we don't do any ballets that have been done by any other company, with possibly one exception, which is Stravinsky's Firebird, which we do in a version that was prepared by the composer and by our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine. But by and large, the works that we do were created for us, that is, for the New York City Ballet Company, or its various predecessor units. And since we've been in the City Center, we've done approximately 10 to 15 works which haven't been seen in New York. And in our next season, for example, we're doing three new works. What are those? We're doing a very brilliant new American ballet to minstrel themes by the young choreographer Ruth Anna Boris. I just come away from a rehearsal of it, and I think it's called Cakewalk. And it embodies a large minstrel show, as it might have been done in the Mississippi River showboat around 1850. I think Miss Boris is an old friend of Miss Badaña's here. What do you know about this ballet, Miss Badaña? Well, I know something about Miss Boris. We made our debut at the Metropolitan in 1936. Both of you doing the same thing? Both of us dancing. Both of us. It's common. Actually, Miss Boris was one of the premier dancers, and that was also the first time I saw Mr. Kirsten and Mr. Balanchine when they had an association with the Metropolitan. That's when I fell in love with the ballet. Miss Boris has done a couple of ballets since she left the Metropolitan, although, hasn't she? Yes, she has. She's done two ballets, but I think this is the most really wonderful opportunity for her, because she has, I think, a chance to do something she really wants to. And in a company where there's a lot of excitement and enthusiasm and very finely trained dancers, which I must say is a rare thing to see. I'm sure Mr. Kirsten would agree with us about this, but Mr. Dunia, could you be a little more specific about why you think this company is the locus for this kind of activity? The locus, that sounds terrible. What is a locus? What do you mean? What is the ideal place for it? Well, simply because the repertoire, for me, is something that is new and constantly something that changes with the time. I may not be saying articulately. I'm not very articulate about that. But what I mean to say is that you don't get old, stuffy, long, unimaginative stories. You get primarily what I think the ballet is meant for. You get dancing. People are on the stage and they're moving well. And I must say, some of the ballets that I have seen, where people stand still and wave their arms for hours at a time. You'd agree with Mr. Dunia here then that some of the older works that the other companies present are not the essential thing about a ballet company? Well, you put me in a very different position, because it's exactly like saying, I think my children are beautiful. I do. But I think it's a little bit different. First of all, our company has a policy which is based on the background of the school. All our activity started in 1934, when I had the opportunity of asking George Balanchine to come to the United States and found a school. And before that time, although there were many individual studios, I don't think in this country there was ever an attempt to make a balanced faculty of a number of authoritative teachers. In the last 16 years, we've developed a very large school, the School of American Ballet, which has trained a great many dancers, not only in our own company but in other companies. And the coherence of the style of the school, the similarity of the training, and the clear way in which the kids are taught to dance has had an enormous effect on our repertory. And I think this is what Ms. Badania means when she feels that she's pleased by seeing the quality of a continual dance effort rather than any other sort of pantomime movement or narrative gesture. Yes, exactly. That's exactly what I mean, Mr. Kirsten. Isn't this somewhat the same pattern that happened in Russia in the Mariansky Theater when they had the school there? Well, it's an attempt to make the same kind of a thing. After all, our school is not state-endowed, and our company is not a state company. It amounts to being a municipal company, which is another thing. But I think it's fair to say that outside of the Soviet Union and outside of Western Europe, we have the largest and the most authoritative school. And the school is responsible for a generation of choreographers outside of our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine, who after all was a product of the imperial and state schools. And we also have trained some five generations, I figure it could be, if you call it a generation of dancers every three years, about five generations of dancers, some of whom at the present moment have even gone back to our school to teach. Was Ms. Boris a student at the School of American Law? Yes, she was. Oh, yes, indeed she was. She was at the very beginning. And not only that, she was a member of a little company I had in 1936, 37, 38, called the American Ballet Caravan. Yes. So she herself has grown up within the school and outside of the school. And if you have a school through which people can go before they arrive at some kind of real theatrical experience and train them in this process, the end result is, as Mr. Kirstein says, have to have a style. Well, not only that, but we are very fortunate in not only having a school, but we have a home. And the home is the New York City Center of Music and Drama. And due to the imagination of the board of directors, and particularly Mr. Mortenbaum, who is the chairman of the executive committee, we have been able to have a place which is really a kind of home base. We are accustomed to the stage. We give a series of performances there every year, in the fall, in the winter, and in the spring. And we have a very fine orchestra in the direction of Mr. Leon Barzain. That's wonderful. And another thing is that we have now begun to build a very large metropolitan audience. And people come expecting to see a certain kind of ballet, and they are familiar with our dancers. And I don't think that any other country, any other city in America, has the fortunate situation of this connection with a center. Now, it's traditionally been true that the ballet has been connected with opera. And it's very difficult for a ballet company to exist outside of an opera situation. You can't run ballet 52 weeks in a year. But we share the stage of the City Center, not only with Mr. Laszlo Halasch's City Center Opera Company, but also with Mr. Morris Evans' Dramatic Company. And we are one of a unit of three which keeps a very big theater going. And I think this is almost the only case in America where you have something approaching a state theater. Yes, except the only difference being, as you yourself pointed out, it is a municipal rather than a state organization. The Soviet and the French and the English are all national. Yes. You said something about the New York City, the other parts of the New York City Center, namely the opera and the drama. I think of the audience as being a very special kind of audience. And that is that they are not, as far as I have been able to observe, the regular metropolitan opera-going audience for the opera, nor the drama-going audience for the drama. Well, I think you're pristine. And that's what's exciting about it. At least for me, I seem to be using these adjectives. Well, it's very reassuring for me to have a... I don't know any of the people in the theater. I mean, it's very difficult for me to go downstairs during intermission, for example, and find anybody. Yet the house is very often full, and I see night after night a whole new section of people, often very young, who come into the theater, and who seem to have an attitude which is entirely fresh. Could we go back, Mr. Kirstein, to talk about the new ballets that the company is doing during this extraordinary, special three-week spring season? Well, aside from the minstrel show of ballet by Ruth Anna Boris, which we call a cakewalk, there are two other works. There is a very brilliant framing of two of our greatest classical dancers that our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine, has done. To Mendelssohn's extraordinary virtuoso piano piece, Capuccio Briand, Mr. Balanchine has designed a showpiece for our first dancer, Maria Tallchief, and for Mr. Andrei Glewski, who is known, generally speaking, as the greatest exponent of the classic style probably in this country. Aside from that, we're also doing a new and extremely interesting ballet by Jerome Robbins, whose dances for The King and I have made such an enormous hit. This is called, he calls it The Cage, and it's actually done to music by Stravinsky. It's the Basler Concerto, a concerto that Stravinsky, or actually Concerto Grosso, that Stravinsky wrote for the Society of Music in Basel, Switzerland. For the information, the radio audience might want to listen to this piece of music that Mr. Robbins has arranged his ballet to. It has been recorded and is easily available. I want to ask you a little bit about the music, Mr. Kirstein, because that interests me very much. In looking over the repertoire, I wonder about how much music you have commissioned and how much Mr. Balanchine has simply taken out of the repertoire of, so to speak, great music. Well, it's about half and half. Mr. Balanchine and myself, in the last 16 years, have commissioned a large number of works. For example, we have worked with Mr. Stravinsky on two occasions. He composed for us the card party, or poker party, Je Descartes, which is in our current repertory. He also composed Orpheus for us, on commission. And at the present moment, he is composing another work, which will be a kind of third act following Orpheus. We have commissioned Hindemith and Aaron Copland and Alexei Hayeff and a number of other younger composers, and we intend to go on as much as we possibly can, working with the best contemporary composers, or rather those people who are most interested in working with dancers. On the other hand, we also have used a considerable amount of music from the established orchestral repertory. And our repertory really is largely symphonic. We have a very large orchestra, and very often it troubles people that the orchestra is so big. I think that's one of the chief and great attractions, to hear a fine orchestra, which at the same time that you're... I'm sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt this, but our time is up. Thank you, Natalie Baudania and Lincoln Kirstein, for joining me in discussing the new season of the New York City Ballet. The opening night of the New York City Ballet's current season is Tuesday evening, June 5th. This is Frances Mason inviting you to tune in next week at this time, when we invite you to meet the New York City Ballet Company. Ms. Ruthanna Barres, choreographer of the new ballet Cakewalk, which the company will present on Tuesday evening, June 12th, will be with us at that time. To introduce the radio audience to the New York City Ballet Company, Natalie Baudania and I, during the first broadcast a couple of weeks ago, talked with Lincoln Kirstein, general director of the company, who gave us a picture of the group as a whole. It's past and it's present. Last week, Ruthanna Barres, choreographer of the New York City Ballet Company's new success, the minstrel show ballet Cakewalk, told us something about a ballet, how a ballet comes to be. Or is born. Or is born. New ballets are only one part of the story, however, and Ms. Baudania and I, as we talked about introducing the company completely and intelligibly, thought it would be a good idea to look at it from the inside. And to help us do that, today we've asked Rita Brown, assistant to the ballet master of the New York City Ballet Company, and one of its dancers, to come and talk about the company with us. May I ask the first question, Mr. Mason? You may, Ms. Baudania. Ms. Brown, will you answer my first question completely quickly in one minute slot? What is your job? Well, actually, I'm Mr. Balanchine's assistant, and he has not, he doesn't have all the time in the world to rehearse all the repertoire, so I help him and rehearse the old ballets, and also, if there are replacements needed, I teach the new girls the repertoire and place them in the ballets. Also, if there are accidents, if anyone hurts themselves, then I see that those parts are covered. Well, actually, does the word ballet mistress, is that what the word ballet mistress, the job of ballet mistress, is in any company? Well, not exactly, no, because I don't have the authority to say who does which part. Mr. Balanchine tells me those things, and then I go ahead and do them, you see. Mr. Balanchine is... I carry out his orders. Right, in other words, in addition to being the artistic director of the company and its chief choreographer, he is, in a very practical sense, ballet master, too. Yes, that's right. I think perhaps we ought to make one thing clear for the audience, and that is that Mr. Balanchine is remarkable as a musician. I think if he were not only a choreographer, if he were not a choreographer, he would be a very great and important musician. And so that it's... Well, this relates to you, Ms. Brown. I think to just say that you're his assistant, of course, is giving the title, but it must mean more than that, because Mr. Balanchine would not simply give over the job of assistant to him, to someone who'd just simply step in while he goes out and does something else. Well, I've worked with Mr. Balanchine for quite a while, and I remember... How long, really, have you worked with him? I've worked with him for about, oh, ten years. Not in a... Off and on. Off and on. Not steadily, no. Uh-huh. But quite a while. I've been with this company only a year. Could we get down to the real problem here of what happens? How many girls and boys have you got in the company? Well, we have 49 dancers altogether, and we have about 24 corps de ballet, and that is more my job, is seeing that they're replaced and know the repertoire and rehearse. And remember the ballet, because memory is very important in that. Yes, sir. How do you do it? Well, I rely completely on my memory at the moment, but we have what is called dance notation that is, in the future, the coming thing. But at the moment, no one can read dance notation, at least I can't, so I rely completely on my memory. I think that it's important to say that up until the present time, as you said, there hasn't been any overall dance notation language for all companies, that the whole of the ballet repertoire has been, so to speak, in the hands of ballet master and ballet mistress. That's very true. To skip over memory is a very slight way, and not really doing yourself justice. Oh, well, for me it seems perfectly easy to remember ballets. I think that perhaps the audience ought to know that when you first came to this company, it's a story that I think is very nice. You were at a serenade rehearsal, is that correct? Yes, yes. And Mr. Balanchine was running through it, and you came to one spot, and you stood there and shook your head and said, uh-uh, and then he turned to you and said, Well, I've been doing the ballet for quite a while, and it's very difficult when he restages the ballet for different companies so often. It's difficult for him to do exactly the same thing each time. Yes. So, and I've been dancing it for many years. But you've also been dancing other ballets for many years. Yes. And this, uh, so you're- But this is one of my favorites, and I remember this perfectly. Well, I don't think you're giving yourself credit for what you should. In other words, for a ballet mistress, it is terribly important to have a very accurate memory. And with that goes being all the important things connected with that, being very musical, and that it is very important, uh, to have, uh, that special talent. Well, actually, the, uh, dance notation looks a great deal like the musical score. Yes, tell us a little about that, if you would. Well, uh, instead of reading vertically, of course, you read, uh, instead of reading horizontally, as in a music score, you read vertically. And each measure of music is set down to a step. Right. You see what I mean? You mean you have- You have certain figures made- Yes. Put on the- Yes, they have figures just like little notes. And they show you the arm movement and the foot, the hand. And how high you are off the- Should be, at any rate, off the floor at a certain point. Yes, tell you when to jump. Well, uh, how about film? Has that been valuable? Yes, that's very valuable. Actually, that's what, uh, most people use at the moment. But it's very difficult to read from a film, to learn a ballet. After all, a film is a record of a ballet performance. Yes. By one particular company. And unless it happens to be the choreographer's own company, it's apt not to be very definitive. Yes. Uh, what, uh, could we ask a little bit about the, um, about the, uh, personnel? That is, how many, how many girls come and go? And what is the problem? We have quite a turnover every season. And, um, we hold auditions to bring in new dancers. Yes. Is there, is there any ballet in which all the dancers in the company appear, Ms. Brown? Yes. There, uh, is one ballet, Bure Fantasque, where every member of the company is in. Otherwise, in the other ballets, there are people to cover the dancers. For instance, in Chicago, on our opening night, we had one girl who was, was out. And she was able to be covered in every ballet except Bure Fantasque. Let's the radio audience not know about it, Ms. Brown is referring to the New York City Ballet Company's recent triumphant two-week engagement at the Chicago Opera House. I think, uh, perhaps we ought to say something, too, don't you think, Mr. Mason, about Ms. Brown as a dancer? By all means, Ms. Badanya. What's your favorite ballet in which Ms. Brown appears? My favorite ballet in which Ms. Brown, well, the favorite, the thing that I loved her, fell in love with her originally, since I fall in love with ballet dancers right and left, was when I saw her in Rodeo. She was a cowgirl. Uh, that's when I first saw her. Right. But, um... What about now? Now, now, in my most favorite ballet company, she is the beautiful blonde in the middle in La Valle. Oh, please, Ms. Badanya. Well, it's true. Why, we're here to inform the radio audience. And so when they first see the curtain go up on La Valle, you see three lovely creatures in the middle of the stage, and Ms. Brown is the middle one, the blonde. Well, it's hard for me to tell which of the ballets at the New York City Center I like to see Ms. Brown in most, but she's in a great many of them. Easily identifiable. I must say, it's very difficult to do both the dancing and the rehearsing. Yes, what about that? You're dancing all the time as well as you are rehearsing these ballets. Yes, it takes an awful lot, but I prefer, actually, to dance a little less, and yet I hate to give up the dancing. I was going to ask you about that. After all, you're so terribly young, and you should be spending most of your time on the stage, but it must be a temptation to work with Mr. Balanchine. Oh, it certainly is. As his assistant, and to get all these, get this wonderful opportunity to get under your belt, so to speak, all these ballets. Oh, yes, it's most exciting. What happens, I often wonder, when somebody gets sick, is this your job? Well, that's happened, yes. That's happened on a moment's notice, but usually we have understudies who can go into the park. Have you had to do any of these special things? Have you any special little secret that we don't all know about? No, I'm afraid not. You would like, however, to be able to sit out in the audience and observe exactly... Yes, that would be the best way, actually, to carry on, but it's difficult being in all the ballets. It would be hard at the moment to find a place for anybody but the audience, in the audience. I hope so. Miss Brown, the other thing I want to ask you is, does your job differ really essentially from what the original job of the ballet mistress was? I mean, you say that, of course, you're under Mr. Balanchine's direction. Direction. Direction. However, what is a ballet mistress in a regular, in a different... Well, it's her job, or his job, to go out front and watch the performances and see the mistakes and correct the mistakes that are made on stage. For instance, lines and arms and heads must all be alike. Nanette Devalois, the director of the Sattlers-Wells Ballet Company, I believe, does this astutely at every performance. And that's why they have a very good company. Yes. Well, I don't think because you are out in front of the curtain every night. Still with Mr. Balanchine, as you say. Yes. Well, the other thing is that there are young choreographers in the company that Mr. Balanchine is encouraging, and also Mr. Kerstein is encouraging. Do you sit in on the rehearsals of these other choreographers? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. I sit in and watch the rehearsals so that when it comes to my time to rehearse them, I'll know the corrections that the choreographer has made. Do you have the problem that perhaps I do sometimes in forgetting, oh, I don't know, sometimes I'm singing Boheme and I think I, where am I? I'm in Rigoletto. Do you get yourself mixed up there? No. No. Not so far. Miss Brown, what about going afield with the New York City Ballet Company's ballets? What's this I hear about you going out to San Francisco to stage a ballet? Well, I have been asked to go out to San Francisco and put on Serenade for the San Francisco Opera Ballet, and it'll be wonderful to do that. I'm looking forward to it. Yes, that I think is the greatest of all Balanchine ballets. That's my special opinion. Oh, yes. That's my favorite ballet. It is. And you'll be completely in charge. It will be your baby, so to speak. Yes, out there. Without Mr. Balanchine and no one there to, oh, I don't know, to assist me. Well, Mr. Lou Christensen, who is the ballet master of the San Francisco Opera Ballet. I'm sorry I'm going to have to interrupt. Our time's run out. Thanks, Vita Brown. We're joining Natalie Badania and me in talking about the New York City Ballet from the important ballet mistress's point of view. We don't want the radio audience to forget that the New York City Ballet Company starts tomorrow, the final week of its gala spring season. Performances of the three new ballets, Balanchine's Capriccio Brillant, Cakewalk, and Jerome Robbins' The Cage, are all scheduled for different performances during the week. We must say that the City Center Theater is air-cooled, delightfully air-cooled, air-conditioned, so that if anybody's worried about hot weather or anything like that, just think extra gravy. There's no question that it's the best place to be in New York between 8.30 and 11 every night in the week except Monday. Thank you, Mr. Mason. At the end of the season, next Monday, Natalie Badania and I will be back once more to talk to a member of the New York City Ballet Company's audience. Good. Harold Holtz, sports announcer and advertising man, is going to talk to us at that time. Thank you.