This afternoon, most of you participated in the very simple and significant ceremony by which this magnificent place was transferred to the University to serve as a home for this and future meetings of the American Assembly. This represents, from the standpoint of the University, the fulfillment of an aspiration for such a conference center which we have long held. We believe that the plans which have been made and which are now approaching fruition have been soundly made. We believe, and indeed I need not add that we hope, that this will prove to be an institution of national service which will thoroughly justify the effort that has been made to make it available. And which will justify, in addition, the generosity of the Harriman brothers whose assist without his assistance this could not have been done. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I have the very great pleasure, on behalf of the University Administration, now in turning this meeting and the future sessions of this meeting of the Assembly, over to Ambassador Douglas, the Chairman of the National Policy Board, in whose hands we are from now on. Ambassador Douglas. Ambassador Douglas. Dr. Curt, members of the American Assembly, and its guests, in calling this Assembly, this first session of the American Assembly to order, as it were, I am not unconscious of the handicap under which it is being held. It is the handicap of the absence of the President of Columbia University, General Eisenhower. He regrets deeply that his duties elsewhere prevent him from participating in this session, the establishment of the Assembly. But he's expressed his own feelings much more adequately and much more pungently and much more convincingly than I could do it for him. For he's written me a letter which he has asked me to read to you. My inability to attend the opening conference of the American Assembly is more than a personal disappointment. I feel robbed of an opportunity to participate in an event which I am firmly convinced will grow to be a program of incalculable value to our country. This value will, of course, depend on the objectivity and impartiality of the proceedings, the integrity and thoroughness of the professional research work, and upon the character and qualifications of the participants. This initial conference is and must be regarded as an experiment from which much will be learned to improve and guide us in the conduct of future meetings of the American Assembly. But the quality of those who attend this conference, their abilities and high loyalty to the nation's welfare assure its unqualified success. I hope you will give Senator Taft, the moment has been detained, and Senator Douglas, my sincere thanks for taking the time from their public duties to speak on this occasion. I hope, too, that you will extend to every participant the assurance of my personal appreciation for this cooperation, as well as a warm welcome from the Columbia University family to the home of the American Assembly. With cordial personal regards, Ike Eisenhower. Thank you. It is a very real infirmity that he cannot be here. For this is his creature. This is the child of his mind. And his personality. is necessary to the growth of this infant during its early days. I am but a very poor substitute. But I am sure that you all will join with me in expressing the hope that at the next meeting of the Assembly, General Eisenhower will be here to nourish and foster the creature of his own imagination. There's little that I can say about the Assembly, the American Assembly, that has not already been said. But there are two observations that I should like to make. The first is that if it is to discharge adequately and effectively the responsibilities which we all repose upon it, then it must preserve, with meticulous care, its complete intellectual independence. Its critical faculties must be guarded. Its intellectual integrity must be defended against any impusion. I remember once, many years ago, sitting with Clermont Sal in his little fisherman's cottage in the Vendée. I asked him I asked him what he considered to be the most valuable qualities that a person could possess. And after considering the question for a few minutes, he placed his hand upon my knee and he said, my son, I have lived almost the span of a century. And so he has. And he said, I have seen kingdoms made, I have seen kingdoms destroyed. He chuckled. And he said, I have probably destroyed more government than any other living person. And as I review this scene, he said, I have come to the conclusion that there are only two things in life that really matter. The first is to love and to be loved, and the second is to be intellectually honest. Now that quality of intellectual integrity is a quality which the American Assembly must preserve. Its usefulness will depend largely upon its ability to protect that one essential characteristic. The second observation I should like to make about the first session of the American Assembly is that because it is the first meeting, it must by its nature be experimental. Experimental in the way in which the data has been assembled and distributed to the participants. the first meeting. The first meeting is the first meeting. Experimental in the organization of this particular meeting. Experimental in the way in which the findings, if any, shall be distributed throughout the public consciousness of the country. This is an extraordinarily difficult task that has been undertaken. It will not be easy to find the answers that from day to day and month to month will put in their questions, that will put in their appearance. And so you must, I hope you will, view this as the first earnest and sincere endeavor to perform a national service. It will not be easy to find the answers. It will not be easy to find the answers. If you have criticisms, as I hope you will have, if you have suggestions, and I am confident that you will entertain them. And I hope you will have a good time. We express the expectation that you will express them, so that future sessions of the assembly can be improved by this experience. I have said that this first session was operating under a handicap. And so it is. But on the other side of the coin, there is an advantage for both senators, Senator Douglas and Senator Tapp, have agreed this evening to present alternative views of the issues which they are believed to be associated with and implicit in the subject which was chosen for this meeting of the assembly. That is, the United States relationship with Western Europe, viewed from within the context of the present worldwide international environment. And I should like to add your appreciation to the appreciation of General Eisenhower to both Senator Douglas and to Senator Tapp for taking the time from their public duties to start this session off with what may be two somewhat divergent statements of opinion and of facts. Ultimately, we hope that this assembly will be able to define some area of agreement and that it will also be able to define an area of disagreement. Disagreements are not in themselves injurious to a free society. Indeed, as long as men are free, disagreements will always exist. The important thing about disagreements in a free society is they reflect an honest disagreement. And so it would be of great significance to the country if this assembly could it do no more and the fact that the law were to define honestly and with complete integrity an area of disagreement as to fact and as to conclusion. And this evening, Senator Douglas has agreed to speak. Senator Taft, similarly. And here he is. I'm sorry, Bob. We've proceeded, knowing that you would come, because of the time element on the limitations of time on the radio. Senator Taft has agreed very generously to speak this evening and Senator Douglas, similarly, has agreed to speak. After they have finished and concluded their presentation, they have agreed to submit themselves to questions. I shall be the arbiter of the nature of the question, of the time. But I'd like to make this quite clear, that any question which is put to either of the two distinguished senators will be put similarly to the other. And the questions will alternate. Senator Douglas will speak first and Senator Taft will speak second. The first question will be put to Senator Taft. And the similar question, an identical question, will be put to Senator Douglas. Is it? Is it? Is it a very important? Uh, before we go further, I again should like to express our gratitude collectively and individually to both Senator Douglas and Senator Taft for agreeing to come here and to start this first session of the Assembly, off, as it were, on a high plane. Uh, neither one of these two gentlemen need any introduction, and I would be wasting your time, their time, and everybody else's time, if I were to, if I were to attempt to, to introduce them. I really want to make it clear that, uh, the one is entitled to as much respect as the other. This is a frightfully difficult thing to do. I could say something very nice about both of them and be quite honest. Uh, and that I shall. Senator Douglas has been a distinguished member of the Senate since he first went there in 1945. With his views, many of us have from time to time disagreed, but no one of us has ever questioned his intellectual integrity. And with the full assurance of all appreciation, you're coming here tonight, our respect for you as an individual, and as a member of the second Mount Sisingy branch of the Legislative, part of the United States government. I introduce you. Thank you. My namesake, Mr. Douglas, my friend and colleague, Mr. Cass, friends of the Assembly, it's a very real honor to be invited to help initiate the discussion in this opening session of the American Assembly, and one naturally feels quite humble and somewhat inadequate before they pass. I'm afraid that most of the things that I have to say about the importance of Western Europe to the United States will seem fairly obvious, and perhaps trite to such an able audience as this. My only excuse is the saying of Dr. Johnson that men need not so much to be informed, as to be reminded, and also perhaps I can lay a basis for the discussion, much more valuable discussion, which will follow in the days ahead. I want to start with the fundamental thesis that it is of vital importance to the United States that Western Europe should not fall into Russian hands. It would not seem necessary to labor this point were it not for the fact that there are still many in this country that the United States could ultimately go it alone and have a very good chance for survival if we did face a completely hostile world. The present division of the populations of the world are approximately in the ratio of 1 to 2, 750 million under communist direction, and approximately a billion and a half under non-communist direction. About three quarters of a billion are in Asia, Asia Minor, the islands of the Pacific, and therefore aside from natural resources, are not of great immediate military importance. If the 250 million peoples of Western Europe were added to the 750 million under communist control, and the some 250 million under communist control in Europe proper, we would have on our side the 153 millions of the United States plus the 13 millions of Canada, plus possibly the 40 millions of Mexico and the Caribbean, or a total of not greatly in excess of 200 million people. So that from the standpoint of population, we would have the odds very much against it. From the standpoint of industrial resources, we would be about on an even basis. As you know, the steel capacity of the United States is as present 100 million tons a year. Steel capacity of Russia is 35 million tons a year. The steel capacity of Western Europe is 65 million tons a year. As long as we have Western Europe on our side, we can outproduce the Russians, and I suppose steel is the most sensitive index in the ratio of approximately five to one. But if Western Europe passes into Russian hands, the steel capacity of the communist bloc will then be approximately equal to our steel capacity. The shipbuilding capacity of Europe will be in excess of certainly our present shipbuilding capacity. So the first simple thesis, and it's very trite and very obvious, is that from the standpoint of population and industrial resources, we cannot afford to let Western Europe move into Russian hands. What about the economic aspects of Europe? We, of course, do not depend upon Europe for any vital war materials with the exception of Mercury. It is South America, Asia, and to some degree Africa, so-called tropical regions of the world which we need for war materials. But a third of our exports go to Western Europe, and our three great export crops upon which the prosperity of the South and the Middle West depend, largely depend upon Europe as a market. A third of our cotton is exported, most of which goes to the cotton mills of England and the continent. Roughly a third of our wheat, most of it for Western Europe, a quarter of our tobacco, and the other countries, and the other countries. So that if Western Europe were to fall into communist hands, these markets for exports would be shut out, and we would have great economic distress in this country. If they are held, and if in addition we can build up a greater degree of economic unity between the United States and Western Europe, so that our alliance is not merely a military one, but is also an economic one, then the capacities for the expansion of our exports will be almost unlimited. The United States and Canada are the natural granaries for the industrial regions of Europe. The agricultural factories, agricultural machinery factories of this country, can produce agricultural machinery cheaply and efficiently, and could be used to build up the agriculture certainly of Germany, possibly to some degree of Western Europe. The machine tool industry of this country, could find a great market in Europe. The electrical machinery of this country, could find great expansion. And perhaps if we can become strong enough allies, wedded closely enough to each other, we can create a great economic system which will span the Atlantic to make possible international division of labor on a very wide scale, to the advantage of both countries and all peoples. the countries. The countries. But I do not wish to be purely materialistic. I do not wish to speak entirely in terms of military strength, industrial potential, increased military prosperity. It is certainly also true that Western Europe and the United States are with all our differences, as a cultural unit. It is these sections of the world where we have developed political democracy and political freedom. Great religions of Christianity, Roman Catholicism and Protestantism, are the basic faiths and do not, as a matter of fact, greatly extend outside of Western Europe and the United States, except in the case of Catholicism, South America and the Latin American countries. So, to repeat, I do not think we can take lightly the danger that Western Europe might fall under communist hands. And if that were to happen, it would be a calamity to this country of the first magnitude. Because at present, if we take total communist military strength of approximately 175 divisions, plus 60 divisions in the European satellites exclusive of the Chinese army, we have a total of 235 divisions against which the countries of Western Europe probably could not put more than 15 in the field. And then they would have to draw upon so-called territorials in the French reserve divisions. So, first, to repeat, finally important, that Western Europe should not fall under communist hands. Then the question comes, how can it be defended? Some have advanced the idea that it can be defended primarily by our contributing air and sea power, but not any appreciable number of land troops. That the defense of Western Europe on the land should be either predominantly, or as in some cases, as this is advanced, exclusively the function of Western Europe. Well, I would say that the defense of Western Europe on the land should be predominantly the concern of Western Europe, but it should not be exclusively the concern of Western Europe. In the first place, it seems probable that we would not have air superiority if any attack on Western Europe would occur within the next two or three years. The Russian superiority in tactical aviation is so great that it will take an appreciable amount of time before we can build our air forces up so that we could launch them against an advancing Russian or satellite advance through Germany and through Western Europe. You may say that it is the fault of the administration that it has not built up the air force, or you can say that it is the fault of the air force, that it has not developed tactical aviation and is concentrated instead on strategic bombing, or you can say that it is inherent in the desire of the American people not to spend very much on element and to try to economize the matter of defense. Whatever the explanation may be, certainly it is true that we would not have air superiority in the immediate future, and that therefore the prospect that is held out that we can defend Western Europe from the air seems to me to be fallacious. In the second place, even if we did control the air, at least with such weapons as have been developed and put into practice up to the present, the lesson of Korea seems to be clear that air power cannot stop an advancing army. We have had dominance in the air over Korea ever since the beginning of hostilities there. We controlled the air when the North Koreans surged down from, across the 38th parallel, down through central Korea and almost to the gates of Busan, and yet our air power was not able to turn back the North Korean armies. We similarly had dominance over, air dominance over Korea when the Chinese armies attacked in November and in December, and while our air force did extremely well, it was not able to stop the Chinese land armies. Most of us have talked probably with people who have returned from Korea. Everyone with whom I have talked has said that that is certainly one of the lessons of the Korean War, that aviation in itself cannot stop the ground troops. Now it is quite possible that we may be able to deliver atomic bombs in such minute quantities as to stop land armies in the future. That is possible, that we can localize the effect of an atomic explosion so that it can be used against a division, a corps, or an advancing army. But I think we shouldn't depend on these possible Buck Rogers developments if they have not yet been tried out and have not yet been demonstrated. It seems to me unsafe to place our reliance upon air power in the face of the Korean experience and not and we should not depend upon weapons which have not yet been developed or tried out. The scientist always wants to abolish the infantrymen and to transform a war into a push-button affair in which science is dominant. But in every war that has occurred, it's the human spirit that is ultimately tested and it is the land armies and the infantrymen to ultimately make the difference between success and failure. So I would like to advance the thesis that the continent of Europe cannot be defended by air power alone, certainly not by our air power in its present form, and that if it is to be successfully defended, there will have to be a large army, a well-equipped army, fighting to defend that area. Well, you asked, why should not Europe itself furnish exclusively the army? Is it not their territory? Is it not their population? Is it not their territory which will be attacked, invaded, conquered, should it not therefore be their exclusive responsibility? As I have said, I think it should be their predominant responsibility, but I do not believe that it can be their exclusive responsibility. I think you will find that Western Europe will probably be willing to fight if it feels that it has a fair chance of success. But they will believe that their chance of success will be much greater if American troops are fighting alongside of their troops, rather than remaining in the rear, protecting the British Isles, but not engaging in any struggles on the continent. I think it is. My good friend Senator Taft, you will forgive me if I try to quote him in advance on this. That's a good point. All right. My good friend Senator Taft on other occasions has advocated this doctrine of defending Europe by air and sea power. That's fundamentally, as I understand it, the same policy which Great Britain adopted in relationship with the continent and the continent for at least two centuries, in the time of Queen Anne, particularly, however, in the Napoleonic War and at the outbreak of the First World War. Though wars were much less destructive in those days than in these, it did not arouse very much enthusiasm for Great Britain on the part of the French people. The French people felt that Great Britain was pushing them into the forefront, letting them take the buffets, and then remaining discreetly in a safe position. And it was this policy which won for Great Britain the title on the continent of Papidius Aldrin. It put such a strain indeed upon the Franco-Pritish relationship that in the preparations for World War II, the French were insisting that there should be British divisions on the continent of Europe in the very beginning. And while I suppose the full diplomatic and military negotiations of the 20s and 30s are not known, certainly the French constantly insisted that at least the British should be there initially at the trouble. So, I think it's quite apparent, although this may be questioned, that the French and people of the low countries would have their spirit of resistance very much diminished if they felt that both Great Britain and the United States would remain behind the lines. If, however, they have a pledge that Great Britain and the United States will help bear part of the initial shock, even though a minor part, and therefore give them an assurance that they're going to be in the struggle for keeps, then their will to resist will naturally be greatly heightened. And that was the testimony of General Eisenhower when he came back here in February and early March. Now, I have always been somewhat puzzled by doctrines of such men as Mr. Hoover, who I believe in this matter goes much, has a much more restricted point of view than the son of the death, that it is enough for us to hold island bases off continents, and that this will give us a sure protection from which we can launch air attacks. I do not see how we could expect to hold Great Britain for long if the continent of Europe were to be lost to the Russians. Russians undoubtedly have developed guided missiles far beyond the point which the Germans have developed them. They have a great many of the German scientists with them, and they could set up their launching platforms from the channel, and with the range which guided missiles now have, it seemed to me that they would virtually be able to compel a surrender by Great Britain, when Great Britain did surrender, that we would lose these air bases upon which Mr. Hoover and others seemed to depend. Therefore, that we need a periphera of land on the continent of Europe to protect the very island bases which we need for air or for an aviation attack. I suddenly remember that I omitted perhaps the most obvious point of all in this discussion that I've been giving, namely that you cannot expect the Western Europeans to have much enthusiasm if we permit them to be conquered in the first place, and then bomb them to pieces after they have been conquered as a reward for their behavior. And yet that is precisely the consequence of those who advocate air power alone. Well, if Western Europe should be defended, and if land armies as well as air and sea power are needed for its defense, the question, the next question comes is obviously whether we are being asked to bear a disproportionate share of the burden. Nobody quite knows what the Brussels agreement provided for, but we know from the statement of former Prime Minister Plevin that under it France is committed to furnish 20 divisions. The first two divisions probably Great Britain committed to furnish approximately eight divisions. The low countries perhaps five to six divisions. The statement of General Marshall before the Armed Services Committee was that the United States is committed to furnish six divisions. That makes a total of 40 divisions excluding Italy and West Germany. It is probably not too far from the point to say that it is planned to build up a force of from 50 to 60 divisions at a minimum with the target date perhaps in 53 although I hope it will be at the end of 52. And our contribution of six divisions out of this total would therefore be from one eighth to one tenth of the total. We bearing in addition the equipment of a number of divisions particularly the French divisions. I would suggest therefore that this is not a disproportionate share of the initial amount. On the contrary it would seem to be a modest share. I had thought that probably we could go up to a ratio of one to four or one to five which would mean that we would contribute from one fifth to one sixth of the total. That did not seem excessive to me although I did not want us to contribute and do not want us to contribute a larger fraction than this amount. One fourth or one fifth to one sixth of the total. One fourth or two fifth of the total. One fourth or two fifth of the total. One fourth or two fifth of the total. One fourth or two fifth of the total. And therefore after General Marshall's pledge or statement that present plans call for only six divisions. I cease to advocate placing a ratio in the resolution approving the sending of troops to Europe. Another question that inevitably comes up is whether the other countries are doing their share. Certainly under the Brussels agreement they are pledged to do their share. The question is have they given any present evidence of doing their share. In January I collected some figures on this point which I believe are substantially accurate. I shall repeat them and try to bring them as much as possible up to date. In all these comparisons we want to take the relative burden and not merely the absolute amount of the contribution. And one of the best measures of relative burden in terms of armed forces is the number of men per 1,000 population. In Italy the ratio was only one third of the population. In Italy the ratio was only one third of the population. As of the end of March. We had 18 men out of every 1,000 population. Who were in uniform. And interestingly enough that was the precise ratio. In Great Britain and in France as well. 18 to the 1,000. So that they were on an equality with us. In Italy the ratio was only one third of this. About six to the 1,000. But that was because the Italian peace treaty. In itself placed a ceiling. On the maximum size of the Italian forces. The smaller nations of Western Europe. Had a ratio of only 10 to the 1,000. And I think it is true that they and the British Dominions to date. And I included this all the British Dominions. Australia, New Zealand, Canada. Have been coasting along on the strength. Of the so-called great powers. If they are to make a. Proportionate contribution. They should greatly increase. The number of men. Under arms. Belgium and Holland and Denmark. Australia, New Zealand and Canada. It's always somewhat ungracious however. For the big nations. To urge the small nations. To arm in this fashion. But there is an obligation upon them. The point I want to make is this. That as of January. They had as many men. Under arms in relationship to their population. As we have. Indeed if you were to take the French. Reserve forces. Men who had served. Their period of compulsory military service. And had passed into the reserve. And there were a million and a half of those. And formed in reserve divisions. Though poorly equipped. The French ratio was 50 to the thousand. As compared to our 18. I was basing my figures. On two and three quarter million. Men under arms. As of the end of January. Of course we hope that by summer. And is planned by summer. To have roughly. Three and a half million men under arms. That would be 23 to the thousand. But there is every evidence. That when the French. Add 15 more divisions. On the continent of Europe. Which is their plan. The French ratio will exceed 23 to the thousand. And that the planned increase. In the size of the British forces. Which runs from 100,000 to 200,000. Total men. Will bring them very close. To 23 to the thousand. Perhaps 21 to the thousand. So that I think we can say. That the major powers. Are going up together. In the ratio of men. In the armed services. And that. We are not being asked to bear. We are not being asked to bear. A disproportionate share. Of the manpower burden. What about the financial. Support. What about the money contributions. Which though less important than men. Are still. Extremely important. Well. I have made some comparisons there too. Taking the expenditures. For national element. And figuring them as a. Percentage of. Gross national product. I would prefer to take. Net national income. As a better absolute measure. But as a relative measure. I think it is alright to use. Gross national product. For the various countries. Last year. The year 1950. All of these countries. Were probably spending. With exception of Italy. Or rather we should say. UK. And France. Were probably spending. A somewhat. Larger fraction. Of their national income. For purely element purposes. Than were we. At present. We are spending. At the rate of 25 billion. A year. Which is. About one-twelfth. Of our gross national product. Or. A little over. Eight percent. Of the total. The ratio. For. France. And. French budget. Nine point. Seven percent. And. For the. United Kingdom. Eight point. Oh. Percent. The French budget. May be slightly padded. For military expenditure. But. I think one can safely say. That the French. As of this moment. Are spending. About the same proportion. Of their national income. That we are spending. And the British. Are probably spending. As large a fraction. Of their national income. We of course. Intend to double. This rate of expenditure. From 25 billions a year. To a rate of 50 billions a year. And that 50 billions. Will include. The sums. Which we will. Spend for the rearmament. Of Western Europe. Reequipping. French divisions. This will be one-sixth. Of the gross national product. Assuming that. To be a constant magnitude. The British. Budget is going to increase. But according to my figures. It will not increase. Much beyond 11 percent. Of the gross national product. The French may get up to. 11 percent. This is the first point. This is the first figure. Which I've turned up. Indicating a greater degree. Of sacrifice. On our part. Than the major European nations. But let us see. Let us go into that. A bit more. And see whether it really is. A greater degree of sacrifice. The. Per capita. Real income. Of the United States. In terms of American dollars. Is about $1,500 per year. The per capita income. In terms of American dollars. In Great Britain. Is about $750. A year. And in France. Something over $450. A year. Or in other words. Our per capita income. In terms of real purchasing power. Is about twice. The per capita purchasing power. Of Great Britain. And at least three times. Possibly. And probably more. The per capita real income. Of France. Well. In this country. We've come to accept the fact. Of the progressive income tax. That people with a. Larger real income. Can bear. A larger. Percentage tax. Without necessarily. Any greater. Psychic sacrifice. I submit. Therefore. That in view of the fact. That our real income. Per capita. Is twice that of Great Britain. Three times that of France. It is not disproportionate. For us to spend one sixth. Of this per capita income. On our month. As compared to one ninth. In Great Britain. And in France. In short. The conclusion. To which I come at least. Is that in view of the importance. Of the stake. In view of the. In adequacy of air. And sea power alone. In view of the contributions. Which Europe is already making. And to which Europe is pledged. Under the Brussels agreement. That it is proper. For us to. Send these four. Added divisions. To Europe. And to stand beside them. If a land attack. Occurs. Now. The terms of reference. Which Mr. Douglas. Gave me. Were that we were to discuss. The relationships between Europe. And the United States. Primarily. In fact. There was nothing else mentioned. In the covering letter. And covering telegram. But I know how impossible it is. To confine any. Discussion of foreign affairs. At this time. Purely to Western Europe. And perhaps this is all right. Although it's sometimes. Rather difficult to. Deal with. Because. As you try to discuss. One subject. You find. Other parts of the globe. Being brought in. Asia. But since it is a global struggle. I think perhaps. It's appropriate. Say a few words at least. About Asia. I want to say. That this program. Of defending. Helping to defend. Western Europe. In no sense. Implies any abandonment. Of Asia. I'm not here. To make a party speech. Or to defend. The present administration. I like to think for myself. And I. Like to believe at least. That I take my positions. Independently. Of the line of my party. But I think it is appropriate. To point out. That the administration. Which with the aid. Of many splendid republicans. Has. Come. To the defense. Of Western Europe. Is also the same administration. Which came to the defense. Of Korea. And I. Though that. Act was questioned. At the time. Both on its constitutionality. And. Uh. Afterwards. On its wisdom. It still seems to me. To have been. A fundamentally. Wise procedure. Because if we had not. Done so. Inevitably. All of Asia. Would have fallen. And. Uh. The feeling of discouragement. And of defeat. Would have leaked over. Into Europe. And it might well have been. The spark. Precipitating. In advance. In Europe. In Europe. We have achieved. Great things in Korea. At real cost. To be sure. We have. Destroyed. The North Korean. Army. We are. Rapidly chewing up. The Chinese. Communist Army. We have. We have. Saved. Indochina. At least for the present. From attack. And preserved the Malay. Peninsula. We are. Splitting. The Chinese people. Away. From the. Chinese Communist government. And. From their Russian masters. members. And we. Are vindicating. The principle. Of collective security. The mistakes made. In the military conduct. Of the war. I wish that. The other members. Of the United Nations. Had stood beside us. And stood beside the United Nations. Somewhat more loyally. Both in their contributions. Of troops. And in their willingness. To apply economic sanctions. To the aggressors. But on the whole. The job is being done. I do not wish to. Launch a discussion. As to the. Precise. Steps. To. Next steps. To be taken in Asia. I think that's. Outside the. Terms of reference. Which Mr. Douglas. Gave us. But I do wish to. Say most strongly. That it does not. In any sense. Mean. That the adoption. Of a strong policy. In Europe. Does not in any sense. Mean the abandonment. Of Asia. On the contrary. They too. Faces of the same policy. Which is to resist aggression. Wherever it occurs. Provided only. The two conditions. Of men. In the first place. That the place is accessible. We. Have not taken up. The cause of Tibet. Tibet's too. Inaccessible place. To reach. And provided. In the second place. That other nations. Make a substantial. And an equitable. Contribution. To the common defense. I think that's the. American policy. I think it's the policy. Which the American people. Are agreeing. I think it is the crystallization. Which is coming out. Of the. So-called. Great debate. Which started in Europe. And then moved to Asia. In which tomorrow. Who knows. May transfer itself. To Asia Minor. America. But it's. In this. Typically American process. We're getting at. A meeting of minds. In a sense. What I've been saying. Tonight. Seems to me. Somewhat old hat. That. Is a policy. To which the great mass. Of Americans. Have agreed. I think we're now. Rapidly coming. To an agreement. On Asia. Quite obvious. That the American government. Is now committed. And I approve it. And have urged it. As a matter of fact. For some months. Committed to a program. Of trying to. Overthrow. The present. Chinese. Communist government. But to overthrow it. Not by. Landing troops. Or bombing. Chinese civilians. But by. Giving aid. To those forces. Inside of China. Which are willing. To take up arms. In defense. Of themselves. So that. We will be a liberating force. Not an imperialist. Of course. Now as I say. I think the. American people. Are coming to these. Common decisions. And. One part. Of this attempt. To reach a synthesis. I personally. Welcome. This assembly. Express my gratitude. To having been. Committed to make my. Poor and inadequate. Contribution. To your deliberations. Now cede this. Stage to my brilliant. Able colleague. Senator Pat. Thank you.午разри. Him. To your FERC. See you. Bye.PLAY dire ciao.