This Thanksgiving, I beg every American to remember that there are throughout the world millions of men, women, and children literally starving, literally in rags. They need the wearable shoes and clothing that you and your children no longer need. Therefore, I beseech you, make up your bundles this day and bring them to your neighborhood church or send them to me for immediate distribution to the world's needy, regardless of race, color, or creed. These sick and starving people also need medicine and food. And remember, mothers and fathers of America, that your dollar may buy from death another mother's baby. This Thanksgiving, let us remember the pitiful refugees of Europe and the Near East and Far East. While we feast, they are near famished. While we enjoy health, they are diseased. While we are well clothed, they are half naked. I ask you then to help the Bishop's Thanksgiving clothing and soap collection being held this week throughout the country and in your parish. Bring wearable, unneeded clothing and shoes and also bar soap to the collection center established in every parish. From there, they will be distributed to those who are in such dire a need abroad, regardless of race, creed, or color. In the words of our Lord, whatsoever you do for these, the least of my brethren you do for me. Let us, this Thanksgiving, give thanks to Almighty God by giving. In all the Catholic churches in more than 90 dioceses throughout the United States, a campaign to collect wearable clothing, usable shoes and soap for the needy overseas in Europe and the Near and Far East will be held during Thanksgiving week. I spent the month of September in Europe visiting its areas of need. Not the big cities where a surface glance would give one the impression that there has been vast economic improvement, but the little towns and hamlets crowded with the more than 13 million expelees, refugees and displaced people who have been crowded into Europe during the past five years. The suffering and want that still exists is unbelievable. Your donation to this campaign will help to relieve this suffering. The world, it seems, has been divided into the haves and the have-nots. This Thanksgiving, we in America should thank our merciful Lord for the gifts he has bestowed upon us. But please, in your charity, think of the millions of refugees in Europe, the Near and Far East, who have neither sufficient clothing to face the coming rigors of winter, nor sufficient soap to maintain even the dignity of cleanliness. Bring what you can spare of your old but still wearable clothing and bar soap to your nearest Catholic Church. Give it to the Bishop's Thanksgiving Clothing and Soap Collection for distribution overseas, without regard to race, color, or creed. Let us all this Thanksgiving give thanks by giving.