And now Mr. Augustus posed to a secretary of the Minutemen of America. Fourth of July finds radio's microphones at the foot of the eternal light here in Madison Square Park in this historic neighborhood of 23rd Street, 5th Avenue and Broadway. Colonel Francis A. Adams will act as chairman of the Minutemen of America under whose auspices this program is being heard. You hear the bugle now and the clock striking behind us at the hour of 11 in the Metropolitan Insurance Company Tower. And now Mr. Augustus posed to a secretary of the Minutemen of America. We'll make the introductions and present Colonel Francis A. Adams. Fellow Americans! We'll sing the Star-Spangled Banner. All right, you're going to sing it. By the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Made through through the night that our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave Fellow Americans and friends from aboard On this the 176th observation of the birth of the Republic of the United States of America There is a sense of sadness in our hearts We cannot celebrate the glorious 4th of July with our accustomed joy While we are here in the traditional spirit of 176 to shout for freedom We cannot be unmindful of the fact that within the past 24 months More than 100,000 Americans have been reported in the casualty list in the fighting in distant Korea More than 20,000 have given their lives in that struggle And some 8,000 are listed as missing in action Those men are Americans like ourselves They would not have us forego the celebration of Independence Day They fought to give it meaning We who are here in our own land We must not let this day pass without paying tribute to our gallant defenders The very purpose of this anniversary observation is to bring together by their free accord All the elements that go to make up America We have here today at the National Shrine of the Eternal Light Representatives of the City of New York The State of New York The Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, National Guard The Merchant Marine The Police and Fire Departments of the world's greatest city Delegations from the United Nations who live in our midst And officers of military, patriotic and civic organizations This is indeed a meeting of Americans of all stations in life We are all met by voluntary assemblage to hail the birthday of our country The magic of our age makes it possible for the martial music, songs and addresses from this meeting To be sent by radio and the voice of America to all quarters of the globe The progressive spirit of the City of New York is impressively demonstrated in the allotment of a full hour of its radio broadcasting system The day we celebrate is one that grows in importance We are a nation of boundless power An unfailing loyalty to the principle of human freedom Let us unite in a salute to the stars and stripes Following this will be the introduction of the permanent chairman, Captain Paul Captain Francis A. Adams, Director General of the Minutemen of America Captain Adams Captain Adams Let us in thought travel 15,000 miles from this spot And we will be in distant Korea And I bring to the platform now A member of the clergy who will pronounce the invocation And he has been asked to do this by Cardinal Spellman Who flew to the battlefields of Europe And who has but recently flown to the battlefields of Korea The invocation will be pronounced by the right Reverend Monsignor Aloysius D. Dineen Consulator of the Diocese of New York And Pastor of St. Agnes Church As you know, I am representing His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman Archbishop of New York If you who are left ever forget the religious foundations of this nation You will have robbed my death of all significance You will have betrayed me You will have betrayed yourselves You will have betrayed your country These words might have come as a message from our American war dead in Arlington Cemetery As General MacArthur so well said Now is the time to rededicate ourselves to the cause of America's past greatness And to the cause of constitutional liberty Our need for patriotic fervor and religious devotion was never more impelling Our meeting here this morning is dedicated in a very special way to God and to country I feel it is of the utmost importance that we should all remind ourselves over and over again That this great country of ours was conceived and founded on the basis of a fundamental trust and belief in God And that our rights to life and liberty flow to us as an endowment from Almighty God, not from government This concept of God, man and country is the essence of our Declaration of Independence Singularly enough, our basic creed and our cause are inscribed on the coins of our realm Our creed in God we trust Our cause, liberty Our cause, liberty Old glory, the stars and stripes Was 175 years old On June 14th of this year It was on Saturday, June 14th, 1777 That the Continental Congress gave birth to our national banner Inspire us, O God, with such a deep love for our country and its flag That we will be actively concerned in its welfare as well as in that of our fellow men for time and for eternity Be thinkers, doers and inspirers Teach us, O God, to show by word and deed the same zealous interest for protecting and furthering the Christian principles upon which our nation is founded That others display in belittling or eliminating them Teach us, O God, to show by word and deed the same zealous interest for the nation Teach us, O God, to be worthy instruments in extending to all men of all nations Thy children and our brothers the same peace, freedom and security with which thou hast so abundantly blessed our land Frightened, frantic, foolish men Take God by the hand again This is the blessing of the one I humbly represent His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman Archbishop of New York A real champion in the city of God and the city of men The real soldier, priest, that you stay always in the hollow of God kindly and be merciful hand And may the souls of all our heroic dead receive from our Lord, our good God himself A place of eternal refreshment, light and peace, amen Thanks and God bless you Friends, the reality of today is shown in the fact that this document, the Declaration of Independence, has been good, valid, and has succeeded for 176 years Read it when you get to your homes Memorize the opening words that we believe in life and liberty And in the end we will give our lives for life and liberty And that document with the Bible will carry us to where we expect to be in a world and not only in a land of peace We have now a demonstration that we are approaching that hour Because here, on this platform today, July 4th, 1952, when it is still an infant in swaddling clothes, we have a representative of the United Nations on this platform, and I ask him to stand here and to take a salute to the United Nations on this platform, and I ask him to stand here and take a salute to the United Nations on this platform. He is sent here by Secretary General Tweedley, who is in Europe trying to bring about peace. The National A. G. Katzen representing the United Nations in New York, their permanent home Now we come to a very wonderful phase in these meetings that we have at the Eternal Light Let your light so spread that men may see it, not only here but everywhere And an invitation to participate in this meeting was sent by the Minutemen of America To the commander of the 8th Army, James A. Van Fleet Who is on that 150 mile battle front in Korea The General has airplanes that are dropping deadly bombs He has soldiers on cannon that are fighting him by the hour, by the minute But he did take time And there is the photostatic copy of the letter which will now be read to you Which is given here at this platform, at the Eternal Light on this July In which the General says that that flag and the United Nations flag will continue to fly In reply to your kind letter, I am enclosing a message which I am honored to give you for delivery on the occasion of this ceremony of the Minutemen In Madison Square, New York Headquarters, 8th United States Army, Korea It is with deep respect and gratitude to you, our countrymen, that I speak on this occasion for the officers, the men of my command, and myself I use the term respect and gratitude because we here in Korea recognize the support which the United States and the United Nations people are supplying in our united fight for freedom against communist aggression And we are very grateful for that support Tantamount with your keynote, in place, HALT I can say with personal conviction that your men, my men, have delivered that message to the aggressor We here along the Korean frontier are cognizant of our mission Standing shoulder to shoulder with freedom-loving nations throughout the world We of America shall not be denied that heritage entrusted to us 176 years ago To the Minutemen of America and to the resident members of the United Nations in New York Who are assembled today at the National Shrine of Eternal Light at Madison Square I can assure you of the complete loyalty and competence of the 8th U.S. Army And attached United Nations forces in destroying communist aggression in Korea Dear friends of the city of New York is a message of courage and confidence You can go to your homes after assembling here Those who have heard it over the radio can turn on to some other thing than grief at the situation that we're in And now we here are going to have the pleasure of a song on the 4th of July To lift our hearts up a little from the drudgery of the day and the toil of the year It is going to be a song by the double quartet of New York City's inevitable Glee Club Glee Club From the mountains to the prairies to the oceans white with foam God bless America my home sweet home From the mountains to the prairies to the oceans white with foam God bless America my home sweet home Thank you gentlemen and friends Now it will be a joy to everybody in this audience and those who are listening in To hear a message which comes from our nearest bastion of safety Everybody knows about Governor's Island Many people have seen it when they've traveled down our bay And some people have been on it That point in the United States is the beginning of our strength And we bring to this microphone now The representative of Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger Commander of the First Army Governor's Island And the speaker is Colonel W. C. McMillan on General Crittenden's staff Colonel Mac McMillan Mr. Adams, men of America, ladies and gentlemen Lieutenant General Krittenberger, commanding First Army area Regrets his inability to be present at this meeting It is an honor and a pleasure for me to represent him before the men of America Which has such a long record of service for national defense One of the most important aspects of national defense is national patriotism Patriotism isn't something a man gets when he's handed a gun When he's drafted into the armed forces Or even when he volunteers to take up arms in the service of his country It is the love and devotion to one's country The spirit that originating in the love of country Prompts to obedience to its laws To the support and defense of its existence Rights, institutions, and the promotion of its welfare On this beautiful Independence Day As we celebrate our liberty so hard won by many It behooves us all to take stock of our patriotism To be patriotic, we must know why we are free And be ready with a desire to remain free Them too, we must help others Instruct them The ones who are younger and less experienced than we So that their patriotism may grow And so that equality of opportunity and treatment For all of Americans May continue under the freedom we so dearly cherish Thank you Thank you, Colonel Macmillan And now The Army is here to fight But the Army lives from day to day And they do not forget that We were born to have music in our hearts and in our souls We'll have a selection by the Army band We will have a selection by the Army band We'll be right back. ¶¶ ¶¶ Now, friends, we have five boroughs in greater New York. Four of them have enormous populations, and one in Richmond is growing, but as distant as down the bay. All of you who have been around New York City have seen the familiar sight of armories. They belong to you, and the men who enter those armories and join those units are the citizens of the city and state of New York. They constitute the National Guard. In every war, it has been the hundreds of thousands of men who in times of peace have studied, drilled, and learned to be soldiers who have immediately stepped in as volunteers when they were needed, and drafts and others followed. We bring to the microphone now a representative of the National Guard, who will represent Major General Carl F. Howa-Azar. And this speaker is Brigadier General Ralph F. Sherm, Commander General, Commanding General of the Second Corps Artillery of Brooklyn, New York. General Ralph F. Sherm, ChairmanGraff, National Guard. Eddie Edwards bacino and Sandra么, Beng yen. Fellow Americans and friends abroad, the National Guard of the United States and the state of New York is honored by the privilege to meet with the Minutemen of America and their friends to commemorate the 176th anniversary of the founding of our country and to pay tribute to those women and men who lived and died to make it possible. The Minutemen of America is a group of high-minded, patriotic American citizens who were founded as such in 1917. They, like the men of Lexington and Concord, banded together to give of themselves for the spirit of American independence as given in that document, which was signed on July 4, 1776, and to continue to serve in support of the Constitution of the United States as the basic law of the land. The Minutemen of the early days of the Revolution, who fought at Lexington and numerous other places in the continental United States, banded themselves together to die, if necessary, for the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as proclaimed in our Declaration of Independence. The descendants of these men of 1775 and 1776 and the groups they formed at that time remain since in various militia units. These men and units have fought to defend their heritage of freedom many times, particularly in 1812, 1848, 1862, 1898, 1918, 1942, and now once again. Today, these National Guard units are still very active and continue to maintain the traditions which were established so long ago. The organization that fired the shot, which was heard around the world on April 19, 1775, is known now as the 182nd Infantry of the Massachusetts National Guard. The one company of horse and three companies of foot, which were mustered in on June 13, 1751, in the city of Savannah, Georgia, are now the 118th Field Artillery Battalion of the Georgia National Guard. The organized militia, which was known as the Maryland Line and which fought under General George Washington in the Battle of Long Island, is now the 175th Infantry of the Maryland National Guard. In addition to the old line National Guard organizations, there are many others who are of early birth. The state of New York is rightly proud of its National Guard in this respect. Present at this ceremony are the color guard and firing squad of the 107th Infantry New York National Guard, which dates back to 1806. Once again, our country is faced with the formulation of plans and the making of decisions. During this period, we are constantly faced with threat from without, and it may even be possible from within. It is, therefore, the place of every American to make himself available to his country's needs. Surely, regardless of whether an individual is old or too young or otherwise limited, there is some agency which can use his or her services. In closing my remarks, I would like to indicate to every able-bodied young man who is not actually serving at this moment that now is the time to become alert to the situation and to affiliate himself as a minute man of today with one of the National Guard units in his community. In this way, he will become prepared to not only take care of himself, but also to help defend his country if the need arises. Our Congress has been voting many billions of dollars in defense against communism. On July 14th, a nationwide air alert system becomes effective. with such signs at hand, if our young men are to keep faith with those we honor here today, they must take some form of positive action and become Minutemen once again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Tony MacMillan. We're now going to have a selection by the Navy Band because the Navy, when they have stations and all on ships where they can, they relax, and they always relax to the one universal language. You don't have to put words to some songs. The tune itself is a song and a poem and something to keep close in the heart. And now a selection by the Navy Band. Thank you. for next! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That is our worldview Todo Line came through every night we briefed love the world who really and who made the purpose of life through all these years and the word was this, this is to be our home, America, our home, the place where we work, the place where we live, love and go through the cycle of life. lost in the view held by the greatest city in the world, which is now the city of New York. The welfare of the people of the city of New York is always nearest and dearest to the attention of whoever may be the mayor of the city of New York. He recognizes that he is their representative. And we bring to the microphone now the Honorable Henry L. McCarthy, Commissioner of Welfare, who will give you a salutation today on behalf and as representing Mayor Impelewicz. Chairman Adams, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege to come again this year as I did last year, representing Mayor Impelewicz to bring you his greetings and the greetings of the city administration and to honor the men of the armed forces from New York City who have served so nobly in all of our wars. It is a great occasion today for us to renew our faith in our country, our faith in our Constitution, and to refresh ourselves with the memory of the Declaration of Independence as we celebrate this Independence Day. I am very happy to have had a chance to be here and to share with you this great celebration. Thank you. And now, friends, this is like what you call a cut in the movies. We all go to the movies. That is done on a lot. This is done on a square. It's done on Madison Square, which has been part of the city of New York for nearly 400 years. And we ask you now to close your eyes for a second. Get the glare of the sunshine of 4th of July 1942 out of your eyes for a minute. And then in thought, go back to the birth of the nation and the man that made it possible, who was first in war, first in peace, and first always, and until today in the hearts of America, George Washington, who is now to be presented in the person of Henry Du Bois, who in the uniform of a Continental Officer and the General, as he appeared then, was fighting for this thing, which we are enjoying today in the sunshine of New York, the prayer of George Washington, who, when he appealed to God, was invincible. Friends, fellow citizens, it is June 8th, 1783, a day long to be remembered in the annals of our national life. It now becomes my solemn duty to disband of the Continental Army. We now return to the building of that republic for which, under God, we have become responsible. Shall we rise and pray? Almighty God, we make our earnest prayer that thou wilt keep the United States in thy holy protection, that thou wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience to government, and entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another and for the citizens of these United States at large, and finally, that thou wilt most graciously be pleased to dispose us all to do justice, to love mercy, and to demean ourselves with that charity, humility, and the pacific temper of mind, which were the characteristics of the divine author of our blessed religion, without an humble limitation of whose example in these things we can never hope to be a happy nation. Grant our supplications, we beseech thee, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. And now, friends, we've come to a very pleasant part of our program, which is still on the air and moving and people are listening and they're taking a permanent record of it. It moves along. There's no hesitation when you're saluting America. You don't have to look for words. They come in spontaneously. And we're going to have now a brief summary of some of the salutations that have been sent by people who could not come to this platform but who in spirit are here. And they will be read to you briefly and with emphasis by a New Yorker that you all know, the Honorable Lambert Fairchild and also a chaplain of the American Legion. Very glad to be the instrument of bringing you these messages. First one I shall read to you is from another member of the Minutemen of America, the Honorable Phelps Phelps. Congratulations to the Minutemen of America on our wonderful occasion of the 176th Independence Day in the history of our country. As long as loyal citizens imbued with your wonderful spirit continue to remember the historic milestones of our country, the eternal light of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness shall burn brightly through the future ages of America. I wish that I might be with you. But my new duties as ambassador to our good neighbors in the Dominican Republic prevent my doing so. Phelps Phelps. I have a letter from the Cardinal's residence, 452 Madison Avenue, addressed to Captain Adams. His Eminence Cardinal Spellman has asked me to tell you that he received your invitation to give the benediction at the 176th observance, the natural strain of the eternal light. The Cardinal regrets that he cannot be with you, but is pleased to inform you that he will be represented by the right Reverend Monsignor Aloysius C. Deneen, PA, Consultor of the Archdiocese of New York, and Pastor of St. Agnes Church, signed by the right Reverend Monsignor Gustav J. Schulteis, Secretary of the Cardinal. And we have greetings from Brigadier General Martin H. Meany, the New York National Guard, and 5th Deputy Police Commissioner of New York City. Commissioner George P. Monaghan, Commissioner of Police of the City of New York, represented here by the color guard of the police department, and by the double quartet of the police glee club. From the White House in Washington comes a communication from Matthew J. Connolly, Secretary of the President. Dear Captain Adams, permit me to acknowledge and thank you for your letter to the President, inviting him to speak at the Independence Day ceremonies to be held at the National Shrine of the Eternal Light in the City of New York. While the President greatly appreciates your cordial invitation, I must advise that because of commitments already made, it is not possible for him to accept. Please be assured that you have the President's best wishes for a successful celebration. Then from the Executive Assistant to the Secretary General of the United Nations, the telegram announcing that Colonel Katzen would be here. You have already met him. And a note from General Dwight D. Eisenhower, conveying his thanks to Captain Adams for his letter of June 5th and his expressions of compliments. With kind regards, Dwight D. Eisenhower, another from the National Vice Commander of the American Legion, T. E. Paradine. That concludes the list. Thank you. Thank you. And now, friends, New York has long since stopped being a metropolitan city. It has become a cosmopolitan city with people from every corner of the globe. Millions and millions and millions of us know how to live in happiness and together because we all have a fraternal spirit. And if you have a fraternal spirit, you cannot always be in antagonism with the people that you are associated with. And it's a joy to bring to this microphone on this 4th of July a representative of an organization that has fought in all wars, including the American Revolutionary War. The Jewish war veterans of the United States are represented here today on this microphone by Commander Milton M. Rosenborg, who brings you a message from the national organization and the city organization. Reverend clergy, distinguished guests, men and women of the armed forces, fellow veterans, ladies and gentlemen. The Jewish war veterans of the United States are proud and happy to participate in these ceremonies commemorating the independence of our nation. We must not become complacent for the fight to retain our independence still goes on. On this day, we reiterate that this nation will not tolerate any ideology or ism, foreign or alien, to our ideas of democracy. I, as commander of the New York County Council of the Jewish war veterans of the United States, pledge our support and join with our brother veteran organizations to carry on and participate in the continuous struggle for tolerance, freedom, and the pursuit of happiness. As throughout the world, men and women strive for freedom and independence, as democracy fights for its very existence, this nation, the United States of America, gives leadership to the free peoples of the world. Thank you. Now we're going to have another selection, which I know you all enjoy when you hear it, a selection from the police double quartet, a song. What difference if I rail from north or south, or from the east or west? My heart is filled with love for all of these. I only know I swell with pride, and deep within my breast, I thrill to see, O glory paint the breeze, O glory paint the breeze. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, grandest on earth. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the born. For this is my country, to have and to hold. Now you know why you're sitting in the sunshine in New York, and no beach, no mountain brook, or no front piazza could give you what that gave you when you hear, this is my America and my home. Keep that message in your hearts. Communism will vanish from your shores, and the purpose of that monument and that flag will be perpetuated where it says, this has been erected. That light has been lit for permanent peace. Read the words. Permanent peace. It is going to begin here in this city, ten blocks from here, where the United Nations has built a tower. That is not going to be a tower of Babel. It is going to be a tower emblematic of perpetual peace under God. I now want you to meet on this platform a representative of the force that makes it possible for you to go to sleep nights, and also to stay awake pleasantly during the day, because this officer and his companions in arms, if they were not alight 24 hours a day, we would be hunting shelters. But they constitute the first air force of our nation. And they're stationed at Mitchell Field, and they are our guard against sudden attack from the air. And now I wish to introduce you, so that you may give him a cheer and a hand, Major William Banks connected with the base commander's force at Mitchell Field, Major William Banks. They typify vigilance. Now, my friends, this is New York, this is summertime, and this is a hot day, but not as hot as some we had last week. And I bring to this microphone now another representative of the mayor of the city in Rio. Eight million people are entitled to have more than one voice speak for them. And they're going to do that on this platform. They have had a number of speakers on this platform, all encompassed within an hour. Because when you have a message, you can deliver it. And I'll be brief. I am bringing to the microphone now the Honorable William M. Hilliard, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Puerto Rican Affairs. Captain Adams, ladies and gentlemen, this 176th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence finds thousands of American boys fighting in Korea along with their comrades from several other countries. It's most appropriate that we join the Minutemen of America and the Mayor's Committee on Puerto Rican Affairs in dedicating this occasion to them. In many ways, this celebration of the birthday of American independence is of more than usual significance. Here together, the oldest and the newest groups of Americans are participating. We participate not only in words, but in deeds. On this 4th of July, we have witnessed also the adoption by Puerto Rico and the approval with slight modification by Congress of a constitution patterned after our own national constitution. This doesn't make Puerto Rico an independent republic, but it does confer Commonwealth status. These bonds of common citizenship with all of us working together for our ideals must be broadened and strengthened with mutual confidence and mutual understanding. Any tribute that we offer on this memorable occasion to the armed forces of the United States must include, of course, our gallant Puerto Ricans who are fighting so valiantly in Korea. It seems opportune to remind those present as well as those who are listening over the radio that approximately 54 years ago, to be exact on the 25th of July, 1898, General Nelson A. Miles occupied the island of Puerto Rico in the name of the United States. Since then, Puerto Ricans have been living, thank heaven, under the stars and stripes. They were made full citizens in 1917. Now, a word in Spanish for my citizens and friends Puerto Ricans. You represent a important part and, to my opinion, indispensable the economic and social life of the New York and of our nation, the United States of America. Every day, the benefit of the African-American workers are more likely to be the beneficial contribution of the Puerto Ricans in agriculture and industry, as well as in the commercial activities. The same can be said to the professionals, musicians, artists and Puerto Ricans in the theater and the screen. Remember, Puerto Ricans, that the success in the work leaders and the thought of food ofepakness are 게임 ag doesn't stay, the President Bureau of Apollyons work and the dice, citizens and build upon jakbyisi tuir87. People Stefanio, pray for that, on a long time, may be able to remain and do not są, I think that they are DIRECTORS what are burning here and going back again, the realise of all therias people who are again, political in America and the lives of growth popular within of your beautiful island. Adelante, siempre adelante. Gracias. Now, friends, we're going to have the massing of the colors and the firing of valleys prior to the sounding of taps in memory of all the men who have fought for and died for the American flag in the 176 years of its existence. This ceremony now will conclude with the massing of the colors, and they come from many organizations in many sections of the city and all branches of the service. And this part of the ceremony will be conducted by Captain Cromond of the 7th Regiment, New York National Guard. Captain Cromond. Staffatchwan-M eye-origin, colourful numberперon inности, cavalry central en la lloyes deimme a la le sunt lato para替 Finn Blanco, an la lloyes de Universal Chuf, uma ing shellia van al a al-vo phones, menin d'alif, Thank you. Thank you. And now this very picturesque ceremony is at the stage where these beautiful floral gifts are being placed here at this magnificent monument, the Eternal Light in Madison Square Park, on a line with 24th Street in New York City, just a block above Historic 23rd. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.inary music.
