Good evening. From the starlight roof of the world of Astoria, the city station brings you the speaker session of the dinner inaugurating the 1953 campaign at the New York Heart Association. The program tonight, which has already been in progress, has included a panel discussion among three of America's leading doctors in the field of cardiac medicine and surgery. Ed Sullivan moderated the discussion on the subject of advances in heart treatment. The medical leaders who participated were Professor Robert L. Levy of Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons and of Presbyterian Hospital, Dr. Dickinson Richards, Jr., also of the College of Physicians and Surgeons and attending surgeon at Bellevue Hospital, and Dr. Dwight E. Harkin, associate professor at Harvard's Medical School and practicing heart surgeon of Boston. Among the speakers here this evening are Dr. Irving Wright, president of the American Heart Association, and Governor Thomas E. Dewey, honorary chairman of the association, and Dr. Milton Eisenhower, president of Pennsylvania State College and brother of the president-elect. And now, to introduce Governor Dewey, we turn our microphones over to Mrs. Preston Davie. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I have the great honor of introducing you now, to you now, Governor of the State of New York, Thomas E. Dewey. Thank you. Mr. David, general Eisenhower, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. it must be deeply gratifying to all of you, as it is to me, to know that for the next four years we shall have a president who is so interested in the personal welfare of the American people that out of an impossible schedule he comes unannounced to attend a charity dinner for the Heart Association. I was interested in the plight of our moderator on the program which I regret to say the television audience did not have the pleasure of seeing. Here is a man with one of the most famous stomach ulcers in the world. And Ed Sullivan emcees a program with three heart specialists who can't do him any good at all. Which was particularly nice of him and I think he did it in memory of Louise Baer. It was seven years ago that this association which is now such a gaudy and pompous and happy and prosperous grown-up was first born. I suppose that as I have been variously accused I am the sire, the dam or the midwife of it. I do not know which. It was seven years ago that Dr. Wilbur Dewey on one of the occasions when I went to him for a check-up said, Tom this heart problem is all over the heads of everybody and nobody is paying any attention to it. Well he has kept me alive for 24 years for better and as some people might say for worse. So I always listen to his words. And having gotten bored with taking care of people like me and others he decided that there were more important things in life and that was to specialize in cardiovascular disease. And he pointed out some facts that I had not known. That something over 45%, nearly half of all the people who die in this country die of heart disease. Forty percent of those contrary to the common opinion are under 65. You don't have to be old to die of heart disease. Ten thousand children in this city of New York alone are sick of heart disease in some form or other. Three times as many people die of heart disease as of cancer. I don't remember whether it's fifty or a hundred or a thousand times as many die of heart disease as of poliomyelitis. I know that many times more die of heart disease than of all the next five diseases after cancer put together. And yet in the face of the fact that heart is the greatest killer on earth, we were in that year 1946 as a nation spending about three dollars and a quarter for research for every person who died of polio. We were spending about three cents for every person who died of heart disease. There was something wrong about it. And unless we set about to cure it, we would either have a continuous and increasing calamity to the people of this country, or we would have the dead and leaden hand of government forced in by politically motivated people to take over a field which requires the imagination and the genius of free men. And so we gathered together at the American, at the New York Academy of Medicine, a group of people whom I asked to come. Helen Reed, the New York Health Tribune, and I remember it was in the discussion that Helen said, Why don't we make it Valentine's Day and adopt the symbol of a heart? And there it is, as a result of Helen Reed's spontaneous suggestion seven years ago at a dinner. And Arthur Sulzberger and Roy Howard and Mr. Hollander, the President of the CIO, who is here tonight, who made an impassioned speech about the men who died in his industry over the Cutter's desk. And Tom Murray of the AFL and all the doctors you see here. And after that we had meetings at the Hotel Roosevelt, just a small group trying to make this thing come to life. At that time in New York they were spending fifty thousand dollars a year in heart disease, and this campaign in New York alone is for a million. Fifty didn't scratch the surface. And Frank Houston and Carl Whitmore, who is here tonight, and Stanley Reeser, and Dr. Maynard and Dr. Wright and Dr. Levy, who spoke so eloquently here tonight. And Wilbur Dewey, of course, we sat around the tables night after night over many weeks, and this thing was put together and now it's grown into a great, but by no means adequate answer to the necessities. As you know, heart disease includes rheumatic fever, diseases of the arteries, and many others. In this city alone, the city of eight million, five hundred thousand people of all ages suffer from heart disease. Now what do you do about that? Do you say, well, leave it to the doctors? Well, let me tell you, the doctors can't do it. Every doctor I know works about twelve to fourteen hours a day in research and in teaching and in taking care of his patients. He can't go out and raise money. He can't be an executive of an organization. Doctors are rotten executives, ladies and gentlemen. They're just wonderful people. They give their lives and their hearts and their families and their happiness to research. They're not good executives. They're not money raisers. They're just the most wonderful people on earth and it's our job to help them. It's our job to raise the money. It's our job as just ordinary citizens to go out and not only raise the money but provide the administrative skill and the publicity and the genius of people like Ed Sullivan who can give it great national attention. And all of us, whether we're in public life or in business or in the sciences or in the arts, to see that we go to work for the doctors. For goodness sake, we can't ask them to do it all. And Kerry is a wonderful good news. There is hope. And believe me, we need that hope. In two years, ladies and gentlemen, five of the 19 members of my cabinet were struck with heart disease. To die. We are still living. This thing strikes at the men who worked most, who sacrificed most for the public. We can't afford to lose them. And so we can raise the funds. We can administer them. We can convey the wonderful, glad tidings to the American people that if you have heart disease, it may be the best thing that ever happened to you. The old story is no longer true that you die if you got heart disease. One of the most important members of the administration of the president elect nearly died four years ago of heart disease. And one of the doctors who talked with you tonight saved his life. And he's in better health today than he was ten years ago. There is great hope in this story. So let's all of us do our bit. And do it in a big way. To convey the glad tidings. To raise the money. To set up the clinic so the cardiacs can get a good job at which they'll be even more useful than they were at the last job. To keep the cold and clammy hand of a government out of this. To leave the free researcher and the free doctor to save the lives of the American people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is a privilege to present to the members of the American and New York Heart Associations, and to the national radio audience, a well-known member of a distinguished American family. Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower, president of Pennsylvania State College. President Milton Eisenhower is internationally recognized as an educator. He is also recognized as an expert in government administration and international affairs. He has on many occasions found time to help with the work of voluntary health associations. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower. Dr. Keating, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have this opportunity to contribute even a little to the work of the American and New York Heart Associations and other voluntary health organizations. But my pleasure is, I confess, tempered somewhat by a serious misgiving. Tonight I find myself afflicted with diffidence in speaking that's strange and disturbing. Indeed, I fear I must lose temporarily, at least, part of my personality. Your comprehension of one phase of my loss may be enhanced by a poignant observation of my 77-year-old father-in-law. Recently, when we were fishing together on a quiet lake in Wisconsin, he said to me, You know, for a time after you married Helen, people referred to you as my son-in-law. But after a few years I realized that I was being pointed out as your father-in-law, and I confess that fathered me quite a bit. Well, with real sympathy I replied, I understand, but actually the cross you bear in this regard is nothing as compared to mine. And he retorted, Oh yes it is. Now I'm being spoken of as the father-in-law of Ike's brother. Tonight, for the first time, I face the full reality of identification, if not guilt, by association. More than this, I find I must even discard titles, which for a decade have been comfortably useful and protective. But from here on, if I were to permit you or others to call me president, it would be considered pretentious by the wise and plagiaristic by the foolish. And further, I need only point out how misleading it would be in this group of distinguished American physicians and surgeons, for you or others to refer to me, a mere social scientist, as doctor. Indeed, had I been a bit more quick-witted, I would have asked Dr. Keating, in introducing me, to employ the title of an old Broadway review. Some of you will recall it. It was billed as, Call Me Mister. Now the American medical profession is similarly notable for its research program, and for the development and maintenance of superb clinics, hospitals and other medical services. But what is lacking, to make my analogy complete at least, is a great network of adult education which would inform the American people in all phases of health protection, and educate them in all phases of health protection, and educate them in the intelligent use of professional medical services. The nearest existing substitute for a consistent, persistent, continuing extension program is the work of the voluntary health organizations. These organizations clearly have two indispensable interrelated functions. Adult education, which I would define to include service, and fundraising. To me, education is the greater of these, for the proper fulfillment of the educational responsibility will almost automatically result in more generous giving of funds for the support of essential research, service, and educational efforts. In the Pennsylvania cancer, our real goal was to reach every adult in the Commonwealth with accurate information on how to detect cancer in its early stages, and on how to obtain the various public and private services available to the cancer patients. Well, we did a good educational job, I think, and one tangible result was that we greatly exceeded our financial quota. We raised more than one million dollars in our one state to help fight this one consuming curse of mankind for one year. Now, I'm told, and I've had no experience up until tonight with the Heart Associations, but I'm told that the American, New York, and other Heart Associations also considered their first task to be an educational one. After all, a medical specialist, no matter what a skill, cannot help a person who does not know enough to come to his office, or who refuses to come, or who upon coming refuses to profit by the doctor's advice. Praiseworthy educational progress has, of course, been made, and thus one may cite impressive statistics, which show an amazing decline in deaths due to several vicious diseases. The data also indicate satisfactory reductions in infant mortality and maternal deaths, and show how our life expectancy has lengthened by 20 years in the past half century. But such summaries also show great areas of darkness. Darkness that involves suffering. Darkness that can be pushed back only by systematic and often costly research and education. And so the second job of the Heart Associations and other voluntary health agencies, fundraising, must be carried forward. And in general has been carried forward with remarkable success. This is surely heartening to all of us who believe passionately in the private enterprise system, who believe that the socialization of medicine would prove to be the fatal step that would lead to the loss of economic freedom and therefore to the loss of political and personal freedom too. This gathering tonight is one method by which we express our adherence to our American system of private initiative and private enterprise. This gathering is typically American. Here tonight are men and women representing the diverse elements of a large community with the intent of planning and working together for the common good. There is no compulsion here beyond the individual conscience. There is no incentive here beyond the individual desire to fulfill a self-imposed duty. Why is it that Americans have been and are today the most generous cooperators and givers in all history? Well, in the first place, we are the inheritors of a tradition of concern for human welfare that runs as a thread through the whole fabric of Western civilization. The Judea Christian philosophy has always emphasized cooperative efforts to relieve suffering and want, beginning in earnest with the night hospitalers, the monasteries and abbeys, and the medieval guilds, and building on in a great crescendo to our very day. And so philosophically, the basis of philanthropy in the United States is the same as it is in other Western nations. Hence, the distinctive reason for the tremendous volume of practical philanthropy in America must lie in two other factors. One is this. We were a pioneering people with a wilderness still to conquer after the old world had essentially become static. For 250 years, Americans pushed westward to fill a continent, pioneers living under conditions of danger and hardship that compelled the development of initiative and cooperative effort. That grizzled old soldier, Miles Standish, was no doubt a good man of war, but he lives in my memory as a tender nurse, making the rounds of the sick watch in a desperate winter, bowed by the grief at the death of his wife, yet caring for the sick and dying that the Plymouth colony might survive. That pioneer bravery of Standish's was repeated wherever Americans worked to create a new way of life. All such experiences made us a people alert and perceptive, resilient and practical, always ready to volunteer and to cooperate. Another important factor in the development of America's philanthropy is inseparably part of our private enterprise system. We believe that every human being has within himself the potentiality of great achievement, a potentiality which will be realized if he has opportunity to be truly responsible and to exercise individual initiative. We would rather do things ourselves individually or as groups in our home communities than to depend on others to do things for us. These qualities have enabled us to achieve unprecedented heights in production and general well-being. And so the American people have had the means, as well as the will, to give enormous sums of money for religious educational health and related purposes. Giving has become characteristic, not only of the wealthy in our society, but also of the relatively less well-to-do. Some 7.5 million taxpayers who file itemized deductions contribute more than 4% of their gross income annually to health, educational and other agencies. And nearly 1.25 million persons who do not have to pay income taxes at all, though this was two years ago. But who nonetheless itemized contributions in their returns, give nearly 6% of their gross income to these same purposes. Yes, the American people, even those with the least means, always give generously to meet genuine, understood needs. But it would be untrue to say that the peak of our accomplishment in this whole effort has been, or should have been, reached. I've talked with a good many professional men who are deeply involved in the work of the voluntary health associations, and it's their judgment, as well as mine, that several developments would greatly enhance the effectiveness of all such voluntary agencies. They believe, first, that some mechanisms should be established to analyze our overall health needs on an impartial actuarial basis. Findings of a study of this kind might furnish a basis for intelligent distribution of effort. And I may say that any such actuarial table would show some of the data which Governor Dewey spoke here tonight, and which I think are not understood by the American people. Second, it seems that some agency, no matter how informal, is needed to coordinate the work of the national health organizations. I think competition is as valid in this area as it is in any other, and certainly competition is indispensable in all phases of American life. But just as competing industries find it useful to have associations to forward common purposes, so too would it seem worthwhile for the heart, the cancer, tuberculosis, polio, and other national associations to cooperate in overall planning. I'm sure that this would be helpful to the American people and to the associations. Third, many professional people feel that both industry and labor should provide a broader reservoir of voluntary leadership. Almost every community has a small core of devoted people who are always persuaded to take key posts of responsibility in health campaigns. This gives rise sometimes in local communities to situations in which leadership becomes confused with sponsorship, and in which education may be forgotten in the feverish drive for funds. The source of leadership in a community should be broadened whenever multiple health fund appeals are essential. The fourth and final suggestion I've gathered from my professional friends concerns the relationship of business and industrial corporations with the several health organizations. The income tax laws have opened the way for corporate giving, but too many corporations have not responded to this opportunity. Business and industry, business and industry, and their millions of stockholders have a tremendous stake in programs designed to keep our nation strong. I'm sure that as they equate the future of private enterprise with the future of the voluntary agencies that are rooted in the same free soil, they will join in the cooperative effort. If all of you, if all of us, who are interested in the Heart Association will continue to work in a spirit of free, voluntary cooperation, and if in the words of Governor Bradford of Plymouth applied to Miles Standage, you do this willingly and cheerfully without grudging in the least, showing therein your true love unto your friends and brethren, then as he said, I know your work will be a rare example and worthy to be remembered. Thank you very much and good luck. applause Ladies and gentlemen, the official program of this wonderful evening is over. You've been listening to the speaker's session of the New York Heart Association inaugural dinner of 1953. The principal speakers have been Governor Dewey and the honorable chairman of the American Heart Association and Dr. Milton Eisenhower, president of the Central Illinois State College, whom you just heard speaking. applause We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. applause Eisenhower, president of Pennsylvania State College and brother of the president-elect. And now, to introduce Governor Dewey, we turn our microphones over to Mrs. Preston Davey. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention please. I have the great honor of introducing you now, to you now, the governor of the state of New York, Thomas E. Dewey. applause Mrs. Davy, General Eisenhower, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It must be deeply gratifying to all of you, as it is to me, to know that for the next four years we shall have a president who is so interested in the personal welfare of the American people, that out of an impossible schedule, he comes unannounced to attend a charity dinner for the Heart Association. applause I was interested in the plight of our moderator on the program, which I regret to say the television audience did not have the pleasure of seeing. Here is a man with one of the most famous stomach ulcers in the world. And Ed Sullivan emcees a program with three heart specialists who can't do him any good at all. applause Which was particularly nice of him, and I think he did it in memory of Louise Baer. applause It was seven years ago that this association which is now such a gaudy and pompous and happy and prosperous grown-up was first born. I suppose that as I have been variously accused, I am the sire, the dam, or the midwife of it. I do not know which. It was seven years ago that Dr. Wilbur Dewey, on one of the occasions when I went to him for a check-up, said, Tom, this heart problem is all over the heads of everybody and nobody is paying any attention to it. Well, he has kept me alive for 24 years for better and as some people might say for worse. So I always listen to his words. And having gotten bored with taking care of people like me and others, he decided that there were more important things in life and that was to specialize in cardiovascular disease. And he pointed out some facts that I had not known. That something over 45%, nearly half of all the people who die in this country, die of heart disease. Forty percent of those, contrary to the common opinion, are under 65. You don't have to be old to die of heart disease. Ten thousand children in this city of New York alone are sick of heart disease in some form or other. Three times as many people die of heart disease as of cancer. I don't remember whether it's 50 or 100 or a thousand times as many die of heart disease as of poliomyelitis. I know that many times more die of heart disease than of all the next five diseases after cancer put together. And yet in the face of the fact that heart is the greatest killer on earth, we were in that year 1946 as a nation spending about three dollars and a quarter for research for every person who died of polio. We were spending about a dollar and a half as a nation for every person who died of cancer and about three cents for every person who died of heart disease. There was something wrong about it. And unless we set about to cure it, we would either have a continuous and increasing calamity to the people of this country, or we would have the dead and leaden hand of government forced in by politically motivated people to take over a field which requires the imagination and the genius of free men. And so we gathered together at the American, at the New York Academy of Medicine, a group of people whom I asked to come. Helen Reed, the New York Herald Tribune, and I remember it was in the discussion that Helen said, Why don't we make it Valentine's Day and adopt the symbol of a heart? And there it is, as a result of Helen Reed's spontaneous suggestion seven years ago at a dinner. And Arthur Sulzberger and Roy Howard and... And Mr. Hollander, the President of the CIO, who is here tonight, who made an impassioned speech about the men who died... In his industry over the Cutter's desk. And Tom Murray of the AFL and all the doctors you see here. And after that we had meetings at the Hotel Roosevelt, just a small group trying to make this thing come to life. At that time in New York they were spending fifty thousand dollars a year in heart disease. And this campaign in New York alone is for a million. And fifty didn't scratch the surface. And Frank Houston and Carl Whitmore, who is here tonight, and Stanley Reeser and... Dr. Maynard and Dr. Wright and Dr. Levy, who spoke so eloquently here tonight... And Wilbur Dewey, of course, we sat around a table night after night over many weeks... And this thing was put together and now it's grown into a great... But by no means adequate answer to the necessities. As you know, heart disease includes rheumatic fever, diseases of the arteries and many others. In this city alone, the city of eight million, five hundred thousand people of all ages suffer from heart disease. Now what do you do about that? Do you say, well leave it to the doctors? Well let me tell you, the doctors can't do it. Every doctor I know works about twelve to fourteen hours a day in research and in teaching and in taking care of his patients. He can't go out and raise money. He can't be an executive of an organization. Doctors are rotten executives, ladies and gentlemen. They're just wonderful people. They give their lives and their hearts and their families and their happiness to research. They're not good executives. They're not money raisers. They're just the most wonderful people on earth and it's our job to help them. It's our job to raise the money. It's our job as just ordinary citizens to go out and not only raise the money but provide the administrative skill and the publicity and the genius of people like Ed Sullivan who can give it great national attention. And all of us whether we're in public life or in business or in the sciences or in the arts. To see that we go to work for the doctors. For goodness sake, we can't ask them to do it all. And Kerry does have wonderful good news. There is hope. And believe me, we need that hope. In two years, ladies and gentlemen, five of the nineteen members of my cabinet were struck with heart disease. Two died. Three are still living. This thing strikes at the men who worked most, who sacrificed most for the public. We can't afford to lose them. And so we can raise the funds. We can administer them. We can convey the wonderful glad tidings to the American people that if you have heart disease, it may be the best thing that ever happened to you. The old story is no longer true that you die if you got heart disease. One of the most important members of the administration of the president-elect nearly died four years ago of heart disease, and one of the doctors who talked with you tonight saved his life, and he's in better health today than he was ten years ago. There is great hope in this story. So let's all of us do our bit, and do it in a big way, to convey the glad tidings, to raise the money, to set up the clinics so the cardiacs can get a good job at which they'll be even more useful than they were at the last job, to keep the cold and clammy hand of a government out of this, to leave the free researcher and the free doctor to save the lives of the American people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is a privilege to present to the members of the American and New York Heart Associations, and to the national radio audience, a well-known member of a distinguished American family. Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower, president of Pennsylvania State College. President Milton Eisenhower is internationally recognized as an educator. He is also recognized as an expert in government administration and international affairs. He has on many occasions found time to help with the work of voluntary health associations. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Milton S. Eisenhower. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Keating, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have this opportunity to contribute even a little to the work of the American and New York Heart Associations and other voluntary health organizations. But my pleasure is, I confess, tempered somewhat by a serious misgiving. Tonight I find myself afflicted with diffidence in speaking that's strange and disturbing. Indeed, I fear I must lose, temporarily at least, part of my personality. Your comprehension of one phase of my loss may be enhanced by a poignant observation of my 77-year-old father-in-law. Recently, when we were fishing together on a quiet lake in Wisconsin, he said to me, You know, for a time after you married Helen, people referred to you as my son-in-law. But after a few years, I realized that I was being pointed out as your father-in-law, and I confess that bothered me quite a bit. Well, with real sympathy, I replied, I understand, but actually the cross you bear in this regard is nothing as compared to mine. And he retorted, Oh, yes it is. Now I'm being spoken of as the father-in-law of Ike's brother. Tonight, for the first time, I face the full reality of identification, if not guilt, by association. More than this, I find I must even discard titles, which for a decade have been comfortably useful and protective. But from here on, if I were to permit you or others to call me president, it would be considered pretentious by the wise and plagiaristic by the foolish. And further, I need only point out how misleading it would be in this group of distinguished American physicians and surgeons, for you or others to refer to me, a mere social scientist, as doctor. Indeed, had I been a bit more quick-witted, I would have asked Dr. Keating, in introducing me, to employ the title of an old Broadway review. Some of you will recall it. It was billed as, Call Me Mister. Well, that would have been appropriate, for it is as mister, as an average layman, that I wish to discuss very briefly the role of the great voluntary health associations in our American society. I can truthfully say that there's nothing distinctive about my contacts with medical services or with the lay organizations which have contributed so much and effectively to the improvement of the health of the American people. As a trustee of a marvelous hospital in Pennsylvania, I have had some little exposure to the problems involved in administering a medical program. As chairman of the Pennsylvania Cancer Drive last year, I gained at least a modicum of insight into the workings of the lay professional cooperation that has achieved tremendous results in attacking various aspects of the national health problem in our country. I am sure, however, that my views in this whole area are derived mostly from my experience as an administrator in the field of higher education. That experience has been primarily in the land-grant type of university, a type in which research, resident instruction, and extension programs are integrated and directed toward defined objectives. Here, the skilled scientist and the layman are real partners. As a result of that partnership, all phases of American agriculture, for example, have during the past 90 years progressed so amazingly that today only about 15 percent of our population produces all the food and fiber consumed by 160 million people, and there's a generous amount, even embarrassing amount sometimes, left over for export. research has produced results which, intelligently applied, have yielded soil improvement, better plants and livestock, better food processing and preparation, greatly improved dietary standards and practices, and therefore, better health for all the American people. Now, in this whole pattern of research and education in agriculture in the food industries, there has been much direct consultation between specialists and laymen, and there has also been an adult education system which has taught producers how to grow better quality crops at the lowest possible cost, while at the same time educating consumers to the better use of health-bearing foods. Now, this has been, I submit, one of the greatest demonstrations of research and mass use of research results in the history of mankind. Well, that would have been appropriate, for it is as an average layman that I wish to discuss very briefly the role of the great voluntary health associations in our American society. I can truthfully say that there is nothing distinctive about my contacts with medical services or with the lay organizations which have contributed so much, and effectively, to the improvement of the health of the American people. As a trustee of a marvelous hospital in Pennsylvania, I have had some little exposure to the problems involved in administering a medical program. As chairman of the Pennsylvania cancer drive last year, I gained at least a modicum of insight into the workings of the lay professional cooperation that has achieved tremendous results in attacking various aspects of the national health problem in our country. I am sure, however, that my views in this whole area are derived mostly from my experience as an administrator in the field of higher education. That experience has been primarily in the land-grant type of university, a type in which research, resident instruction, and extension programs are integrated and directed toward defined objectives. Here, the skilled scientist and the layman are real partners. As a result of that partnership, all phases of American agriculture, for example, have, during the past 90 years, progressed so amazingly that today only about 15% of our population produces all the food and fiber consumed by 160 million people, and there's a generous amount, even embarrassing amount sometimes, left over for export. Research has produced results which intelligently applied, have yielded soil improvement, better plants and livestock, better food processing and preparation, greatly improved dietary standards and practices, and therefore, better health for all the American people. Now, in this whole pattern of research and education in agriculture in the food industries, there has been much direct consultation between specialists and laymen, and there has also been an adult education system which has taught producers how to grow better quality crops at the lowest possible cost, while at the same time educating consumers to the better use of health-bearing foods. Now, this has been, I submit, one of the greatest demonstrations of research and mass use of research results in the history of mankind. Now, the American medical profession is similarly notable for its research program and for the development and maintenance of superb clinics, hospitals, and other medical services. But what is lacking, to make my analogy complete at least, is a great network of adult education which would inform the American people in all phases of health protection, and educate them in the intelligent use of professional medical services. The nearest existing substitute for a consistent, persistent, continuing extension program is the work of the voluntary health organizations. These organizations clearly have two indispensable interrelated functions. Adult education, which I would define to include service, and fundraising. To me, education is the greater of these, for the proper fulfillment of the educational responsibility will almost automatically result in more generous giving of funds for the support of essential workers. of essential research, service, and educational efforts. In the Pennsylvania cancer drive last year, our real goal was to reach every adult in the Commonwealth with accurate information on how to detect cancer in its early stages, and on how to obtain the various public and private services available to the cancer patients. Well, we did a good educational job, I think, and one tangible result was that we greatly exceeded our financial quota. We raised more than $1 million in our one state to help fight this one consuming curse of mankind for one year. Now, I'm told, and I've had no experience up until tonight with the Heart Associations, but I'm told that the American, New York, and other Heart Associations also considered their first task to be an educational one. After all, a medical specialist, no matter what he's skilled, cannot help a person who does not know enough to come to his office, or who refuses to come, or who upon coming refuses to profit by the doctor's advice. Praiseworthy educational progress has, of course, been made, and thus one may cite impressive statistics which show an amazing decline in deaths due to several vicious diseases. The data also indicate satisfactory reductions in infant mortality and maternal deaths, and show how our life expectancy has lengthened by 20 years in the past half century. But such summaries also show great areas of darkness. Darkness that involves suffering. Darkness that can be pushed back only by systematic and often costly research and education. And so the second job of the Heart Associations and other voluntary health agencies, fundraising, must be carried forward, and in general has been carried forward with remarkable success. This is surely heartening to all of us who believe passionately in the private enterprise system, who believe that the socialization of medicine would prove to be the fatal step that would lead to the loss of economic freedom and therefore to the loss of political and personal freedom too. applause This gathering tonight is one method by which we express our adherence to our American system of private initiative and private enterprise. This gathering is typically American. Here tonight are men and women representing the diverse elements of a large community with the intent of planning and working together for the common good. There is no compulsion here beyond the individual conscience. There is no incentive here beyond the individual desire to fulfill a self-imposed duty. Why is it that Americans have been and are today the most generous cooperators and givers in all history? Well, in the first place, we are the inheritors of a tradition of concern for human welfare that runs as a thread through the whole fabric of Western civilization. The Judea Christian philosophy has always emphasized cooperative efforts to relieve suffering and want, beginning in earnest with the night hospitalers, the monasteries and abbeys, and the medieval guilds, and building on in a great crescendo to our very day. And so philosophically, the basis of philanthropy in the United States is the same as it is in other Western nations. Hence, the distinctive reason for the tremendous volume of practical philanthropy in America must lie in two other factors. One is this. We were a pioneering people with a wilderness still to conquer after the old world had essentially become static. For 250 years, Americans pushed westward to fill a continent, pioneers living under conditions of danger and hardship that compelled the development of initiative and cooperative effort. That grizzled old soldier, Miles Standish, was no doubt a good man of war, but he lives in my memory as a tender nurse, making the rounds of the sick watch in a desperate winter, bowed by the grief at the death of his wife, yet caring for the sick and dying that the Plymouth colony might survive. That pioneer bravery of Standish's was repeated wherever Americans worked to create a new way of life. All such experiences made us a people alert and perceptive, resilient and practical, always ready to volunteer and to cooperate. Another important factor in the development of America's philanthropy is inseparably part of our private enterprise system. We believe that every human being has within himself the potentiality of great achievement, a potentiality which will be realized if he has opportunity to be truly responsible and to exercise individual initiative. We would rather do things ourselves individually or as groups in our home communities than to depend on others to do things for us. These qualities have enabled us to achieve unprecedented heights in production and general well-being, and so the American people have had the means as well as the will to give enormous sums of money for religious educational health and related purposes. Giving has become characteristic not only of the wealthy in our society, but also of the relatively less well-to-do. Some seven and a half million taxpayers who file itemized deductions contribute more than four percent of their gross income annually to health, educational and other agencies, and nearly one and a quarter million persons who do not have to pay income taxes at all, though this was two years ago, but who nonetheless itemized contributions in their returns, give nearly six percent of their gross income to these same purposes. Yes, the American people, even those with the least means, always give generously to meet genuine, understood needs. But it would be untrue to say that the peak of our accomplishment in this whole effort has been, or should have been, reached. I've talked with a good many professional men who are deeply involved in the work of the voluntary health associations, and it's their judgment, as well as mine, that several developments would greatly enhance the effectiveness of all such voluntary agencies. They believe, first, that some mechanisms should be established to analyze our overall health needs on an impartial actuarial basis. Findings of a study of this kind might furnish a basis for intelligent distribution of effort. And I may say that any such actuarial table would show some of the data which Governor Dewey spoke here tonight, and which I think are not understood by the American people. Second, it seems that some agency, no matter how informal, is needed to coordinate the work of the national health organizations. I think competition is as valid in this area as it is in any other, and certainly competition is indispensable in all phases of American life. But just as competing industries find it useful to have associations to forward common purposes, so too would it seem worthwhile for the heart, the cancer, tuberculosis, polio, and other national associations to cooperate in overall planning. I'm sure that this would be helpful to the American people and to the associations. Third, many professional people feel that both industry and labor should provide a broader reservoir of voluntary leadership. Almost every community has a small core of devoted people who are always persuaded to take key posts of responsibility in health campaigns. This gives rise sometimes in local communities to situations in which leadership becomes confused with sponsorship, and in which education may be forgotten in the feverish drive for funds. The source of leadership in a community should be broadened whenever multiple health fund appeals are essential. And the fourth and final suggestion I've gathered from my professional friends concerns the relationship of business and industrial corporations with the several health organizations. The income tax laws have opened the way for corporate giving, but too many corporations have not responded to this opportunity. Business and industry and their millions of stockholders have a tremendous stake in programs designed to keep our nation strong. I'm sure that as they equate the future of private enterprise with the future of the voluntary agencies that are rooted in the same free soil, they will join in the cooperative effort. If all of you, if all of us who are interested in the Heart Association will continue to work in a spirit of free, voluntary cooperation, and if in the words of Governor Bradford of Plymouth applied to Miles Standage, you do this willingly and cheerfully without grudging in the least, showing therein your true love unto your friends and brethren, then as he said, I know your work will be a rare example and worthy to be remembered. Thank you very much and good luck. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have a great speaker. I have a great speaker. I have a great speaker. I have a great speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the official program of this wonderful evening is over. You've been listening to the speaker's session of the New York Heart Association inaugural dinner of 1953. The principal speakers have been Governor Dewey and the honorable chairman of the American Heart Association and Dr. Milton Eisenhower, president of the Central Illinois State College, who you just heard speaking. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building.