Yes, as it very often happens, you laugh about that, and it is perhaps quite good to see in such tragedies, occasionally also a humorous angle, this overly domineering, dominating, disciplinarian mother had brought on in the anxiety-ridden and inwardly so disturbed and anxious child the asthma. That happens quite often. Only those who have it or who cause it are not aware of it because they don't want to be aware of it. How could a mother ever want to be aware of it, that she has caused her daughter's illness by her disciplinarian, stern and shouting and dominating attitude, by her constant nagging, by her frequent criticism, which the child was afraid of? After this was analyzed, a whole host of symptoms and experiences came out of this child's mouth when she felt that she can't talk finally, how always she felt oppressed, how always she was tyrannized and criticized and couldn't do this or that and was pushed around. And as an emotional, or in this case psychosomatic reaction to all that, an asthma condition developed, a psychosomatic asthma condition, and it was of course no wonder that all the pills and injections and climatic treatments in the world would not help and could not help. How can a psychological condition, a psychosomatic ailment, be helped by pills or powders or diet or even by the good climate in Florida and Arizona? How can a child go away from the son of the son of the son of the son ofessionalism? Her not being able to express herself freely had to be treated. And when she did finally express herself freely, and when she finally had the courage to stand up and talk back When it came to an argument, also her asthma eased up and finally went completely. And today she is the happy mother of two children of her own. Now in these two examples, which I repeatedly give when I speak about psychosomatic conditions, you see the whole alpha and omega of psychosomatic medicine. The facts are this, that under certain abnormal conditions, with extreme emotional tension continuing for some time or occurring at frequent intervals, permanent damage may result in the organs and tissues of the body from emotional factors. Many conditions, which formerly were considered as purely physical in origin and nature, have been more and more recognized as psychosomatic diseases, that means resulting from continued or often repeated emotional stress and strain. Among the most common of these diseases are high blood pressure, stomach ulcer I mentioned, asthma I mentioned, tachycardia, that means frequent palpitation of the heart, many skin conditions, sexual disturbances, indigestion, colitis, insomnia, migraine. But many more conditions, including obesity, glandular disorders, and so on, may rightly be included in the group of psychosomatic conditions. Even fractures and accidents, such as falls, burns, cuts, collisions can be traced very often to psychosomatic causes. Now, this list may appear to you somewhat strange, that, for instance, even fractures or cuts or burns may have a psychological cause. And also, that has not been recognized for many, many years, until only recently, in studying accidents, regular automobile accidents, which are such an important problem in today's technicalized civilization, it was found, what seemed at first strange, that certain individuals seem to have a tendency to have more accidents than others under the same outer conditions. That means that, for instance, people who drive their car every day, to give an example, from Greenwich in Connecticut to New York, let's say they drive every day, 500 people on the same road, about the same time, with the same traffic density. That among these people are certain individuals who, under the same conditions, have a tendency to have more accidents, relatively, than others. Now, at first, one always was inclined to attribute that to deficiencies of the visual acuity, to deficiencies of hearing, or to some physical conditions, like heart diseases, arthritis, and so forth. But when these so-called accident-prone individuals were finally studied psychologically and thoroughly, it was found that their hearing is perfectly all right, and their visual acuity may be even better than those who have no accidents. And their heart was okay, and their sinuses were good, and their hand power and muscle power and so forth, everything was up to par. But it was found, when they were investigated psychologically, that they were individuals who had severe emotional conflicts, who were dreamers, or had lived in a world of fantasy, because they felt so inferior and so unhappy in their present-day life conditions, that they had to build castles in Spain all the time while driving the car. Nothing surprising, after all, but it was found that these accident-prone individuals are psychologically, not physically disturbed, and therefore so often have more accidents than others. And in this sense, even fractures, cuts, bruises, and other results from accidents and physical disturbances of this kind can be, and often are, the direct outcome of psychological causes. Now, in some cases, of course, the psychosomatic origin of many conditions is quite obvious. For instance, after the air raids in London during the Blitz, ten years ago, delayed menstruation among women as a result of emotional shock was very frequently observed. Also, after the first bombings of Manila in the Philippines, where studies had been made at that time, it was found that in most women, immediately after the bombings, irregularities, periodic irregularities appeared and were especially frequent among those interned in war camps. such a physical condition, for instance, like certain types of goiter, that form of goiter which is very often connected with so-called grave's disease, is very often an emotional, emotionally caused condition and has nothing to do with any physical things. In my own experience, I know of one European woman who developed an acute thyroid condition within a short time, almost overnight, when she learned that her husband had been killed during the war. Well, speaking of such conditions among women, let me tell you right here and now, men are not at all immune against psychosomatic conditions, but speaking of certain conditions which prevalently assail women, one of the most spectacular psychosomatic pictures is the so-called pseudosiesis or false pregnancy. Under the influence of strong emotions resulting either from marked fear of or overwhelming desire for pregnancy, a woman may believe so intensely that she is pregnant that she develops all the signs and symptoms of such a condition, including enlargement of the breasts and the abdomen, cessation of her periodic flow, and actual subjective sensations of embryonic movement and finally actual labor pain. The condition looks in every detail so much like a real pregnancy that doctors and patients alike have been deceived in these cases. Of course, in spite of the enlargement of the abdomen and of the enlargement of the breast and the stubbage of the menstrual flow and so forth, one item is always lacking, namely the child. And in former years, when one looks over the literature, this was one of the very serious and often fatal complications, not of childbirth, but so to speak, pregnancy without a child, because when one looks over the sad history of the Middle Ages, and not only the Middle Ages, but even such tragic events like Salem and witchcraft and so forth, then one finds that quite a high percentage of women who were burnt for witchcraft were such psychosomatically ill individuals. So you see what human ignorance and human superstition, not knowing about psychosomatics and not having available the results of our modern science can do to sick people because sickness in these sad cases then was not recognized. These people were thought as having been obsessed by the devil or by bad spirits or by some demons and bewitched and bewildered and destroyed by them and so they became the victims of such misnotions of such terrible superstitions. However, apart from such striking and immediately detectable cases of psychosomatic illness, it is well to remember that longstanding disabilities, serious complications and even fatal illnesses may be emotionally in use and let me give here to you a recent example from one of the studies at the Mayo Clinic published by Dr. Alvarez, the leading internist, not psychiatrist, but internist of the Mayo Clinic. In these mind-formative years, we make them neurotic because we are neurotic ourselves. And the lady is quite right. Charity begins at home when we recognize that, that we are neurotic and emotionally disturbed. We cannot very well help the other emotionally disturbed person. We have to get help ourselves and that is what analysis, mental hygiene, psychotherapy tries to provide. That is the work of analysis and therefore the analysts sit with their patients in these little rooms and analyze them to get the emotional conflicts, the inner rancor, the anxiety and the hatred and whatever it is out of their minds. And fortunately in many cases it succeeds. In others it takes a long time and is expensive and difficult. It does not always succeed. one of those things. Thank you doctor. And there's another question. Does it necessarily indicate a weakness of the mind on the part of a person who becomes physically afflicted due to what you might call psychosomatic reasons? I'm so glad about this question. I believe all heard it, yeah? Of course it does not indicate a weakness of mind at all. would you perhaps repeat it loud? Yes. Does it necessarily indicate a weakness of the mind on the part of a person who becomes physically afflicted? Psychosomatic afflicted? Yes, does it necessarily indicate a weakness of the mind, ladies and gentlemen, a doctor, if a person has psychosomatic trouble? If a person has psychosomatic trouble, it does of course not indicate a weakness of mind. It indicates emotionalism, inner conflicts, and so on, but not weakness of the mind. Very often these people are too strong to use this terminology, which is of course misleading anyway, in their mind, so to speak. For instance, that mother with the big bosom and the big hat, and the big statue, who had a daughter looking like a shrunken nobody. She was too strong, so to speak, overly strong, overly domineering, as I told you, despotic, nagging constantly, always criticizing, always humiliating. I could tell you a whole hour what she did to her child when the child had a party for other children and so forth. She always found that something with the ribbon is not correct, or the hair is not so right, or the blouse is not so good, and humiliated the child before the children. And the fingers were not as they should be, and the fingers must be held that way on the table and not this way, and so forth. And this constant nagging, when that goes on day by day, practically, and week by week, over years and years, well, this was a very strong-willed, a neurotically strong-willed person, and with her over despotism, she did to the child what I told you. So it is not weakness of mind, it is, let us say, distorted emotional inner life, something along those lines. All right, thank you, doctor. now, just a second. You had one question. Now, you wait a minute, now, we give this other lady a chance. You spoke in your talk of emotional maladjustments causing physical injuries, and is the reverse true? Can a physical injury leave an emotional maladjustment that can be treated by psychosomatic medicine? And... Yes, the lady asked whether also the reverse holds true that, for instance, bad physical conditions, can they bring about bad emotional reactions? Yeah? Is that your question? No, that's not quite it, doctor. After the physical injury is cleared up, I mean, the emotional maladjustment that's left, can that be treated by psychosomatic medicine? I have an example that I had in mind of someone who was injured at a New Year's Eve party where something struck her arm, I remember the woman lost her voice, and now after every emotional crisis she seems to lose her voice and get choking spells and gagging spells, and it actually gets physically sick, but can psychosomatic medicine do anything for this particular one? Yes, yes. This is a so-called traumatic neurosis that somebody goes through an accident, yes, or something like that, and then due to shock, and not only has a physical injury, let us say an injury to the arm or to the shoulder or to the neck or whatever it is, but then certain emotional reactions remain, for instance trembling and emotional reactions, I believe you spoke of aphonia, yes, she lost her voice, yes, any emotional reactions, certainly such are, these are well-known emotional reactions which are called in civilian life traumatic neurosis, or especially they are frequent in war, the so-called war neurosis, injuries, and they can be treated in the same way as outlined before. Thank you, now this lady was quite agitated about something you said, in fact she was jumping up and down, so I invited her to say a word, I thought it might help both of them. Well, I think that your answer was a little reversed, and the lady who asked whether it's a sign of weak-mindedness if one has a psychosomatic symptoms, like the little girl that you mentioned, but you seem to analyze the mother rather than the child as the answer. Everybody was impressed that she meant the child. Correct, but the child was not weak-minded at all. That's what we wanted to know. She was only afraid, deadly afraid of the mother who had maltreated her all her life, physically and mentally. So I think it's necessary to do it. Both, yes, I'm glad that you asked that again. The mother I already told you about certainly was not weak-minded, and the child wasn't weak-minded at all. I believe I mentioned that she is now the happy mother of two happy children, and is a much better mother to these two children than her mother was to her. So she was not weak-minded at all, but she was deadly afraid. So many people are the shy ones, you know, the sensitive ones, the oversensitive ones, who are afraid of every loud word, who always let the others go ahead, and they keep in the back the withdrawn and unhappy ones, who never walk in the sunlight of life, but on the shadow side of life. They are not weak-minded. many of these people have wonderful thoughts and have brought about wonderful creations in art, music, and literature. Many of the greatest minds, like Mozart, Schubert, Schumann, Berlioz, in many fields, Chopin, and others, were such people, oversensitive ones, hurt ones, by their dictatorial fathers or mothers, or by their callous environment, and they are not weak-minded. Many of them are very strong-minded, but they are afraid and intimidated, which is not the same thing as weak-minded. Thank you, Doctor. Doctor, we have a lot of questions here. I wonder if you could give a kind of short, just kind of quick answers. Well, I'll read them over. Now, I know you don't like to do this, but maybe we could give an idea. Is stuttering or stammering of psychosomatic origin? Yes. Stuttering and stammering is always of psychosomatic origin, always caused in childhood, always by nagging and domineering and cold, callous parents. Thank you. How about epilepsy? A lot of questions here on that, sir. Is epilepsy now considered a psychosomatic illness? Epilepsy is unknown, still unknown. Nobody knows whether it's psychosomatic or not. We have no idea about it. When mental conditions are removed, in case of stomach trouble, apparently, does the stomach lesion heal itself? Yes, that is a very good question. In Tom and others, one saw that right under the observation. When he was again in a happy mood and had to look forward to something good, his stomach lesion disappeared. And that happens very often also with stomach lesions outside the laboratory observation. Doctor, a person would like to know if a rheumatic pain that is only felt during the night, after one goes to sleep, wakes them up several times during the night, only has it in the night, do you think that would be a psychosomatic symptom? If it is only during the night, it looks suspicious for psychosomatic conflict. Because you understand, a real rheumatismo arthritis would probably be also during the day felt. So it's only felt during the night, when he's alone, and when the person is, as in bad anxiety dreams, and in sleeplessness, insomnia, the victim of his own conflicts, which then come to the fore, it looks very much as if at least psychosomatic factors are involved. That is formulated that way. Please repeat the list of diseases that may, some of which may have psychosomatic origin. You went over those quite rapidly. Would you do it just kind of slowly, sir? Well, I'll be glad to do it. Perhaps, however, that will take a minute or two. Go ahead. Take a minute. Perhaps we let us better divide it in systems so it's easier. In the respiratory system, I spoke already of shortness of breath, asthma, certain types even of bronchitis, and nervous cuff. Even the layman speaks of nervous cuff, non-productive cuff. That is in the psychosomatic, in the respiratory field. In the cardiovascular field, I mentioned high blood pressure, hypertension, also low blood pressure very often has to do with it. Certain heart conditions, especially the very frequent and very disturbing heart condition called angina pectoris. Then, of course, palpitation, fast heartbeat, not related to physical causes. That is in the cardiovascular field. In the digestive, gastric field, I mentioned already, gastric ulcerative, colitis, indigestion, anorexia, that means complete lack of appetite for nervous causes. The opposite, bulimia, the overeating. and also certain forms of vomiting and diarrhea, even constipation, often are psychosomatic in the gastric field. In the, going down the line below, it's coming to some regions where they practically are all psychosomatic. let's say 95% of all disturbances in the sexual field, frigidity, impotence, exhibitionism, and all the sexual perversions, including homosexuality, with very few exceptions, are psychologically or psychosomatically determined. And then, in the field of skin conditions, especially hives, so-called giant hives, always, always giant hives, are a, an overemotional reaction. And also other chronic skin conditions, for instance, very frequent, also acne. Now, please, I must make, when I, this list is not complete, but just an overall review. I must make that clear once more, that all these conditions and ailments can, and very often are also purely physical, purely bodily, except those where which I mentioned, for instance, giant hives, or colitis, they are always, or migraine, always, psychosomatically. That is, absolutely, but of course, an ulcer, an asthma, an angina pectoris, high blood pressure, may be the one or the other. That is then up to your doctor, to your diagnostician, to decide whether it is this or that, and not to make the either or question, but how much emotionalism, how much, how many psychosomatic elements, and how many purely physical elements are involved. Not very often, a rather difficult question. All right, thank you, doctor. Would you enlarge a little bit on the dynamics of anorexia? Is that correct pronunciation? Yeah, dynamics of anorexia, that is a lack of appetite. Well, that I cannot really enlarge on, because that would take at least ten minutes. Only I want to say it has to do with anxiety, with fear. Anorexia, I have people who are afraid, especially they are, have often anorexia when they are taken out on a date, for instance, and have to eat in public, or are afraid of the date for other reasons and so forth, whether they will make a good impression, whether they make a bad impression, whether they will be accepted, whether they will not be accepted, whether they will feel happy or not happy. All these inner conflicts and these anxiety-producing situations usually result in such a complete anorexia as asked here. Thank you. This young lady even gets sick at her stomach and gets nauseous and vomits when she goes out with people that she's very fond of on dates. Same thing. Exactly the same thing. Over-emotionalism, strong anxiety brings about such a severe reaction. That's a very sad thing that you spoke of there, Doctor. Doctor, will you please define inattention? It seems to, you mentioned inattention. Inattention should be defined. Well, I'll try to define it in a sentence or two. Inattention is generated by emotional conflicts. If they're unresolved emotional conflicts, if I have a conflict between, let us say, love and hate, between good and bad feelings, between accepting a person or feeling resentful toward a person, and other emotional conflicts, they produce inattention. You understand quite easily. It's like the clash of two opposing trends. When two machines crash in the middle, then destruction and heat is produced by the clash. if in the mind two conflicting trends, love and hate, acceptance, non-acceptance, this or that, if they clash in the form of an emotional conflict, inattention is produced. Thank you, Doctor. Is there any reason, does anybody know why your 23-year-old girl, Peggy, I believe, had the asthma? Why did she develop asthma and not some other one of these forms? Is there any way of telling which direction these will go? Very good question. The choice, so to speak, of the psychosomatic condition. Why here she developed asthma and not, let us say, a colitis or not an ulcer and so forth? This is an interesting question which leads us directly into psychiatry with many fascinating ramifications, but I want to say only one thing which I hinted at in my lecture. She carried a tremendous load on her shoulders. The shoulders were weak, not her mind, on her weak shoulders, so to speak. Namely, the tremendous load of this six-foot mother with her continuous nagging and continuous domineering. She carried that load right here and so the so-called body language, what we call body language or organ language, came to the fore. Namely, she didn't dare to talk back, but where the pressure was here on her, that talked back in form of asthma. That is a famous and extremely interesting phenomenon of organ language, why the stomach talks back in a certain way and in other ways, in other things, as the skin talks back in form of a rash and in this way, for instance, the chest, so to speak, talked back and used this rather harsh and not easy to understand language, namely, the shortness of breath, the feeling of being suffocated, the asthma. If they could get that directed around so she could have something psychosomatic like alcoholism, she might enjoy it more if she could get that twisted. Is the basis of all psychosomatic disorders in childhood? Can an adult pick these up or do we grow up? It can be just as well picked up in adulthood. Just as well. Childhood is very often the origin, but more in the psychiatric sense, the mental things in childhood. This here in Peggy, also the physical thing. Very often, the physical things like high blood pressure, the physical reactions or angina or also asthma, stomach ulcer, are emotional and over-emotional responses to worry and tension in adulthood. Doctor, how about under-eating? You mentioned over-eating, talked about it, would conversely under-eating, a person who can't keep anything on their stomach deal wants to eat what I said about anorexia. It's about the same. Quite a question about that. It's the same. How about hay fever, doctor? Yes or no? Well, that leads us to the field of allergy. The allergies like hay fever and other allergies of course have to do with ragweed and other oversensitive things, foods and so forth, but everyone is oversensitive. However, there is usually, let us say, in nine out, or in eight out of ten cases, eight to nine out of ten cases, a strong emotional angle also in most allergies, in most allergies. Not exclusively, but there is a factor there. Well, all right, doctor. I wish we could go on, but it's about ten o'clock and thank you very much. Thank you. You