Good night, it's nature. A few hours ago, the regular monthly luncheon meeting of the Radio Executives Club was held in the Hotel Roosevelt. Principal speakers were Mayor William O'Dwyer and Wayne Coy, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. WNYC was on hand to make this special tape recording. And the next voice you will hear is that of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Mr. President, distinguished visitors, ladies and gentlemen, it would be my hard luck to stand up here before people who are professionally accustomed to speaking over this gadget. And now I know how it feels to be on the defense. Of course, distinguished visitors of the Commission, I recognize that this luncheon is given by the industry to you. I won't make a hideous comparison, but if someday the bookmakers of the town give a dinner to the police commissioner... on the newslet Santa Tollな, the solicitor is always linked in to the hours of the work for E.C. of giving you on behalf of the city a very hearty welcome. We're glad to have you in the city. We'd like to have you closer to the city most of the time because we're in terrible trouble with WNYC. Let us take, for example... Have you filed an appearance? Yes, sir. We have an appearance right in your office. We want you to let us broadcast the elections this year as we've done for the last 24 years at WNYC. Now, look, I don't know the troubles of the commission. I have my own troubles. I don't pretend to know how it's going to be done with Wayne. I'm leaving it all to you. We've got to, if we can, broadcast the elections this year. We don't want our people to go to bed like they did 12 years ago, or 20 years ago, I think. Go to bed and think they're elected and then wake up next day and finally they're not. 32 years ago. Well, they're a long time to carry out. They'll see how time passes. Now, since that time, this instrument became very important. I don't pretend to know the engineering problems. All I know is that in the air there are only so many lanes. And now we've got, what do you call it, FM? You got them at it. Now you've got television. Now, frankly, I want to charge the industry with being very cooperative with the city. I want them to plead guilty to that in the presence of the commission. But there are times when the city would like to have just a little lane of its own, lady and gentleman of the commission. I'll tell you why. You never can tell with all the newspapers going into this business, too, you never can tell when we have to tell the story ourselves in our own way. Not that we've ever had to. I'll say we never had to. But the next administration might. Here's something. We're on the doorstep of another great development in television. And frankly, we're all grown up now. We're not children anymore, but we were children once. All of us. Look at the most experienced person in the room. I'll put it that way. That person was a child once. I went to school. And we all know that going to school is tough business. And we all know that with this development in television, there is a possibility of making the business of going to school more pleasant and easier for the children. And that day is here. And that day is here. We learned it in the war. And it's too bad that we haven't been able to go ahead much quicker with education on the visual principles. I hope we can do that in New York City even before my term ends, which is next year. I hope we can put over a program that at least will be a serious beginning in visual education. But more important than that, ladies and gentlemen, is this. We here in New York, and I'm sure that almost every large municipality would find themselves in the same position, We know that going to school is just getting ready for education. And that education begins once they begin to live. They get out of school. Then the real education starts. And in our city, where we have 8 million people housed within an area of 365 square miles, We have many, many problems. Many problems. The most important of all is health. I needn't mind telling you, you know, It's so easy for the little bug to jump from 3rd Avenue to 5th Avenue. With a million and a half people breathing into one another's faces, Between the hours of 7.30 and 9 in the morning, 4.30 and 6 in the evening, the subway. Every place we go here, we're crowded, and health becomes important. I just mentioned this as one service. We can't get the grown-up people back into school when we want to give them an educational program. But today, by the aid of this development and the further development of television, We have an opportunity to conduct a mass education on subjects that we believe are in the best interests of all the people. And we hope to be able to use WNYC and to further develop it so that we can get that idea across. Now, this, ladies and gentlemen, is not asking for an opportunity to compete with industry. It's asking for an opportunity to give a service to the entire city That can only be given consistently by our own city station. And I do ask that in the determination of those questions that are before the Commission, That you will please remember our problems, And don't shut us out from doing the things that we believe are in the immediate future Going to be done, and should be done, and must be done, In a well-ordered community such as we hope we are. I'm not going to hold you, Premier. Dessert? I'm happy to have an opportunity to welcome this distinguished group to our community. We have here, ladies and gentlemen, An industry that has given to me for three years that I've been on City Hall. For every cooperation that I have asked for. I want to thank them in your presence, And to say to you, That the conditions under which we work, Are pleasant, And useful, And at great expense, They have more than once, Gone a way out on the limb, To help us to carry our programs through. We're very happy to have you here, Members of the Commission. We hope you'll come back very often. And I hope I'll have the opportunity to be here when I'll have more time to spend with you. Thank you very much. that was Mayor William O'Dwyer addressing the radio executive's luncheon. addressing the radio executive's luncheon. And now, Wayne Coy, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. I suppose I really should say something serious on an occasion like this. I have been told that all serious speeches should begin with a note of warning and end on a note of hope. I propose to reverse that pattern, mainly because that's the way it turned out. Now, whether I can comply with this revised formula under the circumstances, I just don't know. I shall have something to say about the future of broadcasting in this country. Whatever views I may express, if any, will be my own. I have not consulted other members of the Commission present today, nor those who are absent, nor any other prophets or seers. The more thought I give to the problems involved in the future of broadcasting, the more certain I am that I just don't know anything about it. You can regard this latter statement as a self-serving one. I'm sure that it will be evident to you that I really know very little about the future of broadcasting. Perhaps it is already evident to you. I was asked the other day where FM fits into the oral broadcasting picture of the future. I replied that I thought the answer to this question was involved in a determination of where oral broadcasting fits into the overall broadcasting picture of the future. I said then, and I say now, that our planning for the future oral broadcast system is being influenced day to day by the rapid growth of television, and more particularly by what we all believe to be the potential of television. I'm not sure that we would all agree on what the potential of television is. But we do agree that it will be great, and that it will have a terrific impact upon any oral broadcasting system in the future. Broadcasters dare not bury their heads in the sand and deceive themselves with the notion that television will get its economic support from advertising dollars heretofore spent in newspapers, magazines, and on billboards. Broadcasters must reckon with the fact that television is going to take large portions of their audience and large numbers of the dollars which have heretofore been spent in advertising on sound radio. It is my opinion that the audience that television takes from sound broadcasting and the dollars that it takes from sound broadcasting will be in direct ratio to the number of television receivers in any market. Qualified only as to the number of hours per day that television operates in any community. I shall have to get on with the second part of the formula for a serious speech. My warning, and I shall deal with it briefly. Things may not be as they seem to be. It has only been a few months since we began to realize the impact of television on the oral broadcasting business. developments of tomorrow may result in new evaluations of our current situation. New solutions may be indicated. And we shall have to make quick readjustments to these new conditions if we are to keep abreast of our problems. My warning is, and it applies to whatever the circumstances may be, that you cannot forget that the public interest must be served, or you will be failing to meet the requirements of your trusteeship for the radio frequencies for which we have created a bureaucracy in order that they may be made available to you. I am reminded of a story which I heard a night or two ago about an electronic communications marvel of another age. England had just built a cable connecting London, the seat of the British Empire, with India. Ruskin, the great British critic of his time, was asked to comment upon this achievement of the British. He said that it was indeed a wonderful thing. But he issued a challenge, which I think you can paraphrase as well as I. And in fact, it might even replace the blue book as a concept of a licensee's public service responsibility. He said, and I quote, But what do you have to say to India? You have just heard a tape recording made a few hours ago of portions of the address delivered by Wayne Coy, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, at the Radio Executives Club luncheon held at the Hotel Roosevelt. The other speaker was the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. This has been a special public service presentation of the municipal broadcasting system. We wanted to show the children of the future and to the adults of today that atomic energy is no longer something that should be feared, but should be properly harnessed, and so that the future, that research and experimentation in the field of reactions to the released atomic energy on a large scale could be, is practical, and could be handled properly for the safeguard and for the peace of the world. The significance of the atomic bomb, for military purposes, have been proven. The effect of the use of atomic energy for civilian use upon the social, economic, and political structures of today cannot now be determined. It is a field in which unknown factors are involved. It is reasonable to anticipate, however, that tapping this new source of energy will cause profound changes in our present way of life. Accordingly, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the people of the United States that subject at all times to the paramount objectives of assuring the common defense and security, the development and utilization of atomic energy shall, so far as practical, be directed towards improving public welfare and increasing the standard of living, strengthening free competition in private enterprise, and promoting world peace. That, as you know, is the declaration of policy of the people of the United States as stated by the Congress in the Atomic Energy Act of 1946. So much for the future of our exhibit and its import upon the people of our city. Some 700,000 children visited the exhibition as well as the similar number of adults. We were pleased that so many turned out to see their city demonstrated in this thumbnail sketch at the Grand Central Palace. Then the last part of our exposition and commemoration, rather, was the cultural phase of it, which we tried to demonstrate through invitations that were sent by Mayor Andwyer to the French government and to the Indian government, that the art of dancing is something, and music can be interpreted and understood regardless of the difference in languages. So that we had the Paris Opera Ballet here, as you know, for 11 performances. And then we also had Ram Gopal with his Hindu ballet, and Charles Weidman for representing the American phase of the dance and his theater company. The New York City Center was the stage from which these ballets were given, and I am very happy to report that they were self-sustaining. The public turned out and appreciated the cultural and artistic side of this program, which we presented for the purpose of our, the people of the city. And finally, may I say to you that although these factors that I have spoken to you about are past, I hope that we shall always remember that we have a problem in New York City to keep the good and constructive phase of our city before the people of our own community, as well as the people of the United States and the world. Like every other successful and gigantic enterprise, New York City has its enemies, largely because of size and because of its success. And therefore, there must be agencies available at all times that will tell the facts about New York. And in this review that we have just concluded last night, we of the Mayor's Committee for the commemoration of the golden anniversary of the city of New York have tried to present New York in its true light. And I'm quite sure that our fellow citizens will agree with us that our effort was not in vain. and from the thousands and thousands of communications which we have received from all over, all parts of our own city, our own state, and the nation, and the world, we feel conscious of the fact that we have made a small contribution to our great city in making its life and its greatness known to the people of the world. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We have just brought you a special broadcast from the Mayor's Committee headquarters at 1 East 60th Street in New York City. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. of the City of New York City. an indoor big겨wee I'm sorry. Be sure to tune in next Monday night at 6.15 for another report from the Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, the Honorable Grover A. Whalen. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.