Hello. Hello, George. This is Dave. Are you doing anything next Wednesday night? No, nothing important. What's on your mind? Well, I've got something on the fire that looks good. You know, I've been looking around for a job. Yeah, that makes two of it. Well, that's why I called. For the past couple of weeks, I've been listening to a dying good radio show, the City College Career Clinic. Have you heard of it? No, I haven't. Well, listen to this. Every week they get together a panel of experts in some business field. Then they bring in some people who want to get started or get ahead in that field, and the experts answer their questions. That's fine, but I don't really have a definite field picked out. I don't know just where I want to start. Well, I don't either, and that's why I'm so excited about this next show. This is going to be an overall clinic and will cover a lot of different fields. Say, I wish I could get in on that. Well, I'm way ahead of you. I got in touch with the City College, and I'm going to be on the show Wednesday. That's a break. Say, do you still think there's room for me? Well, why not call them up right now? A lot of fellows just like us have gotten the best advice just this way. I'll do it. The City College, you say? Ladies and gentlemen, the conversation you've just heard actually occurred last week. George Marmer, whose friend David Tanney called him about the City College Career Clinic, did get in touch with the college authorities. As a result, they are both here tonight to discuss their future business careers. How do Dr. Robert A. Love, director of the evening and extension division, who will introduce his guests for the evening? Dr. Love. Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Joining Mr. Marmer and Mr. Tanney tonight is Mr. Nicholas P. Ferraro, another young man anxious to obtain information about his career possibilities. These three young men have already had the benefit of a preliminary conference, and some information has been gathered about their past experience and background. For the benefit of the panel members who are here with us this evening, however, and for our radio audience, I should like each of you to give us a little bit of your background. Mr. Ferraro? My experience has been long on work and a little short on education. I've had to start work at the age of 10, went into the Navy at the age of 17, and had raised the position of a second-class petty officer. Upon this charge, I had worked for the government as an aircraft instructor. They also had to develop a new type of television design. Well, that gives us something to go on. Mr. Marmer, I'm glad you made it here. Could you give us a little of your background? Graduate of Electronic Technician School in Chicago, Island Navy. Held grade of Electronic Technician's Main Third Class. Also, I'm an electrical engineer graduate. And Mr. Tanney, how about you? Most of the positions I have had, Dr. Love, have been in the theatrical profession. As a radio announcer, an actor, a booking agent, a songwriter and lyricist, and ad infinitum. However, I have found time to sell poultry, gaming, meats, jewelry, and automotive parts and equipment. Very well. Now, from the preliminary examination or conference with these three men, it developed that they had head risks that were fairly broad and wide, but at least they centered in the first instance on personnel, real estate, and management. We have accordingly arranged to have with us Professor Arthur E. Albrecht, Chairman of the Business Administration Department of the City College School of Business. Mr. Hyman Adelsberg, President of Adelsberg & Company, an expert in the field of real estate. Mr. Huxley Madheim, a consulting engineer and Supervisor of Management Courses at the City College School of Business. Mr. John P. Bree, Supervisor of Industrial Relations Courses at the Midtown Business Center. Now we are ready to start right in, and our effort is to answer your questions. Mr. Tanney, do you want to lead off? Well, Dr. Love, I found in the Army and elsewhere that I get along well with people. I like to deal with them. I wonder if there might be an opportunity for me in personnel work. That's a question for Mr. Bree. Mr. Marmer, is your hand up there? When I was in the Navy, I found that I could organize work, and that has led me to an interest in management. What type of jobs are there for me? Mr. Albrecht, can you help him on that? Well, before I can answer that question, would you mind telling me something about your experience during the last few years? Well, while in the Navy, I was put in charge of a small warehouse whose function it was to receive electronic equipment from decommissioned ships, stored it, created, and reshipped it to the storage depot. In addition to supervising this work, I kept a record on all incoming and outgoing equipment and where it was stored. Now, how could this be applied? Well, have you thought of the field of traffic management and warehousing? No, I haven't. Well, why don't you explore the field of production management? Mr. Marmer, can you help us there? Yes. I think the first thing we've got to decide, or rather Mr. Marmer has got to decide, is what his principal interest is. Whether it's principally in planning or in operations. To explain that a little further, planning involves design, production planning, routing, scheduling, that sort of work. Whereas operations principally involves handling people. Actually controlling the workers in the plant, dispatching the work through the plant, and so forth. Ferraro, I see your hand is up. We haven't given you a chance yet. Perhaps we can come back to you, Mr. Marmer, after a little later. For some time, I have been interested in real estate field. What are the possibilities for me at the present time? Mr. Edelsberg, can you answer? Yes. Mr. Ferraro, the opportunities in real estate fall into five broad groups. First, employment by a real estate organization and any one of its specialized departments. Sales, leasing, financing, property maintenance and operation, insurance, and then later perhaps an analysis, appraising, building, or promotion. Two, for governmental agencies, such as housing authorities and property supervision, management and operations. Tax departments and assessing. Federal housing authority, veterans administration, federal home loan banks, inspections, appraisals, and supervisions. Office of housing administrator, property analysis and tenant relations. State departments like the state insurance department, the banking department, and so forth. Three, with institutions like banks and insurance companies, and building and loan societies, and inspecting, appraising, and analyzing properties. Four, in the real estate departments of large corporations and property maintenance, chain store leasing, and so forth. And finally, the field least likely for you at this time is as an individual owner or operator of relicons. Well, that gives you quite a list. Mr. Tenney, have you got a second thought over there? Are you interested in real estate, too? Uh, yes. How about the selling end of real estate? Can I fit in there? Mr. Tenney? Yes, Mr. Tenney, most definitely. However, you must realize that real estate salesmen are usually paid strictly on a commission basis. Because of that, selling opportunities are almost always available. The best recent selling opportunities in real estate have been in the suburbs in one- and two-family houses. Mr. Marmer, I know we didn't quite satisfy you there a moment ago. What else have you on your mind? Well, I know that I can organize and coordinate work. What would the opportunities be for me in production planning and designing? Are there jobs for men lacking industrial experience? I have an electrical engineering degree from college, but I've had no practical work. No, no. Well, your background is very little questions, but there are some very definite opportunities. In the first place, your electrical engineering degree is a distinct asset, because that makes it possible, first, for you to go on a design work, if you want to, and second, in connection with production planning, since you have some familiarity with electrical processes, that narrows down your possible field of choice as to what you might like to want to go into. There are various things that you could enter in that connection, for example, as the field of television, radio, electrical home appliances, and many other similar fields. Well, I'm interested in production planning. Where would I start looking for a job? I would suggest that you look at some of the concerns located right here in the city that are interested in radio sets, frequency modulation sets, television sets, and some of the component parts. There are many firms starting up now manufacturing accessories for television, such as antenna equipment, lead-in wires, and other similar things that are required. Okay. Okay. Talking about production, would there be an opportunity for me to work into a job of negotiating contracts with workers? That answer on real estate must have scared Mr. Taney off. I see his back at personnel, Mr. Bray. That's your... Probably not, Mr. Taney, because a job like that is usually handled by a specialist or filled by the transfer of an experienced man from within the company. Well, where then could I start in personnel work? Well, just what experience or equipment do you feel you have for such work? Well, I was an intelligence agent in the Army, and I've worked in the theater and had experience in human relations. All of that'll help. But work experience is highly important, especially for jobs in private industry. Many personnel managers believe that the best place to start out is in a production job. Men and women have gone into industrial relations from accounting, payroll, and sales work. Employment prospects for untrained newcomers are not expected to be good in personnel work in the near future. Why not? The competition for entry jobs is keen. There's not much turnover. The field is growing, however, as more and more managements come to realize its importance. Probably the best present opportunities are in the middle or small-sized companies, in the fields in which increasing employment is expected to include wholesale and retail trade, especially department stores, and in finance and insurance. The best thing for you to do, Mr. Taney, is to get some work experience in business or industry, and to supplement that experience with training and the fundamentals of personnel administration. Then you'd be much better equipped to move over into the personnel or industrial relations work a little later on. Herrera, your hand up here. What possibilities are there for me to enter a production field? What self-experience have you in that line? I had, a short while ago, coordinated a group of individuals in developing new types of television sets. Well, I understand from that that primarily you're not so much interested, perhaps, in the design end of the problem as you are in the production planning and control. Is that more or less what your interest is? Yes. Well, there certainly is an opportunity in that at the present time, because television, as you know, is still a new industry, and the possibilities of getting it down to mass production are tremendous. In fact, for those of us who are old enough to remember, remember radio, when sets used to cost $400 to $500 a piece. Now you can get a set that's much better than that set for lower than $25, and the future of television hinges upon the possibility of getting costs down to a reasonable level as well. And if you had experience in trying to iron out some of the problems in the manufacturers' sets, that should certainly make it possible for you to find employment. Dr. Albrecht, you've opened up a number of fields here, but I know from your administrative experience over all of these different fields in business, you must have others to offer on. If you could give these three people the benefit of the list that you might suggest for them to consider. Well, Dr. Love, let me remind you, I'm a commuter. I want to get home before midnight. However, I might mention that the business world offers many opportunities to young people. Now, you might look into retailing, advertising, traffic, credits and collections, statistics, and in addition to the fields we mentioned here tonight. Now, I do want to say one thing here, Dr. Love, that all these fields require that the person going into them have the training, such as we give at the School of Business. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.