Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what can adults learn from the Great Books program? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around these questions. What is a great book? What people can profit by reading the great books? What are the best methods of studying the great books? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Edward A. Fitzpatrick, President of Montmary College, and author of the recent book, The Great Books, Panacea or What? Mr. Cyril O. Hull, Dean of University College at the University of Chicago. And Charles F. Strube, Jr., President of the Great Books Foundation. Now, Strube, I assume that the obvious first question in this discussion is something like this, what is a great book? How do you define a great book? Well, McBurney, I would define a great book as a book which deals with basic fundamental human problems, problems which every human being has no matter what his state in life, and a book which has influenced the thinking of many people on those problems, usually over a long period of time. Would you go along with that, Hull? Uh, yes I would. Um, the history of, uh, of literature is filled with lists of great contemporary books that people have made from time to time, and almost always one finds that the great contemporary books don't meet the test of time. Uh, the books with which we're concerned are the ones that 25 or 50 or 100 years after have somehow, uh, reached their place and have, uh, have indicated their, their great influence, uh, both upon, uh, the lives of the men of their own time and the lives of subsequent men. Well, who applies these, uh, these tests? Well, who is the, I mean, what's the, what's the, is it a book of influence or is it some quality in the book itself that's, uh, makes it great? Well, I wouldn't ordinarily say, Fitzpatrick, that these two things were completely or even primarily divorced from each other. If a book has influence, ordinarily it is because it is a great book, because there's some inherent quality of greatness in it. It has to meet both tests, I think, to qualify as a great book in the sense in which we use the terms in the Great Books Foundation. Is Mein Kampf a great book? Uh, it has certainly influenced an awful lot of people, Mr. Fitzpatrick, but I would not regard it as a great book because I do not think it really deals, uh, in a comprehensive way with fundamental problems. And furthermore, I think it is written in a turgid style so that it's not comprehensible to the average intelligent man. This is just your view, Strube. Yeah. Because you'd have to hold that you've got to wait for some time yet to see what the real influence of Mein Kampf will be. Well, I am going to ask. On the perspective of time, we'll... Strube, I'd like to ask you to talk about this, uh, turgid style. Many of these books are written in what one of the recent critics called translation English. Mm-hmm. Uh, that's certainly turgid, and, uh, uh, isn't it a, uh, uh, uh, something that stands in the way of understanding the greatness of the book? It's quite possible that a book's greatness can be lost in translation, yes, if that's what you mean. If the translation's poor enough, it's no longer a great book in translation. Now, Strube, one other question. Is the, uh, a great book, is all of it great? Well, I think that depends on the great book. There are some books which must be read in their entirety in order to be understood and appreciated. There are some books which naturally divide themselves into subdivisions, and, uh, parts of them can be read as units. Uh, for example, uh, Montaigne's essays, the essays stand out as individual units and can be read separately. Parts of the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas, I would say, can be read without complete reference to the whole, although there's naturally a progression of ideas from one to the other. On the other hand, something like Machiavelli's The Prince has to be read altogether, or Shakespeare's Hamlet. What about, what about, uh, Mr. Strube, what about the, uh, Republic, for example, in your first year? Plato's Republic. Plato's Republic. Well, I would say that, uh, in much the same way that you have to read all of St. Thomas's Summa Theologica to get a completely adequate understanding of what St. Thomas is talking about, the same is true of Plato's Republic. But it is not true that you have to read all of Plato's Republic in order to get some insight into his ideas of the nature of a state, to get some insight into his ideas of the nature of justice, for instance. Do you think the first two books are adequate for that? Completely adequate? No. We read other books in subsequent years, as you know. How? But you come back... We're talking all the while about, uh, about subsequent years and so on. Uh, I'm afraid, I think, that some of the people who are listening to this Northwestern University reviewing stand may not know about the Great Books program itself. Um... What is, what is the program? Tell us a bit about it. Well, of course, you would understand that at the University College, the University of Chicago, um, we did attempt to develop this program for over a number of years. First, uh, my predecessor, Mr. Carl Huth, and then I, tried to find some intelligent way of developing an adult educational program which would really meet the needs and the interests of all those many people who came to us wanting to have some... something broader and something deeper. And so, over the period from roughly 1939 until about 1946, we experimented with many variations, trying out testing, doing such studies as we could, until we had found how to select from the many, many great books that there are, those which would give most intelligible, um, comprehensive understanding of man's thought and man's culture, and what's been called a great conversation down the ages. This program, having been worked out with, uh, dozens and dozens of groups, and with many variations, some of which proved fatal, um, uh, to the particular group concerned, then became a program which, uh, the Great Books Foundation, um, took over as it were, and has made a national program under Mr. Strube's direction. Consequently, I'm a kind of antiquated figure in all of this. I'm, I'm the one that's been supplanted. Well then, let Strube, let Strube tell us how this thing's conducted now. No, I would like to add only to what, uh, Hula has said, that this experimentation, this process of trial and selection, is still going on in a couple of levels, first at our staff level, and in conjunction with the various educational institutions which cooperate with the Great Books Foundation, and secondly, as a result of the actual experience of groups in communities, uh, who are constantly reporting back to us our success or failure with discussion. What I, what I want to know though, Strube, is, is how a, a typical discussion is conducted. Well, I'd like to ask, uh, Strube on that question about tests. What is the test, uh, these tests that you say you're measuring these books by? What are, what is the test? Uh, I, I'm not sure I understand your question. If you mean the pragmatic tests of whether they make a good discussion, uh, this is observable. It's a completely observable phenomenon. When you see whether there is any progression of ideas in the group, whether the group is interested, whether the discussion is vital or alive. How do you know whether, how do you test the progression of ideas? Uh, uh, I, I think we ought to answer, uh, McBride's question before. No, I think, well, let me just, uh, let me just direct this at Fitzpatrick. Um, uh, we believe, sir, that, um, there, there is a real observable test. Just as, uh, just as the wise master teacher can look at other people's teaching and see how they improve. Just as you make judgments about the caliber of your faculty members through some kind of an observation of what they do and the results of their work. We have tried, and now Mr. Strube and the Great Books Foundation are trying, to do the same thing. In addition, of course, there's a very elaborate paraphernalia of educational research that I'm sure the listeners to this program are not interested in. Uh, in terms of a doctoral dissertations, various other kinds of studies, and so on, which have been done. Uh, but in essence, since there are now some 4,000 groups of mature people in this country reading and discussing, we have a great base of data on which to build. Now, I think... Wait a minute. What's the data, Mr. Hull? The, the experience of all of these groups, our observation of them, our study of what the adults themselves feel, um, the various kinds of detailed objective studies which have been made. Objective studies? Yes. What are objective studies? Uh... Just a minute only. Well, I, I, as I was saying, I don't think really that we're too concerned with this, but there have been, uh, there have been a number of, uh, research reports, ranging all the way from small observational reports to doctoral dissertations. Wouldn't it be a good idea to answer Mr. McBurney's question of five minutes? I think, I think, maybe he'd better ask it again. I think it might be. You see, the, the, uh, what we've got before us here is a book by, uh, Dr. Fitzpatrick, entitled The Great Books, Panacy or What?, in which he takes pretty sharp exception to this Great Books program. As you men know, he questions whether these books are within the grasp of the average person, whether they're capable of reading it. Now, before we come to those issues, uh, do answer that question. How do you conduct these Great Books discussions? The Great Books discussion typically is a two-hour discussion of about 20 to 25 adult persons organized through some local community agency, a library, a school, a PTA, a YMCA. In conjunction with the, uh, Great Books Foundation, which has done several things, it has helped to organize that group, and has helped to organize the local community program, uh, and committee, which, sponsors the Great Books, and perhaps most important of all, it is train the discussion leaders for those groups and pick the reading list. Well, now, Strube, those are organizational matters. What does a Great Books class look like in itself? I'm, I'm asking this, uh, I know, but I'm asking it for the benefit of our, our audience who may never have seen one. About 20 or 25 people, every two weeks, get together for two hours. They sit, usually around a square of tables, facing each other. At one end, there are two leaders. These leaders do not lecture. They ask questions designed to bring out the issues in the book, to solicit the opinions of the members of the group, to challenge those opinions in the light of logic and reason, and then, at the end of two hours, uh, to simply dismiss the group and hope that this discussion has been the beginning of a, an educational process, which will take place during the next two weeks, at the end of which time they come together again for a book class. For a book or a selection on a related topic and repeat the procedure. Well, what kind of people come to these, uh, these discussions? Adults? Uh, what ages? Uh, what educational background? May I, uh, may I speak to this? Those of us who spend many, many hours counseling adults in adult educational institutions know that, that people tend to have problems, uh, roughly proportionate to their age of life. Uh, youngsters are interested in vocational education and making a home and getting settled. Uh, but even they, uh, have some time to think about broader problems. But I should say, generally speaking, McBurney, that the people who are most interested in the great books, the ones who really come most frequently and are most significantly concerned, are those who are roughly between the ages of 35 and 50. Are they college graduates? Uh, typically not. Typically they are, there are many college graduates there. There are many people, uh, who, uh, have high school education. There are many other people who have had little or no formal education at all. But simply because of the affairs of life have gained the capacity to read which permits them to enter this program. Well now, Fitzpatrick, we come directly to the issue, one of the issues at least, you raise in your book. Can, uh, the average American adult read these great books such as Plato's Republic and others, uh, and discuss them, uh, profitably and intelligently? Well, the first question is, what do you mean by read? That's a very good question. It's an ambivalent word. It means many things. Well, wait, let me tell, let me say what I think about it first. Uh, uh, to read a book, well, let me take one illustration first. Mr. Mortimer Adler, the, largely the architect of the plan, said that after he had studied in, uh, Marquette and I see, I, I studied at Columbia and I see you have his book there, uh, he under excellence, teaching of, uh, Erskine and with fellow students such as, uh, Mark Van Doren, said after he got through, he didn't understand the books. He says, uh, I, uh, for it was not so much by the knowledge of words. You know, that's, uh, uh, what Adler said was that he didn't understand the books and he did not know how to read. And he states that the essential condition for studying the great books is the capacity to read. Well, of course, Mortimer's ignorance or lack of knowledge is not really the issue here, but I think... We had an IQ of 140. To be perfectly serious about it, uh, as you say, what does it mean to read? Uh, when Mortimer says he does not know how to read, he obviously does not mean that he does not know how to pick up a sheet, look at words, make simple transitions, tell you what a sentence means. He means that, uh, it is a long and hard process to develop the ability to analyze, the ability to read at different levels. First of all, to find out what the author said, really, as a whole. Secondly, to find out what he really meant and what his assumptions were. And third, to find out whether what he had to say has any validity today. Of course, what Mr. Fitzpatrick is suggesting here is that Adler's point is that these, I take it, that these great books are exceedingly difficult to comprehend. Uh, and he suggests, therefore, that they might be considerably beyond the grasp of the kind of people you're admitting to these discussions. Well, could I, could I talk about the word grasp as you used it? Uh, of course, uh, the great books are great because they contain within them a kind of wealth of, of meaning. Now, for the fullest exhaustion of that meaning, and for the most satisfactory accomplishment of the understanding of the book, one does need to study them for years. One needs to go, go, go to the very heart of the book. Uh, but must we hold the really great thoughts of the world away from people because they don't have time to do so? Well, but in an organized program of adult education, might you not admit these people to, uh, to, uh, to things more completely within their grasp initially? And link them up to these, these great books rather than plunging them into them at the outset. McHernie, I, I, if I may answer that on, on, on two scores. One, uh, we've tried this a lot. We've tried giving people a lot of, of background material, telling them about the Shakespearean stage and the society of Shakespeare's day and so on, before they ever read a play of Shakespeare. Well, they never get to the plays of Shakespeare. You've got, as Thoreau said, you've got to, to read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all. Now, the second, the second point, if I may, uh, is that, uh, um, we have found that, really, the thing which leads people on is if they go to the book itself, to, to the key book, uh, then they are encouraged to, to read widely, to go broadly, to find these other materials, and so on. If we start with the background information, uh, they're perennially at a low level. I, uh, go back in, back to Thoreau, who says you should read the great books first. In Walden, in the, uh, essay on reading, he points out that, uh, uh, reading is a noble intellectual exercise, and the mass of mankind, at most, read astrologically rather than astronomically. Uh, Mr. Fitzpatrick, you seem to be saying that unless a man can read at the highest level, he should not bother to read at all. I don't think that's what you mean. No, I don't think that's quite what he said. Go ahead. You, you say in your book, for instance, that it is impossible, really, to understand Machiavelli, for instance, in his fullness, or anything like his fullness, unless you know the conditions under which he wrote, the conditions, the political and social conditions in the state of Florence, the city-state of Florence, at the time at which he wrote. Now, I'd like to ask you, for example, what is there in the concept, uh, which Machiavelli puts forth, for instance, that, uh, it is better for a ruler, or for that matter by implication for anybody, to be feared than to be loved, because fear is within the gift of everybody. We can make people fear us, but we can't make them love us. Now, what is there in that concept, for example, which necessitates our knowing what the condition of things were in the state of Florence? Isn't it precisely true that the reason why the great books are great is because they contain universal ideas which can be argued anywhere, anytime, by any people, under any circumstance? Well, that's a, that's a broad statement. I don't know why we have schools, if that's so, but the point I want to make about that is this. Uh, just waving aside my personal opinions on these questions, for example, Mr. Adler says about, for example, you can't read the Declaration of Independence unless you, uh, the Constitution, unless you read the Confederation, Articles of Confederation. Then he says, you can't read those unless you read Montesquieu's Spirit of Laws, the, uh, uh, Federal Hamilton and so on, because you will be agreeing with something that you don't understand. Uh, Mr. Fitzpatrick, our, our difficulty is where do you start? We have to start with reading one of these books. Are we to read them all simultaneously? No, we don't have to start with reading any of the books. We have to start with reading something or experiencing something. That's right. That people are not approaching these books in a vacuum. They are bringing the whole total of their experience to them. Of course, I, I, if I understand that Mr. Fitzpatrick is not quarreling with an approach to these, to these great issues that are raised by these books, but he is quarreling with these great books as a vehicle for introducing these issues to, to, uh, the type of persons that come to your program. What he is, what he is saying is that the average person is incapable of understanding them, and my reply is that the average person is incapable of understanding them. Mm-hmm. And my reply is that the average person is incapable of understanding them, but he simply has not developed the interest in understanding them. And it's that that I think is our primary educational problem. Well, let me ask... Could I speak as a pedagogue, uh, as one, as one who, as one who has to plan programs, and as one who has to deal with, uh, with people? Uh, announcing a list of, um, of issues for people to come together and talk about is quite an, um, uh, very important. It's very often a rather embarrassing thing to do. Are you gonna... Except as you provide them with reading, this... As you provide them with reading and interpretations and so on, so that people can have some, some kind of a common experience on which they can go. The fundamental issue in Machiavelli, since that's come up, is whether man is innately good or innately evil. And, uh, this is surely a question that every one of us has thought about a great deal. Now, before we come to a, uh, Sunday evening session or a Tuesday evening session, which is pegged, are men innately good or innately evil? It's well if we have read, at any rate, what at least one person has said about this. And actually, by the time you get to this in the great books, you've read, what, four or five distinguished people have, have said about the point. So, speaking as I started out to say, as a pedagogue, this device, if it be nothing more, is an extremely useful device for getting people to talk about the things that really matter to them. And these are the things that really do matter to them. Well, the point is, uh, uh, if these books contain great ideas, are universal in their character, that amount to wisdom and insight, in the midst of much that's neither wisdom or insight, then, uh, the student ought to get some adequate understanding of it. Now, to use your own authorities, uh, Adler says there should be three readings. A reading, an analytic reading to find out what he said, a synthetic reading to find out what he meant, and the third thing, critical reading, what you think he, what your opinion. But he says most people start with the third reading, and my judgment from descriptions, demonstrations, and observation of the great books program is they start with the third form without having pursued either of the first two. May I quote from page nine of a guide for leaders of great books discussion books, which is one of the many aids which are given to great books leaders on this very point. The great books discussion is supposed to be modeled along this very line, readings at the different levels. Our entire training program for leaders is geared to this. We say on page nine, uh, all proper questions in the great books situation have two possible objects, either the author's mind or the participants to this extent. What does the author say? What does he mean? Is it true? Does it have any relevance to you here today? Fact, interpretation, evaluation. Now, this, these are the things that are emphasized in a great books discussion group. These are the things that are emphasized in the training of a great books leader. In a sense, we are teaching the people in the groups how to read. Now, Mr. Strube, that's what's in your direction to the reader. To the leader. To the leader. To the leader. Now, let me read you a description of an actual, uh, actual, uh, great books discussion. And without Socrates, or at least a master of the Socratic technique, the proceedings are almost certain to degenerate into a muddle of blind alley arguments, profitless repetitions, irrelevant remarks, silly opinions, and fundamental misunderstandings. May I say one thing about that quotation? That was written by a man for the Saturday Review of Literature some time ago who saw a total of one discussion in one city and had to leave before it was half over to catch a plane and obviously had some, uh, misconceptions about the program before it started. What kind of people do you have leading these discussions? Um... Are they, are they experts on these great books? No, they are not. No, they are deliberately not. They are not experts because you see that if there is one fundamental tenet of the great books program is that the real teachers are the books. And the leaders are, as it were, first among equals in the group. They have read the book knowing that they're going to have to teach it and that's a different kind of reading from the typical reading that one does. But they are people who are very like, um, any, uh, their lawyers, their housewives, their doctors, their garage mechanics, uh, there, there are many other, uh, kinds of people. Who have taken on this responsibility because they feel that it is a sensible and worthwhile thing to do. Well, now, uh, Fitzpatrick, do you think a, a garage mechanic, a housewife, is, uh, is capable of leading a discussion of this kind? Uh, of course, I don't think so. Uh, of course, I don't think so. And I think it's, uh, it's, uh, unrealistic to assume that these persons who are on the general average of the group, and who have only read the book a little bit more carefully, can reveal this wisdom and insight and understanding of these great ideas in any sense that, uh, you can do it from any other book. Uh, Mr. Fitzpatrick, they don't reveal the wisdom and the insight. The authors themselves reveal it. I mean the program. But the pro, what I'm saying here is this, that the, the leaders of the group simply are first among equals in the interpretation of these books. They are in Socrates' expression, the midwives of the learning process. I would like to read from Mr. Fitzpatrick's book, finally on page 97 out of 116 pages or something like that. He really tips his hand, I think. He says, the basic difficulty is the lack of effective direction or guidance or assistance when it is needed as developed in the actual discussion. There is no adequate corrective for error, for lack of information, for misrepresentation of the text, for ignorant, stupid, foolish interpretation, or for misinterpretations. And what did he say? In another place he refers to this program as a program which is a free-for-all discussion by the ignorant, the misinformed, and the malevolent. On page 99 he has this to say, quoting a man named Finney, instead of trying to teach dullards to think for themselves, and he has previously identified half the population as dullards, the intellectual leaders must think for them. Now the fundamental issue between Mr. Fitzpatrick and me is that I don't think half of the population are dullards. I don't think that the common heritage of the great books and the fundamental issues which are stated in them can be approached by more than half the population only through the medium of an expert. I think, and I know on the basis of considerably more experience than anybody else has induced here, that the average man is capable of getting a great deal out of the great books. Let me say that, for example, out of the Ten Commandments, the Sermon on the Mount, you could get more of the great tradition of Western world than you could out of a great many of the recommendation of slavery in Aristotle, the recommendation of what Ra Hutchins called irresponsible social power in the Prince. Well, that's one reason why we studied the Sermon on the Mount in the eighth year. Yeah, it's about time, that's about time to get to it in the eighth year. My dear sir, you're forgetting one important fact. The Sermon on the Mount is within the experience, the religious experience of all of these people. We don't say that the great books program is the only intellectual exercise or adventure that these people have. What we say, in effect, is that the people are attempting to bring some level into their daily lives. I'd like to make one more statement, and that is, the great books have wisdom. One of the great books is St. Thomas's Di Magistro. St. Thomas says that, of course, the process of discovery is the way you should learn. But what you do in most people is you need teaching, and the teacher must have in actuality what the student has only in potentiality, and there's nobody present in the room in the great books that has in actuality what the student is expected to have in potentiality. Well, two points. In the first place, it is in actuality in the book, and in the second place, the experience of the group. It is usually in actuality in the group. What we have really done is substitute a book and a group for a pedagogue who stands in front of a class and tells them the answer. A series of black marks on a white piece of paper is not wisdom unless some individual mind brings to it an amazing experience and brings an amazing experience to it. Or some group. The quote I quote in there is the fact that you do poets and their song a grievous wrong if you do not bring to their song as much high imagining as they. Mr. Fitzpatrick in his book moves backward and forward a bit. I should like to close my own discussion of this question by quoting a sentence or two from his book. He says, The great books program of adult education is wholly admirable in purpose. It would be a great thing for American culture and generally for American life if a real understanding of the great books were general among our people. I believe that if he had taken the time, which he did not, to visit many classes, to talk with many people, to come and talk with us, to try to understand and to see what it is that we're trying to do, we would find that he would feel that the great books program is going much farther towards the accomplishment of this purpose than he thinks. I'm sorry gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Can Adults Learn From The Great Books Program. We want to thank our guests for today, Edward A. Fitzpatrick, President of Mount Mary College in Milwaukee, Cyril O. Hool, Director of the University College of the University of Chicago, and Charles F. Strube, Jr., President of The Great Books Foundation. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the meaning of the election. Our guests will be George Blankston, Associate Professor of Political Science, Yale Brosan, Professor of Economics, Roland Robinson, Professor of Banking, and Jacob Shearer, Associate Professor of Journalism, and Chairman of the News Department in the Medill School of Journalism, all of Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, The Meaning of the Election. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, serving more than 550 radio stations from coast to coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System.