Ladies and gentlemen, would you kindly come to this side? Mr. Mayor, Mr. Borough Presidents of Queens and Bronx, Commissioner Moses, the other distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we are met today for the purpose of starting treatment at this Hunts Point plant under the full activated sludge process. In a few moments, the mayor will open gates admitting settled sewage to the aeration tanks, and I would suggest that if you want to see that flow, that you get to my left as much as possible. Now, you will note that this project is not entirely complete. In setting up our contracts, we've made provisions so that we may operate the works as soon as they are sufficiently advanced to furnish effective treatment. This process has been progressive. As far back as May the 6th, continuous operation was started at the Throgs Neck pumping station, which diverted raw sewage from East Chester Bay and the entire Throgs Neck area. On May the 26th, this sewage, together with that from Clayson Point, was first admitted to this plant, and by June the 6th, all sewage collected from the 12 existing outlets, extending from East Chester Bay to the area tributary to the Ward's Island Sewage Treatment Works, was received at this treatment plant. Here, since that time, it has been subjected to treatment by sedimentation and discharged through the plant outlet, which is in Class B waters, as established by the Interstate Sanitation Commission. This early treatment has been effective in speeding up the purification of the outer waters of the Upper East River. Today, we will start the full treatment for which this plant was designed, and which will furnish the high degree of treatment desired during the summer months. Now, we have chosen to invite you here today to witness the realities of effective sewage treatment, rather than to wait until our roadways, landscaping, and proper color schemes are fully completed. I am sure that you can visualize that in a short time, the physical appearance of this plant will conform to the excellency of its performance, as well as to our standards in the City of New York. I am going to ask, although we had not intended any formal speaking ceremonies at this time, I think it proper to ask the Borough President of Queens to be introduced and to say a word to you. And I present the Borough President of Queens, Borough President Lundin. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Zamoulin, our Honorable Mayor Pelleteri, Borough President Lyons, Commissioner Moses, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. This afternoon, as we stand here, it marks another specific occasion wherein the City of New York is providing a service and a utility that is of marked importance, not alone to one borough or two boroughs, but to the entire City of New York. And as Borough President of Queens, I am very happy indeed to have this small part in a very important occasion. Thank you. And now the other borough that really benefits by this plant is the Borough of the Bronx. I'm going to ask Borough President Jim Lyons to say a word. Commissioner Zamoulin, Mr. Mayor, Borough President Lundy, Commissioner Moses, distinguished guests and friends. I want the mayor and other city officials to know that in providing this service, they are providing it for a community which has gratitude. We're grateful for all of the public improvements that we get in the Bronx, and we're a place where it's appreciated to the extent that we welcome others. I'm sure with the clearing of these waters that we'll soon have Commissioner Moses coming in, asking for the funds for the development of Ferry Point Park, which will in reality be a second Joneses beach. And I'm sure that the mayor, Borough President Lundy, and particularly our Bronx controller, will find the money to let Commissioner Moses have that beach ready for next year. And this is the forerunner to other improvements in the community. We have great plans for the development of the Hunts Point area for commercial development. And there are some of the men here today that are working very hard on bringing that about. But I, again, want to ask the mayor to help our controller get the money for this Ferry Point Park, which this is going to make possible. Thank you. Now, no occasion of a large city project would be complete without the appearance of that leader of all public officials, who we heard extoll so much last night in Queens that I hardly think it necessary for me to even say anything about him except ask him to say a word to us, the construction coordinator of the City of New York, Mr. Robert Moses. Mr. Malin, Mr. Mayor, and ladies and gentlemen, I've only one thing to say. It's been said before. It can't be said too often. And that is that this program of sewage cleaning, reclaiming the boundary waters of the city, is one of the most important public undertakings of our time. We've been a long time getting around to it. Been a long time getting the program adopted here and in the suburbs. We've got a lot of prodding from the Interstate Sanitation Commission, which is represented here today by Mr. Hess. Really what was required was not alone the ability that Commissioner Zemele and his assistants have shown in building up-to-date plants, making them work, but getting the money to do the job. The theory that any such undertaking is this, making up for the deficiencies, the neglect of past generations and be accomplished on a pay-as-you-go basis is just so much moonshine. There had to be a way found to finance it. And finally, very recently, the mayor and those associated with him took their courage in their hand and imposed a sewer rate, a very small tax collected with the water rate. If you like the word rate better than tax, it's all right with me. It's just about the same thing. And by capitalizing that small tax, that small rate, enough money has been found to practically complete the first stage of the program, as the Commissioner said, and to get us on our way into the second stage. And instead of its being a great source of anger, perhaps a reason for political repercussions, this wasn't even what Jimmy Walker used to call a nine-day wonder. The wonder lasted for about 48 hours, and then everybody forgot that small tax. And now you're getting the benefits of it. One of those benefits here and elsewhere, as Jimmy Lyons has pointed out, is that we're going to be able to establish these two new parts, one to serve the southerly, southern-central part of the Bronx, and the other on the other side of the East River to serve Queens. We're moving along very fast on this one here, the ferry point. We're going to begin to move on the one in Queens. And in order to expedite that work in Queens, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, which is putting the two additional lanes on the Cross Island Parkway, is going to put the initial fill in for the beach. That's a very expensive and a very long process, but we're going to start it as a matter of goodwill and aid in the general program. I want to congratulate the mayor and commissioners of Malin and all those associated with this enterprise. Thank you. Before introducing the chief executive of the city, I think it's only proper that I acknowledge in this way the great work of my engineers. This plant that you're going to observe put in operation today takes advantage of what is known as the step variation method of sewage treatment, which has been developed by our engineers under the very able leadership of the director of sewage disposal, Richard Gould. And I would ask Richard Gould to take a bow. This permits the full treatment by activated sludge process using aeration tank capacity only about one half that which would be required under previous methods. You would note the saving and cost and capital costs as well as operating costs on that statement. As in all our plants, much of the power required for its operation will be secured from utilizing gas resulting from the digestion of sewage solids. the design of this plant was carried on sometime during the last world war as a post-war project by the engineering firm of Greeley and Hansen under the supervision of our engineers. The supervision of its construction has been entirely under our supervision or our control in the Department of Public Works. and I want to, I cannot mention all the names, but I want you to know that I appreciate the great work that my men have been doing during this four and a half years that I've been the commissioner. And now when I introduce the mayor, immediately after he has a word to say, we have arranged here a switch which he will turn which will activate a motor valve to the other end of the tunnel. The two borough presidents and the mayor will operate these hand valves and the sewage in about a minute after the button is pressed will enter this tank from this side. So anyone wishing to see that happen may line the rail accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, the chief executive of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletieri. Commissioner Zermullen, Burr President Lyons, Burr President Lundy, Commissioner Moses, chief engineer of the Board of Estimate, John Riddell, Mr. Gould, ladies and gentlemen. It's always a great pleasure when a project like this is completed to be on the grounds to accept if there's any plaudits to accept them. It's not easy to progress these projects when they're first contemplated. It takes a lot of money, it takes a lot of vision, it takes a lot of application, and at times it takes considerable brickbats. when we first went ahead with this sewage disposal program, it was not at all easy. It cost a lot of money. This sewage disposal program that you're about to witness one facet of will cost the city of New York approximately $71 million. But by the time we're finished with it, and that's not too far off, this plant will open today. The Rockaway plant will open either the latter part of this month or early in July, and just a month or two ago we opened up the Owl's Head plant, Bay Ridge in Brooklyn, and by the time we open up the Rockaway plant, all of the waters in and around New York that are so-called Class A waters, the waters used for recreational purposes, the waters used by our children and our adults for public bathing and swimming, will be absolutely pure waters so that when your city embarks on a program of this kind that's vitally necessary if we are to do the right thing for the people of our city, it's necessary, of course, to spend money. But if we have any responsibility at all to the people that elected us or whom we serve in city government, that's the least we can do for the community we serve. I recall when we first contemplated the Owl's Head project over in Bay Ridge, I recall very vividly that when we had the first Board of Estimates session on it, thousands of people in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn who were misinformed came into that Board meeting and almost tore the Board apart, particularly the Borough President of Brooklyn, the rest of us who served on the Board, as I recall it at that time, I was President of the Council, but they didn't want it at all. They thought it'd be a terrible thing for Brooklyn. The entire Board of Estimates had the invitation of Commissioner Zermullen and the invitation of Commissioner Moses, went over and visited one of the sewage disposal plants that was actually in operation at Tallman's Island. And after we saw and observed how that plant operated, we were absolutely convinced that the false notions that had been placed in the minds of those people in Bay Ridge were absolutely with foundation. Today the plant is operating, it's a beautiful plant, as you pass by it, frankly you wouldn't know it was a sewage disposal plant at all. It's beautiful to look at, but more important than that is this, that the people who are now using the beaches at Coney Island do not have to worry about raw sewage, they don't have to worry about a very high bacteria content in the water, they can feel safe in having their children use our public beaches. So that's the story of these sewage disposal plants. We're very proud of them. Commissioner Moses told me a story, and it's a true story, perfectly amazing. Just before we started here, I know it's true. He said that the chief engineer on one of these projects to demonstrate how effective sewage disposal is. At one of these ceremonies saw the raw sewage come in, and by the time it had been fully treated, at the end of this process, pure water came out, pure enough to drink, believe it or not, and to prove to the people that he was on the level. He took a little scotch, poured the water in it, and had a scotch and water. That's pretty good. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, we're not here to make speeches, we're merely here to join with you in celebrating this auspicious occasion, not only for Bronx County, but for all the people of the city of New York, the health and welfare of all the people of the city of New York, and I'm proud as your mayor to participate in this ceremony. Thank you very much. Before the mayor turns the switch, I would like to announce that members of my department, the engineering staff, are here with armbands. They will be glad to escort everyone. for the Vayх Board chapter 51. Thank you. погu . . Keeptering your walk in the comments. . Mayor, would you operate the switch? Just turn the switch like you turn on your light at home. That's it. I think we ought to have to swear, President. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.