This is Ralph Bellamy. I work in a profession which has been called make-believe. It goes from sheer realism to fantasy. Now I assume that you're a good citizen just as I hope I'm a good citizen, so I don't think you'll take offense when I say that our government, splendid as it is, also runs from sound realism to fantasy. We get realism in government when we face up to a problem which has to be solved quickly, the kind, for example, that we face in war. We touch on fantasy when we allow some of the things to go on in government which do go on every day. This may sound like a roundabout approach to something which affects all of us, so let me come to the point. The Hoover Commission of six Democrats and six Republicans, appointed three years ago to study methods of improving the workings of our government, came up with amazing examples of overlapping and waste and duplication. For example, they found that one Missouri farmer received five different kinds of advice about fertilizers from five different agencies of the Agricultural Department. This may sound fantastic, but it's a true example. The Hoover Commission's report, a bipartisan report, threw a spotlight on waste, but it did something else. The spotlight searched out dark corners and gave us the cues to improvement. The waste costs us over three billion dollars a year. We can save that money. If this makes sense to you, the best thing you can do right now is to sit down and write your senators and congressmen and tell them to get behind the Hoover Report. If your representatives do something, you'll get better government at a better price. Let's take the world of government out of the world of make-believe. This is Al Kapp speaking. Like most of you, I've been hearing about the National Reorganization Crusade. This crusade is of vital importance to my future and yours. The crusade is being carried on on behalf of the Hoover Report, which was written by 12 men, six Democrats and six Republicans, who made a thorough study of our government. They were called the Hoover Commission because former President Herbert Hoover was their chairman. Secretary of State Dean Acheson was their vice chairman. Now they found out that in the best of all governments, our government, there were inefficiencies, there were duplications of effort, and there were many highly unnecessary, conflicting, and expensive governmental setups. These are all described in the Hoover Report. Now it seems to me that if we're going to have good government, it's up to us to see that the improvements recommended by the Hoover Commission become part of our government. We can do this by joining the National Reorganization Crusade. To find out how you can help, write to the Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, 1421 Cheston Street, Philadelphia 2, Pennsylvania. This is James A. Farley. I'm going to tell you something about government. Not politics, but government. We have a good government. We have a good government, the best on earth. But like all good things, it has to be looked at now and then, and brought up to date. Too many of us take our government for granted. We forget that it is like a big machine, and that parts of any machine wear out or become obsolete. The Hoover Commission, a bipartisan group of six Democrats and six Republicans, examined our government. And they gave Congress a list of recommendations for a better government at a better price. Now the Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report is engaged in the National Reorganization Crusade. To tell the public about these recommendations and their urgency. If these recommendations are enacted into law, this government will be better. The Citizens Committee already has spread the message of the Hoover Commission to all parts of the country. But much remains to be done. There are men and women who still are unaware of what needs to be done. There are millions who ought to be told, and told to act. I'm asking you to act now. Write your congressmen and senators. Urge them to support these recommendations. Urge them to give you the kind of good government at a price you can afford. This is Henry Ford II speaking to you from Detroit. As director of the Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, I have been asked to tell you something about the work of that committee, and to solicit your support in that work. As you all know, a commission appointed by President Truman and headed by former President Hoover, has completed its all-important job of surveying the entire structure of our federal government. This commission has made specific recommendations to Congress for streamlining certain government functions, to cut down on waste and to eliminate duplication. The purpose of our Citizens Committee is to make certain that the men and women of America, the taxpayers who are the real bosses of our government, understand the job the Hoover Commission has done, and that they realize, if the Congress acts favorably on the recommendations of the commission, that billions of dollars will be saved every year. As all of us know that such savings mean a more stable and a more secure government, a government that works for all of us in the most efficient and economical way. If you agree that such a goal is worth shooting for, that a smoothly operating and streamlined government makes the best kind of sense, I hope that you will get behind our efforts. A letter or even a postcard from you to your senator or congressman in Washington will help. Thank you. This is Robert Montgomery speaking. Like other citizens of this country, I am interested in good government. I'm interested in a government which doesn't waste money, a government which is efficient, a government which gives us our money's worth. Because I am interested in these things, I've accepted the chairmanship of the National Reorganization Crusade. The objective of this crusade is a simple one. To get behind the bipartisan Hoover Commission report to improve our government by getting rid of waste and duplication and overlapping. The commission, consisting of six Democrats and six Republicans, made an intensive survey of our government and turned in a report of over two million words with the assistance of 300 experts. The commission then made specific recommendations to the Congress. Some of these recommendations have been adopted. But a great deal remains to be done, and that is why the Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, a non-profit, non-partisan committee, is conducting this reorganization crusade. You can help in this way. It is your government. You pay for it. You should be getting the best government we can afford. You aren't getting it because there is still waste. You can overcome this by telling your senators and your congressmen to get behind the Hoover Report. Sit down now and write them. Tell them that you, as a citizen, demand that they take action. If you do this, you'll get the kind of government you and I need. The best government in the world. A sound, free government at a price all of us can afford. We will report to you from time to time on the progress that we, the citizens, are making in achieving long overdue reforms in our government. This is Eddie Rickenbacker. I would like to talk to you about wasteful practices. Wasteful practices in our government. We have a good government. The best on earth. But it could be better. And it could be cheaper. The Hoover Commission, a group of six Democrats and six Republicans, examined our government and made it clear that something was wrong with it. Something was radically wrong because the government was wasting more than $3 billion a year. The commission presented a corrective blueprint to Congress. It showed how money could be saved. The Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, of whose board I am a director, is engaged in a national crusade for reorganizing the government to achieve these economies. The means of saving the money are clear if Congress will act. What are we waiting for? We all agree we want better government and cheaper government. We all want the national debt reduced, so why don't we act? Why don't we sit down and write our congressmen and our senators and tell them to support the Hoover Commission's recommendations. If they do support these recommendations, we will all have better government and at a better price. This is Jimmy Stewart. I've just been reading about the National Reorganization Crusade. As you probably know, it concerns the reorganization of our federal government through the recommendations of the Hoover Report. Now, I feel that this crusade is important to all of us and that I should take a few minutes to give you some of the facts about it. Now, the Hoover Report resulted from the work of 12 of our country's most outstanding men, the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government, or better known as the Hoover Commission. The Commission was bipartisan, that is, there were six Democrats and six Republicans, with former President Herbert Hoover as chairman and Secretary of State Dean Acheson as vice chairman. With the help of some 300 experts, this group went to work and studied our government, and as a result of this study, the Commission made nearly 300 recommendations for government improvement. A citizens' committee for the Hoover Report was formed to do a vast public educational job on the recommendations, and it is this committee that is sponsoring the National Reorganization Crusade, its aim being better government. Now, let me emphasize that this crusade is vital to your future, so why not join the Reorganization Crusade and help build better government? There's probably a citizens' committee near you, but if not, write the following address. Citizens Committee for the Hoover Report, 1421 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia 2, Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.