...services provided to him by his taxes, he should read New York Advancing. Only a few copies of this book of the mayors are now available. You may purchase these from the city record office or from any public library branch. 6 p.m. Naval Observatory Time, New York City's own station, WNYC. 1 p.m. Naval Observatory Time, New York City's own station, WNYC. This evening we present the second in the series. Those participating are Councilman Albert D. Schanzer, Councilman Abner C. Surplus, and Councilman Andrew R. Armstrong. We present first, Councilman Albert D. Schanzer, Brooklyn Democrat. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Schanzer. My friends, there seems to be a conspiracy of silence in respect to some of the most important phases of the present problem of taxation for relief. At last Tuesday's meeting of the City Council, I challenged the mayor, I challenged any member of the Council, to contradict the statement that the city was not losing and will not lose during the coming year $12 million, as a result of a direct collection by the state of the 2% public utility tax. I asserted then and I assert now. I challenged the mayor then and I challenged the mayor now to deny that the city, as a matter of fact, will collect $8,400,000 of this $12 million by virtue of the fact that the city has been receiving and will receive 70% of any and all money collected by the state for relief. This 2% public utility tax has been earmarked for relief and will be so administered. I said then and I say now to anyone who contradicts this assertion of mine that within one hour I can get a telegraphic confirmance from the governor of the state of New York that the state will pay the city 70% of that $12 million. As a matter of fact, the total public utility tax of the state for relief is 3%. 1% or $6 million of the $18 million is paid directly to the city of New York. On top of that, the city of New York gets $8,400,000 of the other 2%, really making a total of $14,400,000 or 80% of the $18 million collected by the state from the public utility tax. I cannot conceive of any subdivision of government complaining about a state that gives away 80% of its collection to the subdivision. And yet, that is what the mayor has been doing without admitting the real fact. Furthermore, when the mayor sought to give the impression that the great governor of the state of New York was not as sympathetic in the present relief difficulty of the city as he might be, the mayor forgot that the governor of the state of New York has always been very responsive to the needs of the poor of the city. In 1933, when the city of New York was in dire financial straits, the governor arranged an adjustment with the banks that enabled the city to reorganize its finances and take care of its unemployed. The mayor forgot to mention that during the governor's incumbency, $215 million was raised in this state through bond issues, and $100 million was appropriate from the general fund of the state for the relief of the unemployed, and that 70% of this money has consistently been contributed to the poor and unemployed of the city of New York. At this point, I am prompted to exclaim, thank God for the radio. I pressed these points before the council last Tuesday. A score of newspaper reporters were present. Thousands of lines were devoted to a record of the debate, but not aligned to the points I here reiterate. This seems to me a conspiracy of silence on one of the most important angles of the problem. I regret that the newspapers which are supposed to be the purveyors of the truth, no matter whom it hurts, should omit these pertinent facts in the present controversy. The whole difficulty seems to be that when the mayor of the city of New York finds himself in a trying situation, he determines to shift the blame for embarrassing action on others. He finds it necessary to levy taxes for relief, and engineers a situation where others will be blamed for the taxes he must raise. In order to intimidate the state legislature and the governor into giving him all of the public utility tax, he voted a 10% cut in relief and made the statement that unless the governor and the state gave him the 2% tax in total, the city will be short $12 million, when he must know that the resulting shortage will only be $3,600,000. He said to the legislature, you must do the taxing because the city has not the power. When his bluff in this respect is called by the state, he gives himself away by promptly suggesting the following numerous taxes which proved the governor was right all along when he said the city had broad taxing powers. The mayor proposes, one, a tax of one cent on each package of cigarettes to yield $3 million. Second, a proposal that the present tax on general business be revised to yield $2 million in new revenues. Three, he asks that the conduit companies, which are not now considered to be public utilities, be taxed 1% on their gross income and 3% on gross receipts on these conduit companies, which claim exemption from the 1% utility tax. Fourth, he proposes that meals costing over $1 be taxed 1% more than they are now under the 2% sales tax to yield $500,000. Fifth, a higher tax to be placed on alcoholic drinks sold over the bar, raising the present tax from 2% to 3% in order to yield $500,000. And sixth, an increase from the present 2% sales tax to 3% on consumers' bills, such as telephone, gas, electric, and refrigeration service, to yield $3 million additional. Then he causes to be introduced in the council a number of measures hastily drawn, some difficult to interpret even by experts in the industry involved, and says to the city council, pass these immediately. If you don't, you will be responsible for the failure of the Board of Estimates, who already called into session the day following the meeting of the council, to rescind the 10% cut. It is always the other fellow who is responsible for everything where the mayor is concerned. The mayor always is as pure as the lily in the dell. I wonder if that is the reason for naming him Fiorella, or the little flower. I want to say that under no circumstances would I tolerate it, following a fiscal policy that would ignore the needs of the destitute and unemployed of the city of New York. I have always, as a public official, insisted that those who, for no reason of their own, are rendered helpless, must be fed at the expense of the government, federal, city, and state. I am absolutely going to pursue that policy in voting on legislation before the city council. But I will not be rushed. I will not be bullied. And I will not be browbeaten into hasty and inconsidered action. I will not be rushed into precipitate action, requested for the purpose of shifting responsibility from the shoulders where it belongs. In other words, the mayor's formula seems to be put something apparently reasonable in an unreasonable manner before another agency of government. And when that agency refuses to do the unreasonable thing, shout to the gallery that this other individual or this other agency is presidenting you, the mayor of the city of New York, for ministering to the poor and the afflicted of the city. It is a formula that sooner or later must be recognized. The insincerity behind it understood. And the gentleman who uses it so often thoroughly exposed, even to the present unsuspecting public. and some of the deliberately innocent press. We must consider the problems of the taxpayer while we act to save the unemployed and the destitute. And we will. Thank you very much, Councilman Schanzer. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard an address by Councilman Albert D. Schanzer, Brooklyn Democrat. This is the second in the series of discussions by the Councilman of the City of New York on the question of new taxes for relief. We hear now from Amnesty Surplus, Brooklyn Republican. Ladies and gentlemen, Councilman Surplus. Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned, naturally, with taxation from the standpoint of what is best, not only for the recipients of the relief, but also what is best for all the people of the city. Someone said, some philosopher, that a general rule of conduct that should be observed and followed by all administrators is the greatest good for the greatest number. Now, how shall we apply that in connection with the great problem that is before us regarding relief taxation? Well, one angle from which to look at it is this. If to impose excessive taxation is to so increase the burden on business and on the general population that more men will be thrown out of work, then we see the very purpose of that taxation will defeat itself in that there will be a corresponding greater number of people on relief. Now, may I say this? I have always been a great believer in peace and in tactfulness. No matter how high in official life a person may arrive at, I believe that a great many problems that exist in the governmental world would not exist if people were tactful. Now, the application here is just this. No man who is worthy of being called a man, no man who is worthy of being called a legislator will allow himself to be driven. He is willing, if he is the right kind of a legislator, he is willing to sit down and confer and discuss what is best for all the people. But if he is, as I said a minute ago, a real man, he will not allow himself to be driven. Now, the approach to this problem of what should be done, in my opinion, has been very, very bad. for the reason that in January of this year, we were told yesterday at a meeting of the Finance Committee that this emergency was then known, but nothing was conveyed to us by the mayor or anybody else regarding the imminence of such emergency. And only a few days ago was the fact that there was an emergency, if it be a fact, conveyed to us. And these bills were brought in. And personally, I did not see the bills. I don't know that anybody else in the coalition saw the bills until, with the exception of Mr. Gladick, until they were laid on our deck. And then, to me, what was an astonishing thing on Tuesday last was to have an emergency message from our good mayor asking us to pass a bill which was then not even printed, nor was it, on our desk. Now, there are many people in this country who feel that a great deal of the terrible financial and economic trouble that we are now suffering under is due to the fact that down in Washington, the legislators there have passed bills without even knowing what was in them. I want to say that as far as I am concerned, I will not pass any bill or vote for any bill unless I at least know what is in it. Now, we are suffering under a tremendous tax burden, such a tax burden as in my 54 years I have never before seen. And so it is right that we should consult the businessmen, to some people, to some people, the businessmen seems to be anathema. Why this is, I do not know. But that seems to be the state of mind of some people. If it wasn't for the businessmen, though, the salaries of all our city officials would not be paid. It is the businessman who worries about the payroll at the end of the week, he should be consulted regarding matters that we are not sympathetic with those who are unreleased. Now, the question of bank taxes has come up. And, uh, we all know the old slogan, choke the bank, because banks, the word bank is synonymous with the word rich. Choke the bank. And yet, as we have all had pointed out to us, the banks are nothing more than depository coins. The money of the businessmen, money is the lifeblood of the business, uh, organism. And if anything is done to slow up the flow of that lifeblood, it has its repercussions in all the different lines of business with the resultant shocks that follow and, uh, which will include, undoubtedly, the laying off of many, many employees. Now, are we to have taxes on savings bank deposits? They represent the deposits of what might be called the thrifty. Should thrifty tax? That is another question. My mind is open on, on these ideas. I will, uh, not make up my mind until next Tuesday, and perhaps I may not be able to make it up then. Because this question is not one regarding a mere temporary emergency, we may now be legislating for, uh, on matters which may be of a permanent nature, and there is no reason for haste. Now, someone has suggested there should be tolls on the bridges. I can remember when there were tolls on the Brooklyn Bridge, and then Mayor Gainer abolished these tolls on the ground that a bridge was nothing more than an extension of a street. And so we have no tolls on the Brooklyn Bridge, or on the Williamsburg Bridge, or on the Manhattan Bridge, nor the Blackwell's Island Bridge, or the Queensborough Bridge, as it is now called. But we do have tolls on the Triborough Bridge, and we have tolls on the bridge that goes from the foot of Flatbush Avenue to, uh, Rockaway. And then we have tolls, as I understand, on this new bridge that goes over the Harlem River. So that the question seems to be regarding tolls on bridges. My mind is open as to that, but it seems that we are in the city here paying tolls on some bridges and not on others. Now, should there be a one-cent tax on transit fares? This has been the football of politics for years. I can remember when Mayor Highland used the slogan, a five-cent fare. And ever since those days, as far as I can see, and I have been active in, uh, small ways in politics for many years, there hasn't been a mayor of New York City who had the courage to grapple with that question. This, uh, suggestion that there be a one-cent tax on the transit fares was made by the Merchants Association, a group, uh, of important businessmen, and then Mr. McLaughlin, the president of the Brooklyn Trust Company, suggested it yesterday to our finance. finance committee. Now, these suggestions should be considered. I would be glad to see, uh, Mayor LaGuardia, who has a reputation for bravery, grappling with this problem, because we have been told that it will bring in $19 million a year if there is a one-cent tax just on subway fares. And if there is a one-cent tax not only on subway fares, but also on, uh, surface lines and on bus lines, we are told it will bring in $31 million. And what does it mean? I travel, uh, to my office in the morning and at night I go home. Two cents a day for 300 working days in the year is $6. And in addition, it has been pointed out that of the 600,000 or 900,000 commuters who come into the city, probably one-half of them use the subways or use the other transit facilities in the city, and they would pay that extra cent as a tax. Whereas, it has been argued that if there is a tax on cigarettes, that these commuters will not buy their cigarettes in the city, but will buy them just outside the city with a consequent loss of business to the local dealers in, in that article. Now, uh, another question, uh, in my mind, are relief taxes to be instituted on the basis or are they to be continued on the basis of being permanent or is it a temporary condition? Uh, that is a very important matter and we will have to take that up, uh, in the council. Now, uh, I remember last year, I remember very well that, uh, we were told that the depression was over and everyone rejoiced. We thought that these men who took this, uh, knew what they were talking about and as a result of that statement and that belief, and I don't doubt but what these men who told us that believed themselves that the depression was over and as a result of it, all the salaries of the office holders in the city of New York, as I recollect, were restored to, uh, pre-depression, uh, levels in the amount of 17 million dollars. Now, I don't want to be misunderstood. The, uh, bulk of the office holders in New York City earn their money and they earn it well. But there, we were told, last year, of course, last year was a year when there was an election about to follow and, uh, we were told that the depression was over so these 17 million dollars were restored. Now, I would be glad. I would welcome as far as I am concerned. I might make myself very unpopular with public employees but I want to say that I think that someone should set an example and what should that example be if someone in ringing tones would say that he will, uh, accept a cut of 10% in his salary and let it start with the mayor and go all the way down. I don't know just how much it would bring in. I think that there would be some millions of dollars. Now, I am not, uh, my mind is open on these. I want that understood. I'm just discussing this in a philosophical way. The suggestion has been made that, uh, sweepstakes, lotteries should, uh, be, uh, utilized. Now, we all know that the state constitution now prohibits lotteries and yet I can, uh, I was going to say I can remember the time but I can't. But I've read about it. There was a time when lotteries did not receive any condemnation even from church people. Uh, prior to the famous or infamous Louisiana lottery, it was the accepted way of raising money for worthy objects. but the Louisiana lottery, the, uh, the older people will remember reading about it. Perhaps the younger generation in these days don't read about those things. But the Louisiana lottery was held and it was such a scandal and it caused so, uh, the loss of millions of dollars that the various states, uh, later incorporated in their constitution prohibitions against lotteries. I am informed that the, uh, Capitol building in Albany, not the present one but the one that antedated the present building was built as a result of a lottery. Many famous buildings have been, uh, built as a result of lotteries. So there was a time in this country and in this state and city when no moral turpitude attached to a lottery or to a sweepstake. And in these days of tremendous stress and strain, economic and otherwise, it is, uh, terrible to, uh, see, uh, money going over to Ireland and other countries that could be utilized here for relief purposes. Now I think my time is about up. I have philosophized here to some extent. It's been a great, uh, privilege to say these, uh, these few words. I hope that the people of the city will consider them in the way, manner in which I have presented them. And that is, uh, we have a tremendous problem before us and let us wick out the problem or try to in a cooperative and sympathetic and friendly way rather than in a way which makes us feel that somebody is waving a club over our heads. Thank you. And thank you very much, Councilman Turplett. Ladies and gentlemen of New York, one of the paramount and vital issues facing the city of New York is the question of new taxes for relief. As a service to the people of this city, the municipal broadcasting system has offered the facilities of this station to the members of the city council. The series was inaugurated last night with Councilman Joseph E. Kinsley, Chairman of the Finance Committee, and Joseph Clark Baldwin III speaking. This evening, we presented the second in the series. Those participating tonight were Councilman Albert D. Shandler and Councilman Abner C. Surfer. In addition to the two councilmen's presence, an invitation was extended to the American Labor Party councilman from Brooklyn, Andrew R. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong was unfortunately delayed of the meeting and we deeply regret his absence. These discussions by the New York City councilmen on the problem of New Taxes for Relief will continue on Sunday at 6.30 p.m., at which time we will present Councilman Robert Strauss and Joseph T. Sharky. The discussions will close on Monday when in a special broadcast at 7.30 p.m. we will present Vice President of the City Council John Casimo and the Majority Leader B. Charney Vlada. At this time, we should like to take this opportunity to call your attention to another special broadcast on Monday from 6.15 to 6.45. At this time, the social welfare and state constitution