From Police Headquarters 240 Center Street, your city station presents transcribed portion of the police promotion exercises. Among those present who will speak are the Honorable Vincent Arn Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York, and Police Commissioner Murphy, who is about to speak now. And here is Police Commissioner Murphy. I wish to congratulate the members of the department who have been promoted this morning to higher rank, including the detectives who have been advanced in grade. Promotion exercises is always a happy occasion for all concerned. It is a happy occasion for me personally, since it is one of the outstanding methods of inspiring good morale in the force. It should be a doubly happy occasion for you, because it not only brings you added prestige and increased salary, but it also must be a source of special satisfaction to know that promotion that you received was merited exclusively as a result of your own efforts. And this applies to all of the ranks and grades, and particularly to the inspectors who are outside of the competitive class and the detectives who have advanced to higher grades. I cannot let this opportunity go by without personally thanking the ladies. You know, when you consider the inconvenience and the loyalty to you and your family that they have expressed by permitting you to have the time to devote not only to your job, but to your studies in order to get advancement. I think that their loyalty should be publicly acknowledged and the thanks that they are the wives and mothers of such fine men. It is also a great source of satisfaction to me personally that I am able to promote you men today. Since I have been commissioner, this is the sixth day of promotion. I have promoted 67 men in the ranks above captain. I have promoted 80 above the rank of sergeant. And today this group of sergeants brings the total to 209 sergeants, and all of this since September 26th. In the Bureau, I have promoted 97 detectives. And it's been my pleasure to swear in 583 new patrolmen. I feel a personal sense of satisfaction in being able to do that in not quite six months since I have had office. But aside from that, I am deeply grateful and indebted to his honor, the mayor, for having reposed the confidence in me that he did. And I pledge to the mayor and to you people here that this privilege shall not be abused and that my sole purpose will be for the interest of the department and the welfare of its members. We must keep in mind, however, that advancement to higher rank brings with it added responsibility. It demands increased diligence and greater effort commensurate with your new rank and position. Superior officers must set an example to their subordinates and demonstrate to them the proper attitude and exemplary department. To the newly promoted sergeants, this responsibility will be a new experience. For the first time in your career, you will now find yourself responsible for the conduct of others. And it is your rank that the department looks to for the greater maintenance of discipline and morale. And by your close association with the men, and by the example that you will continuously give to them, the spirit of the service will increase so that the morale will always be kept on the highest possible plan. Of course, I appreciate the difficulties that the entire department has had to experience in the last eight or nine months. But aside from the publicity, which doesn't too much impress me as a lawyer, bear in mind we are all Americans, and we are brought up to believe that every man is innocent until he's proven guilty. But what I see aside from all of the adverse publicity, what I see every day in reports coming over my desk, what I personally see on the streets is an example of courage and loyalty that makes me proud to be a boss. Nothing is of greater satisfaction to me than to read in the papers of some act of courage or some act of courtesy, whereby you are selling yourselves to your employers, the people of the city of New York. And that I think is one of the greatest things, one of the things that the people recognize, one of the things that they are proud to have, a department like yourself where out of 19,000 men, there's not a coward amongst them. And just think how the people feel when they walk along the streets and see you and know that those are the men who are being paid by their city to protect them and how secure they feel because you are willing to sacrifice your lives and your time and devotion to your family for their safety. The Donate the Mayor has been very gracious to me and to the department. It's through his sympathetic interest that your promotions were made possible today. He expressed a desire, a personal desire to see that as many young men as possible be promoted to the rank of sergeant so that you could qualify to compete in the coming examination for a lieutenant. And it's through his efforts that the money has been appropriated and that possibility come into being. He's taking time out from a very busy schedule. And I'm going to ask him to say just a few words. Gentlemen, the Mayor of the City of New York. Commissioner Murphy, Deputy Commissioners, Reverend Clergy, the men who have received their promotions today, and the members of the families of the men who have been promoted. As Commissioner Murphy very properly told you, we've had a wonderful degree of cooperation between the police department represented by its commissioner and your city administration. That degree of cooperation has existed from the very first day that Commissioner Murphy took office and still continues today. Those of us in city government are always proud and happy to see men who serve the city receive promotions to which they are entitled. In spite of what you read in the newspapers, your department receives public commendation, not only in the city of New York, not only in the state of New York, but throughout the entire nation. That was demonstrated only recently when the National Administration recognized the distinguished leader who represents you in the police department, and wanted to borrow Tom Murphy for a period of 90 days to take over the top job of enforcing emergency regulations for the government. Tom Murphy for a period of 90 days to take over the country. Tom Murphy felt that his primary obligation was to the city of New York. His primary obligation was to the police department of the city. And he very reluctantly decided that in the present circumstances, it was his job to remain here in the city of New York, and it was his job to stand by all the men in the police department that he represents. So I would say that the police department is properly recognized throughout the length and breadth of the land. I'm here today, as I have been on many other occasions, to attend promotion exercises. I like to attend these exercises whenever my schedule will permit. I like it because it gives the men who are promoted confidence in their commissioner, confidence in their city administration, and it gives them the will to go out and do even a better job. And that's exactly what each and every one of us want. As you know, in the city of New York, we're always confronted with problems. They're not new. They're not things that don't repeat themselves from time to time. People, sometimes well-intentioned people, want a number one services, but many times they do not want to take on the obligation of paying what those services are worth. Now you take only recently. In order to properly pay our city employees, properly, maybe that's not the best word, but in order to give them something towards meeting the increased cost of living. Your city administration granted the vast majority of city employees a cost of living bonus of $250 per year. Maybe it's not as much as they're entitled to. But when you're running the affairs of the city, you just cannot pay out more money than is available, or more money than you take in. It's no different at all from the average housekeeping budget of your own wife. Certainly, in running your household, and in running the budget of the city of New York, it's absolutely no different. It's a nice thing you know if, when you leave your home in the morning, and give your wife $5, and say to her, I expect you to take care of all of the food that we need today on this $5 barrel. Now, with this $5, this morning, I want you to go out and get me some wonderful, good, juicy, thick lamb chops for breakfast. Get some for yourself, too, and you might as well get some for the children. Now, I'm going to get him home for lunch today. At lunch, well, I had meat this morning, but perhaps I'll go a little late, get some Russian caviar, let's have some French imported champagne, and throw in three or four things, and I think that that'll be a marvelous lunch. Tonight, I'll be home for dinner, and I'd like to have steak tonight, one of those big, thick ones. You want to get steak for the entire family, and I have a very easy night tonight, so let's have a couple of quarts of French champagne. So you can realize that by that time, the poor lady is about ready to tear her hair off her head. You say they were the average person, husband, all on $5? That's all you gave me to run the house today. Well, now we all know that on that $5 barrel, the housewife couldn't possibly meet her budget needs for that day. Well, your city is in exactly the same position. We have a certain amount of money that we take in on taxes each year to pay for the tremendous expense of running the city of New York. And when you realize that the city in the last budget year spent more money in providing services, in paying the cost of city salaries, in paying for the cost of new schools, new hospitals, and all of the other things that make the city of New York click, you'll realize what I'm talking about when I tell you that last year, for instance, our expense budget, which is the amount of money required to run your city, to pay city salaries and other operating costs, amounted to $1,250,000,000. And add to that the cost of your so-called capital budget, which is the amount of money that we spent to build new schools, new hospitals, new libraries, and things of that kind. You take the two together, and last year our budget totaled approximately $1.75 billion. It's a lot of money. It's more money than any city or any state. And the entire nation spends in one year. And all of us have to budget from year to year. There's only one budget that's larger than your city budget, and that's the budget of the federal government itself. So that with all those services that the people expect and demand, you have other people that try to tell you that the way to meet those costs of government is not by taxing people. It's the only way we know how to do it. It's not by making demands for increased state aid, which is the way we think it should be done together with our tax program. But here's what they come up with. People that really demand these services. They say the way to do this thing is economize, tighten your belt. And they came up with this kind of a proposal, believe it or not. They said the way to do it is not by increasing taxes at all. The way to do it is by failing to fill vacancies in city departments for an 18-month period. They wouldn't want you to fill vacancies in the police department for 18 months, vacancies in the fire department for 18 months, vacancies in the sanitation department for 18 months, and right down the line. Well, I for one person, as the head of your city administration, emphatically will not go along with that kind of what, in my judgment, is a stupid policy. These very same people that would urge us to do that, would in the next breath, if they found the streets unclean, would say that we have a terrible city administration. The streets are dirty, they're not clean. And they would demand that the streets be clean, in spite of the fact that on the other hand, they would urge you not to fill vacancies, and without filling vacancies, the streets could not be clean. Exactly the same thing would happen in the police department. It's my policy and your commissioner's policy, to fill vacancies when they occur, and that policy will be adhered to. We need an efficient, hard-hitting police department, and the only way we can achieve it, is by filling vacancies as they occur. And these very same people that would urge another policy, would be the very first ones to complain, if there were a breakdown in the police department, due to a failure to fill vacancies, so that the streets would not be properly policed. I bring those things out, to let you know that, we want to see to it, that your police department is properly met. We want to see to it, that men who are entitled to promotions are promoted. We're very happy today to see this large group of sergeants promoted. That gives them an opportunity, before March 31st, to participate in the lieutenant's examination. There's not a list even existing for the rank of lieutenant. So this examination is required, it's needed. We're very happy to see you're promoted today. And Tom, if it's at all humanly possible, before March 31st, if you come in with a recommendation, and we can find the money, I'd like to see more sergeants promoted, to make them eligible to take the lieutenant's examination. I'm very happy that the commissioner invited me to be here with you today. I want to congratulate all of the ranks who've been promoted. I want you to know that you have the confidence of your mayor, you have the confidence of your police commissioner, and may I wish each and every one of you Godspeed in your new assignments. Thank you. From police headquarters at 240 Center Street, your city station has presented transcribed portions of the police promotion exercises. Among those present who spoke were the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York, and Police Commissioner Murphy. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This has been another transcribed feature of the Municipal Broadcasting System.