Tonight, the second meeting of the Mott Haven, Maristania Health Panel meeting, concerns itself with the subject of syphilis. This series is planned to bring to you up-to-date discussions on the important health conditions in our community. As you will hear this evening, no disease is more important than syphilis. Known since Columbus discovered America, it has always been a menacing disease and one of the great killers. It is still a dangerous disease. And as you will hear, it occurs not infrequently in our community. How much it occurs, its dangers, its modern treatment, and the measures taken by the medical profession and by the doctors of the Department of Health will be the topics of an interesting evening. We have three speakers on our panel tonight, all of whom are very expert in this field of syphilis. For our first speaker, the subject will be the occurrence in the Mott Haven, Maristania District. And it will be presented by Mr. George Kirshner, who is a senior statistician of the Bureau of Records and Statistics of the City Department of Health. And it gives me a great deal of pleasure to introduce to you, Mr. Kirshner. Thank you, Dr. Myers. Ten years ago, I spoke in this very same auditorium on the subject of syphilis as a community problem. At that time, I was unable to give an exact count of the number of cases of syphilis which there were in this community. In the ten years that have intervened, a great deal of progress has been made by the medical profession in the treatment of syphilis. We statisticians have also made a great deal of progress. We have devised better methods of making estimates by the use of samples. Therefore, it would seem appropriate for me tonight to be able to tell you exactly how many cases of syphilis there are in this community. However, I have a very sad admission to make. I can't do it. It's not that we have been lax in our efforts in counting the number of cases of syphilis, but rather that syphilis is a disease which doesn't lend itself to be counted very easily. As will be explained to you later by the doctors on the program, syphilis is not one of the diseases which in its early stages makes a person so ill that he seeks medical attention. Many people have syphilis for a number of years before they feel any ill effects. Until that time, they are normal, healthy individuals to all appearances. The only way we can discover syphilis in these people is by means of a blood test. That means that for us to find all the cases of syphilis in the community, we would have to conduct a mass blood test survey. That is, have everybody in the entire community tested for syphilis. I hope you all realize what an imposing and impossible task that would be. Even if we were able to test everyone in this community, we still wouldn't know exactly how many cases of syphilis there are, for we would not be able to find those people who have just acquired the disease, because in their case, the blood test would not yet show a positive reaction. So you can see that even a complete survey of the entire community would still not give us the number of infected individuals. This figure, which is called the prevalence of the disease, would represent the number of cases in the community at any one instant. It tells us how many persons have syphilis at one time, but it doesn't tell us how many people acquire syphilis each year. The latter figure is one which is called incidence. And it is this figure which is of extreme importance to the public health administrator. It is the people who have just acquired syphilis, who are infectious, and who are the ones who can spread the disease. These are the individuals the health officer must direct his efforts in order to prevent the spread of the disease. It is only by following incidence rates that the health officer can measure the progress that we are making in the fight against syphilis. To obtain the figure on the incidence, that is, the number of cases which occur each year, would require that every case of syphilis be brought to medical attention while still in its very early stages, that is, within a very short time after acquiring disease. Unfortunately, this is not so. Most people, when they are in the very early stages of syphilis, do not seek medical attention because they are ignorant of the symptoms of the disease or because they do not understand the nature of it. As I said before, many people have syphilis and are unaware of it. Last year, that is 1948, here in New York City, the cases of acquired syphilis, which first came to medical attention, only one out of every six was in the very early stages of disease. The other five people had already passed through their early stages and were in the later stages. I am not going to describe the cause of the disease to you. That will be done later in the program. But I have taken this time in order to give you some idea of the problems which the statistician faces in trying to count either the prevalence or the incidence of syphilis. However, the situation isn't as bad as I've really painted it because we are able to make estimates of these figures from selected groups of the population and also from our reported cases. In estimating the prevalence of syphilis, that is the number of cases which there are at any one time in the community, we use the results of blood test surveys. One of the best surveys ever conducted, that is from the viewpoint of the statistician, in that it gives us data from which we can make estimates of the prevalence, was that conducted among selective service registrants during the last war. Actually, this was not a survey, but perhaps it was the most comprehensive and best measure of the prevalence, as it embraced almost all men between 18 and 45 years of age. It was not selective in that an individual could refuse to take the blood test, and it was representative of the population in that it represented all socio and economic groups. The only unfortunate phase of this survey, as far as generalizing to the entire population, was concerned was that it did not include females. It only took in the men. However, by comparing the results which we have found in selective service groups, with the rates which we find in our premarital groups, where both men and women are tested equally, and where the test is compulsory on both sexes, we can make estimates for the general population. In New York City, our selective service examinations showed that 2.4% of the population were positive. In our premarital groups in New York City, over a period of 10 years, we have found about 2% to be positive. These figures aren't in conflict because there's a differing composition of the two groups. However, we estimate that the prevalence of syphilis in New York City is closer to the selective service figure, which means that in a population of 8 million people, there are, at present, 200,000 cases of syphilis. All of these people didn't acquire their syphilis at the same time. Many have had it for years, and many of these people are aware of their condition and are being treated. But on the other hand, there are many people who are unaware of the fact that they have syphilis, as witnessed by the large number of reports which we receive each year, which describes the case as having had the disease for many years. Our best method of estimating the incidence of the disease, that is, the number of cases which occur each year, is through our case reports, even though all the persons reported are not in the early stages of the disease. Since 1937, the Bureau of Social Hygiene of the Department of Health has maintained a register of all reported cases. During the past 10 years, the number of newly reported cases has remained fairly constant. Case reports have ranged from a low of 21,466 in 1945 to a high of 26,407 in 1942, a year when selective service examinations were very high with the result that many previously undiscovered cases came to light. Last year, there were 23,962 cases reported to the Health Department for the first time. It is our belief, based on past experience, that even though most cases are not reported right after being acquired, eventually they will all come to medical attention and be reported to the Health Department. We therefore estimate that the number of cases reported for the first time each year is indicative of the number of new infections which occur in the city, in that the cases which are reported in the later stages are equivalent to the number of cases which occur in early stages and are undetected and unreported to the Health Department. This is especially so since the number of cases which have been reported each year has held fairly constant over a 10-year period. We estimate that the number of new infections which occur each year in New York City is 25,000. Let us stop for a minute and see just what this figure means. This past summer, New York City passed through what we described as a moderate epidemic of polio. It caused great concern to the city. The number of cases reported during this epidemic is about 2,300, or in other words, only one-tenth the number of cases of syphilis reported each year. Syphilis, if untreated, can be just as terrible in its consequences as polio. Our studies have shown that between 12 and 15% of the admissions to mental institutions, to homes for the blind, of the debts which are charged to heart disease, are caused by syphilis. Syphilis is not as rapid in its crippling effects as polio, but if untreated, it can be just as harmful. And yet, every year, we have ten times as many cases reported here in New York City as we have had during this recent polio epidemic. This gives you some idea of how widespread and important syphilis is. Let us turn now and see what is the problem of syphilis in this community, in the Mott Haven and Morrisania Health Districts. Last year, among residents of Mott Haven and Morrisania, there were 1,839 cases of syphilis reported for the first time to the Health Department. This is slightly over 7% of all cases of syphilis reported in the city. And it's about equal to the size of the population of Mott Haven and Morrisania. It would seem that the problem of syphilis is no greater here in Mott Haven and Morrisania than anywhere else in the city. But it's not so. When we review the history of syphilis in the Mott Haven and Morrisania districts, we find that when I spoke here ten years ago, although the population size of Mott Haven and Morrisania was not much smaller than it is at present, there were only 1,103 cases of syphilis reported, or in other words, a little more than one-half the number of cases reported last year. This increase over the ten-year periods has not been sudden, but has been rather constant, whereas we have seen no corresponding increase in the figures for the city as a whole. In 1940, in Mott Haven and Morrisania had the 14th highest rate among the districts for newly discovered cases. Last year, Mott Haven and Morrisania had risen to the 8th highest rank among all the districts. This means that syphilis is on the increase in the Mott Haven and Morrisania health districts, and as such, it must be recognized as one of the public health problems here which needs emphasizing. It is important, therefore, that more attention be paid to syphilis, and that everyone here tonight, everyone in the community, know how to recognize its symptoms, know how proper protection and proper treatment can be obtained. Now, for these, I'm going to leave you in the hands of the other gentlemen. Mr. Kirshner has given you a very comprehensive view and picture of the situation as regards syphilis in these two districts, particularly as compared with the rest of the city. And now we pass on to something as equally as important, and that is a general statement and discussion of the symptoms and treatment of syphilis. There has been great advances in the treatment of syphilis, particularly in the last few years. We had a similar program to this tonight about ten years ago, and at that time we had the pleasure of having with us Dr. Martin, who comes representing the Bronx County Medical Society. Dr. Martin is the tending dermatologist at the Fordham Hospital. He gave us the most interesting talk at that time, and I think he will duplicate it tonight. Dr. Martin. Dr. Martin. Syphilis is arbitrarily divided into three phases. The first phase, or the primary phase, is when the inoculation takes place and until the primary lesion, or what is known as the chancre, appears. appears. After the chancre is present for about three to four weeks to go into the secondary phase where the systemic symptoms of syphilis appear. When they disappear, which they can do spontaneously, without any treatment, the person then goes into the third stage, or the asymptomatic. And the asymptomatic stage of syphilis can go on for 25 or 30 years, and the patient never know they have it, unless they have a blood test. The primary stage, to give you an idea of the depth of the infection, 24 to 48 hours after inoculation, you have a systemic or a blood infection. The organism is already in the bloodstream. It takes from four to five weeks for the primary or the chancre to appear. That means that that person has had syphilis through their entire body, wherever the blood goes, and it's gone. For a period of four weeks, without knowing that they have it. When the chancre appears, it can appear either as a papule, which most times breaks down and forms a painless ulcer with enlargement of the lymph glands in the region that the ulcer appears. If the papule doesn't break down, it can disappear without any further symptoms at all. But the patient still has the blood infection. After four weeks with the primary or the shanky, secondary symptoms begin to appear. That is, the second phase of the disease sets in. The second phase of the disease, as far as external evidence is concerned, has a number of symptoms. One is the possible loss of hair. There's a loss of hair usually in the temple regions where it has a sort of a moth-eaten appearance. Or as one, as the medical men put it, it looks as though a rat had been nibbling in the cheese. Little losses of hair in through the temple regions. The throat becomes inflamed and we have what is known as mucous patches. These are a grayish ulceration which usually takes place around the tonsils. The danger from these lesions, both your primary and your secondary lesions, is that they are loaded with millions of live organisms which can be transmitted to anybody else. The danger in the secondary phase is from anything that comes in contact with the mouth of saliva. In other words, a kiss can transmit the disease of that particular phase. Or a police officer has been inoculated by trying to knock down an obstreperous individual and the teeth cut his hand. The shanker appeared where the cup was. Now these people also have to eat. The cutlery that they use, the cups, the glasses are all infected. This is a mode of transmission. The skin shows a mottled, lean, ham red colored rash. That rash is on the entire body. It's on both sides alike. And it can be very severe or it can be very mild. It can disappear spontaneously. The resistance of the individual is high and the organism is weak. The resistance of the individual will temporarily overcome it and it will disappear without any further symptoms at all. The rash can become very much more severe. It can become papular. It can become fustular, scaly, and in the last stage of the disease it can become ulcerative. This latter stage of the disease where it becomes ulcerative usually means that the patient has had a little treatment and then discontinued it. And these ulcers do leave scars. The rash ordinarily in the second phase of syphilis does not leave a scar. Now during the first stage of syphilis the Vosanum is negative, the blood test. During the second stage of syphilis it is always positive. If the individual is wise enough to get under treatment in these two stages, his chances of recovery are good. If, on the other hand, he allows himself to go on into the asymptomatic stage where the disease goes underground, as you might say, then it begins to act on all of the organs of the body. There's nothing immune to it. The asymptomatic stage can go on for 25 or 30 years and then suddenly break out with symptoms of almost any disease that you can name. Syphilis has been called the great imitator. Syphilis has been called the great imitator. It can imitate any disease that's in the body. And after the discovery of the syphilis in this third stage, which is only made by either the symptoms becoming so marked that the patient does go to the doctor for a checkup and he takes a blood test and finds out that they are affected with the disease. Then, you can have symptoms of almost any disease. We begin at the brain. You can have a cerebral spinal syphilis. It can imitate a brain tumor. It can imitate a cancer of the brain. You can have a case of parasis or paresis where the patient becomes insane. You can have the paralyzing effects of tabians. You can have a complete paralysis of one arm or one leg imitating a stroke. Eye, it can produce total blindness by attacking the optic nerve. The nerve is completely destroyed and the blindness is complete and permanent. It can affect the hearing by affecting the auditory nerve in the same way it affects the eye, giving you a total deafness, permanent. It can affect the mouth and throat by imitating a cancer. In other words, you can have an ulceration which looks just like a cancer and the only method of differentiation is by blood test and by taking a specimen or a patient. It can affect the heart and blood vessels, producing high blood pressure, producing dilatations or aneurysms of the aorta. It can affect the lungs, producing a fibrosis which imitates tuberculosis. It can affect the abdomen, giving you the lightening pains of babies. It can affect the bones by forming tumors. It can affect the skin by producing ulcerations and a skin eruption. But in the third stage, the skin eruption is usually unilateral. That is, it affects only one side. What about obstetrics? It's a very important thing that the expectant mother should have a blood test. Because if she has syphilis, she is liable to have an abortion. And if she finds out early enough in her pregnancy that she has the disease and immediately places herself under treatment, the chances are very good that she will have a perfectly normal baby. That is a very important factor. Because usually, a case that is born with syphilis will have an extremely difficult job in getting rid of it. Because the child is pretty thoroughly inoculated with the spirochete, which is the cause of the disease, which comes through the maternal circulation. I could go on and talk for a long, long time, probably too long to suit you, about the symptoms of syphilis. But these are some of the highlights. Only the highlights. Any disease in the book can be imitated by syphilis. No matter what it is or what it looks like. It can be imitated. And in any chronic disease, lasting over any period of time, a blood test is mandatory. Now concerning the treatment of syphilis. Mr. Kirshner spoke about our meeting here ten years ago. And I can just imagine the difference between the treatment ten years ago and the treatment today. It's radically different. And with a very, very much improved outlook. At that time, we had the arsenicals, neosalvisan, salvisan. We had bismuth. We had the iodides. We had fever therapy. And we thought that they were very, very good. Today another drug has been added to our armamentarium. And that is penicillin. Penicillin is a marvelous drug for the treatment of syphilis. And any person who has the disease and who immediately places himself or herself under treatment has a very good chance of recovery. The earlier the disease is treated, the better the outcome. As I told you, in the first stage of syphilis up until perhaps four, three to four weeks after the chancre is present, the blood is negative. And if you can catch the patient in that stage, and the diagnosis can be made after the appearance of the chancre, can be made by a dark field examination from secretion from the chancre, you'll get that in that stage about 90% or better will make a complete recovery. But the longer it goes past that stage, the complete recovery drops in percentage. The penicillin therapy is an injection once a day of 600,000 units for 10 days. 6 million units of penicillin. This usually will sterilize any active lesions and kill the spirochetes that are present. Of course, the patient must be kept under observation and not all are cured. Now, first, if the penicillin does not completely eradicate the disease, then other methods of treatment must be used. Of course, with the penicillin, sometimes we give business. It's an intramuscular injection. If the business and the penicillin don't complete the task, then it is off to the arsenic. If in the very late stage surface where there's involvement with the cerebral spinal system, fever therapy is used, and sometimes with a second course of penicillin or a third. These patients have the fever artificially raised by the short-wage hypotherm, so the temperature can be raised to 104 or 105. Now, along with the penicillin, this treatment has given very excellent results in the stubborn cerebrospinal type of system. The main thing is that the patient is under the supervision of a doctor. Where he can be watched, where he won't, get the misguided opinion that he is cured after he has one or two injections, and go merrily on his way to have the thing recur and give him a great deal of trouble later on in life. Thank you. We wish to thank Dr. Martin for this very intelligent presentation of a rather difficult subject. And now you have heard two of the speakers of the evening, one having given you the extent of the situation regarding syphilis, and the other some of the symptoms. Now it's very important as a corollary of what has gone before that we consider how this disease can be controlled. We have in the New York City Department of Health the Bureau of Social Hygiene, a very efficient, very capable organization. I think it's probably in the forefront of such bureaus and departments of health, and it works very closely with the doctors and medical associations and societies in the five boroughs of the city. We have with us tonight Dr. Vincent Pasquale, who is a medical consultant of the Bureau of Social Hygiene of the Department of Health, who has had a very wide and intimate experience with this disease, and particularly in the matter of control. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to present Dr. Pasquale. Dr. Myers, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry I wasn't here ten years ago, but I was on Staten Island. We were having a case-bonding project. Somebody gave the city $25,000 and I helped them to spend it. And that particular job lasted 18 months. My subject, according to the program, is the prevention. The part that the private physician plays, the Department of Health, and the community. To prevent any disease, we first must know that there is such a disease. That to prevent a disease is to find every possible case of that disease in that community or city, and treat each and every one of them. Now, if we can do that on the very same day, as Mr. Kirshen says, you have here 1,800 cases. Now, we could have very good control of these cases by corralling them all in one place, give them a shot of penicillin every day, keep them there so there'll be no outbreak, and probably you would have a good control and a good prevention. But that can't be very well done. So you have to find the cases. Now, not only must you find the cases, but you also must find the case from which this particular case got his. And the person who was in contact with the patient after he was infected. So you see, you have three groups of people. The one with the active case, the newly acquired one, and the third, the newest of the contacts. Now, all of these have to be found. As to the steps of finding these cases, we can start, first, with the premarital Wasserman test. Not only a Wasserman test, but a physical examination that goes with it. Now, that would tell us, by a complete physical examination and a blood test, that would tell us if either one of the partners is infected. We stop right there. If one of them is infected, that thing has to be explained to the partner, if it's so desired by the patient, that that particular person may be in an infectious stage of the disease, and that the partner may be infected. Now, we have lots of cases of syphilis that are not infectious. So that even with a positive blood test, that particular person might have had sufficient treatment to make him non-infectious. So that we allow many of these people to be married, always with the understanding that they will be under observation. Now the couple is married. So, in time, the female partner may become pregnant. So, we looked ahead and passed another law. It was 1938. That every pregnant woman shall have a blood test as early as possible in the pregnancy. And if the social status of that particular individual may be so, that a second or a third blood test during that pregnancy be taken. So that if the first blood test might be negative, and the husband may be a traveling salesman, or a sailor, or a soldier, coming home from the wars, the second may pick up the infection. Whereas the first might have been too early to detect the disease. As Dr. Martin explained to you, the blood test does not become positive until 35 to 40 days after infection. Now we have the pregnant woman, had her blood test, and we hope that it is negative so that she goes by her business. But if she is infected, she is given treatment by penicillin, giving them, giving her six million units of penicillin. That will treat the mother, or cure the mother, and also cure the unborn baby. Now we don't stop there. Then we see what the husband has been doing. We will examine the husband. And if there are any other children in the family, we will also examine them. The third method, of course, would be the mass examination. Where you have groups of people that come in and be examined, and have blood tests. That's very easily done today. I just got through taking 300 and some odd hundred Wasserman tests, for instance, at the Fanny Farmers Candy factory up in the Bronx. And we hope that none of them are sick. We have the same thing with the armed forces. Where all of the soldiers that are inducted will have a blood test. Today, if you go into a hospital for an operation, or for a sickness of any kind, most of them will take a routine Wasserman. See, those are all mass examinations. People may get together, friends, like in a church. Or clubs. Or as I just said about Fanny Farmers Candy. An industry. We go in and examine all of these people. Of course, if they are food handlers, that's required by law. Then, of course, we have the reporting of these cases. By the private doctor. By the hospitals, prisons, and so on. With that, we have, of course, the follow-up of cases. Who lapse the treatment. And we have, of course, the police power to remove these people from circulation, and put them in a hospital, and treat them. And keep them there for the whole course of the treatment. So you see, we have to examine and treat if found to be sick. The first person who had the disease. The second whom we see today as the patient. And the third group to whom this particular second patient might have given the disease. Now, what does the private doctor do in this particular program? He tries to take the Wasserman as a routine on all patients that come to him for treatment. Whatever the disease may be. He reports these cases to the health department. So that we know the number of cases that Mr. Kirshner can count them. He tries to obtain the names of contacts. It's a very important one. And it's very hard. Many of these patients say, I'm no stool pigeon. I'm not going to tell. But we have to educate that particular patient that we mean no harm to the person who gave him the disease. That our only interest is to treat him and cure him. And at the same time, if he happens to meet the same girl again, he will be infected. If he brings her in, then we'll treat her too. Now that goes especially with gonorrhea. With gonorrhea, of course, we have many more cases of gonorrhea than we have with syphilis. The doctor will treat all of these cases until they've had sufficient treatment and that they are non-infectious. If the doctor has the time, and some do, he may take time off and try to educate the particular patient that he's treating. He has the time, and how he got it, and how he shouldn't get it again. Because if you have syphilis once, and you're cured, you will be reinfected if you continue to visit the same halls. Now what has the health department to offer in this program? It has many. Great help. Not only to the patient, to the doctor, and also to the community. For instance, we begin with the laboratory facilities. The health department will take drug tests, will make smears, will do spinal examinations, will do dog field examinations. Not only on the clinic patients, but also on the private doctor's cases. We have at the disposal of the doctors, and the hospitals, and clinics, and the community as a whole, consultants. So that if there is any question, in doubt, as to the diagnosis, or as to treatment, the health department will send a doctor, who is up to date in these diseases, and will help out the doctor or the clinic, or the hospital. The health department also distributes free drugs to clinics, to hospitals, and to private doctors. That's irrespective as to the fee that the doctor may receive. In clinics, if it's a city institution, there is no limitations. In a hospital, if the hospital only charges an administration fee for that particular patient, we will supply that hospital with free drugs. That is penicillin, arsenic, arsenic, arsenic, arsenic, and heavy metals. But if the hospital charges more the administration fee, then we will not supply that particular hospital. That is not for that particular patient. The health department, to keep up the education and the knowledge of these diseases, gives a post-graduate course every Saturday morning, beginning in the early fall and last spring, for the doctors, nurses, and for dentists. We have here the best of men who are engaged in this particular field. And we have very good turn-outs. These courses are given on Saturday mornings at 10.30 and last until about 12 o'clock. The health department has facilities and staff sufficient to follow up. Not only the cases that refuse to take treatment or lapse treatment, but also to follow up and bring in for examination any contacts that the patient will give to the doctor or to the hospital or to the clinic or whatever source may be. The health department has the police power to remove and hostilize any patient who refuses to take treatment while in infectious stage. The health department distributes literature, posters, and whatnot to the community. So that too, advertise the fact that there is such a thing as a health department, and that these diseases are treated not only by the health department, but by private physicians. The health department has doctors to give lectures, just as tonight, to the general public. So they find a way to Humans7. They can find a way to gdzieś visit its own community of experts. And, it's interesting. But the znames, and I think it's interesting. Nowするklings is happening in professionsheds. They'll find ways of having their roads and things of believing in life, but by small, I mean, particularly in gyms, that they're deemed Bamako andvio & Cheryl. We call that Anybody. Here at the Maeve Season 1 ki from when I get to Los Niles right now. Is that your life'scurrent of public health, IEP and theства? That we show very very instructive We've had the subject of social hygiene on the radio Out on 42nd Street and all those big signs We've had good advertising in the subways and streetcars Newspapers That said before distributes free drugs We also do these mass wassament tests in industry and in any meeting that we may come together And also the health department has 21 different clinics where we diagnose and treat all venereal diseases Now what can the community do? That's a big question I think the community To help in itself Should start right in the home From the home of course the child goes to school It's a matter of education Sex education Moral education Moral education In the army In the first world war We practiced and preached Prevention By use of contraception The first Two years of this last war We did the same thing And all of a sudden we turned around And instead of handing out contraceptives We began to talk to the men Talk moral talk to the men We had the Of course we always had the chaplain on our side But we played more of it And we talked moral talk to the men We had the Of course we always had the chaplain on our side But we played more of it And we talked morals But we played more of it But we played more of it And we talked morals That sex Was not really necessary That sex Could wait until marriage took place The fact That one exposes himself To someone else he knows nothing about That if one particular woman Goes with one particular man That she'll always go One and more and more and more That the public or the community Should demand Of their governing power Police power and so on To eliminate street walking Street walkers The old prostitutes In New York We don't see that as much as we used to Way back in I should say 1900 or so We used to have the There was a Certain district around 6th Avenue And 27th, 28th, 21st Street Red light district Well that's eliminated There's no more red light districts in New York Dr. Clark who has made a Quite a survey of this And reported to Governor To Mayor O'Dwyer That we have No more street walkers in New York But we still have a lot of girlfriends And these girlfriends And these girlfriends May not solicit in the open But we know that they exist Because we know that in certain clinics A certain number of patients have given the same address And the same name And the same name Where they were infected Police have the power to clean up the dance halls We have a tremendous number of source of infections Where the contacts have met In the dance halls And the police are doing a pretty good job there Of picking up these women In the schools they should teach And are teaching now Sex education That life comes from life That with a growing child Whether boy or a girl Should have enough of recreation Facilities To occupy that time And as they grow older To use Those recreation facilities The community Should see to it By these talks and so on These diseases are known Not very long ago We couldn't talk like this We couldn't even say the word syphilis or gonorrhea After they say it in a whisper But with proper education And the youngsters growing up That their life Is more to the good Than to the bad And I believe that most of that Can properly start Right at home I'm sure we all want to thank Dr. Pascali For this very clear and very thorough presentation Of the The subject of prevention of syphilis In the community The subject of the community Now as is our custom at all these talks At each session The meeting is thrown open for questions and answers We have here a traveling microphone And I'm sure we were very glad to entertain any question you may ask And one of the doctor's gentlemen on the panel Will answer your question Are there any questions? I like that Yes Has there been any change in the population here? Has there been an influx of different people in the last 10 years? As to why we should have an increase in the VD Well there probably has been in both districts And that may be a factor in the increase Did you have a question? Yes, sir. I'll just follow this one Dr. Pascali Dr. Pascali Are the syphilitics in mental hospitals isolated and treated? If the syphilitic is contagious If the syphilitic is contagious We may keep them by himself But we do not put them in a cell They are not contagious like scarlet fever or measles With syphilis as in any of these venereal diseases It's a contact disease There must be a contact between the patient who is sick And the person who is to be infected This gentleman has a question Dr. Pascali Dr. Pascali Dr. Pascali said this is a contact disease Is it possible may an adult have a case of COVID-19 have a case of syphilis, of infectious syphilis, of an inherited origin. A baby may be born with syphilis, and it may go unrecognized for as long as 35 to 40 years. The patient never receiving treatment. Until that time, he may get some eye symptoms or ear symptoms, and the diagnosis is made. At that time, the patient is not infectious, but when that baby was born, he was infectious. It takes a number of years before that infection becomes non-infectious. Do you get me? Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Kirshner, you presented some figures on percent of people who had syphilis in the city. I wonder how accurate those figures are. Well, as I said, they're based on estimates, but there have been many surveys conducted in all groups. Our best survey, as I stated, was that done among selective service registrants. There were about, or I should say about 2 million men examined here in New York City on which we base our figures. Over a 10-year period, we have almost 2 million persons examined for blood tests for marriage purposes. We have other groups. On those figures, we base our estimate that the figure for the prevalence of syphilis in New York City is about 2.5%. Now distinguish that from the other figure which I gave on the incidence. The figure for incidence is much smaller than that. The figure for incidence is only about one-eighth of that, which is a very small figure for the, that is the number of people who become infected each year. I see. Actually, then, your use of two significant figures, then, would give you your accuracy of measurement? Yes. Yes. One more question. Have you been able to estimate what the probability is of contacting disease? Like, for cancer, they'll say one cancer strikes one out of so many people. Do they have the same thing for syphilis? Yes. There is such a figure for syphilis. And we estimate that that figure would be, at the present time, about one out of 15. That's a theoretical figure. It means that if we took 1,000 people who were all born at the same time and followed them through their entire lifespan until every one of the 1,000 people had died, we would find that 150 of these 1,000 people had developed syphilis at some time or other. But, I don't think that's a doctor, but I don't think that Dr. Pascali answered this gentleman's question entirely correct. The gentleman talked about hereditary syphilis. There is no such thing as hereditary syphilis. It's congenital syphilis, which is acquired by the baby from the mother. Is that right, Dr. Pascali? You're perfectly right, Mr. Kirshner, but I really didn't make the distinction because we're not very technical here tonight. The gentleman has a question. You want to come forward, please, and then we can use the microphone. Dr. Pascali, I'd like to ask regarding sex education in the school. At what age do you believe this education should begin? I personally believe that sex education should start when the child is 13 or 14 years of age. when I was on Staten Island, I think that I was the first man to enter our public school system and give these kind of talks and take blood tests on the children with the consent of the parents. And these children at the age of 13 and 14, when they begin to really develop and they begin to know what is a boy and what is a girl, that is the time we should teach them sex education. I'd like to ask Dr. Martin a question. Is it possible if a cancerous patient receives X-ray treatment and then he takes a Wasserman, does that X-ray change the blood in any way that it could show a positive Wasserman? Because I know of a man of 78 who was dying of cancer of the Sigmoid flexion and they gave him a Wasserman and he showed positive at that age. There are several things that can cause what we call false positive Wasserman. A severe cold can do it. Vaccination can do it. Certain diets can do it. And whether or not X-ray therapy would cause a change in the blood serum which might give you a false positive, I haven't had any experience with that. But since other things can do it, I see no reason why it can have some effect on it. Now if a man has such a severe carcinoma of the Sigmoid and he's an elderly individual, I'd forget his syphilis. I wouldn't worry about it at all. And if it should be that it is not a carcinoma, and he is later on retaken as to the Wasserman, retaken three months later if he's alive. By that time, the chances are that the effects of the X-ray on the blood would have passed off and you would get your true picture in the Wasserman. May I add this, that the blood test is just an aid to diagnosis. There is no doctor that will make a diagnosis on a patient who has a positive Wasserman and make a diagnosis of syphilis. He will go into the history of that patient. He will examine it to look for signs and so on. One test does not make the diagnosis. That patient has to be worked up. We've had patients where we had to take a dozen tests before we reached a final diagnosis. Are there any other questions? I'm sure the audience will agree with me that we've had a most enlightening and educational evening. I have attended many talks on syphilis and I think this is one of the finest which I have ever listened to. I want you to realize that we appreciate your attendance at these talks. I want you also to realize that these talks have been prepared with a great deal of care and that men noted in their line of work have agreed to come here and present them to you. I would ask you to speak to your friends and acquaintances about these meetings and bring them with you because a large audience is always a factor of encouragement to the speaker. Two weeks from tonight, and I want you to note that all the rest of the meetings occur on Thursday nights now at two-week intervals, as shown in the program. Two weeks from tonight, we shall bring you the subject of communicable diseases of childhood, of children. That's very important and very interesting, both from the community standpoint and from the school and from the home. And we will touch upon such diseases as poliomyelitis among children, measles, German measles, which is a possible effect on the pregnant mother, whooping cough, and all the various diseases, and give you some interesting and modern concepts of the treatment and particularly the prevention of these diseases. I want to thank you for your attendance. Good evening. Thank you.