Radio's microphones are now in the council chamber in City Hall, and the occasion is the presentation of medals to members of the fire department of the City of New York, who during the year 1949 performed conspicuous acts of bravery, and to the next of kin are those who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. The Mayor of the City of New York has just come in, and Commissioner Ray Quayle has just announced the anthem. The Mayor of the City of New York The Mayor of the City of New York The Mayor of the City of New York Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Commissioner Quayle had looked forward to being with us today, but his physician advised against it, saying that it would be unwise for the commissioner to jeopardize his complete recovery by attending this ceremony. His return to active duty, I am happy to announce, is only a matter of days. Commissioner Quayle had prepared a few words for this occasion, and he has asked me to read them to you. Your Honor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Another year has rolled by, and again we are assembled here in City Hall to honor the New York Fire Department's heroes of the year now passed. It is becoming that we meet here, for no place in our great city is so rich in memories of glorious achievements and noble deeds, extending back from our own day to the stirring times when our brave forefathers began their memorable fight for freedom. In this colorful assembly are 20 firefighters who have been chosen by the fire department's force of merit from a list of 675 members of the uniformed force who were cited for heroic deeds performed at extreme personal risk in the year behind us. There are also here the next of kin of six of our brave comrades who made the supreme sacrifice in the same 12 months. Their loss is ours, and we share the sorrow of their families and friends as we enshrine in our hearts the memories of these loved ones. But this is not unusual, for not a year has passed since the fire department was organized that one or more of our brave men have not died in the line of duty. We are also presenting two additional medals, one for maintaining the best disciplined and most efficient company, and the other for outstanding administrative and executive ability. These two medals are symbols of the high ability engendered by the constant training of the members of the uniformed force from the very day of their appointment as probationary firemen. In selecting the recipients of these two medals, the Board of Merit again faced a real problem, for there were scores of our firefighters eligible for these signal honors. The people of the city of New York may well take pride in their firefighters, for they are exceptionally able men and heroes all. The medals will be presented by the best friend our firefighters have ever had, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, whom I now have the honor of introducing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Moran. Commissioner Frank Quayle, who is listening in. Deputy Commissioners, officers, friends of the fire department, neighbors. Frank, we are all here inside. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Thank you. and Frank are extremely happy that God has been good enough to make it possible for you to be back hale and hearty towards the end of this week. Everyone in the fire department and every friend of the fire department and none more than myself bid you a hearty welcome back. Thank God you're all right. Ladies and gentlemen and those who are listening in to these ceremonies this afternoon, we're about to present decorations to members of the fire department who have performed their work under such dangerous conditions as to be well beyond the realm of their assigned duty. Courage, physical and spiritual. A dedication to the work of the department. That one hour, one fraction of a second, when a man will step in, not thinking for a moment of his own personal safety, not thinking for a moment of the loved ones at home, in order to protect life and property. That symbolizes the spirit of the fire department. And I'm not saying this as much to the ladies and gentlemen and the men of the department in this room, nor in the department. I am saying it to the people of this city. That is the tradition of the fire department. That is what they have done no matter who is in city hall. That is a service that the people of this city get when they're sound asleep at night. That is the kind of service they get, the protection that they get from this department. And I'm now talking to the people of this city from a wealth of experience that I've had myself here in city hall in four years, that the people of the city do not realize what this department does to make the city safe for them. It's my duty to tell them. And in the presence of those men who have taken the chance and lived, and ladies and gentlemen listening in, in the presence of those men, women, and children who have come here with heavy hearts, relatives of those who took the chance and it was God's will that they couldn't be here. In their presence, I as the mayor of this city do the only thing that I can do and ask God to bless them and their fellows in the department and to protect them and to keep them steadfast to the work of their department. And I'll repeat it again, no matter who is in city hall. There has been griping by forces in the city. Forces, for instance, only today, one newspaper called attention to the fact that we were squandering money in a program to clean our beaches. Well, Mr. Editorial Writer, it is not squandering money to keep our beaches pure for the people of this city who cannot afford to leave it in the hot weather and must use them. And while we're talking about squandering money, Mr. Editorial Writer, sharpen your pencil again and listen to this one. How would you like to go out on duty every day and face sudden death for a take-home pay of $31.50 because you spent $45 a month out of your meager pay to protect those that would be left behind if anything happened? I'm wondering, we are not doing the right thing by the youngsters in either the police or the fire department. And I have asked the committee now studying our financial setup to deal in justice with these youngsters who take the gamble of their lives for our protection every day. Frank Quayle, you know, Frank Quayle, you know, Frank Quayle, you know, Frank Quayle, you're listening in, you know that that is what you have said. The morale of these two departments is so important that it's a tragedy that we haven't got the money now to do the right thing by these men. And it's an obligation on this city to find the money and do the right thing. Thank you. To those who have come here today so sadly, I can ask for nothing to give you strength than that it will be God's will to spare you as much as possible. I can ask for nothing to give you strength from the burden of this moment. I can do it as well as anyone because I too have been in the exact position that you're in today. I too have that frightful memory, but a lovely memory. I'm talking about my own brother. He was killed in the fire department. I know what it is. It may be of interest to you to know that his little child that he never saw, little girl, born three months after he was killed in the fire department, graduated from Columbia Law School last week. But she never saw her and he never saw her. Thank you. There is hope, always hope. There are things to do for the little ones. We have an obligation there too, an obligation that we have not lived up to for exactly the same reason that I stated before. It isn't fair to have men go to their death and leave their loved ones dependent on pennies that are now allocated to the widow and the children. It's not fair. This city has to face up to that. And I'm sorry, Mr. Editorial Writer, if it costs a few pennies, it costs the men their lives. And the least we ought to do is recognize it in the only one way that in their dying breath they'd want done. And that is to protect as far as we can their dependence that they left behind. To you, welcome. What more can words do than to tell you that with your sorrow we try to share your pride? And to the men who are to be decorated, whom God permitted to come here today, it was his will. Gentlemen, down through the years, your department has been honored through its members once every year, where your courage and faithfulness to your department and to your work has been recognized. This year, you are the ones to be the symbol of the fine, splendid morale of your department. I congratulate each and every one of you, and I hope and pray that your future will be bright and will be happy, and that your example to a department will be listened to, observed, and followed, and that a whole department down through the centuries once every year will be here as a pride to their city, to their state, and to their nation. Thank you very much. I just heard the mayor of the city of New York. The occasion is the awarding of the medals to the members of the fire department for acts of heroic duty during the year 1949. And now, Commissioner Moran, acting commissioner, and acting for the commissioner of the department, Commissioner Quayle, will read the citations, and you will get a full account of why these medals are awarded. The Bennett Medal and Department Medal awarded to firemen, first grade, Wilbur J. O'Donnell, of Hook and Ladder Company, 111, for the attempted rescue of two children from fire at 450 Madison Street, Brooklyn, on November 4, 1949. Following the same customers of the police department, the mayor of the city of New York pins the medal on the breast of the fireman who was receiving the award here in the council chamber. The weatherman was not very friendly. He sent us wet weather, but then we realized that a fireman needs water because water is his best weapon. Possibly the weatherman was a bit consistent, but not so pleasant for the general public. The Thomas A. Kenny Memorial Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade John P. Kenny, Hook and Ladder Company, 31, for rescuing two children from a fire at 769 Jennings Street, Bronx, on November 3, 1949. Applause The Mayor William O'Dwyer Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade Peter Bynum, of Hook and Ladder Company, 25, for rescuing a man from a fire at 105 West 75th Street, Manhattan, on January 23, 1949. Applause Applause Applause It takes a few minutes for the photographers to get a picture, and it's well that it does, because some of those men still carry the effects, the effect, rather, of the injuries that they received in the performance of the heroic deed. Applause Applause Applause The Albert S. Johnson Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade, Walter P. Bresnan, of Engine Company, number 72, for rescuing a fire patrolman from a fire at 21 West 17th Street, Manhattan, on October 14, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause The Mayor has a pleasant little word to say to each fireman as he comes up, and no doubt, it's the proudest moment in the Mayor's life to recognize their courage and their quality, and the quality that they bring to service to the city. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Hugh Bonner Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade, Walter J. Sheeran, of Engine Company, 321. Applause Applause Applause Applause For the rescue of six persons from a fire at 345 Gold Street, Brooklyn, on May 17, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Fireman Sheeran is of slight build, and when we think of the record, six persons, no wonder he received the hand he did as he stood up to take the medal from the Mayor of the City of New York. Applause Applause The Bella Stifle Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade, John Marcinison, of Hook and Ladder Company, 131, for the rescue of an infant from a fire at 231 18th Street, Brooklyn, on December 26, 1949. Applause Applause The Henry D. Brookman Medal and Department Medal awarded to fireman, first grade, first grade, Frank J. Sergi of Hook and Ladder Company, 12, for rescuing a man from a fire at 148 West 20th Street, Manhattan, on October 3, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The MJ Dillahanty Medal Medal and Department Medal awarded to Lieutenant James C. Healy of Engine Company, 265, for rescuing two women from a fire at 206 Beach 71st Street, Rockaway Beach, Queens, on February 6, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause There's a youngster in the audience is going to be heard no matter maybe you can hear it crying out in the crowd here. It's very happy over its daddy or something, but it's jubilation. Do you hear him? Laughter Making a big fuss over his daddy. Laughter Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The William H. Todd Memorial Medal and Department Medal awarded to Lieutenant Robert A. Tierney of the Special Service Squad for rescuing a man from a fire at 281 West 11th Street, Manhattan on April 29, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause It's interesting indeed that Lieutenant Robert Tierney made this rescue just in his ordinary uniform without any protection of fire clothing, rubber coat, boots, or any other protection that a fireman ordinarily wears in a fire. The mayor is having a few private words with him and congratulating him and shakes hands with him. The cameramen are insisting on taking a picture. It'll take a few moments now before the next citation. Commissioner Moran. Applause Applause Applause The Chief John J. McElligot Medal and Department Medal awarded to Lieutenant Bernard J. Cannon of Engine Company 8 for rescuing a child from a fire at 328 East 59th Street, Manhattan on March 6, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause A family here?, do tenemos que comble? No, no, no, thanks no. Daniel特 quiteкую Guanya The Commerce and Industry Association Medal and Department Medal awarded to Captain Paul A. Lucas of Hook and Ladder Company 108 for rescuing a mother and her two children from a fire at 54 Moore Street, Brooklyn on November 26, 1949. Just a few moments for a picture while the cameraman get a picture of Captain Paul Lucas. He had to climb a clothes pole, wrench away a screen, and save a woman and two children under these conditions. ...and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Thomas Yasbin, Jr., 44th Battalion aide for rescuing a woman from a fire at 1849 Broadway, Brooklyn on February 6, 1949. Thank you. ... ... ... The Mayo LaGuardia Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Frank J. Walsh of Hook and Ladder Company 158 for rescuing two children from a fire at 147-07 New York Boulevard, Springfield Gardens, Queens, on November 3, 1949. Applause The Thomas E. Crimmins Medal and Department Medal awarded to Captain Francis J. Brennan, number 2, of Hook and Ladder Company 114 for rescuing a man from a fire at 829 52nd Street, Brooklyn, on November 18, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause The Thomas F. Doherty Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Edward A. Frank Farrell of Hook and Ladder Company 114 for rescuing a man from a fire at 829 52nd Street, Brooklyn, on November 18, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Brooklyn Citizens Medal and Department Medal awarded to Captain Edwin F. Schneider, now Chief of the 48th Battalion, for assisting in the rescue of a man from a fire at 7801 4th Avenue, Brooklyn, on October 16, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Walter Scott Medal and Department Medal awarded to the Fireman First Grade John I. Butterly of Hook and Ladder Company 149 for assisting in the rescue of a man from a fire at 7801 4th Avenue, Brooklyn, on October 16, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Walter Scott Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade John I. Butterly of Hook and Ladder Company 149 for assisting in the rescue of a man from a fire at 7801 4th Avenue, Brooklyn, on October 16, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The same thing happens here in the Fire Department as we noted in the Police Department because many of these men have already received medals for previous deeds of heroism. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The same thing happens here in the Fire Department as we noted in the Police Department because many of these men have already received medals for previous deeds of heroism. Applause Applause Applause The Franklin D. Roosevelt Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Frederick B. Voight of Hook and Ladder Company 11 for rescuing a man from a fire at 369 East 8th Street, Manhattan, on November 26, 1949. Applause Applause The William F. Conron Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Timothy O'Connor Jr. of Hook and Ladder Company 107 for rescuing a woman from a fire at 368 Ridgewood Avenue, Brooklyn, on April 27, 1949. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Third Alarm Association Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade James M. McGrath of Hook and Ladder Company of Hook and Ladder Company of Hook and Ladder Company of Hook and Ladder Company of H. O.O.S. grade James M. McGrath of Hook and Ladder Company 7 for rescuing a man from a fire at 487 2nd Avenue, Manhattan on December 27, 1949. There are several youngsters in the audience here and they are determined to be heard along with everything else and maybe above all the other speech you can hear their little outcries once in a while. The Stevenson Medal awarded to Captain Michael J. Clary of Engine Company 83 for having maintained the best discipline and the most efficient company in the department during the year 1949. The Administration Medal awarded to Captain Joseph L. Flannery of Special Service Squad for outstanding administration of the Alarm Assignment and Planning Division. The Fireman's Medal of Supreme Sacrifice and Department Medal awarded posthumously to members of the department who died in the line of duty during 1949 and presented to their next of kin. Lieutenant George P. Oates, Engine Company 283, died at 8.05 March 3rd from injuries sustained while operating at Signal Station 1928, Brooklyn, December 12, 1947. The Mayor's Medal of Supreme Court is a great deal. His widow, Mrs. Alice Oates, receives the medal and the consolations of the Mayor as he pins the medal on her coat. The Mayor is still having a few words with Mrs. Oates in appreciation and expressing the City's appreciation for the supreme sacrifice made by Lieutenant George P. Oates. The Mayor is a great deal. The Mayor is a great deal. The Mayor is a great deal. Fireman, first grade, Lowell J. McElroy of Engine Company 214, who died on May 9th. Mrs. Kathleen McElroy Widow. The cameraman take a few moments to take these pictures, and you may hear their voices as issue the usual commands in order to get a consistent picture for the occasion. Mrs. McElroy is a very young-looking woman, as her husband's picture would indicate in the program that he was a very young man indeed. It doesn't state his age. That's the pathetic part of it, to see these young people cut off in the prime of their life, carrying out the duties that they have sworn to perform. Fireman, first grade, Christopher E. McAuley, who died on May 12th, 1949. Mrs. Anna L. McAuley, Widow. Mrs. McAuley has been very much affected by this entire ceremony, and has been in tears almost from the time she came into City Hall. The Mayor is now speaking to her, and she's taking her place under the escort of a detailer fireman. Fireman, first grade, Peter E. Farley, of Hook and Ladder Company 136, who died on August 16th, 1949. Mrs. Kathleen Farley, Widow. It's an interesting commentary that with Mrs. Farley are twin boys and a little girl. They have every reason, however, to feel very proud of their father. Mrs. In one of the rescues where a fireman rescued a boy, one of the early citations read that a youngster died, and later on, when the fire was under control, they found his twin brother. Mrs. This is another case, of course, where the child was asphyxiated. Look up at the mayor now, fellas. Look up at the mayor. Look up at the mayor. The cameraman are getting a very good picture of this because it is such an inspiring picture to see Mrs. Farley, the twin boys, and the little girl. Mr. Farley's picture, the fireman in the list of those who made the supreme sacrifice, is the youngest-looking man of all. He seems very much under 30. I'm not aware of his age, however, because it's not indicated in the catalog. The mayor is the only one who made the supreme sacrifice, and the other one who made the supreme sacrifice, and the other one who made the supreme sacrifice. Battalion chief Gunther F. Beek of the 3rd Battalion, who died on August 23rd. Mrs. Catherine J. Beek, widow. Mr. Farley J. Beek and Saul Joseph. Mr. Farley, boring. Missingonge, playing with words and singing. Missingonge,�ika shortly back, but wangling, or somebody's ratio for the有一onomos Serlaty. We should film music based on the material that I've has done today. My mother's decision was to be shores ofrut Inhale. Lieutenant John A. Lydon of Engine Company 240, who died on December 24, 1949. Mrs. Adele M. Lydon, widow. And so the final word of consolation to Mrs. Lydon, those who made the supreme sacrifice, six in all in the program, the awards have been made by the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. We wait now for Commissioner Moran's announcement. We will now have a selection from the Fire Department Clay Club. Okay. That's for them. Boys in blue, staunch and true, stand ready to go when they hear the bell. Without fear, when danger's near, while they're rolling, you hear folks yell, We'll take our hands down to our firemen, who shall be bold and brave. We'll find a night and day out fighting flame, they risk their lives to save. And so with a vocal tribute to the men of the Fire Department, the heroic men of blue, who make our nights safe for us to sleep because we lay our head on our pillows knowing that the two armies of blue, the police and the fire department, are watching. The policeman on the 12 to 8 beat particularly, who might concern our night's rest more than the other traffic and the other detours and tours, well, he's generally the one to see the first symptom of a fire of any kind in a neighborhood. And then that other great army of blue, ever ready and ever alert in the firehouses, in less time than it takes us to make up our mind about most things, they're manned and ready and on the streets to answer the alarm of fire and to protect human life and property within the gates of our city. They go out, but they don't have to come back. And very often they do not, as the six heroic awards today, the posthumous awards to the nearest and next of kin, indicated here in City Hall today, when six firemen out of the long list of heroes honored were those who had made the supreme sacrifice for duty, for God and for their city. And so we take leave of you again from City Hall after this yearly tribute to the valiant men of the fire department, a department that needs no tribute from anybody because their history is the story of their valor. That is all now from the council chamber in City Hall. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.