Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is Arthur Startz of the staff of the Cooper Union, substituting for your regular chairman, Johnson Fairchild, who cannot be here tonight. Mr. Fairchild will return at the next regular forum session this Friday night. Tonight, we continue the regular Tuesday evening series on women. Specifically, the discussion will be turned towards women at work. Our speaker needs little introduction to Cooper Union Forum listeners and very little to most New Yorkers. If anyone were to ask me to name one of the outstanding labor educators, I would certainly mention Mr. Mark Starr as the first name to come to mind. I'm sure that many of you know quite a bit about Mr. Starr, most of you, through his present position as Educational Director of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, one of the most respected and one of the largest unions in this country. Many of you probably know that that union now approaches the one-half million mark in membership. But bear with me for just a few minutes, and there will be very few, to make sure that all of you know one or two of the interesting things about Mr. Starr, which I did not know. Mark Starr was born in England and did not come to this country until 1928. We know him today as an outstanding educator, as an outstanding author, and many of us know him also as a worker. In England, Mr. Starr started his career as a builder's helper and then went into the coal mines. In the year of 1924, he ran for Parliament on the Labor Party ticket. Shortly after coming to the United States, Mr. Starr took a job teaching at the Brookwood Labor College, not far from here, right up in Katona, New York. For the past 15 years, he has served with the International Ladies Garment Workers, and during that time, he has also served in various other capacities. To mention just a few, in 1943, as labor consultant in the Office of War Information in Britain. In 1945, as a member of the United States UNESCO delegation in London. In 1946, as labor education consultant to the Supreme Command in Japan. And during the period mentioned as vice president of the American Federation of Teachers. His list of publications are much too long for me to read. I'll mention just one, which is outstanding at the present time. Labor in America, written in collaboration with Harold Faulkner, which is being translated into Japanese for use in the schools of Japan. It gives me great pleasure to introduce to you Mr. Mark Starr. Thank you Mr. Chairman. The honor of speaking at Cooper Union is a great one, because I never come to this platform unless I think of Abe Lincoln standing here. Unless I think of Jim Maurer, another great social pioneer. And if I, by anything that I can say or suggest to you, can modestly help the great movements which they started and carried through, I shall feel that my presence here tonight has been in the great tradition, has not been in vain. If this lecture had been called Women in Love or Women in Bed, instead of Women in Industry, it is probable that the attendance would have been very much larger. Women's role as a wife and homemaker is universally recognized, but few people appreciate how important her position has become in industry, and why and where and for what she works. In order to explain women's position in these days, we need Marx, as well as Freud, to explain recent changes. There was a time, of course, when the home was a self-sufficing economic unit. But the housewife no longer makes the candles, the bread, the clothes, the medicine, and even the furniture for the members of her household. She no longer spins and weaves, milks the cows, and educates her children. Laundries, restaurants, garment factories, beauty parlors, laundromats, etc., have taken away women's job in the household, and she naturally follows it into the factory. Those who will repeat the cliche, women's places in the home, are just confessing themselves to be Rip Van Winkle's. This economic change affects management and trade unions, the family, and the community. Everybody agrees that the general role of women in history and society is an important one. Don't forget, it was Eve's curiosity led to the eviction of Adam from the Garden of Eden. Pandora failed to keep her box shut. You will recall the embarrassment of the Toastmaster who found that when the press reported his flight of eloquence, not as woman without her, man would be a beast, but as woman without her, man would be a beast. You can see why just the misplacing of a comma meant all the difference, but in both places the woman played a rather important role. My English teacher, in explaining why man was the general term for the human race in the dictionary in the encyclopedia, explained that man embraced women in two senses. However, we have left behind the old Victorian conception of woman as half angel, half idiot. The idea that only young women work, and even then, for only pin money or fur coat money or for some other form of luxury spending, has become outmoded as the crinoline and the bustle. Rosie the Riveter, making thunder jets, now wears overalls. Men are now, women are now, the majority in our population according to the most recent census. They outnumber men in the ratio of 1,000 to 981 for the first time in the history of the census in the United States. In 1940, ten years ago, the ratio was 1,007 males to every 1,000 females. The figure now, as I say, is 1,000 women to 981 females. The number of gainfully employed women has increased to 19 million, which is only 1.5 million less than the peak point of women's participation in industry during World War, World War II. But nearly ten times as many as in 1870, when women workers first were officially counted in the census. You see, these are big increases. Think of 19 million, 17 and a half working women, professionally self-implied, making up the difference to 19 million. Out of every worker in the United States, out of every three workers, one is now a woman. That is the importance, the basic importance of our topic tonight. An increasing number of women have to double up as the homemaker and the industrial worker. While there are fewer women in domestic service and on the farms, the number of employed women continues to increase rapidly. The estimates of the U.S. Department of Labor show that three times as many women are now gainfully employed compared to 1900. About 28% of the total workers in 1950 were women. Undoubtedly, the increased demand for labor power in the current defensive war preparation will strengthen the trend to employ still more women in industry. An army of three million men will mean that more women will enter industry. And this will be accentuated because the labor market was tight when defensive preparations were started in earnest after June 1950. It is a sad thought, a grim thought, that only war and mobilization give the woman and the Negro a better opportunity to enter industry and to make their way in the professions. Usually we think of young, unmarried women in industry. But statistics show that this picture is now false. The average age of the employed woman is now 36 and more married than single women are to be found in industry. Some four million working mothers have children under 18. Nearly one and a half million women are self-implied in business, trade or professions. The ratio of Negro women out of the total of Negro women in the labor force is 51% as compared with 32% out of the total of white women. The poor Somebody hopes that students would get 9,000 years old subject grow up friend the search for half years, the maternal class showed, An很多ゃ play a really difficult task in medicine for supporting boys. Even though some women are not able to sympathize to durch, ill our planes, the accelerator doesn't work under the Yuping The translators are not Martin Mc question, as superior as hero as they were out in destroy, The first two but heart of the intellectual effort long will gegenreib양 Semi-skilled factory work and the service industries, laundries, restaurants, beauty parlors, are next in the number of women employed. Obviously, women are physically unfitted, save for the exceptional Amazon, for the heavy industries, except where the jobs have been broken down into small, mechanized operations. While a woman cannot swing a heavy sledgehammer, she can pull down a lever or push a button in the modern mechanized factory. The menstrual cycle and the months of pregnancy still complicate the regularity of female labor, but are not regarded as such serious obstacles to women in industry as formerly. According to David Cohn's The Good Old Days, based upon the Sears-Roebuck catalogs, 1905, to 1940, women in dress and household gadgets have made great strides to freedom. And I quote, We learn that the trailing skirt that once swept the streets began to be shortened by the habit of bicycle riding, which the Boston Women's Rescue League described as immoral. Leave it to Boston. From the hesitantly launched bicycle to the brazenly advertised ski of 1940 is a history of American freedom, freedom of movement. It is also a history of American marriage, from the secluded harem to the free-swinging comrade who carries a rifle and leaps down hillsides with her mate. That's the end of the quote. Going into a factory with a lunchbox under her arm or crowding the New York subways at the rush hours seems a little closer to the reality of women in industry than leaping round with a gun. But the general contention still remains true. And I quote again, The evolution of the farm from back-breaking labor to urban civilization is here breathtakingly recorded. From ice house and milk cooling in wells to the gleaming electric refrigerator bought for a few dollars a month, from the zinc wash tub and the corrugated board to the machine that washes and rings and dries, is an emancipation proclamation without civil war. An emancipation that has lengthened the lives of farm women who actually today live as long as their husbands or longer. It used to take about three farm wives for one husband's lifetime, as the country cemeteries will show. Yet the door, which was slammed in the dollhouse in the 19th century, is not fully and fairly open to women yet in the factory, in the office, in the 20th. Women are still poorly organized and receive unfair treatment. Obviously, there are important social consequences of women's change role in the community and her increasing entrance into industry. When a woman has more than sex to sell, her status is bound to be improved. But as we shall see, it is not a case of the much-publicized professional woman deciding whether she can have a professional career and a family. Most women go into industry because they must, to provide for themselves and their dependents. Let us glance briefly at the status of women in the past to fully appreciate current changes. I'm going to skip three or four pages here, which picks out the work which women did in the days of feudalism. And suffice it to say that although men wrote the history books and very rarely gave to women justice in their records, women did play an important part. They owned property. They undertook representative jobs even in feudalism. When one comes down to the Middle Ages and the guilds and the cities, you'll find that women are in the guilds. Babel talks about the guilds which even the prostitutes formed in the cities of the Middle Ages. In other words, the organization of the guilds included women. Women were furriers and gold spinners and beaters and cloth makers and so forth in the Middle Ages. If we jump forward from feudalism to the Industrial Revolution, we find that in the latter half of the 18th century, a tremendous change in the number of women in industry in the relation of industry to the family. In the newly mechanized textile industries in Britain, the whole family was taken into the mill. And sometimes the skilled handloom spinner and weaver found himself displaced by his wife and children. There is abundant evidence that this also happened in these United States. The women and children began to enter industry. And when they entered, it became common to engage the labor supply of the entire family instead of a few members of the family. The gauge for the amount of wages was the amount necessary to keep the family alive. The following ad, for instance, appeared in the Manufacturer's and Farmer's Journal of Providence, Rhode Island on January 14, 1828. I quote, Families wanted. Ten or twelve good, respectable families consisting of four or five children each from nine to 16 years of age are wanted to work in a cotton mill in the vicinity of Providence. I have other illustrations here, but there is one contract made 1815, a little earlier, January 27, in which it is announced that Dennis Rear of Newburyport has this day engaged to come with his family to work in our factory on the following conditions. He is to be here about the 20th of next month, and he has to have the following wages for work. Himself, five dollars. His son, Robert, ten years, 83 cents. Daughter, Nancy, twelve years, a dollar twenty-five. And the contract listed other members of the family, including his sisters, his cousins, and his aunts. However, it should be stressed that what happened in textile and garments did not happen in all the other industries. There was no sudden industrial revolution, let us say, in building and in printing. Mechanization came slowly elsewhere and mostly in the newer industries. Unions resisted the introduction of cheap female labor and joined with other groups to prevent its unrestricted exploitation. This took the form, of course, the prohibition of night work for women and children, the compulsory school attendance for minors and other restrictions as they were adopted bit by bit by state and federal governments. But the family was never again in the urban centers, the self-sufficing economic unit of the community. Robert A. Harper, writing in The Humanist, sums up the process thus, and I quote, The European family, which was brought to pre-urban America, was adapted to and held together by strong patriarchal authority. Isolated rural living, large numbers of members, economic dependence of women and other families on home production, religious traditions, and so forth. As these bonds have disintegrated, no effective replacements have emerged. The most notable fact about the contemporary American family, then, is that it is drifting blindly towards increased disintegration. Mr. Harper notes, the opposition to this trend, but is not very satisfied about its quality. As the nature of the blind, divisive drift has become more obvious, forces of reaction have become increasingly clamorous in their demands for a return to the earlier family values. These pressure groups have seized upon certain aspects of social change as the causes of family disunity and have agitated for their drastic removal. Some of the planks in the platform of reaction follow. One, force women out of business, industry, and the professions back into the home. Two, outlaw contraceptive devices and birth control information to force women to have large families. Three, make divorce increasingly more difficult to obtain to the point of its abolishment. Four, stiffen discipline in the school and encourage it in the home to curtail the development of critical thinking in children and to reestablish traditional respect for authority. Five, remove women from most of the higher branches of education and retrain them to be subservient to male authority. These are typical of the ideas which are either stated or implied in the movements to return to the old family values. No matter how nostalgically delightful these values may appear, especially to some of our males, their reestablishment could take place only by dictatorial force. Nazi Germany and fascist Italy had programs for family life not too different from these. And recent reports from the Soviet Union suggest that the Stalinists are increasingly reactionary in their attitudes and official policies toward the family. I'm skipping another page for reasons of time, which quotes what the Nazis and the fascists did to the family, what they tried to do to women. Margaret Mead, in her book, Male and Female, describes how marriage brings disillusionment and resentment when a woman finds that niggling chores and restricted freedom are her lot and a job is one big escape. Because of man's superior physical strength, he is led in production and action. But physical strength becomes less important with the modern techniques of industry. You do not need brawn to push buttons. Strength is not the primary qualification in teaching and in the social services in which women predominate. When women enter industry, they break their dependence upon men. When parentage becomes, by the advance of science, a matter of choice instead of chance, then it further creates independence. But getting a job and sustaining it have their own difficulties for women. Of course, our present society has other uses of women outside of the workshop and office. What would... I'm very glad this is being broadcast. I only wish that it were broadcast over a network, because I think the hucksters need telling where to get off with the things that they're doing to pervert the great mass media of communication, the radio and television. What would the hucksters do without women in their ads? The busty beauties who help to sell laxatives and mouthwash. Our magazines could not exclude women with the curves and the bulges in the currently fashionable places, as they sell space to help us eat to get fat on one page, and then get rid of the fat on the next page. Those who spend $48 million a year to pressure us into smoking more cigarettes or their particular brand of cigarettes, and incidentally getting lung cancer, use regularly the face and forms of the female sex to push their wares. Very soon, television will bring, in color, to the privacy of our parlors, their exaggerated and monotonous demonstration that the female is really equipped with a greater development of the mammary glands than the male of the species. May I quote you George Orwell's impression of American women derived from our hucksters' fantasies? I quote you George Orwell. Someone has just sent me a copy of an American fashion magazine, which shall be nameless. It consists of 325 large quarto pages, of which no less than 15 are given up to articles on world politics, literature, etc. The rest, 15 out of the 325, the rest consists entirely of pictures with a little letterpress creeping around their edges. Pictures of ball dresses, mink coats, step-ins, panties, brassieres, silk stockings, slippers, perfumes, lipsticks, nail polish, and, of course, of the women, unrelievably beautiful, who wear them or make use of them. One striking thing when one looks at these pictures is the overbred, exhausted, even decadent style of beauty that now seems to be striven after. Nearly all of these women are immensely elongated. A thin-boned, ancient Egyptian type of face seems to predominate. Narrow hips are general and slender. Non-prehensile hands, like those of a lizard, are quite universal. Evidently, it is a real physical type, for it occurs as much in the photographs as in the drawings. Another striking thing is the prose style of the ads, an extraordinary mixture of sheer lushness with clipped and sometimes very expensive technical jargon. A fairly diligent search through the magazine reveals two discrete, two discrete, count them, two discrete allusions to gray hair. But if there is anywhere a direct mention of fatness or middle age, I have not found it. Birth and death are not mentioned either, nor is work, except that a few recipes for breakfast dishes are given. The male sex enters directly or indirectly into perhaps one ad in 20, and photographs of dogs or kittens appear here and there. In only two pictures, out of about 300, is a child represented. But before the hucksters used feminine pulchritude, as every reader of Thorstein Veblen's theory of the leisure class will recall, the kept woman was used to display vicariously the wealth of her husband in conspicuous waste. Even in Democratic USA, the society news encroaches increasingly upon news of education. While our sympathy and interest really go to the sales clerk behind the Woolworth counter, it is the marital adventures of the much of the... I was going to... Much is the word I want to say. I could say mush as well. The marital adventures of the much-married Woolworth heiress, which receives attention. The successful gangster and the business tycoon display their wealth through their parasitic womenfolk. This, of course, has repercussions in the ownership of wealth. Women apparently outlive men now. The former situation apparently has altered. Women apparently outlive men because they are beneficiaries to 80% of the $147 billion of life insurance in force. And they own 47% of all the stock of our railroads. Women are said to own two-thirds of the wealth of the country, but man still manages to manage it and control it. Biology still further complicates economics. Labor power in modern society is, in fact, treated as a commodity, despite Mark Hanna's declaration, later adopted by the American Federation of Labor, when it was resisting the application of the Sherman Antitrust Act to the trade unions. Labor is a commodity. But women's basic function of continuing the race can never be completely subjected to the cash nexus. The mutual sex urge and the motivations of paternity and maternity can never be translated exactly into dollars and cents. Women receive usually no payment for having babies, although current traffic in babies creates that possibility. Women's biological functions, much more than in the case of man, complicate her economic status. Paradoxically, the production of life in childbirth and the defense of a nation's life in war can never be financially rewarded. Other incentives than monetary ones come into play. Neither mothers nor soldiers can receive adequate compensation. Many of the things that women do as housemakers and as nurses can never be measured or rewarded by cash payments. Housekeeping activities in the households of cities of more than 100,000 population takes 80 hours, little more than 80 hours per week, according to the most recent investigation in December 1950. If you multiply 80 by the 75 cents set down by the Fair Labor Standards Act, you can see that if we paid our women folk for the time they spent in housewifery, the wage bill would be insupportable. The absence of standards and the unpaid nature of much of women's work in the home has greatly influenced her relative underpayment in industry. The employer expects her to work for less than men, and she has no standards of payment when she first enters industry. Trade unions have had cause to fear women in industry as a menace to their hard-won conditions. Before World War I, there was a big differential in the wage received by men and women. For example, in 1914, in manufacturing, the average weekly wage for men was $13.65, and for women, only $7.25. I repeat, $13.65 against $7.25. In 1920, the respective money earnings were $31.69 for men, $17.71 for women. The gap is narrowing, but still there. In 1943, the figures were $53.36 and $29.96. This reflects the fact that the skilled jobs in wartime were still held by men. In World War II, women's wages were greatly increased, and there were 3.5 million women organized in trade unions. That, too, was a factor in decreasing the differential. According to the Women's Bureau 1950 Handbook of Facts on Women Workers, the average weekly earnings of women manufacturing workers have much more than doubled over the past 12 years. However, in 1948, man's average weekly earnings were about half a gain as high as women's averages. But that difference is not as great as it was 10 years ago. In our own state of New York in 1938, the man's average was 79% greater than the woman's. And in 1948, 10 years later, it was only 53% higher. Translated, that means that in 1938, the average weekly earnings reported were $16.37 for women and $29.71 for men. Ten years later, the figures were $42.08 and $64.45 for the men. In Illinois, hourly rates, the differential in manufacturing range from 30 to 80 cents per hour more for men. And there, in women and children's clothing, in 1949, the average weekly wage for women was $30.38 and for men, $60.30. You can see there is still a continuing differential. The reasons for the differential arise from the fact that women are new in industry and are mostly in the less skilled positions. It is also alleged that she's just a temporary worker and that the man always has dependents to keep. No one has ever suggested there is a differential in the cost of pork chops for men and women when they go into the butcher's store. Although more women are supposed to live at home and thus live more cheaply. The Women's Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, has in preparation for publication, and I hope the women who are interested here will make a note of this, because for the first time, there is a close-up on the working woman with the intent to show the number of her dependents and to show her age, to show her education, and things of that sort. I'm just going to skip and pull out one or two things, but I hope I'll just whet your appetite to go back and take the cognizance of the full document. The Women's Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, has in preparation a study of women in unions with a specific reference to their stay in industry. How long do they stop in industry? Are they temporary workers? And also relative to their dependents, the people whom they must support. Seven unions cooperated, and a sampling of over 9,500 questionnaires was received. I quote from the sampling based on the replies of members of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union. The reports give abundant evidence that women are not in the labor force merely for temporary periods. Of the women who reported how long they had been workers, well over a tenth had worked 20 years or longer, and more than a third had worked at least 10 years or longer. On the other hand, many were newer workers, well over a third had worked less than five years, and more than a half of these had worked less than three years. Many did not report on whether or not they liked their jobs, but of the women who answered this question, nine-tenths liked their work. I don't know whether that would apply to other industries outside of the garment industry. How old are the women in the shops in this particular sampling? The age distribution of these women was somewhat similar to that of all women workers, although a much larger proportion than among all women workers were 20 to 34, and a smaller proportion among all women workers were 55 or older. Looking at the age groupings in another way, a relatively small proportion of these women were under 20. Two-thirds of them were 20 to 45, with distribution fairly equal in five-year groups. Nearly a fourth were 45 or older, but few were as old as 60. Again, I'm going to skip for reasons of time, because I'm hoping that I'm saying something about which you will want to question me. I pick out some of the individual workers, because it's much easier to think of an individual woman worker than it is to try to understand statistical averages, which nobody but a student of statistics understands, and there I think only partially. I'm picking out one or two instances out of this questionnaire. A 50-year-old, married 50-year-old, married woman, ILG member in a West Coast city, supports her husband, and she says, she's quoting from her letter, who has been without a job for a full year. Dependent, you see. The woman becoming the head of the household. An Eastern ILG member, 35 years old, is single and lives at home with her parents. She reports that she must support her mother as, quote, as my father is on pension and don't get enough to make ends meet, so I have to support her. Coming over to people who have children, as well as adults, dependent on them, I'm quoting other instances. An ILG member over 40 working in a small city in the East is, quote, a deserted wife with two minor children to support without any outside help of any sort. She's not going into industry for pin money or for beauty parlor money or for a mink coat. She's going there for a more obvious and difficult reason. A 30-year-old ILG member from a town in the East has been working for 10 years to support herself and her two sons because, and I quote, she is separated from my husband and he does not support the children as it all depends on me. In other words, the broken home leads to the necessity for a woman to get a wage and to go into the factory. Sometimes the husband's sick. Here are instances of that sort. One Eastern clothing worker under 30 years of age says she must support her husband and brother partially as well as herself because her husband works irregularly and her brother gets epileptic attacks. A 39-year-old married woman living in Pennsylvania reports that she went to work in a clothing factory three years ago in order to partially support herself, husband and daughter, and then I quote her letter, for helping meet our ends. My husband is a cripple. She went to work for helping meet our ends because her husband was a cripple and does not earn what an average man earns and we have to eat every day. Those sound authentic. I think you will agree and I'm just skipping through them because time does not permit quoting them in full. But they are case material, what the highbrows would call case material, bringing down those statistics down to individuals. The older woman predominating in industry, the married woman predominating in industry and working because she has dependents, not because she wants to earn extra money, but because in the majority of cases she must work out of economic necessity. I think that these are the details that I hope are building up the picture in your own mind. One other quote here, in one eastern city, a married woman over 35 reported that her work in a clothing factory partially supports her husband and son because, quote, husband doesn't make enough for upkeep of the house since he only works four months out of the year when my son is going to school. A woman over 45 employed in a West Coast sportswear factory went to work to partially support herself, daughter, and grandson, for which she uses all her pay. She says, my daughter is in my care since she has no husband and no means for support but myself. She can't work. Her baby is only six months old. So this working woman is carrying two dependents. And so the story goes. There is a great deal in this study which will show that your Mexican woman and your Puerto Rican woman, who are now certainly infiltrating into the lower paid industries of this city, are sending some of their pay home because they are supporting the people back home. Daughters send money to their parents. Those are interesting instances of that sort, the woman contributing to the upkeep, not only of herself, but shouldering the load of maintaining other people. A woman under 40, working in a West Coast sportswear factory, is the sole support of herself and her two children, and also says, I helped to support my sister and nieces and nephews in another state. She lost her husband and was left with 10 kids. A worker in a West Coast cotton garment factory, is the sole support of a family of four, a daughter and two grandchildren beside herself. She's under 50 years of age and has worked 20 or more years. A worker under 35, who is employed in a Western cotton dress factory, is the sole support of her household of three, consisting of herself and two children. She also helps to support nieces in another state. And so the story goes. If you are interested, I shall be glad to come back and deal with this in greater detail. But I hope, as I say, I have whetted your appetite with these instances of why women work, where they work, how old they are, and some of the load they are carrying in their present role in modern industry. The reports received from other union groups showed women in industry to stay for a reason of support for themselves and their dependents. In the closing passages, what I have to say, I want to refer very briefly to the attempt of the women themselves to answer back, the way in which they themselves have tried to organize. For example, in Pawtucket in Rhode Island, as early as 1824, female weavers strike with men to resist a decrease in wages and an increase in working hours. This is way back 1824. In 1825, that's sort of an historic milestone, the first strike of women only, Tayloresses of New York City, strike for a higher wage. I suppose Cooper Union wasn't there for them to come to as they did in some of their later meetings, but at any rate, 1825 was the first female strike in this city, Tayloresses. Coming down to 1833, the Female Society of Lynn and Vicinity for the Protection and Promotion of Female Industry. Don't you like that beautiful title? The Female Society of Lynn and Vicinity for the Protection and Promotion of Female Industry. They were composed largely of shoemakers, and it was in 1833 that they set up their organization. Many more interesting things that I'm tempted to quote, but I won't. But I think I ought to call to your attention the fact that women, in their organizing efforts, actually set up a nationwide organization. 1869, the first women's national labor organization, the Daughters of St. Crispin, a union of shoemakers. And in 1878, the Knights of Labor, which preceded the American Federation of Labor, as you know, as the first big general federation of unions in this country, the Knights of Labor resolves to secure for both sexes equal pay for equal work. And then, when the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions got around to it a little later, they too extended an invitation to women to affiliate. At the present time, while women in the labor movement do not have the recognition or the share in administration which they deserve, I would say the situation is improving. There are some 3 million women organized in the United States. But so far, there is no one, no female, on the national executive bodies of either CIO or FVA. My own fear would be that it would be a tremendous step forward in public relations and in public opinion if a vice president, a woman vice president at large, was appointed. in order to show that both federations really recognize the seriousness of organizing women because of the facts that I have stated. I can give names of people who have distinguished themselves later, but probably that is not apropos just at the present moment. Women in politics are backward. Women in unions are backward. I think that the historian of the future will note that in such unions as the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, where you have three out of every four members, women, so far, no woman has yet been voted by her colleagues into the general executive board. but there is an increasing number of people who are shop stewards or chairladies as they call them, business agents and managers of locals. In other words, the women are entering into the lower echelons of responsibility. What can we expect of the future? There are several things that we can expect. Planned Parenthood will be encouraged by the entrance of women into industry. They will need to plan their families if they are going to undertake industrial responsibilities. It is probable that maternity benefits and family allowances as in Scandinavia will be increasingly supported. Daycare centers and nursery school programs for children whose parents are working will become a recognized part of our educational system. The hygiene of the factories and the workshops will be improved. Men will tell you that since women went into the factories, they're ever so much cleaner. The washrooms are, well, less smelly and dirty than they were before, although I wouldn't say that improvement has reached its final point in that respect. But thanks to the women, many of the modern factories are much cleaner, kept much better hygienically than otherwise would be the case. In our mobilization economy, it will be necessary to tap the reservoir of labor among the older women among the older women, with emphasis upon the women above 50. Trade unions, in my opinion, should make greater attempts to organize the clerical and the distributive occupations as well as the service industries where organization is poor and weak and be at pains to develop women organizers and officers. At present, there are few women in top-level union posts. again, if I may be parochial, in the training institute set up by the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union, a great endeavor was made to get a good section of women in training because that would be one important way, you see, of giving, overcoming the backwardness and the shyness and the reserve from which women suffer. Women have not faith in their own fellow women in many instances when it comes to voting them into responsible office. They'll do the work. They'll wash up the dishes. They'll make the church suppers, but very rarely do they preach the sermons. They've been content to sort of be there. But in this institute that I refer to, women are specifically and definitely being encouraged, and if they complete that work successfully, they're guaranteed a job by the union in an administrative post, and they're also eligible for elective office. That may be the beginning of things, helping women to overcome the handicaps which arise out of the past. Greater stress of equal pay for equal work will prevent female labor from being a threat to the wages and the hours and the other standards that have been won by trade union effort. And female labor is still a threat. And while the present insecurity persists, some male opposition is going to continue. Incidentally, there should be some amendment of the income tax so that a working mother or a working father, the head of a family, can deduct from income tax what she or he has to pay for nursemaid and housework assistance. A businessman can deduct from his income tax under the item entertainment of customers, about which the less said the better in some instances. Obviously, if a woman makes $60 a week and pays a maid $25, surely she should be taxed upon the $35 and not upon the $60. Bill H.R. 7668 would remedy this. There, of course, should be a removal of barriers to professional careers by women, and these continue to exist in many professions. I have on the board, I'm quite sure you can't read them, even if you could read Japanese, posters which are being used in the factories of Japan at the present time. I'll translate them to you later if you're interested, but the specific reforms there constitute, to me, one of the great hopeful signs of the new Japan, the five to six million trade unionists that are there, the new education that is being introduced, and last but not least, the changed status of woman and her participation in trade union and political life. There are more women in the Japanese diet than there are in the United States Congress, but yet, General MacArthur and Scap, Supreme Command of the Allied Powers, if you spell it out, is out there, and I was out there too, incidentally, trying to teach the Japanese how to be more democratic in their way of life. But at any rate, these instructions will give you a pretty good insight into the reforms that are necessary, not only in the factories of Japan, but in the factories elsewhere if women is going to have a decent break in industry. Nancy Wilson Ross in her Westward the Woman rescues from oblivion the great woman pioneers of the United States. She quotes their diaries to reveal the unbelievable hardships they faced beside their menfolk. She shows, for example, that Lewis and Clark would have failed in their historic expedition, but for the versatile red woman, the Indian squall, Sakajawa, who guided them and saved their lives on several occasions. her pioneers include those women who performed the first autopsy on a male and the first suffragette who established a newspaper and rode the plushy riverboats and dusty roads to preach equal rights for women. Her final comment may well close this survey of women in industry. America, under the stress of war, urged women to enter factories and lend a hand in vital production. Women, on the whole, responded with an alacrity that showed as much as any single thing their wish to escape from the isolated monotony of housework. To be sure, they knew they would work just as hard in a factory as they had at home, but they would get a definite wage for their labor, and they would not be cut off from their fellows, not to be cut off. That was perhaps the most important point. For the first time, married women in large numbers were forced to think on their own about wages, hours, union, working conditions. All the problems of the modern industrial world which up to them they had known only indirectly and hazily through their men. At the same time, a certain percentage of men who took over from necessity some household tasks of their absent wives got a glimpse into the inner workings of this alien sphere. In other words, men acquired skills as dishwashers, as cooks, as house cleaners, as wielders, mops, and so forth, which, other of which, previously, had been just unknown territory to them. When women, fresh from years of housework, got a first-hand view of industry's efficiency and standardization, they could not but realize that the central unit of national life, the American home, was still geared to an old way of life, to a past tempo. How stupid, for instance, for 20 tired women to go home from their jobs to struggle with 20 separate meals instead of turning for food to a community kitchen. How inconsistent the demand made by a country for more women in factories and offices when no attempt was made on a large scale to solve the problem of what to do with the children of these women. And she continues, answers to problems as great as the relationship between men and women and their joint endeavors to establish a truly democratic way of life are not easily come by nor easily followed when found. Life is not a riddle to be solved in abstract terms but an experience known only in the day-by-day living of it. This much is certain. Woman must now, as Abigail Dunaway reminded them, pay to the future the debt they owe the past. They must join together to make possible the next step in their emergence as whole creatures. They must put their mind to the solving of the release of women's energies from a stale round of 19th century chores so that she may function more intelligently as a wife and mother or as a worker in the world if that is her choice. There should be, as a matter of fact, no need for any choice. There should no longer be the necessity of having one experience only at the expense of another. Mary Walker, alone in a primitive environment, had to accept her household drudgery and fit in her mental activities as best she could around this drudgery. This was so inescapably true that she never questioned it. The 20th century Mary Walker knows, however, that society could organize the home very differently if it wished to, could take a lesson from industry and large-scale handling of the ever-recurrent, boring, mind-dulling round of solitary household tasks, which accounts in large measure for the American woman's addiction to the dope of radio soap opera. It is up to the woman to take hold of her own problem and solve it. No one is going to do it for her. The unfortunate emigrants who took the Natchez Trail in 1853 found it nearly impassable with bluffs so precipitous that they had to kill their cattle, dry the hides, and let the wagons down over the steep cliffs while men, women, and children scrambled to safety as best they could. The story is told of how Mrs. Longmire of the same party, walking ahead in the midst of the untouched coastal forest, carrying a babe and leading a three-year-old child, came suddenly upon a grizzled woodsman who blanched to the beard at sight of her and cried, Good God, almighty woman, where did you come from? Is there any more of you? You can't get through this way. You'll have to turn back. There ain't a blade of grass for 50 miles. But Mrs. Longmire simply walked past him with her face set to the west, and as she passed said only, We can't go back. We've got to go forward. Thank you very much, Mr. Starr, for a most stimulating and interesting address. It's always nice to have you back on the Cooper Union platform. We now will proceed very shortly to our regular question period, and questions can be addressed to Mr. Starr either in written or oral form. If you wish to question Mr. Starr orally, please come up to the microphone to my left. I will place on both sides of the platform sheets of paper and pencils for use for written questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Starr, please come up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to start the traditional question and answer period. The first question which I'd like to pose to Mr. Starr, written by one of you in the audience, is this. Mr. Mark Starr, please tell us, are you an American citizen? Thank you. Yes, I'm glad to answer that question in the affirmative. I became, you see, I have a certificate to prove that I am an American. I'm like the guy they let out of a lunatic asylum who said, I've got a paper to prove that I'm free from insanity. Where's your paper? But please, being a citizen, and I am a citizen by choice, not by the accident of birth, because I wanted to, because I felt that I should be most happily engaged here compared to other places, the fact that I'm a citizen should not be taken into account as to whether what I've said tonight is right or wrong. If I, if I were a hot and tot or I'd come from Japan or India, I would want you to think what I've said on its merits. But not think that because I didn't choose my birthplace, presumably with the skill and foresight of the person who wrote the question, that my knowledge would in any way be inferior or suspect. Thank you very much, Mr. Starr. I'm sorry that it was an oversight on my part, I guess, to not to introduce you as having been a naturalized citizen. However, there were many other things which I think I left out. You ought to hear what they say about my American brogue when I go back to England or travel in Europe. Sure. Well, may we get ahead. There is a lady in the audience who would like to herself pose a question to you, Mr. Starr. Mr. Starr, would you be good enough and let go a little bit on the intellectual integrity? There isn't a woman in a higher office in the union and you know why because the union leaders get so much out of it they wouldn't dare to let a woman in for fear that they were let go and what's doing. Freedom and responsibility can never be given as gifts. When the women have guts enough in the ILG or anywhere else, they can go in and elect whom they want and if their choice falls upon fellow members of their sex, there is no obstacle other than their own feeling of lack of confidence among themselves and their own inability as yet to stick together and insist that their point of view will be made known. The next question posed to Mr. Starr by a member of the audience. Mr. Starr, are you against and would you say it is wrong for a woman to work for luxuries only? Well, of course, I think that should be answered properly and fairly in another lecture even longer than the one I inflicted on you tonight because I don't know what a luxury is if you press me very, very precisely. Pants are a luxury in some countries. Fur coats are a luxury in the country where I grew up and so are cigars. But here, a woman who has to go to work through the cold morning needs a fur coat. She needs an automobile almost as much as she needs a pair of shoes. If it's a case of a woman obviously spending on an obvious luxury, then I think that's a matter for society to decide. What does she do to earn that? If she's doing some valuable work which nobody else can do, if she in a time of war is going in to make the necessary increase in the productivity forces of a country, who am I to say, please, we won't use your skills because we don't like the way in which you're spending your money. Of course, I would like to catch that lady at three years or below an educator in such a way that the money she spent would not come under the moral aspersions, presumably, which the questioner had in mind, but it's probably too late. That's the wisdom of hindsight which is not very helpful. The next question, Mr. Starr, will be posed to you directly by a gentleman in the audience. Why do some men belittle women? You spoke about Pandora fail to close the box. All the trouble, sickness, misery, came from Pandora's box. Then you spoke of Eve. Adam blamed Eve for that trouble. Isn't that one of the factors in hindering unionization of women? Even automobile drivers, you hear a man say, ah, there must be a woman driving in front there. We can never write history on a clean slate. We always suffer very badly from hangovers. and I'm quite sure that the mystery of fertility, both in the soil and in women, was something foreign in the primitive days which primitive man could not easily understand. And so, what you do not understand, you sort of organize and keep under suppression and under control. You get a guy like Pythagoras saying that man stands for order, woman for disorder, woman as the forces of evil and disruption, and man is trying to plan. Well, those were men. Let the women teach them better. And then, when you write the fables of the future, maybe it will be a man that will open Pandora's box. Maybe Adam will take his share of the blame. But don't forget, the guys that wrote the myths were men. You can't blame them for not sticking up for themselves. The women can redress the balance, it seems, with their growing power and intelligence. The next question, Mr. Starr. How much importance have women had as a source of cheap labor in changing certain occupations from predominantly masculine ones to predominantly feminine ones? Take secretaries, for example, as a case in point. Sure. Well, take teachers as much easier example to understand. Why are women teaching? Of course, you may say it's an extension of their motherly maternal instincts outside the home, although a mother must have a lot of maternal instinct to want to live with 50 or 60 kids all through a school day. But let that pass. I should say that there are some women who feel that way and who probably denied the direct expression of their maternal impulses to elevate it vicariously to looking after the race and other people's families when they haven't had one of their own. That, again, is present. But in the main, women have gone out of teaching because the wages weren't high enough. And I think any woman teacher would agree that in a school there ought to be men teachers as well as women. I mean, after all, you're getting the kids ready to go out into life. And if you're bringing them up in a strictly or a largely female atmosphere, that isn't the proper atmosphere and set up. And you ought to have men teachers as well as women in any decent school. But because they don't pay teachers properly, men have gone out and got better jobs. And so that has definitely created the preponderance of women teachers. I should say the same thing went for your stenographic staff, your secretaries and things of that sort. It's a question of wages, of being low wages, which the men can't live under or refuse to live under, and the women being able to do so that has led to preponderance of female workers in given sections of industry. There may be exceptions to that. I'd be interested to hear about them. But I'd say in the main, women predominate in those industries or those services because of the low wages that they offered, and men refused to take them and went elsewhere. Women did not have alternatives and so got stuck. One of the women in the audience, Mr. Starr, says that you give these statistics as if they had just been discovered. Is it possible that anyone in today's world, unless he or she has been living in a cloistered monastery, is unaware that few men support women today, that women have to work? Half is underlined. Well, you would be surprised how many people do not share in the intellectual information of the person who asked that question. You'd be surprised to find out how those old cliches keep on going and going round, although they've got whiskers down to their knees. And it's still necessary to emphasize that because the employer will use it as a gag and say, well, that woman lives at home. Her pop will look after her so she can work for less and so rationalize his payment of less than the wage that he'd have to pay a man. And so I wish our questioner were right. I'm afraid she isn't. And I'm afraid there's a great deal of educational work has got to be done in order to inform the general public about the real nature of the why and the wherefore and for what women work. Here's a question, Mr. Starr, which would undoubtedly take you a long time to answer, but if you could just hit one or two fundamental points. How to manage to get equal pay for equal work in industries where skilled women are very few? Well, I think the answer is very simple. That is to see that there are training opportunities so that women can be given facilities for acquiring skill. And then if she does the same skilled job as the man, she'll get the same skilled rate pay. You see that in some industries. Oddly enough, you take in New York City where you have facilities for training your creative artists, your dress designers, and so forth. I'm told, somewhat authoritatively, that women get paid higher than men in the creative sections of the dress industry. Please don't ask me to give you a statistic on that, but I'm told. I am informed that at the present time. There may be somebody here in this audience who can verify or contradict that assertion. We now have two questions which you probably could answer as one. Mr. Starr, what is the general attitude of a man employer toward a woman in comparison to a man at work and vice versa? Two, what is the general attitude of a woman employer toward a man employee in comparison to a woman employee? Well, of course, that's a complicated thing. I think it takes a big, decent man to work under a woman. And because, please, the hangover. And because the woman who is newly elevated to an administrative post is nervous. She hasn't got all the cocksureness and the prestige that have come out of doing that job. But more and more you see in politics and indeed in industry women who are capable executives who have swept on one side any feeling of hesitation or inferiority and can give men and women their orders and see that they're carried out when the need arises. Now, I'm not quite sure of the subtlety of the first question. I used to talk to an old carpenter and he used to say, gosh, women in industry, the women would never think about their work. They'd be looking at the women's legs all the time. And so the women have conveniently put them in overalls and presumably it's safe for them to enter industry without distracting the energy and the attention of menfolk by the attractiveness of their gams or something of that. Sorry. Yeah. We'll have time for just one more question and one short announcement. Am I going to translate my Japanese posters? Yes. Okay. Would you please make a comparison between the women in England and the women in this country? And the question is directed specifically toward the cement industry. Cement. Please, I know nothing at all about cement and so it would be impertinence on my part to tackle such a question. Indeed, it would be impertinence to try to compare American women and American women together. I can get away with this and say that there are good women and dumb women in both countries and may the number of the good and competent women increase as the days pass by. Thank you, Mr. Starr. We'll have time for just one additional question from a lady in the audience. Can I speak now? What can we do to cut down the discrimination against older women, say over 40, and also against minority groups, Negroes, Italians, Jews, and so on? You know that I said in my speech that I thought it was a pretty grim sort of business that the Negro and the woman get their opportunity in industry when we have a mobilization economy. And of course the trouble is that if they come in under such emergency situation, just as soon as the emergency is over, the danger is they may be pushed out again. They never are 100%. the wave never recedes completely, but there's always a setback after. I see. All right. The questioner in front is raising the point of which she has individual personal knowledge in which the white woman is pushed out by the Negro or the Puerto Rican women. That of course is a matter which you should... ... Well, please, I don't think it's a matter of reasoning it. I'm sorry, we won't have time for this discussion and most of the audience probably can't hear it. Anyhow. The woman is raising a good and legitimate point. My answer to the question generally is that education, a sense of decency and fair play, preached, acted on, applied, pushed all the time, is the only answer to wiping out minorities whether it's a discrimination, whether it's against women or Negroes or Puerto Ricans or the other 57 varieties of the human race. Mr. Starr has agreed if those of you who are interested would move forward in just a few minutes to explain to you the charts which are on the board. I'd like to make one announcement. This Friday, March 9th, Gene Ritchie will present the singing Ritchies of Kentucky in the Koopa Union Forum Series. At this point, I'd like to thank you all and thank Mr. Starr for coming down here tonight.