Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses the common cold. Taking part in today's program are Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., Chairman of the Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan, Dr. Thomas Ward, Bacteriologist, Johns Hopkins University, and Dr. Clayton Lusley of the University of Chicago. And now by transcription, Dr. Lusley. Today we are going to talk about the common cold. Before this year is over, most listeners of this program will have suffered from at least two colds, and many will have had influenza. These and other infections of our respiratory systems are without doubt the greatest cause of illness today. And of these infections, the common cold ranks first in prevalence. Perhaps in this country alone there are as many as 300 million colds per year involving some one billion and a half odd days of actual illness. It has been estimated that from forty to fifty percent of all days lost by children in our schools is due to colds and their complications. It has also been estimated that the annual bill to the American people for the common cold is as much as three billion dollars annually. In work time lost, drugs, and for medical bills. Obviously then, the common cold is a major medical problem. Certainly I would agree, Dr. Lusley, that it is a major medical problem. I would like to point out that the medical scientists working on this problem in America today only constitute a handful of people. This is not too discouraging, but is rather hopeful in some ways. However, we do need more people working on it with better facilities. Dr. Ward, I would like to point out that there is another factor that enters into this question of the common cold and it is important. It is not only the mild illness with which we are concerned, but the fact that the common cold is such a frequent forerunner of more severe illnesses, such as pneumonia, ear disease, or sinusitis, so that there the severity of those illnesses add to the problem of the common cold. Certainly seems so, and the common cold, with its complications, is a research problem that's a real challenge in the field of medical investigation today. Well, one of the deterrents to the study of the common cold has been the fact that there's been such a sense of fatalism about it. The common group accepted as something that you have to put up with and expect to live through, and just as the more severe diseases such as scarlet fever were considered long ago before they came under better control. Furthermore, the earlier studies have indicated that it's a difficult problem. Well, you're certainly right, Dr. Francis. Colds are hard to study. We have to use human volunteers as our indicator system, or we have to use them to test our material to see if it's infectious. For instance, one of the things we don't have quite enough facilities that we need at the moment. We've had to bring into the sciences of the common cold, or in an attempt to study the common cold, such things as statistics and radioactive chemicals. And I think it's perfectly true that one of the discouraging features has been the fact that people have not been willing to work on the common cold, because it has been very difficult to study. Well, you've mentioned some of the difficulties, and I think we could enlarge on why are coals so difficult to study. What makes it hard? What are some of the basic problems? And what do we mean by a common cold? Dr. Ward? Well, of course, the difficulty with trying to define the common cold evolves around the fact that everyone has a definition. Doctors individually have their own definitions. Each person who has a cold says that he can define one better than anybody else for his own personal condition. And it does, because of the vast number of respiratory diseases that we are dealing with, we actually have a great complexity and variability involved. Well, then one of the difficulties is defining what disease we're talking about. And because of this great complexity and variability of the whole field of a respiratory infection, we may be considering a great number of items under the same general category. Well, that's certainly true. Anyone who has the problem of practicing medicine in the field of infectious disease certainly becomes impressed with the wide variety of illnesses that manifest itself in the respiratory tract, from the simple nasal sniffle to the severe pneumonia. In the eyes of the patients, most of these illnesses at least begin with symptoms which they call the common cold. Well, then isn't one of our problems that of defining what it is we are talking about? Well, yes, I would agree that possibly we should define exactly what we mean by common cold for purposes of this particular broadcast. And I would be willing to attempt such a definition. I would say that a common cold is defined as a mild, usually non-febrile, that is no fever, upper respiratory infection, which is caused in some instances by filterable agents that we call viruses, and is characterized by a runny nose, red eyes, with sneezing, and with coughing. And some of our studies in Baltimore, we have defined our experimental colds, which we produce in the human volunteers, as a disease in which the patient complains of a nasal discharge for at least two days, and in whom, by examination of the nose, we find at least a reddened lining on the eyes of course, that this is a simple definition, but we must keep our definition simple for scientific tabulating purposes. We keep this definition in mind from the standpoint of the cold without complications, let us say. One of the common infections that's often confused with the common cold is influenza. Dr. Francis, can you contrast the symptoms of these two illnesses? Yes, the case of the influenza is in sharp contrast to that ordinarily seen with the common cold, at least as we define the ordinary clinical picture. First of all, the onset of influenza is associated with chills or chilliness, rather general aches and pains and headaches, prostration, and the features which Dr. Ward mentioned concerning the common cold, the runny nose and so on, are usually absent. So one gets the picture of a constitutional type of infection rather than one which is so sharply limited as the respiratory tract. Yeah, I would agree with that, certainly. However, whenever we get a complication to a common cold, sometimes we can get it confused with influenza. Would you agree with that, Dr. Francis? Oh yes, I would. Another problem that, now that we have our definition settled here, and you've already mentioned this problem, is in the study of the common cold, is the fact that we do not have a laboratory animal in which to study the colds, while in contrast to influenza, we have numerous laboratory animals. You want to, I think that's an interesting con-, an interesting situation here. We have two infections of the respiratory tract, both probably due to the virus, and yet we know a great deal more about one than the other, simply because we, one of these agents can be studied in animals. Which brings up the question of definition of viruses. And I'm going to pass that question to Dr. Ward. Well, again, a virus, of course, can be defined in many ways. It's not too difficult to define what we mean when we talk about a virus. We mean a small agent, different from ordinary bacteria, or germs, as we call them, in that a virus must be grown in the presence of a living cell, and in general, it is usually much smaller than the ordinary bacteria that we deal with. I'd like for Dr. Francis to say just a word about some of the animals we can use with influenza, and in studying influenza, as you've mentioned, Dr. Russel, and then I'd like to say just a word about some of the difficulties with human volunteers. Well, the, with influenza, of course, we've had the ferret since the early days of the studies, and the mouse. More frequently, more frequently, the ready use of eggs for the study, and the fact that man is readily susceptible to experimental infection. In addition to that, there are other types of tests that can be made, such as those with the blood. And they add to the ease with which one can work with influenza, and they've aided a great deal in our understanding of the distribution and the agents that are involved. Dr. Francis, you were one of the, the first in this country to isolate the influenza virus. Can you tell us a little more about the influenza virus as a particle, from the standpoint of acquainting our listeners with a virus? We can't see it, with an ordinary microscope, but it might be interesting to elaborate on that. Well, the influenza virus as a particle can be defined in a number of ways, apart from the visual characteristics. It can be observed in preparations under an electron microscope, and here it appears to be a small rounded body, which has a definite shape, definite size, and where it can be shown that these particles are related to the infectious capacity. In addition to that, it produces lesions, damage to the respiratory tissues, it may produce pneumonia in the animals, it will cause clumping of certain types of red cells, and this offers other ways of characterizing it. Well, certainly you can get along with laboratory animal infection and influenza and define it very nicely. However, in our studies in the common cold, we have considerable difficulty because in dealing with human volunteers, one, of course, is dealing with a human being. And this simply means that these people want to have a cold. Well, of course, these problems and difficulties are those which confront all forms of investigation. Sure. They occur in each instance. But, granting that there are difficulties in the study of the common cold, such as the lack of personnel and facilities, and the limited amount of research which is going on, let's move on to talking about what we do know and what studies are being made and what information is being gained at the present time. Now, easily believe it is. I think it's very contagious. It's worldwide in prevalence, and we have a cold season in most countries. In this country, it's in fall and winter months. It spreads through families. It may involve all of the individuals. On the other hand, that colds may make their appearance in a scattered manner. Just how one catches a cold, however, is a more difficult problem to answer. That the secretions from the nose and throats of individuals with cold contains the infectious agent, and they're dispersed in the environment during talking and sneezing and blowing our nose, so that the whole environment about an individual with a cold may become highly contaminated with the infectious agent, providing many opportunities for spread. There's the other evidence, too, that the tendency of children to have many more colds than adults. For example, that a child may have one cold or something that appears to be a cold at least once a month, whereas as they get older and go into adult life, the frequency is more as you stated it. Furthermore, we have the information which has been repeatedly observed, that people living in isolated communities on islands where they are divorced from visitors and others may be free from colds until in the spring perhaps the visitors or ships enter the community. Well, gentlemen, I would agree with what you say, but I'd like to point out a couple of the difficulties. Dr. Francis, you've been interested as a virologist not only in the cause of influenza, but you've been interested in its spread. Dr. Lusley, you've certainly been interested in certain of our airborne infections, but as a laboratory man, I'd like to point out that we haven't been able to demonstrate that colds are actually contagious as such, under experimental conditions. In other words, if we take a group of human beings and put them in a room and isolate them, and then a week later, and they've had no colds in the interim, grant me that, we introduce a person with a fresh cold. This is a fresh cold of natural origin? Dr. Francis, a fresh cold of natural origin, yeah. For instance, however, an experiment off the North Shore of Scotland this summer, by the English group of investigators, would indicate that probably a cold can be caught by droplet infection. Certainly in the family, as the child appears to bring it home frequently from nursery school or school, the frequency with which that is followed by a number of colds in the family or actually will occur in a serial fashion. I think are all indications that in the natural condition, however, the cold is transmissible and contagious. Dr. Francis, what about experimental studies on human beings employing the influenza virus? Can, can one, uh, uh, get evidence of, uh, spread of cold, or spread of influenza, uh, by introducing a person with a fresh influenza infection into a group that are presumably susceptible to disease? Have you, uh, has that been done? I don't think there's any good evidence on that. As far as I know, that type of study has not been done, Dr. Lucic. Certainly you can do it in an experimental animal. Dr. Francis, and, and produce the disease in, in the, in the susceptible ones, in the susceptible animals, by introducing a mouse with flu in a cage of mice. Dr. Francis, well now, uh, as far as symptomatology is concerned, uh, many things can cause, uh, symptoms of, um, simulating a common cold, and one of these are various, uh, allergens. Uh, they, certain hay, certain types of hay fever simulate the common cold. Uh, sensitivity to dust and chemicals. And, uh, dust, uh, house dust is a common, uh, sensitizing agent, uh, of the respiratory tract. And, uh, it makes it very difficult to, uh, distinguish these, and, uh, these, uh, symptoms, uh, and, uh, as far as, uh, uh, uh, breaking down, uh, the, uh, cause, uh, uh, from the standpoint of, uh, of ideology. Dr. Francis, well, sure. Uh, in other words, the cause of the common cold is a thing that's very difficult to define, uh, uh, or to find, uh, out, uh, about, really. Uh, for instance, uh, since 1918, uh, we've had the concept, uh, that, uh, viruses, uh, at least caused a portion of the common colds, which occur year by year. And during the past 30 to 35 years, uh, several investigators, uh, have indicated, uh, that this was true. In other words, you take a nasal washing from a person with a cold and you render it bacterial free. In other words, get all the germs out of it. And, uh, and you put that material into the nose of a human volunteer and you come down with a cold. And, uh, in about half or two-thirds of the, of the people inoculated. Now, uh, recently, uh, in the past 10 or 15 years, uh, medical research has indicated that we can probably isolate virus agents. This has been done three or four times by different groups of workers. We've isolated them in chick embryos and, uh, that is, the little chick developing inside the shell. And then we get along with, uh, this material, take it out and put it into human volunteers. It has no bacteria in it, uh, that we can demonstrate by the usual methods. We have viruses as the etiologic agents of one group of respiratory diseases that we call, uh, colds. And what about bacteria themselves? Uh, what, and their role in the common cold? Well, certainly, Dr. Francis, I would agree that one should not dismiss, uh, the bacteria as etiologic agents in certain of the common colds, or in producing clinical symptoms which no one at the moment can distinguish, uh, from a common cold. There's been a great deal of work in the past 50 years on bacteria, uh, as, as cause of colds, and some of them very, very good. I think it's perfectly true that bacteria play a tremendous role in complications, so. Now, to go back to what you were talking of earlier, it seems to me that, um, you pointed out that, uh, under certain experimental conditions, you do not get transmission of the common cold, uh, in people who have been under strict observation. Doesn't this point out that, in addition to the virus, that one, uh, is concerned with the physical state of the person who is, uh, exposed? I think that, uh, that is a very important point to bring out. That some people would have us believe that there's nothing to this, uh, virus theory of the cause of the common cold, and it's all due to changes in the environment in which the person happens to find himself. Well, this is all very well, and, and I would be, uh, inclined to agree with you, except we can't do it, uh, in, in the laboratory, under the very best conditions that we can devise. I mean, uh, several investigators have taken human volunteers, have chilled them tremendously, by wet blankets and having their feet in ice water and putting a fan over them, and, and such devices as this, and they are no more susceptible, uh, apparently, than people who, uh, go on and take their 20 hours' bed rest with, uh, good food and under sheltered environment. Uh, the physiological status of the, of the individual, or the condition of the person, uh, probably plays, uh, an important role, but certainly under experimental conditions we can't define it at the moment. Well, we've, uh, we've, uh, I think we pretty well agree that, uh, common cold is caused by infectious agents, uh, primarily by a virus, uh, with bacteria entering as, uh, as complicating agents. Uh, with those, uh, uh, with that in mind, uh, what can we do about preventing the common cold? Uh, avoiding, uh, acquiring these agents, Dr. Francis? Well, the idea that one could, by, uh, sufficiently strict isolation, to prevent, uh, and have no contact with other people, one might, uh, perhaps avoid that, but, uh, certainly under our present conditions of living, that's not a very feasible, uh, outlook. And, uh, beyond that, we, uh, only know that even under these conditions, the, it's a, it's a matter of, uh, the exposure, which, uh... One of the common, uh, one of the common, uh, questions directed at a physician, uh, frequent questions, is, uh, shall I take vitamins to increase my resistance, uh, or shall I, uh, uh, do this and that with respect to my diet? Uh, what, is there anything to, uh, vitamins in the treatment of, uh, or prevention of colds? Well, certainly I don't like to labor this point, uh, uh, about, uh, good laboratory evidence. Uh, the things that you're expressing, Dr. Loosley, seem to me to be opinions of various and sundry people over the years, uh, who have based their opinions on little, uh, if any, good observations. Uh, what I'm concerned about actually has to do with definitive conditions and laboratory data. In other words, laboratory facts. Now, for instance, uh, we really don't know, uh, whether a cold produces immunity or whether it doesn't. In other words, we, we don't have any idea. If you have a cold this week, uh, whether you're just as likely to catch one next week or six months from now as though you had never had the first one. But there is evidence on that point. Uh, in, uh, for example, some of the earlier studies in the chimpanzee had shown that, uh, for a period after infection, the animal was resistant, and also that, uh, in human subjects, uh, the same thing occurred. Further, we know that, uh, in military organizations, for example, the, uh, new recruits are the ones who are most likely to have it, whereas the seasoned troops are not so likely. So this, it seems to be, all points to the fact that there is some form of resistance developing. Now, whether you want to, uh, talk of that in general term or not. Well, I think, I think in terms of, of the length of resistance, it's probably very minor. If we can have children get colds on the average of once a month, the, the, uh, immunizing stimulus of the cold isn't, uh, Well... Isn't very great. Uh, and I, I don't think, think that there's any real method at the present time, I think we can say that, uh, of real preventing common colds, except probably by, uh, strict isolation. And I'm not sure that, uh, in this day and age that that's a feasible procedure. Of course, one of our difficulties may, uh, with regard to this immunity business, may evolve around the fact that there may be a great many types of viruses, uh, which cause, uh, common colds, and we get immune to one of them and catch another one. Uh, maybe Dr. Francis might like to say a word as so about the types of influenza that play a part in immunity there. Well, I would think at the moment, rather than talking about the influenza problem, one might talk about all of the, uh, things that you've mentioned as they apply to the question of vaccines against the common cold. Because, um, there with the, uh, the numerous vaccines of bacterial origin which have been, uh, recommended, uh, most of the evidence, again, has been very clearly in the, uh, where it's been properly studied, has been the nature that, uh, they have, uh, not too much effect. Even vaccination against influenza, with influenza virus has been thought by many people to have some influence against the common cold, but when that has been tested under proper conditions, there's been no evidence that that is the case. So that it would seem to me that, uh, the problem of influenza and the multiplicity of types is only, uh, perhaps, uh, uh, contrast between, uh, what might, uh, be considered the numerous approaches to vaccination against colds. I would like to use... Well, we've, uh, we, we, we've sort of fairly well covered, uh, what we think our difficulties are, uh, in, uh, in studying the common cold, and the fact that we agree that it's probably contagious, but we can't define that condition, and we know something about the causes, and, uh, that we really don't know how to prevent a cold, as such, at the moment. Uh, what, Dr. Luster, would you think about something about the antibiotics in treatment, for instance? Well, I think, before we get on the antibiotics, that's the only, uh, uh... Hey, what is an antibiotic, incidentally? It's, uh, an agent that, uh, uh, is elaborated by certain, um, um, bacteria that affects the growth of other bacteria, in a simple way. I think more important is the discussion of the antihistamines in the treatment and prophylaxis of, of the common cold. As we all know, there's been tremendous, uh, uh, uh, uh, advertising, uh, of the use of these agents in, uh, in the treatment of the common cold, uh, and we do know that sufficient studies, well-controlled studies, are, are now available, uh, to, uh, prove conclusively, that these, uh, agents do not have a prophylaxis or a treatment value in, uh, the spectrum of treatment for the common cold. I think the antibiotics, uh, are, are extremely important, uh, Well, you look at them in a different fashion, though. I think the antibiotics are, uh, from the standpoint of avoiding, uh, of a specific treatment against the bacterial complications. The simple cold, uh, bed rest, uh, plenty of liquids, uh, and, uh, the treatment of the symptoms, uh, uh, on the, from the standpoint of, uh, headache and fever, with a little aspirin. But the main thing is, is bed rest, and avoiding, exposing, exposing one, uh, to, uh, the possibility of picking up, uh, a bacterial agent that will cause a complication. Well, then you would think of these as being different problems entirely, that the antihistamines were those which had been, uh, used as, uh, an, uh, improperly controlled study basis. Whereas the antibiotics, uh, shown in many instances, that they can control bacterial infection, and so forth. And thus prevent, uh, thus, uh, stop the complications, or cure the complications. In other words, I would say antihistamines have no place in the treatment of the common cold, while antibiotics have a very important place. Well, I would, certainly, I would agree, uh, that antihistamines have no place in the treatment of the common cold. Antibiotics are important, penicillin, streptomycin, so forth. Uh, the, uh, thing, however, that I think we might get clear, uh, in the few seconds that remain, uh, is the fact that the antihistamines have been used, rather effectively, for some twenty years in medicine, in treating allergy. But that is not the common cold. And there have been good experimental studies done, uh, with the antihistamines now, under experimentally controlled human volunteer conditions, and indicate that they are of no value at all. The, that's certainly, uh, that's certainly true. Uh, the, uh, uh, the antihistamines, uh, apparently, uh, the evidence for their use in the common cold was a mistake on the part of the investigator, who did not differentiate his, his conditions, uh, in this, uh, uh, under the circumstances that he was studying, yeah? Under the circumstances of his investigation. Under the circumstances of his investigation. Right. Uh, and, uh, the, uh, the tremendous appeal, uh, that one, uh, has, uh, in this, uh, field meant that everyone got onto it right away. Well, now, in summing up this whole problem, Dr. Ward, uh, what do you, what does this, uh, the future look to you with respect to this? It looks fairly bright, uh, actually. I'm not too concerned that we don't have, uh, too much, uh, uh, evidence and data, specific data, but we do know that viruses are caused by, uh, the viruses do cause some, that common colds, that bacteria can cause complications. We don't know very much about prevention. We can't really prevent it. Uh, second, uh, the third thing I'd like to say is that apparently our treatment is largely the old treatment of relieving the symptoms, but, in general, the outlook is really very hopeful. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on the Common Cold were Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., Dr. Thomas Ward, and Dr. Clayton Loosley. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable contains the full text of the discussion and a special article on The Cold is Still Champ. You'll want to order this pamphlet and to read this additional article on what medicine knows about the common cold. Single copies of the pamphlet are ten cents in coins. Send ten cents with your order to the University of Chicago Roundtable's Chicago 37, Illinois. Or you may subscribe to the Roundtable pamphlet for a full year for only three dollars. Today's program came to you in part by transcription. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.근� crayonemooo