After hearing President Truman speak to the nation last week, have you given further thought to possible enemy attacks on this country? Do you know how to help yourself, your family, your neighbor in the event of a disaster? Listen. This is the 17th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now, here's Bill Leonard. I've gathered a number of letters to have answered on this program. Those of you who listen to this series regularly know we usually discuss one phase of civil defense each week. And every now and then we want to catch up on questions we haven't previously answered, so we insert a question box program. To give us the official replies for the New York State Civil Defense Commission, I've invited Martin Caden, their technical specialist, to join us again. Martin Caden, first I'm going to ask a question on my own. I'm asked this one frequently, and it's, do you really think that we here in the United States will be bombed? How would the commission officially reply to that? We know that our potential enemy has the atomic bomb. The weight of that evidence is strong. Second, we know that the enemy possesses aircraft capable of delivering the bomb over our cities, and that a determined, skillful attack will get through our defenses. Third, on the basis of hard experience, we know that the enemy, in the pursuit of his relentless determination to dominate the world, will not hesitate to employ these weapons whenever he feels a moment is right. We are not absolutely sure they will attack us, but the consequences of unpreparedness are national disaster. Thanks, Martin Caden. That should make the commission's point of view clear. Now to a problem we've not discussed previously. It's the question of ventilation in shelters. Miss M.S. of Middleburg, New York, asks whether radioactive air could filter in through an opening. In the event of an explosion that produces residual contamination, there will be danger of shelter ventilation systems, drawing in dust or spray contaminated with radioactive particles. The thing to do, then, is to play safe beforehand. You can leave ventilators on until an attack. Then, when an explosion has occurred, turn off shelter ventilating systems. There will not be any need to worry about suffocation after this. The time limit before the oil clear will not be prohibitive. While we're discussing shelters, here's another question from a Mr. J.A.M. He says there seems to be no proper information on how to build small-type underground shelters or the best type of indoor shelter that can be built by almost any homeowner. Are there any drawings or sketches available? The State Civil Defense Commission, at this time, has not released any official publications on home shelters. Nearing completion is a pamphlet in which we will depict small, low-cost shelters capable of providing excellent protection against atomic attack. These official plans and specific building instructions will soon be available. Public announcement will be made at that time. Well, I have another question on shelters, Martin Caden. Mrs. L.K. says we're moving into a house without a basement or any other kind of shelter, and there's none in the neighborhood. And we heard that the state government is preparing to build shelters. What do we do to get such a government contribution? We'd give the plot for it, and we would gladly let as many people as could be accommodated share that shelter. The information that the state of New York has any plans to finance private shelter construction is incorrect. The state of New York, through its Civil Defense Commission, assists individuals and organizations in designing and constructing shelters and helping to solve special problems, but it does not contemplate the actual financing of private shelters. Therefore, Mrs. K. should reinforce the strongest part of her home as a shelter area or construct a backyard shelter. As I just said, information on how to carry out this procedure will be forthcoming soon, as mentioned in answer to the previous question. Mr. Caden, I wonder whether hospital or health authorities expect to use whole blood or plasma. If whole blood is to be used, should everyone know their blood type? Both whole blood and plasma will be needed in great quantity following an atomic explosion. Within six hours after an attack, the medical services will need a minimum of 20,000 pints of type O blood and at least 20,000 units of plasma and blood substitutes. During the first few days after an attack, we expect to use O-type blood for all transfusions. After the initial shock of attack has passed, injured persons will be typed and then switch from type O to transfusions of their own particular blood type. Well, Martin Caden, a Mr. and Mrs. J. V. write as follows. They say, we are under the impression that on your program, Plan for Survival, you've advised people who have intentions of moving to a non-target area to do so now. Can you send a list of towns or cities listed as such? Certainly not. Neither Plan for Survival or the Civil Defense Commission has even suggested the moving of people from a supposed dangerous city to a mythical safe country area. Such a proposal is a flat contradiction of everything civil defense stands for. Such action plays directly into enemy hands. Certain groups in this country have, unfortunately, developed a take-to-the-hills mentality, and these people visualize any threatened or actual attack as a signal for a sort of group vacation on the part of thousands of city dwellers who will dash into the country till the whole thing blows over. No picture could ignore reality more tragically than this. No community can exist as a productive force if its workers are scattered to the four winds. That is exactly what the enemy would like our population to do, desert our cities under the threat of enemy fire. In the event that open war does occur, certain priority groups, such as the aged and infirm, mothers with preschool youngsters, etc., who, of their own accord, wish to leave major cities may do so. Of course, if you wish to leave the city in which you now live, nobody is going to stop you. But think again before acting. Remember that you cannot hide from danger. No place in this or any other state is immune from attack and for a number of reasons. My advice to you is to learn more about your local civil defense organization, to learn and understand that the atomic bomb or any other weapon does not mean the end of our city or state or country. Our success will depend on the teamwork of every citizen without exception. We can no more desert our cities now or in the near future than can our sailors desert their ships when an enemy submarine is reported nearby. Thank you, Mr. Caden. You've been listening to Martin Caden, technical specialist for the New York State Civil Defense Commission. We'll have more information on civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of our civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. We've now come to the portion of the program which will be confined more specifically to problems relating to New York City. Miss Joan Gould, a member of the Public Relations Division of Commissioner Arthur Wallander's staff, kindly consented to answer our remaining questions. Miss Gould, we're still waiting to hear whether everyone in New York City is going to be required to wear an identification tag. I think this question's come up once before and I think it's important to know what to do because of the chaos which would follow any type of bombing in New York City. Are identification tags to be worn on a purely voluntary basis or will the city or the state or the federal government issue such tags in due time? No, Bill. The city, state, and federal governments have no plans to issue identification tags to all citizens or to require people to wear them. That doesn't mean, though, that we don't realize the importance of identification. Just imagine the dead, the wounded, the homeless, the people separated from their families, and the victims of shock after an attack. The Department of Hospitals and the Department of Welfare are making very detailed plans right now for identifying all these people. As for the tags themselves, every child in New York of preschool or school age will receive an identification tag. We think it would be a good idea if everybody would take such a simple safeguard. Well, in line with your reply, Joan Gould, Mr. W.S. of West 48th Street wrote this. He says, I'm very much interested in knowing what is the most practical type of identification tag and what information should be inscribed on it. Well, Bill, let's take the identification tags that the school children will wear as an example. They'll be made of nickel plate and engraved with the name, address, parent's name, date of birth, school, and district. For adults, though, we think the name, address, and next of kin should be enough. Miss Gould, we all know how difficult it is under normal circumstances for the fire department to get through traffic. I wonder what provisions are now being made for the immediate solution of the traffic problem, for in the event of a disaster, how would it be possible to get firefighting equipment through streets that are tangled up by automobiles and trucks? Now you're on one of our most serious problems, Bill. Our traffic problem is bad enough any day, as you know, without the addition of rubble, completely blocked streets, destroyed roads, and wrecked cars. In case of emergency, the way must be cleared, not only for firefighting equipment, but for rescue trucks and ambulances. In the long run, we hope to persuade the government that the city urgently needs off-street parking facilities and dual-purpose garages and shelters. For the immediate future, though, all that we can do is tell the public over and over again that if the siren sounds, they absolutely must pull their cars over to the curb, leaving the ignition keys inside. After a bombing, no traffic will be allowed to move except for essential civil defense units. And now, Miss E.S. of East 7th Street writes, I'd like to know where I can get hold of instructions concerning the care and protection of pets in the event of atomic bombing. You can get full instruction about the care and protection of pets from the ASPCA, 441 East 92nd Street. Remember, we urge veterinarians to volunteer for duty. Register at any ASPCA shelter or at 500 Park Avenue. Here's a letter from a young lady living on Monroe Street, and she writes, I am 11 years old. In school, we have instructions in civil defense. My class would like to know if we are old enough to help. We got together and asked our teacher, but she said that she didn't know. Would you please write and tell me what I can volunteer to do? Bill, everyone is old enough to help. Our young student says that she receives civil defense instruction in school. That should be the natural starting point for her work. If she'll teach the family the lessons that she has learned in school, and if she'll examine her own home to make sure that it's well protected, she'll be helping our defense effort in the most important place, the home front. Now back to adults. Miss Gould, here's a card from Miss C.S., which says, what should we do if we're in a bus jammed to the doors at the time of an atom attack? If it's a sneak attack, without warning, drop to the floor immediately. Cover your face and your exposed skin. If you hear the siren, of course, you'll have a little more time to protect yourself. The bus will pull over to the curb, and you should get out and head for the nearest shelter. After an attack, the bus will become part of the Civil Defense Transportation Division. Mrs. A.V. of East 76th Street has a question. I live near the top of a 16-story building. It would be impossible to get all the tenants down to the basement rapidly. Would it be better to go down a few flights and remain in a windowless hall, or is the 14th floor just as safe as it would be lower down? No, Bill, it isn't. The 14th floor isn't quite as safe as some of the lower floors. We advise everybody to move down five flights. These extra layers will provide extra protection. Now for our final question. What if there is no basement in the house? Why don't you see that in buildings that have no good basement space that boiler rooms and storage rooms are prepared as shelters in all buildings? Well, if there's no basement in the house, or if the basement isn't accessible, a hallway without windows is usually the best place. Boiler rooms and storage rooms can make good shelters, of course. But one word of caution. The boilers in large apartment houses or office buildings may have too much pressure to be safe. If you're in doubt about the selection of a shelter, ask for expert advice at the nearest police precinct. Thank you, Joan Gould, of Commissioner Wallander's Public Relations Division. Next week, we'll discuss youth in civil defense. We hope you'll join us. Until then, this is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. You've been listening to the 17th in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll bring you further information and we'll answer a variety of questions relating to youth in civil defense. If you have questions, address your card or letter to Plan for Survival, Box 22, New York 16. I'll repeat that. Plan for Survival, Box 22, New York 16. Listen next week when we discuss youth in civil defense. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. the Civil Defense Radio Network. The Civil Defense Radio Network will discuss blood