New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, our early land booms on New York, Queen of Commerce. Eight years is a long time to fight. Ask the soldier who has had to walk through mud and bear a musket on his shoulder. Eight anxious, weary, lonely years of waiting. Hungry, wet, cold years of marching. Then, waiting some more. Years such as these stretch time out into endless seons of restlessness and agony. Yet, men have gone through these things willingly. Continental troops, huddled together around the campfires of the Revolutionary War, knew what they were fighting for. That's what made them so willing and so stubborn. British dispatchers said they were defeated a dozen times, but the Americans didn't seem to know it. Long before the war ended, men were looking ahead to the development of new lands, which they knew victory would bring. Colonel Timothy Pickering and other officers of Washington's army at Newburgh, New York, petitioned Congress to open the rich lands of the Ohio and Great Lakes region for settlement by soldiers and officers after the war. This was the old Northwest Territory, now occupied by Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, and part of Minnesota. As early as 1779, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston, one of New York City's most brilliant and progressive citizens and businessmen, proposed to the governor that all western lands to which New York had claim be placed at the disposal of the federal government, and urged that other states conduct a similar program. This proposal was one of the most significant in American history, for it led to the eventual agreement of the various states to pool their land claims in the national government. It led also to the ideas of additional statehood, and the establishment of some of the most important basic human rights, even before the Constitution of the United States was adopted. The final military victory of the revolution, the skill of the American peace commissioners in Paris, the eagerness of restless thousands, brought about the first great land booms. All that was needed was the enactment of a formal law by Congress to establish legal titles to the land. New York bankers and merchants were to play parts as important as her statesmen in the great commercial growth of this new empire. The whole nation waited tensely while Congress met in the upper chambers of New York City Hall, in Wall Street, on July 13, 1787. It was hot and humid. In the comparatively cool arched arcade of the street floor, a number of men earnestly talked in small groups. Among them were two former classmates at Columbia College Law School, now working for different law firms. For the life of me, George, I don't see why we have to stand around in this heat. What's so important about it anyway? Did you tell that to Mr. Allen, the senior member of your firm? Well, no, but Congress has been talking for days, for weeks. It's exasperating. Well, somehow, Andrew, I've got the feeling we'll see the finish of it today. Uncle Ben Strong thinks so, and the old codger's generally right, you know. Unless they do something soon, there's bound to be trouble. More and more land companies are going into the territory. The British are still holding on to some of the forts. I understand Colonel Harmer's established a new fort at Marietta on the Ohio to protect the surveyors. What a rush they'll be. Yes. There's millions in it if we... If Congress ever acts. And if they ever can bring the Indians, especially the Miamis and Shawnees, under control. Little Turtle and Corn Planter are on the rampage again. You can bet the British are behind it. It looks that way. Even the Holland Land Company and William Cooper of Cooperstown right here in New York State are having trouble. That's right. I've requested permission to go to the Ohio when our first land office is open. Investors want to know the facts firsthand. I wouldn't be too hasty if I were you. Indians don't read ordinances, even by Congress. Oh, something's stirring. Yeah, you're right. Here they come. There's Mr. McNougal. He'll tell us what happened. Mr. McDougal, here, sir. Why, hello, lads. Masters George Strong and Andrew Jones, two of our most prominent young lawbenders. Can you give the word, sir? Aye, lads. Tis a bonny day. The Ordinance of 1787 is now a thing of fact. And I guess you know what that means or you wouldn't be here. Did the Anti-Slavery Clause pass too, sir? It did. All the agreement stood up. This day's work will live a long while, lads. Thank you, Mr. McDougal. Thank you very much. Come, Andy. We'd best be on our way. Yes, Mr. Allen has riders ready to carry the news to our Albany office. Yes, lads, you better hurry. This is an important day in our country's history. This Congressional meeting in New York in 1787 set forth for the first time in unified form the essence of American thought as to the relation of our government to the rights of men. The expression of what America had fought for. The principles under which her people willed to live. In common terms, here were established civil and religious liberties. The right of habeas corpus. The encouragement of schools. The right to affect private contracts. The basis for the foundation of new states. In fact, this document set the pattern for nearly every state constitution that was written as the nation moved westward. But as America is relearning today, that hard earned freedom is not just to be won. It must be kept. After the passing of the ordinance of 1787, the great land companies set out thousands of settlers by raft, by ox cart, and by foot into the new western frontiers of the nation. In spite of official efforts to deal fairly with the Indians, British influence to arouse them remained strong. British garrisons ignoring treaties remained on American soil. The ignorance and poverty of many settlers, and the greed of a few, created unrest and brought cruel vengeance from the Indians. President Washington's administration suffered a severe blow when General Arthur St. Clair, military commander in the new territory, lost many men from his command through an ignominious defeat at the hands of a comparatively small number of resolute Indians. The whole frontier was in danger. And that shrewd warrior George Washington knew why. A man who knew how to fight in the woods was needed. He called old mad Anthony Wayne out of retirement. Young George Strong settled in the new territory in an attempt to prosper in the great land boom. He found himself caught in the toils of the unsettled state of the frontier. As business was practically at a standstill, he volunteered in the army General Wayne had been organizing. Dear father and mother, here is a different world indeed. We are at a new fort called Defiance, and rightly enough, too. Little Turtle and his warriors have formed between us and the British fort in a place called Fallen Timbers, a short distance from here. General Wayne has done wonders with his legion. What a brave man he is. I am now captain, and am appointed to the general staff as aide-de-camp, if you please. Do not worry about me. Oh, Captain Strong, sir. Oh, yes, orderly, what is it? The major's compliments, sir. Would you kindly report to the general's headquarters immediately, sir? Thank you, orderly. I'll be right there. Acting Captain Strong reporting, sir. Sit down, Captain. I've just outlined a plan for attack at break of day. Gentlemen, briefly again, Little Turtle and his men are in a strong position, or so he thinks. Their left flank is protected by the Marmee River. The area in front of them is covered by fallen logs. Our scouts inform us there's Canadian militia with him. If Little Turtle thinks the British fort behind him is any protection, we'll plow right over both of them if necessary. Major Reed, will you lead the advance? And when fired upon, draw back. The main line will then deploy in two lines. General Scott, with his Kentucky cavalry, will take position on the right flank. I want fixed bayonets. And Colonel, see that your men flush out those Indians with cold steel. Pick men will take high positions and pick off the chiefs, sub-chief, or any other of the devils they can get their sights on. Captain, you will act as my personal aide. Thank you, gentlemen, and good luck to you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And so, dear folks, you should have seen the route as our boys took up the pursuit. Little Turtle and his army are gone. When we reconnoitred near the British fort, their commander sent out a flag of truce, insolently asking what view he was to take of our coming so close. I thought the general would turn purple. I delivered his reply. That a full answer was to be given from the muzzles of our guns. And had the Indians come under the protection of the guns of his fort, they would not have much impeded the progress of our victorious army. Now all is peace again. And we shall soon be open for business. Tell Uncle Benjamin that upon my discharge I shall complete the plans and surveys of the twelve townships. They were all on Shawnee land, but it is cleared now. What this country needs now is more New York merchants and capital. Yours ever affectionately, George. And so America learned that even at that early date, a victory earned by one battle often had to be maintained by another. Even though Wayne's victory over the Indians and its influence on the British permitted the permanent settlement of the territory, that security was challenged once more and again had to be won in the War of 1812. Right from the start of our nation, New York men and New York business have taken leadership in the development of America. And by that enterprise have maintained a relationship that has helped make New York truly the queen of commerce. And by that labor should go forward and see what träum with her and her husband and daughter, more operational means can only do that.... ...and do that so. That business requires a reminder ofidade of commerce... ...you are delivered by an Planning and stealing and disappearing. And with aり topper we are aUI,!!!! Auf marketplace... ...en far above the land... The beyond publish of commerce. The beyond two in this time for a island. ...and beyond чуд our Crush even cameo? Of commerce... Let's get paid by this... thus sharing comes to that District of Commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce, our early land booms. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alfred Israel as George, Phil Dixon as Andrew, and Henry Lewis as General Wing. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz, assisted by Frank DeHuto. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche. The next voice you will hear is that of Mr. Latham C. Squire, consulting engineer and executive vice president of the Citizen Zoning Committee. Mr. Squire. As the Manhattan Island settlements grew and population became more congested, it became necessary to pass laws for the protection of the health and safety of those who live there. Fortunately for us who live here today, the laws have been continually improved as new conditions arose over the years. We owe a great debt to those who have gone before us for developing our city to its present beauty and grandeur. We must keep in mind the fact that it is our duty, the duty of each one of us, to contribute in some constructive way to the betterment of our city, so that we may leave a proud heritage to those generations that are to follow us. Thank you, Mr. Squire. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. Be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City of Commerce.ュ're a welm现在 due to a возь go. W Sky e'wmanbyewoncupw