Chairman, Honour of the Mayor, Bishop Planderley, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I've been asked to say just a word. As I stand here, I would think of just what Al Smith would say. He'd say, well, here we are. We've waited a long time to see these houses. 28 years ago, I came into this parish where these houses are now standing, and I went on sick calls in the very property where I'm standing now. As I would go through those dark hallways with a little wisp of gaslight burning, one toilet in the corridors in the hallway for four families, I used to feel very disheartened. I would go into those rear houses that have now been condemned, and I felt very badly that such fine, good, honest-to-goodness people should have to live in such places. And I would discuss it with my friends, and I would say, isn't it a pity we couldn't have a great big fire when they're all out and burn the whole place down so we could get new houses? But my friends would say to me, well, that can't be because the New York City Fire Department is too efficient, and they put the fire out. And so we waited all this quarter of a century to get around to it, to take these houses down and put up houses where every family would have its own toilet, would have bedrooms with windows facing out to the open. And that is going to mean oh so much for health and happiness, and I might even add, for holiness. My dear people, we are indebted to the brains of the men who are back in this whole project. We know there are difficulties. We know there are some dissatisfactions. That must be. With all labor, there must come pains, as it were. And so we're having the birth here of these great buildings. I'm looking forward to the time when it will clear the rest of these buildings I'm looking at here, between this project and City Hall Park itself, and start to rehabilitate our great city, the greatest city in the world, from the batteries right clear on up. And I know that having these fine houses and these open spaces. We're particularly fortunate here because they are building on just a trifle more than one-tenth of the landed property. Nine-tenths will be open space where we have trees and playgrounds and grass. To see something green once again on these shores where at one time there have been all trees on Cherry Hill. I'm also looking forward to seeing Al Smith's statue over here on the other side of our public school. Some time ago I haven't got much warning in St. James, you know, but when Mr. Robert Moses, whom I consider a friend and whom I certainly admire for all he has done, what a gentleman he is and how thoughtful he is of all these matters, I sent him a check for a hundred dollars and made the request that let this hundred dollars at least represent the brown derby that Al Smith is going to hold in his hand and his statue. So when we see that statue there, why we'll have it in mind that we had some little part in the paying for that. My dear people, we have reason to rejoice and to be happy today that this thing is moving along. And one year from now I am certain when you see this whole place perspective and all of the houses up, we'll know these men have done a crackerjack job and we're arranging various ways in which all those who were here formerly will, I know, be glad to come back and we'll do all we can to have them back to keep the initial character of our neighborhood intact. I thank you all. Thank you, Father Keene. There's so many friends of Governor Smith and of public housing here today that it is unfortunately not possible to call on them all. One such friend present helped make possible the first public housing project in the United States. He loaned the authority money to help acquire the site of our first houses and he made the loan on his faith in public housing, not on its credit standing. It is my sincere pleasure to introduce to you a great and good citizen, Mr. Bernard Baruch. Thank you. General Powell, the Mayor, the Moses, the Associates, all of whom have made possible this wonderful memorial memorial to that great citizen, Alfred Emanuel Smith. I'm sure that if he were present today, nothing would have made him happier than to see this memorial in the form of housing for the people of this city. Mr. Mayor, I would like to say a word of my appreciation to you, sir. First of all, in having retained such public servants as Mr. Robert Moses and General Farrell, in all of my years of 60 or more in contact with public officials, I have never seen such wonderful, selfish public officials. They were the original choices of Governor Smith. At the same time, while this housing has been going on, there have been other great improvements, which I'm sure Governor Smith would look upon with great approval. I'm not alone speak of the hospitalization concerning Mr. Mayor. I know of your great efforts, because you have helped me in what I've tried to do. But the greatest housing of all time has taken place in this city and made it the capital of the world. I refer to the great building that's being erected now for the United Nations, where all races, all colors, all nations, all creeds can have a voice under the roof of that great institution. And it would not have been possible if it had not been for the efforts of many of our great citizens here, not alone of Mr. Rockefeller, but the driving force behind it all was William O'Dwyer, whose patience and courage and determination finally made it, the city of New York, the choice of this institution, which we hope someday will be the harbinger and housing of peace for which we all have yearned. And indeed, it's a rare combination that I'm sure if the Governor himself were here, he would turn around and in that inimitable manner say, fellas, you've done a good job. Thank you. And may God bless you. And so I say, thank all of you connected with this enterprise and may God bless you. Thank you very much, Mr. Baruch. Controller Lazarus Joseph has been one of our stalwarts, both as controller and in the board of estimate. And without his support, we would be nowhere near as far as we are now. I take great pleasure in presenting Comptroller Joseph. Chairman, Venerable Clergy, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Moses, Royal President Rogers, Commissioner Stichman, Bob Wagner, ladies and gentlemen. Chairman, Venerable Clergy, Mr. Baruch, Commissioner, I am a graduate of housing in the city of New York. I was brought up and raised within a stone's throw of this site. And when I was a youngster, we had our bathrooms, bathrooms in quotation marks, down in the yard. And then I graduated and went to an apartment where you had the bathrooms on the same floor. It was a communal bathroom. Then as I got wealthy and moved to the Bronx, we finally had our own bathroom. When I look at these beautiful buildings, the house, those of low income, lots of disputes are可-audio Palat huh? olmayy No one! You know, when a lawyer tries a case, he puts in certain evidence, what so-and-so said to so-and-so and vice versa. But the best evidence in the world is the picture, if you can have it, of what actually took place. This is just a sample of what we have done since January 1946 under the able leadership and guidance of our distinguished Mayor Bill O'Dwyer for the people of the city of New York. I believe that those who were ready to make the supreme sacrifice and go all over the world to fight for democratic ideals and principles, those that were lucky enough to come home were at least entitled to a roof over their heads for their wives and their children. And no cost is too great to take care of this particular type of man and woman. Throughout the city of New York, you will find these enterprises. You'll find construction going on. Bob Moses, and at least he's one Republican who has seen the light of day, someday we'll have him completely reformed, has certainly worked might and main with the mayor and the other authorities to make these projects possible. And I hope to complete our program. And this is a political campaign and I don't intend to talk politics. But I do want to call your attention to the fact of what we've done in housing, and we're mighty, mighty proud of our record. My congratulations to all those concerned for the work that they have accomplished to date, and the work that's still in contemplation. We hope to complete our program. And the people of the city of New York, I know are satisfied with the progress that we've made to date. I wish all of the residents of this beautiful enterprise that they will enjoy these projects in health and happiness. Thank you very kindly. Thank you very much, Mr. Comptroller. Governor Smith houses is being built under the public housing program of New York State. The money to build the project is borrowed from the state. State and city subsidies make possible the low rents. I'm pleased to call on the commissioner of the State Division of Housing, Commissioner Herman T. Stitchman. Mr. Stitchman. Mr. Chairman, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests, Reverend clergy, residents of the neighborhood, I may not be quite ready to talk for a few moments because I'm still recovering from that blow by Larry Joseph when he said he wasn't here to make a political speech. It's important to bear in mind here this morning when we look about us and see these grand buildings that are arising because of cooperation between Governor Dewey and Mayor O'Dwyer in the public housing program that we shouldn't merely look to the past and that's important to us to look to the future. This project, as General Farrell has said, is being built with the proceeds of a loan by the state in the amount of $28 million. In addition, the state will be paying almost $1 million every year in cash. That is not a loan that won't be repaid in order that we may keep the rent sufficiently low in the apartments in this project so that the low-income families for whom they are intended can afford to live here. Now that $435 million fund is either formally committed or informally committed in the city here as well as upstate. Therefore, Governor Dewey and the legislature, with the cooperation and the suggestion of Mayor O'Dwyer, have passed legislation looking towards the increasing of that fund by $300 million. And when I say, with the cooperation of Mayor O'Dwyer, he took a large part several years ago in seeing to it that that fund was increased from $300 million to $135 million. I've had some things to say about the administration of housing here in the city, but I've had nothing to say against Mayor O'Dwyer so far as public housing is concerned. He's been the forefront with Governor Dewey in seeing to it that those funds were increased from time to time and seeing to it that these slums were torn down. Now, some people think that that new $300 million will just be approved by the people as a matter of course. But let me warn you here, everybody who's interested in public housing, that a great lobby is being formed and has been formed with a great slush fund trying to kill the three housing propositions that will be presented to you at the general election this fall. And I'm going to read to you from some of the literature that's being put out and let you know some of the people who are trying to raise that slush fund. I have before me on the letterhead of the Taxpayers Protective Association, 51 East 42nd Street, Henry G. Waldemade, President, David Ford, Secretary-Treasurer, a request for funds signed by David Ford as Secretary-Treasurer. It's addressed to all financial institutions in New York State and other cooperating institutions and organizations. And one of the enclosures asked them to send in money, and let me tell you the amounts that they are asking for aren't peanuts. Here's the request. It's a letter from supposed to be signed by the person who sends in the money to this Taxpayers Protective Association. And it says our check payable to the association in the amount indicated is enclosed. One is blank, $100, $250, $500, $1,000, $2,500. Who is sufficiently interested in keeping the low-income people of this city and of this state from getting decent housing to pay $2,500 to beat those propositions? Now, they put out with that certain literature, and they asked the people from whom they're seeking the funds to distribute that literature. And I'm going to read you some of the false statements that are put out in this literature in which they seek the defeat of those three housing propositions. One of them is that public housing, they say public housing will not clear the slums. Well, as a matter of fact, right here is a living monument to the fact that that statement is alive. Because here there were several hundred substandard slum structures that are being cleared in order to make way for this great project. Now in their second pamphlet, they have another statement that families whose incomes run up to $4,900 will be living here. They're trying to confuse the city's non-cash subsidized program with this slum clearance low-income program where families with an average of about $2,000 in income will be living. That sort of garbled propaganda is the sort that's being put out by the so-called taxpayers' league. Then in the third one, they refer to this being socialistic, and that's referred to in another statement put out by an organization headed by a man named George Bliss. And he's got some literature in which he makes the same statement about $4,900 and says we don't clear the slums. And that we're competing with private enterprise. Now, as a matter of fact, let me tell you, so far as socialism is concerned or communism, that I toured the countries in Europe and in the countries which have done the most for housing for the people, we find the greatest amount of democracy today. We have formed a statewide citizens committee of 10,000 to help support these housing propositions. Let me give you the names of some of the so-called socialists and communists whom these people refer to who are backing these three housing propositions. First is the leading citizen of New York City, Mayor William O'Dwyer. You know his stand for democracy, either with a small d or a big d. Another man who's a co-chairman is Dr. Searle, right here. Bob Moses is the third one. Henry Brewer, the president of the Bowery Savings Bank, is another man. Harold Bache, a Wall Street man who was head of Bache & Company. DeCourcy Fales, president of the Bank for Savings. About 18 real estate men from all over the state who have had the courage to stand out against their association and act as co-chairmen. This is Sidney Borg, Harold Buttenheim, Lloyd Garrison of the National Urban League, Senators Ives and Dulles, former Governor Lehman, all acting as co-chairmen. Paul Fitzpatrick, the state chairman of the Democratic Party, is a man who has accepted our invitation to act as co-chairmen together with William Pfeiffer, the chairman of the—it's a bad thing to say here this morning, I say. I know I shouldn't say that I mentioned anything about Republicans, but he's chairman of the Republican State Committee. He's joining it. I shouldn't be saying anything about Republicans while the mayor is here, but I'm forced to do it by my friend Larry. Up in Rochester, the city of New York State, where the former president of New York State Real Estate Associations lives, is getting the first public housing project with his aide, so not all the realtors are against it. But up there, some group known as the Citizens Tax League is also putting out false propaganda about our program. Here, through the cooperation of Governor Dewey, who regrets that he can't be here today, and your mayor, and Bob Moses and Tom Farrell and all the others, we're going to have one of the greatest public housing projects in the world with adequate playgrounds, with good light and air, and we'll have more of those if you and all your friends will back those three housing propositions at the general election this fall and show these bigots, these people who are against good housing for the poor people, that America can be good to all its people. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'd like to call on my colleagues and the authority who worked so hard on the housing program to stand for a moment so that you may see them. First, the Vice Chairman, Mr. John S. Park, and Commissioner William Wilson. We are pleased that so many members of Governor Smith's family have been able to join us, and they are here on the platform in the front row where you can all see them. Also, the multitude of his old friends and associates, the members of the Smith Memorial Fund Committee, the contractors and the architects for this project, the many city officials who have supported the public housing program, and all the other great friends of housing. And now, it is my honor and pleasure to present to you the Mayor of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. General Farrell, Your Excellency, Reverend, distinguished friends and ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stichman, took the stick right out of my hand. He was so nice to me, I can't hit him back. How could you? But if Governor Smith, God rest him, could be standing here on his old, familiar stamping grounds, where he grew up as a little boy, where slowly the idea came to him that even though great men could come from poor housing, that was no justification for having poor housing. If he, after a lifetime of fighting, planning for this housing, this gift to those who otherwise couldn't have it, he who knew what the struggle was, knew the forces that were opposed to him, knew that only God himself could pull such a beautiful idea through, against these forces. If he were to be listening in on today's campaign and find out that the Republicans are just finding out that we got slums in New York City, he'd be delighted that they had found it out at last. He said, Everything that Commissioner Stichman has said about cooperation, I'll accept that one hundred percent. We got it. But the first thing was to think of it, and to plan it. Then the financing came. Then came the actual operation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give to the man whose memory will be perpetuated on this site forever the credit for thinking of it, for planning it. Let us give all the credit for the help and financing of it that we want to. And let us take Tom Farrell and Bob Moses and say to them, They did it. Here it is. And that is my message to you this morning. Over here on the side, you're going to have a memorial park and playgrounds. Again, two men that really loved the governor, that really worked with him, that appreciated him. Bob Moses and Tom Farrell have thrown all of their influence behind making that something beautiful. Father King, when that statue goes up and remains here to not only adorn this site, but to inspire every little child who comes out of these rooms, inspire them to do the things, or aim to do the things that the little boy of 25 Oliver Street did, there will be an inspiration that statue and his memory. To the members of his family who are here today, I give the heartiest welcome of this city, because they carry in their bloodstreams the memory and the tradition of one of the greatest men that New York State has ever produced, produced right here on this hallowed spot. To you, Mr. Baruch, for coming here. We're deeply grateful that you honored us by coming here this morning. Commissioner Stitchman, sure enough, this is a common fight to get more money for this type of housing. It is now before the people in these three amendments. You have done a man's job, and the least we can do is to help you to put it through. We'll put it through on our own, as far as the city is concerned. This is a constitutional amendment, ladies and gentlemen, to be voted on this year, this November the 8th. Every voter from Montauk Point to Buffalo will vote on it. We are the ones that are most deeply concerned. Here in New York City, if we want more and more and more of this kind of housing and slump clearance, now is the time to get in there and vote for these amendments. Outside of that, coming back to the governor. May his memory be always revered and be sacred, and may he be happy where he is. God rest him. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Before we proceed to the actual laying of the cornerstone, Dr. Louis C. Gerstein, Associate Rabbi of the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, will give the benediction. O Heavenly Father, we ask thy blessing upon all of those who have helped to make a dream of a generation ago a reality today. We ask of thee, give them continued strength and good health, so that they may continue to extend their hand to the needy. We also ask of thee, O God, help to instill in the hearts of those who will dwell in this project that sense of good fellowship and of brotherhood, that sense of kindness and human understanding, which shall indeed make this small community a symbol for the entire world to see. Help them to live as brothers under the fatherhood of God. Remove from their midst every vestige of bigotry and prejudice, and keep them always living together in one happy fellowship, so that throughout the world, people may realize that this type of democracy, this type of Americanism, which we know in this land, is good for all the world. Help the spirit of that man to whom this enterprise is dedicated ever to be with them. Help us always to be good and kind, friendly and understanding, sympathetic, merciful one to another, so that his memory may indeed be a blessing to all. May this be thy will, O Lord, and let us say, Amen. Thank you, Dr. Gersting. I now ask the Mayor and the speakers to move off the platform to the left for the Cornerstone Lane. Right off here. Now the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dryer, with General Farrell, Commissioner Stitchman, Controller Lazarus Joseph, Mr. Baruch, the clergy and distinguished guests, Borough President Rogers, they're all stepping off the platform here now, and the Mayor is approaching the Cornerstone here at the Al Smith Houses, the white marble Cornerstone with just the date 1949 marked thereon. And Mr. Baruch has a silver trowel, the Mayor has one, Borough President Rogers has his, Commissioner Stitchman has his, and these silver trowels are going to lay the cornerstone of this splendid Al Smith Housing here at the East River here, we might say, on the Lower East Side of New York. With the Al Smith Houses, housing projects now are almost in an uninterrupted line from the Brooklyn Bridge to Gracie Mansion, with only short gaps here and there where housing yet has not filled up those gaps. These tremendous buildings, 17 or 18 stories high, I forget which, I can't count the stories from here, my perspective is bad, but it seems only a few weeks back that the luncheon was held in the Downtown Club, whereby this project and the entire Brooklyn Bridge project, and the revamping of this whole section of the city, with approaches to the Brooklyn Bridge, and the landscaping and all other factors, would be brought about. And here today, the first big house is completely finished, the window shades are up, and all it needs now is the tenants to move in in a very short time. Possibly one of the quickest elapsed periods of time in the construction of these seven units of the Al Smith Housing here at Brooklyn Bridge and the Waterfront. The Old Oak Street Police Station made way as one of the outstanding landmarks of this location, and the whole situation here will be revamped in order that the landscaping and all other factors will prevail here for the fresh air, the recreational features, and all the other points that make this one of the outstanding housing projects of the world. It's only a few years back when the Fred French Housing up there at Market Street and Catherine and Monroe Streets, that came through there. And that was the first real break here in the slum clearance activity in this particular part of the city. And now with the Al Smith Houses, why we have, as we say, almost an unbroken line of housing projects from Brooklyn Bridge to Gracie Mansion. Some of them state and civic owned and projected, others of course privately owned. But these magnificent structures line the East River, and in no time at all, it'll be one of the most splendid pageants anywhere in the world as the boats go up the East River and see this unbroken line of residential readjustment to the needs and progress of this great wonder city. And now the cameramen are bossing everybody around as usual, including the mayor, and telling them how to lay this cornerstone. And he's doing very well under the circumstances with the controller of the city of New York, Lazarus Joseph, General Farrell, Barney Baruch, and the other distinguished guests are all wielding those silvered fowls now to see what they can do about expediting the cornerstone laying here. A distinguished lady from Greenwich Village, Mrs. Simcovich, is right near us here, near the microphone. There's much greeting and much neighborly spirit down here this morning. The weatherman's a little bit decent. The weather's threatening, but it's clear. There are no raindrops, but we wouldn't even mind a little christening under the circumstances. And now the cameras are clicking and WNYC's television unit is here making a documentary impression of this great view. The impression of this great event. And everything will be recorded so that in future times we can recapture the essence of this scene here today. These cameramen are valiant men. They issue more orders than any prime minister or any general. But we all know it's for a good reason because we want the evidence when we look for it. And nothing recaptures the essence of a scene like a good picture. And these men know how to get it. They speak volumes. It's only yesterday we had Commissioner Moses up there in the Bronx at St. Mary's Street and St. Ann's Avenue with the recreational project yesterday afternoon. Here he is smiling again at the Al Smith housing project. Now the mayor's having the time of his life here with these silver trowels and the assistant masons. And now a cameraman's down there telling everybody just how to set up this next picture. Commissioner Moses stands very modestly in the background. He's not pushing his way into the picture at all. But we all know his remarkable record of efficiency in one of the most comprehensive and one of the most varied comprehensive activities of any citizen anywhere in the world. And whatever he touches turns to life and beauty and facility. And now I guess the mayor's had enough at the trade of the mason. He's having a few friendly poses now with some of the distinguished guests here. If I tried to mention names why I'd be on this microphone the rest of the day. But everybody's down here in this old neighborhood only proving that everybody's interested in everybody else's happiness. And on the shoulders of the mayor of the city of New York and the government of the city of New York falls the resolving of that happiness through the projects that are necessary to carry it out. And the Al Smith housing has been one of the most ambitious projects of the mayor. And one that has never lost a split second of activity since the inaugural luncheon down there at the downtown club. And the beginning of the idea of these projects. Oliver Street is just a few streets up where beloved Al Smith lived so many years and contributed. So much to the history of New York. I remember we were in the newsboys home one Thanksgiving. There had been many speeches. And Governor Smith stood up and he was wiping his glasses. And a little youngster looked up from the table and he says, Hey Al, when do we eat? The governor says, Right away, there'll be no speech. You've had enough speeches and here it goes. Everybody was mad because the government didn't make the speech. But the little youngster felt close enough to say, Hey Al, not governor, nothing else. Just Hey Al. He knew I had a pal. This little bright-eyed youngster looked up at the newsboys home and he says, Hey Al, when do we eat? Al says, Right away. He says, There'll be no speech at all. He said, They've had enough of talk now. And the orders were on the table. The table looked beautiful. The kids were just dying of hunger and the smell of turkey. And in no time at all because of the facility of Governor Smith, why the dinner got underway and the kids were all happy. Thank you, Monsignor. Well, it looks as though the party's breaking up now. There's a great cross-section of our city here. The clergy are here from all the different faiths. We've seen some nuns from the parochial schools here. St. James's Old Parish is one of the factors here on the outskirts of this housing project. Mr. Baruch is trying to get through now and a Catholic nun is stepping aside in order that Mr. Baruch may progress to the car where he wants to reach his car. I'm just waiting now to see if a final word is necessary from the mayor or anybody else before I take the liberty of signing off. Well, everybody's smiling and everybody's happy because we know as we look at these magnificent buildings with their prospect of the East River, the wonderful old Brooklyn Bridge with its cathedral arches and all the other atmospheres that make New York the greatest spot of anything in any other place in the world and makes New York the real place in the world. The mayor is trying to push his way through now. The mayor is shaking hands with all the neighbors now and having a very good time. Any final word, Mr. Mayor? The mayor is certainly receiving a neighborhood greeting here and there's no doubt there's controller Lazarus Joseph now making his way to the car. Well, the great old neighborhood down here has had a wonderful thrill and as long as the name of Al Smith exists, this part of New York City will be the great part of New York City because he was a great citizen. And nobody developed that fact more thoroughly than the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Well, that looks about all we can say for you now from the Al Smith housing down here on the waterfront right by the Brooklyn Bridge. And we take this opportunity to thank you all for your kind attention and conclude from the Al Smith housing project. This is the municipal broadcasting system. The mayor of Omaha County. Domestic meinen i am a