Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, should married women work? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the economic and psychological problems of mothers employed outside the home. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Margaret Reed, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, Ethel Vary, Executive Secretary of the Chicago Child Care Society, and Thomas W. Richards, Professor of Psychology at Northwestern University. Now, uh, Ms. Reed, Ms. Vary, Mr. Richards, we've had several complaints about our question, should married women work? Here's one comment. Your question implies that married women do not work. And then this writer goes on, have you ever tried taking care of a house, a husband, and five children? Have you ever tried that, Mrs. Vary? Well, I never tried taking care of a husband, a house, and five children, but I've had a house, a husband, and two. I think it is quite a lot of work. I would certainly say that you couldn't say that a married woman with a husband and children doesn't have work to do. I wonder if we aren't concerned primarily here today with married women who are working outside the home. Would that be a, uh, a good rephrasing of this question? It seems to me it would be advisable to narrow it somewhat more, because you have very great differences among the women, uh, who are among married women. Some have children and some do not. Some have, uh, young children and some have older children. And in addition to that, it seems to me you need to make a distinction as to whether the husband is present or not. Because you have married women whose husbands are present and you have some whose husbands are absent. And in addition to that, you have married women, uh, such as the widowed and divorced group, who are in many cases, they so have, uh, earners in the family. Uh, so that, uh, in narrowing the question down, it seems to me you might look at, uh, first of all, the largest group, which are the married women with, uh, husbands. And then to think in terms of, uh, the married, uh, women, uh, with husbands who have children. Uh, they, after all, do constitute of a major group, uh, for which there would be any concern, uh, in raising the question. Well, certainly as a, uh, as a, uh, married man, Mrs. Burry, with a wife and three children, I, I shouldn't have the temerity to, to suggest here in this public place that married women do not have, uh, occupations in the home when they have a home to take care of and, and three children. Uh, I, I'm inclined to believe we might be wise in accepting, uh, Ms. Reed's, uh, modifications here. But let me read one more comment before we go on, if I may. It goes like this. I hope you make a distinction, this writer says, between married women with children and those without children. Of course, that's just exactly what Ms. Reed was proposing. But this person goes on. Those with children belong in the home. And those without children ought to work. What do you think of that one? Well, I think that's sort of ridiculous too, to generalize about, um, situations as complicated as, uh, the situation of whether or not married women should work. It seems to me that some married women without children can make a pretty good contribution, just staying at home. Or, I'd leave out the just. Just staying at home and, uh, keeping a good home and doing many of the volunteer things that women do in the community. Being board members and, and being good neighbors. I'm wondering, uh, what the size of this problem is that we're dealing with. How many married women do work? Do you have any statistics on that? Well, we have statistics, uh, in rather a refined type for the year 1948. And although that is four years ago, I think that we can assume that they pretty much describe the situation at the present time. Now, when you take the women who have husbands, uh, uh, married women who have husbands present in the family, you'll find that the 22% of that group are gainfully employed. But if you look at these, uh, families in terms of the number of children, you'll find that for the women who have one or more children under six, only 9% of those have gainful work during the year 1948. If there was one or more children, 6 to 17, 21% of those were gainfully employed. But if there were no children under 17, then you had 28% gainfully employed. So you see that there is, these figures clearly show that the presence of the young child especially, and to some extent the older child, has a definite bearing on whether they, uh, the mother is gainfully employed. What are the trends with respect to this problem? Now those figures were for what year? That was for the year 1948. Well, we have data that go back to 1890. In that year, 5% of the married women were gainfully employed. In 1940, 15%. In 1949, 24%. So you see there has been a very definite increase in the, uh, percentage of married women who were gainfully employed. And even if the, um, percentage of mothers of children under six is fairly small, the number I understand is about one and two-thirds million mothers. That's right. Quite a lot of mothers of young children. That's right. Out of the home. That's right. So you have to take into account that when you talk about 9% of the families, you're talking about a very, very large group in terms of numbers. Well, now it's obvious in raising the question, should married women work, we're dealing with a, uh, with a pretty important trend here, aren't we? Do you implore this, uh, deplore this, uh, trend, uh, uh, Mrs. Verry, that, uh, Ms. Reed's figures would suggest? Well, I don't deplore it any more than I would deplore bad weather. Sometimes I don't like it very much. I'm not even saying that I think for women to work out of the home is bad weather. But I certainly wouldn't deplore it because I think it's a trend here to stay. It seems to me it's pretty clear that many married women are not going back into the kinds of homes they have to go back into now. Two-room apartments and husband gone most of the day. So that my emphasis would be not to deplore it but to see what we can do about it. Do you go along with that, Richard? Well, I would say that if the mother's working outside of the home represents to the child a rejection to the child, then it's deplorable, certainly. Uh, I have no way of knowing how much of the working activity of the mothers does represent rejection to children. I am sure that some children are rejected by this, at least in a few instances. Do you think, though, that the mother who rejects her child is any worse off rejecting it by going out to work than rejecting it by not taking good care of it at home? Certainly not, and I think many children are rejected with the mother in the home all the time. So that the working, it seems to me, is not crucial in this regard. Well, why are these married women going out to work in such large numbers, Miss Reed? Well, it's very hard to know why people do certain things. We do know when we look at the figures that it is closely related to the income of the husband. So that the figures would indicate that it is the sense of need to provide better living for the family. And to that extent, the working mother is doing her best to take care of her children. I think we have to remember that. It is not, in many instances, she sees it as her way to provide for children. But I do think we have to realize that it's a more complicated thing than that. Uh, you will find some situations where the mother feels very definitely the need of getting with an adult group for more days of her, uh, more hours of her day than is possible. And if she's at home, so I'm sure that it's to some extent mixed up with that. The, uh, do you think there any, you would find any explanation in the, uh, uh, our national economy that would, uh, explain this, uh, Miss Reed? Well, certainly, uh, during, uh, World War II, there was a definite effort to recruit married women. And they, uh, I have seen figures just lately, uh, on sizing up the manpower possibilities in the United States of gauging how many, uh, married women could be attracted into industry. Uh, so that, uh, to that extent, uh, the married women, uh, group is looked upon in some measure as a reservoir of extra manpower that could be recruited. Don't you think there's another trend also that youngsters today, adolescents, let's say, are inclined to look at marriage as possible because both partners may work and contribute to the support mutually of the, uh, of the marriage? That's true. And there has been a reduction in the age of marriage. In 1890, the average age of first marriage of the male was 26 years. And in 1940, it was 24. Uh, there's been somewhat similar reduction in the age of the female, but not quite so great. Uh, so that this, to some extent, uh, may be occurring, uh, because of the difference in the nature of the support of the family. And we do know that in the early years of marriage, a considerable percentage of the women before there is a child, uh, are gauging involved. Well, this economic arrangement is very nice for a married couple, I think. Uh, unfortunately, uh, married couples sometimes have children, and the birth of the first child can well upset this pleasant economy, uh, perhaps at a point before the married couple is prepared to restructure their... Of course, that puts, uh, that, uh, you put your finger there on what is, is very apparently the principal problem which we're concerned today. Uh, is it possible for a, a, uh, working mother to have her young children adequately, uh, taken care of? Is that possible, Mrs. Berry? Well, I think it's really, it is possible. I think it puts a pretty hard burden on the working mother to do it, and when you look at the community, I think it puts a responsibility on the community to develop more resources than we have now to help the working mother, for whatever reason she's working, to make adequate provision for her young children. Well, what kind of resources are you talking about? Well, I'm, was talking really primarily then about nursery schools and daycare centers for little children, because the school-age child does go to school, and we have, uh, those children taken care of during the school hours. I would, I would say, I think the development of after-school centers for many school-age children are almost as important as the development of nursery schools. In other words, you, you seem to have a two-point program there, that is, keep the schools open longer, keep the lights on, so that these school children can stay there until their mothers get home. And number two, a, a, a program of, uh, of day nurseries for the children of, uh, working mothers. Both of them, to my mind, are real unmet needs in our Chicago community and in most of the communities throughout the country. Uh, we, here are a great many complaints about the school-age children who are door-key children, who go around with a house key around their necks and have nobody to go home to. Now, it's clear to me that we should have more of our, uh, school programs extended to provide real care for those children after school. Uh, the little children, uh, are much in need of nursery schools. We have no nursery schools, or almost none connected with our public school system. We have, it's interesting that in Chicago, we have about 350 daycare centers for, uh, nursery-age children, but only, in the last couple of years, have those centers been even subject to state licensing. So that anybody who wanted to start a, a daycare center for children could do it, and some of them were very substandard. What's your reaction to that kind of a program, Ms. Reed? Well, it seems to me that as you look at what has been happening, you see an increase in the gainful and vulnerable. Now, we recognize that the woman's contribution in the home is probably at its peak when the child is young, and that it is hardest, uh, to secure adequate care outside the home for the child. Much more difficult than, for example, to go out and buy a meal. So, and also, that the society is extremely interested in the welfare of the children. Now, as I see it, you have to, we have to recognize that we are, at least I feel myself that it's very desirable, to leave the decision as to whether or not to work to the mother. And if we see consequences that we don't like, it seems to me there are two lines of action that are possible. One is to say, uh, well, many of the mothers are making the wrong decision. Wrong from the, even from the standpoint of how they see the thing. And so, we need to have some way to help the mothers to make better decisions. And the second thing is that no matter what happens, there are probably going to be some mothers who make decisions that don't seem right from the standpoint of how society sees children not to be reared. Then it seems to me you'll have to say, what can we do about that end of the action? And it seems to me that is the thing Mrs. Berry has been talking about. But it seems we must recognize that we must help mothers to make better decisions. Better in terms of their own, because the final decision is going to be left to them. That, uh, suggests that a very real problem is, uh, how to reach, uh, mothers who, who, uh, want to work, uh, and bring to them the facts that you have suggested. These facts about how to raise children, one other thing. Now, may I, may I suggest that, uh, that, uh, Ms. Reed and Mrs. Berry seem to be, uh, apart on this one issue. I asked, uh, early in the discussion whether you deplored this, uh, this, uh, tendency for, uh, married women to work. And apparently, very apparently, it's a, it's a, it's a substantial trend in that direction. And, uh, Ms. Berry said, well, uh, she didn't deplore it anymore than she'd deplore bad weather. And then equivocated a bit on the matter of bad weather. But now you say, uh, uh, uh, Ms. Reed, that, uh, we ought to leave the decision to the mother, that we apparently do have some responsibility in advising these mothers. Well, what kind of advice would you give them? In other words, we can't beg that question. Do you advise them to stay home? Take care of their kids? Or do you advise the state of Illinois or the state of California to subsidize child centers for their youngsters? As we can't beg that question. Either we're going to advise them or we're not. And if we are going to advise them, this is a nice place to give the advice. I wouldn't advise them. I would merely try to get them to see the effects on the child. Now, if we are going to carry on an adequate educational program of that kind, we need more facts. Because we're talking here a good deal about the bad effects on the children, and we really don't know. Well, we know quite a lot about the bad effects on children of not having consistent mothering during their early years. But, of course, to say that a child has to have consistent mothering doesn't mean to say that his mother shouldn't go to work if she can get consistent mothering for him and adequate experiences. And one very important point there is that the young baby, and perhaps the child throughout the preschool years, should have the opportunity to live very closely with one mother or mother figure, one woman who will have the mother's role. This is of decreasing importance, perhaps, as you go through that preschool period, but of vital significance in early infancy. Yes, I agree absolutely with that, and think for that reason, for children under two, the community ought to do everything it possibly can to make it possible for all mothers of children under two to stay at home with their children. And when that isn't possible, to give those mothers a great deal of help in getting continuous mothering for the children. But how are you going to get continuous mothering for a child when the child's mother is employed? Well, if the child is under two, you can get what is almost continuous mothering by providing either a foster family home to which the mother can bring the child in the morning and pick it up in the evening. It's true it isn't one mother, but it's at least only two, a foster mother and an old mother, and I've seen children weather that pretty comfortably if both of the mothers are like one another, give the same kind of handling, and if it's carefully planned. Well, now, who will pay for facilities of that sort, Mrs. Berry, for these foster homes and for these day nursery schools, etc.? Well, I can't see myself but what it's a shared responsibility. Insofar as the mother is one of these typical working mothers that we've spoken about who has a husband supporting her, she probably then should pay out of her salary for the care of her child. But the mothers that I come in contact with are so many of them also responsible for the support of themselves and their children or their child, and I think the community has got to help in that situation. You're bringing in here the other group. That is the group where the husband is not present. And I would like to point out here that this is a group where the gainful employment is much higher. Whereas the married women where the husband is present, 22% of those are gainful employed, 49% are employed where the husband is absent, and 37% where the woman is widowed and divorced. We realize, of course, that the widowed and divorced group is of a higher age group than the others, and hence you have somewhat lower employment because of that. But here you have a case of where the earnings of the woman are much more important to the support of the family. And hence, she, the pressure to earn is very much greater. And where it becomes very important for her to have access to good care for her child while she works, because she's carrying a pretty heavy burden to support herself and do the housework at night and take care of the child. Now there is another very interesting figure that when you take the married women who are living with their husbands and have one child under six, 9% of those are gainfully employed. But if you take the other married women who have no husband present, 49% of those who have children under six are gainfully employed. Well now with that 49%, one can be profoundly sympathetic. And I think society has a very definite responsibility there. And I can be profoundly sympathetic, if anyone's interested in it, for married women where the husband's at home and the income is inadequate to the needs of the family. I suspect society has a responsibility there. But I'm thinking about the women who choose to work because they want to work. They get two incomes coming into the family, but the neighbor sits next door with one income coming in, scrimping along, taking the mothers home, taking care of the youngsters. Now I question whether society has any responsibility to augment the income of family A while family B sits home and sweats it out. Well I'm not sure that society should augment the income, but if your work... Well they augment it indirectly if they provide day nurseries to take care of the kids. Well can't they provide day nurseries and have the mother pay if she is able, if the family budget will swing it, pay for that care? You see the thing I'm concerned with is that if the mother is going to work, society has such a big stake in having the child have good care. Yes, I'd go along with that. I was wondering, Richard, whether you have any information on the incidents of juvenile delinquency, broken homes, etc. among these families where the mother works. Do we have any facts on that? I know of no breakdown of figures which would relate such problems to the specific factor of the mother working. Do you have any information on that? No, I have seen no figures on it. I think we have to realize that those factors are very mixed up with low income, which is also associated with the gainful employment of the mothers. Well in other words, are you saying that when we imply that these youngsters of working mothers are having a rough time that we're merely guessing? Well, I think we've seen in earlier discussion that the mother's motivation is the important thing and her working to support the home, contribute toward that support, may well be in the best interest of the children. In other words, it's the nature of her motivation, the warmth of feeling toward her children, it seems to me, that might well be reflected in her going out to get a job, as well as staying home and mothering her children physically. Those are the important considerations and I would think that it would be impossible to say that simply holding a job is a rejection to the child necessarily. It could be, but... Yes, and I think we have to realize too how really difficult many of the housing situations are, particularly for young families with young preschool children. A family with one or two preschool children in a two-room apartment, perhaps with the neighbors complaining if the children make a noise, is not really a good situation for those children. A mother may really be doing a very good thing for her child if she goes out to work in order to pay for a nursery school experience for that child, where he can run and holler and have some outdoor play. I agree with that. Well now you keep talking about these two-room apartments, which suggests that in your mind this is largely a problem of large metropolitan centers. Is that a fact? No, if you look at the figures for the villages in the United States, they show very much the same pattern as for the urban communities. Not exactly, but slightly lower employment, but still not so much that you'd feel it was a totally different situation. But of course I imagine that the youngsters in the smaller towns have a bit more freedom to get around than they would have in a large metropolitan center. And I may be dreaming about something I don't know anything about, but it seems to me they'd be a little safer for an hour or two after school than they are in Chicago with no home to go to. I know I have a tendency to idealize the country town, perhaps it isn't such a safe place, but I think a child left on the streets in Chicago or left in a small apartment in Chicago is worse off than the same child in the small town probably. At least there the neighbors know him and his parents and here perhaps not even the neighbors know who he is. Well now there's one factor in this whole problem that we have left essentially undiscussed and that's the role of these married women in the workforce. Now if that has increased from what was it in 1899? 5% 5% in 1899 to... 24% in 1949. You have quite an increase. That represents some millions of people added to the workforce. Now are these married women taking jobs that ought to be available to men and entering into competition with men in a way that's embarrassing? Well, it's very hard to discuss that question at the present time and say yes to your question, but I think we have to look at the thing in these terms. During the period from 1890 to 1949 has been a great period of expanding prosperity in the United States with a few major exceptions of short periods of depression. But the long-run trend has been toward a much higher real income and that higher real income has occurred because we have made use of our productive resources and part of the labor force that has been drawn in, that has helped to make America prosperous, has been the addition of the married woman to the labor force. And that I think is a very important thing to recognize. So I would say that on the whole, this has been a good thing economically in terms of increased productivity. Of course we can... However, we have to recognize that if a woman gives up the more important job that she can contribute in the household for gainful work, it is not an addition to the total economy. But in many of the cases, and probably most of the cases, it has been a net addition to the welfare of society. Of course, we can all remember the time. This question that I am raising here about the competitive force of the married women in the workforce sounds a bit academic at this time when we are looking for help and encouraging these people to work. But most of us around the table, possibly with the exception of young Dr. Richards here, can remember the time when these people were very real competition. Do I do you an injustice, Tom? I don't get the meaning of your remark. I can remember the time when, well for instance, school boards took unfavorable attitudes toward the employment of married women. Not because they were unsuccessful teachers, but because they thought those jobs ought to be reserved for somebody else. And I assume that that attitude has prevailed in the case of a good many jobs. Does that make any sense at all? Oh yes, that makes sense in a situation where you have a great deal of unemployment. And I think whenever we have a large amount of unemployment, there will be criticism of women in the labor force where it is an additional income in the family. And legitimate criticism, you think? There are so many other legitimate criticisms that ought to be made in that situation that I think it wouldn't hurt to add that to it. But it's only one of many, many situations that ought to be taken into account. I think it's rather interesting that in 1949, the average income of husbands was $3,000. And the average income of those wives in that group that was working was $1,100. So that the men are the main support of the family in this situation. Well now, if that is true, those figures are exceedingly interesting. You are comparing $3,000 with what? $1,100. All those salaries sound pretty low now, don't they? But does that mean that as these married women come into industry, into jobs, that they depress wage scales? They're only depressing their own in that case. Well, if they're... There's a big gap there. I mean, if they pulled the two together, it would be some... There might be some grounds for believing that. You think there's no serious problem in this matter of depressing wages? I don't think so. Now let's... Anyway, we don't grow rich by not having production. But we must remember that all production isn't just in making things either. That the woman who stays at home and makes a good life for her family and her neighbors is producing. That's very, very, very good point. Even though we don't put a dollar figure on it, it's a very important part of our total production. I'm sorry, ladies and Dr. Richards, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Should Married Women Work? We want to thank our guests for today. Margaret Reid, Professor of Economics, University of Chicago. Thomas W. Richards, Professor of Psychology, Northwestern University. And Ethel Berry, Executive Secretary of the Chicago Child Care Society. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss a question of considerable importance to parents and educators alike. Do we face a teacher shortage? Our guests will be Arthur G. Adams, Assistant State Superintendent of Public Instruction for the State of Illinois. Paul G. Edwards, Vice Chairman of the Board of Examiners for the Chicago Public Schools. Mrs. T. H. Ludlow, President of the Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers. And Dr. E. T. McSwain, Dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University. We hope you will be with us next week for a discussion that is not wholly unrelated, I might add, to the problem we've had before us today. Our question next week, do we face a teacher shortage? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. A TV ODC. TheSabre podcasting system. Thank you. Thank you. I hope you enjoyed it. We are getting an amazing주 out of the stew. It's clear. We are getting one minute. We'll see you later again today. There are a few more things don't mind. If you are thinking of, are weless Jim? What are your puppies station's hands or if not? If you've had a, let alone, let's try and dua. The KensI H. Mypel проб deck is the ever Autobahn part. No means no surprise. The thing that obviously can happen later, we're figuring out exactly what your parents and the about.