Ladies and gentlemen, I've just been advised by Mrs. Singer that I may get started. And you know, in this great organization which we have called Civil Defense, you take all your orders from women. I've been trying to get away from them for years, but I haven't succeeded. And Mrs. Singer tonight is in complete control of this party. And she's joined in this great effort by Mrs. Leonard Beckett, who has done a perfectly superb job. And my little part in this is to tell you how much we appreciate your coming here tonight and how important you are to this whole civil defense problem. Dentists are most important. I read a story the other day about poor Bob Patterson, who would not have been identified unless it was for his dentist. And I know also about a man in my own organization that was burnt up in connection with a flight from California to New York. And the only thing that identified him was his dentist. He was burnt completely. Now, it shows how very essential and how very important you all are to civil defense. It's unfortunate we have to think in these terms. I very much just like to think in the terms of disaster and things of that kind, but we must. And it is essential for us to understand that you, the professional men of New York, have to do your job and have to do that part of which is so essentially important. Identification. You will hear from doctors in the health department and in the hospital department tonight and your own association. But I want to tell you right now that it is so essential for you to understand how important you are to civil defense. Of course. You know, there are people in the city service that we don't know very much about, but they're so important to all of us, so very vital to our whole life, that I think that we ought to really do something about it. I'm one of those that believe that those who serve in the civil service and who are a part of our daily lives should be recognized. But we forget all about them and we forget constantly about people who contribute much more health care and how important that we are to do. But when I studied the 50th anniversary of New York, I learned a great deal. I found that the health situation, as far as New York was concerned, had improved from 45 years of the normal health care and that was recognized by the life insurance companies. Now, that just doesn't happen. I think that we ought to acknowledge that the health measures put into operation by the health department and the hospital department are all very vital to all of us. I remember something in connection with the World's Fair which I'm going to tell you about. You may or may not remember that I was president of the World's Fair Corporation. And a lot of people thought that they could go down into the amusement section of the World's Fair and really do a job. By a job, I mean that they could be careless. They could not be vital to the health of the community. And I asked our late beloved mayor, Fiorello LaGuardia, to give me a health commissioner who could operate at the World's Fair. And he was a tough hombre if there was ever one. And I, as the president of the World's Fair, supported him 100 percent. And when the girls, I think the girls are still around here, put lipstick on their glasses and they weren't able to get the lipstick off the glasses, he was able to say that they didn't have a sufficient amount of heat area to see that the lipstick was wiped off the glasses. And we were able to conduct that fair with about 30 million people without one casualty, simply because of the fact that health was paramount in the idea of this man, who was given to us by Mayor LaGuardia, and whom we paid double his salary. And all you doctors should get double your salary, Dr. Rosenthal. And he did a marvelous job. One of those things that were, to my mind, a very fine thing. You recall the Century of Progress in Chicago and the Stevens Hotel, where they had very serious diseases and contagions and things of that kind. We had none of those at the World's Fair, and it was due entirely to the man chosen by Mayor LaGuardia and appointed by me to be the director of health at New York World's Fair. Now, there's another man that's similar to him, and I like to think of him as a part of that sort of a tradition in the fair, Dr. Rosenthal. And I want you to hear him at this moment. Thank you very much, Commissioner Whaler. It's quite an honor to be compared to Dr. Grimley, who was the grim health officer of the World's Fair. He really was a tough hombre. As I sat here this evening, ladies and gentlemen, thinking of the fact that in the past 30-odd years, I, for my sins, have attended literally thousands of medical meetings. And at these medical meetings, the welcome accorded me has ranged all the way from acute indifference to throwing brickbats at me. And tonight, one of the first dental meetings I've ever attended, I was greeted with open arms, met old friends that I hadn't seen for some time, and even was given a flower. And this is appropriate, and it conforms with Mr. Whalen's mention of Sophie Irene Loeb. At least I have the flower while I'm still relatively alive. I don't think we can approach the subject of civil defense in any spirit other than a serious and realistic view. All of you have read in the newspapers and popular magazines in the past two years of the dreadful consequences of an atomic explosion. And since we are realistic, all of us are aware of the fact that there exists potential aggressors, that these aggressors possess atomic weapons, and they possess the means for delivering them to us here. And should such a catastrophe occur, and we all hope and pray that it shall not, should such a catastrophe occur, the disaster in terms of injured and wounded and dead would be on a scale hitherto unknown in this hemisphere. For that reason, because of the very magnitude of the catastrophe, it is necessary to marshal all of the resources of the community for the emergency situation. And there's nothing of any elaborate specialized service in this concept, that is, the concept of emergency medical care. Some of you who may have witnessed or been present or even participated in the citywide civil defense drills, which have already taken place, there was one in November and one in April of this year, may have had a chance to witness some of the operations of these first aid stations. There is a very well integrated plan whereby casualties, once they are treated in the first aid station, or evacuated to hospitals, either in the city or more remote. At any rate, the point I should like to emphasize and stress is that in our organization and in our planning, we have already gone beyond the paper phase and now have arrived at the actual direct phase of operations. And in order to operate successfully, we must have your cooperation and we must have your assistance and we want you to enroll in the Civil Defense Corps and join up in this very necessary civic enterprise. I'm now going to have the pleasure of hearing Dr. Charles B. Mandelbaum. I do hope that the matter of civil defense will not be a catastrophic conception where we're concerned. We're not going to think in terms of catastrophe under any circumstances. We're going to think of ourselves as Americans as the first power in the whole world, in resources, in all of the things that make up the spiritual aspects of human existence. Everything that's worthwhile is represented by this great country. And in order to be that type of country, you can't just be the type individual who sits by and lets the world parade past you. You've got to be prepared. Look at little Switzerland. Not a war in 120 years. Look at all of the other little groups of Sweden. Not a war in 110 years. They're prepared. I gave you a slogan, a preparation is prevention. And I dare say this. I don't think there would have been a World War II if Hitler had realized that we could have responded as we did. That stovepipe broomstick era that was before the actual conflict misled those people to believe that there was a possibility that they could just walk away and do anything they want. I say this. For the saving of human lives. For the actual representation of yourselves as the citizens of the world that you must represent yourselves to be. Be prepared. And there'll never be a war. And we'll never have an atom bomb. They're not afraid of the atom bomb in Russia so much as the potential that we represent that was shown in the two war conflict. They're not afraid of the atom bomb in Russia. They've been able to do that. And there's no way to be a war. That's what they know we have. Well, if we're going to prevent war, if we're going to prevent their slapping our face from time to time, if they're going to prevent the type of economy that we're constantly forced to have, if they're going to be prevented from having the strains and stresses that are ruining us in many respects, let's be strong. And if this civil defense manifestation is the thing that will frighten them into doing what is only humanly expected of them, let's be strong in civil defense as a star. Thank you very much. Thank you.