By Chaplain Edward R. Martin, the well-beloved Chaplain of the First Army. Chaplain Martin. Prayer is a lifting up of our minds and hearts to Almighty God, to adore Him, to thank Him, and to petition for future favors. There is no more appropriate time than now to offer up a prayer while we honor the first President of these United States. Therefore, with bowed heads, let us offer up our prayer to Almighty God. Almighty God, Father of all mankind, in whose hands our future destiny lies, we here present with humble heart petition thee to be present with us now and forever. Amen. The New York chapter of the Military Order of the World Wars is proud to honor the first President of the United States, General George Washington, who on this site 163 years ago was elected the first President of the United States. Couriers were appointed to carry the news to him in Virginia. He had a triumphal progress from Virginia to New York, and later on, on this site, he was elected and sworn in as the first President of the United States. We are very honored to have today as our first Speaker, Vice Admiral Calvin T. Durgan, President of the New York State Maritime College. Admiral Durgan served his country for 39 years before he retired. During World War II, he commanded the aircraft carrier, the U.S. Ranger, during the invasion of French Morocco. Later promoted to the rank of Rear Admiral, he served as commander of carrier task force in the Mediterranean, the Philippines, at Iwo Jima, and Okinawa. After the war, he became Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Air. After a tour of duty as commander of the First Fleet, he retired from the Navy and is now President of the New York State Maritime College. Admiral Durgan. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to join with you today in these ceremonies. When George Washington was elected the first President of the United States on this very site, on April the 6th, 1789, he must have wondered what the future held in store for this fledgling nation. This new state, dedicated to ideals which sprung from the inner hearts of men, was now on its own. Here we were, a struggling in a vast uncharted sea of international intrigue, amongst the other nations of the world which had grown wise in the ways of politics, and cynical in the ways of diplomacy. To a less courageous man, our future would have looked hopeless. Washington should be estimated the problems that would beset this young country, and determined that if we were to become great, we must steer clear of the feuds and century-old hatreds of the old world. He saw that the United States must first learn how to be a nation at home before it ventured abroad. Even in these early days, he must have been forming a dictum expressed so wisely in his farewell address, that our nation, and I quote here, that our nation should steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of a foreign world. I still quote, and he says, So far, I mean, as we are at liberty to do so. As we turn our thoughts today back to April the 4th, we turn our thoughts today on April the 4th, 1952, towards our reverend first president, we might well wonder, what would he say to us if he were here? If he could for a brief moment walk upon his life stage and hear the rumble of the guns, and the terrible roar of the atomic weapons, the screams from the hidden torture chambers, and the last gas of liberty and freedom in all parts of the world, if he could hear all these things, what would he, the foremost of our forefathers, say to us? I believe he would tell us that his farewell address had left us a blueprint, that he had charted our course. He urged us to remain aloof from alliances with the foreign world only so long as we were at liberty to do so. Knowing his great passion for justice, his unquenchable determination to preserve these United States, we may be sure that in today's world, George Washington would have found no reason for us to shrink off in our corner and let the bullies of the world take over. He would feel that we had lost our right to remain aloof, and now must enter into the affairs of the world community and do our part in preserving the freedom of the democratic countries of the world. Like all military men, Washington hated and detested the tragedy of war. But like all men of honor, he loved freedom and justice more. So I rather believe. I believe that as he looks down approvingly upon us from his celestial home, that he will take pride in our efforts. And he'll prove of our activities to safeguard the liberties of the disinheritance of the earth. We can please him best by being true to the heritage that he has left us. Our next speaker, Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger, General Willis D. Krittenberger started out in the cavalry, but he was one of the leaders in changing the cavalry into the armed division, first armed division, second armed division. During the Second World War, for 401 days he commanded our forces as they fought their way slowly up the Italian peninsula. And finally he accepted the surrender of the German forces in 1945. At the present time, he not only holds the position of commanding general of the First Army, but he is also chairman of the Inter-American Defense Board. He's on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and is the principal military advisor to the United States delegation of the United Nations. It's a great honor to present to you General Krittenberger. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, today as we commemorate the election of George Washington on these historic steps, we Americans are provided an opportunity to rededicate ourselves to those qualities of our first president, president, which were the key to his character and the foundation stones upon which he built this republic. Let us now recall some of these characteristics of Washington. First, realism and steadfastness were qualities which the father of our country possessed to a marked degree. In these times of world tension, realistic attitude towards our problems is vital. We must realize as a people and also as a nation, our capabilities, our potentialities, our limitations, and our shortcomings. Such a good hard look at ourselves, such a survey of the contemporary scene, the contemporary scene, provides a realism that could be of great value on this anniversary. You know, the alternate cycles of strength and weakness in national defense do not serve the best interests of our country. Instead, a more sustained effort should be our goal. Today, as always, we Americans can best face the challenge of life with strength and an abiding steadfastness to stand up for the ideals which have made this country great. Next, Washington's courage. His courage was a tower of strength to the struggling young nation during and after the Revolutionary War. So, must we be courageous in our decisions and actions. Now, we come to his firmness. The firmness was another of Washington's traits which could well be applied to our nation's character today. As individuals and as a people, he would have us be steadfast in the face of uncertainty, vigorous in our action, and resolute and determined that our country shall endure. Then comes his sincerity. Washington's sincerity could be our keynote and guide. As individuals in our relationships to one another, and as a nation in our dealing with other nations. Lastly, and of great importance, is the matter of honesty. We have had impressed upon us Washington's honesty of convictions. Americans live by certain principles of honesty which constitute a birthright. To lose sight of these principles, which are the very heart and life blood of our democracy, could very well be tragic. And this short resume of character of our first president would seem to indicate the wisdom of reaffirming our faith in these principles. So today, let us rededicate ourselves to those qualities of realism, of steadfastness, of courage, of firmness, of sincerity, and of honesty, of conviction. George Washington is a shining example of these qualities and the effect they have of the moral, mental, and spiritual fiber of this country. In 1787, Washington counseled the Constitutional Convention as follows. The rest is in the hands of God. On this signal occasion then, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the wisdom of those sage remarks made by the father of our country 163 years ago. The next speaker, Major General Leon W. Johnson of the United States Air Force, became a pilot over 30 years ago. The second world war, he was in command of the 44th bomb group, who operated in Europe from England, then in Africa. And he himself personally led the raid on the Romanian oil fields that was such an important influence in shortening the war in the Mediterranean area. For his courage in leading that raid, he received the Congressional Medal of Honor. Since then, he has been in England in command first of the 3rd Air Division and then of the 3rd Air Force. He was in the 4th Air Force. Planes from his command were supplied to the famous Berlin Airlift. They were not only serviced and supplied, but they acted as a clearinghouse for many of the planes that took part in the Berlin Airlift. He also was chief of military assistance of the advisory group for the United Kingdom. He is now the commanding general of the Continental Air Command. It's a great pleasure to introduce to you General Johnson. General Johnson. Mr. Chairman, honored guests, members of the New York chapter of the military order of the World Wars, ladies and gentlemen, I have recently returned from more than three years of duty in Europe. And after taking over my responsibilities as commander of the Continental Air Command, I took a flight around the United States, all the way to the west coast, then down through the south. After flying around Europe, where it was possible to go from London to Rome in a matter of a few hours, or where on a flight of two or three hours we could cross several international boundaries, I couldn't help wondering what this country, that is our country, has that Europe doesn't have. How can we be such a cohesive people, dedicated to common ideals, and working with a common purpose throughout our vast land? Then I saw again our busy cities, our bustling, ever-expanding, ever-building, and as I flew over New York City for the first time in several years, years of the first time in the country. I said to myself, I don't believe it, it can't exist. Now we are truly a favored people. We can thank God for giving us such men as the founders of our nation, particularly the man we honor today, that is our first president. Had our founders not laid the proper path for us to travel, we would not stand as the bulwark for peace in the world. We would not be the hope of all those peoples in the world who wish to live in peace and who believe in the rights and privileges of the individual. Our founders built very well. Their foundation, based on common sense and faith, has been with us for 163 years. And at only one time was there a serious danger of collapse of the structure, and that was in the 1860s. May our generation add its small might to the structure, so that in the future our children and our children's children will say this generation was endowed with the same wisdom and faith which motivated our beloved and honored first president. Thank you. On behalf of the New York chapter of the Military Order of the World Wars, I wish to thank all of our distinguished guests who have come here today. I wish to thank also our friends of the First Army Band who supplied us with such beautiful patriotic music, and the color guards and all those who have taken part in doing honor to the first president of the United States. When he accepted the nomination as president, he said to the people of the United States, the United States, there is only two things that I can promise you, and they are firmness and integrity. And I am sure that every patriotic American wishes for our country the integrity, the firmness, the sincerity of George Washington, and of all the great leaders of our country who have made it the greatest nation in the world today. Now before we conclude this ceremony, I want to introduce to you the commander of the New York chapter, Colonel Robert J. Hyland, retired. Colonel Hyland, please step up for a minute. Colonel Hyland, retired. Colonel Hyland, retired. We hope that everyone will reserve the 17th of April for Armed Forces Day, when again we do honor to the armed forces of our country. For many years, the 6th of April has been celebrated as Army Day. It was founded by the military order of the World Wars, and we are commemorating today the men in our Army and our other armed forces who are so bravely defending our freedom overseas. In conclusion then, we will call upon Miss Lucy Monroe, who has just returned from Florida, especially for this celebration, to sing My Country Tis of Thee. Miss Monroe. Miss Parkinson, played by the Frankenstein, to sing My Country Tis of Thee, It is of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrims cried, from every mountainside, let freedom ring. Our fathers, God, to thee, author of liberty, to thee we sing. Born may our land be bright, with freedom's holy light. Protect us by thy might. Great God, our King. Let me correct the error that I made in saying that Armed Forces Day was on the 17th of April. It's the 17th of May. We hope you'll all put it down on that Saturday and help us do honor to the Armed Forces of our country. We conclude this celebration now with a benediction by Chaplain Alden A. Reed, Assistant District Chaplain of the 3rd Naval District. Chaplain Reed. It is fitting once more that we raise our hearts in prayer as we close this ceremony. Let us pray. Almighty God, as we have come to the close of this ceremony held by the New York chapter of the military orders of the World Wars, in commemoration of the election of General George Washington as first president of the United States, help us as citizens of our great commonwealth to carry with us the ideals of patriotism embodied in the father of our country, and may we always be bound together in the tithe of human brotherhood, which for our nation knows no boundaries, and may the freedom won by so great a cost by our heroes both past and present be ours until the end of time, and may God's peace be in our hearts as we separate to attend the business of our daily lives. In the name of God, our creator, amen. You have been listening to a celebration of the election of George Washington as first president of the United States. Among the participants in this afternoon's ceremonies have been Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger, Commanding General of the First Army, Vice Admiral Calvin T. Durgin, President of the New York State Maritime College, Major General Leon W. Johnson, Commanding General, Continental Air Command, and other distinguished guests. From the steps of the Subtreasury building, we return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
