But on our part, we were able to inform Mr. Schuman of the assistance which the United States could provide toward the achievement of security and toward the development of healthy nationalism in these associated states of Indochina. In London, the initiative of the Commonwealth Conference at Sydney for a program of economic development in South and Southeast Asia was fully discussed, and Mr. Bevin was informed that the United States government on its part will attempt to coordinate its efforts in that area with the efforts of the Commonwealth in order that our actions may be mutually supportive. By strengthening the economy and the defenses of the Atlantic community, we believe that we are making a direct contribution to the security and defense of all free nations. Mr. Bevin and I also reaffirmed the concern of our governments with the security and welfare of Greece, of Turkey, and of Iran. Together with Mr. Schuman, we agreed on a firm policy towards armed shipments and security for the Arab states and Israel, which should greatly assist in promoting peace and stability in that important area. In South and Southeast Asia, a great development has been taking place. Never before in history have so many peoples acquired national independence in so short a time. The United States and other members of the Atlantic community were glad to see this happen. We worked for it. We assisted it. And in our meetings, we recognized our large responsibility for helping it to succeed. The great need of these newly independent peoples is for a period of peace and quiet in which they can concentrate on the difficult problems of establishing their political and economic institutions. The success of our efforts in the Atlantic community will greatly assist in giving them this opportunity. I do wish to emphasize the basic understanding on objectives. The basic understanding of the dangers and threats which confront us. And the basic understanding of the requirement for action. I also want to stress the business-like atmosphere of these meetings. These things may not appear at first glance to be dramatic. But this is, in my opinion, the most dramatic fact which could be reported. It is news of a quiet, of a practical, and of an immense significance. Especially in this report, there is the problem of defending the North Atlantic area, which was the subject of the meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Council. The 12 member countries had previously recognized the need for a common defense against a common threat. The North Atlantic Treaty itself had its origins in this realization. First of all, it should be made plain that there was nothing which any of the foreign ministers, not any one of the 12 foreign ministers, had to say, which indicated that there is any immediate threat of war. It was our unanimous view that that was not the problem. The problem is to meet a threat which, in view of the known program of the Kremlin, will exist unless we act now to prepare our defenses against aggression. It was made unmistakably clear in all our discussions that our common purpose in preparing our common defenses is a peaceful one. We hope never to need them. But so long as any dictatorship builds powerful armed forces, so long must democracies, if they are to be left in peace, evidence their determination to defend themselves by maintaining adequate forces in being and an adequate state of preparedness. Mr. Lange, the foreign minister of Norway, summed up this thought when he said at the end of our meetings, peace will never be secure in a world where democracies are weak and dictatorships alone are strong. The work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in the first year of its existence had shown that the task of defense is so large, its cost in labor and material resources so high, and the problem of security so indivisible that only a combined effort will be an adequate effort. The work of this meeting of the Council, which grew out of its review and its full approval of the work of the defense ministers and the finance ministers, and of their progress to date in planning a combined effort, was twofold. It was necessary, first of all, to establish the principles which should guide our common defense efforts. Secondly, the Council concluded that the requirements of the combined effort were such that additional machinery was needed to enable the Council to do its job efficiently and effectively. The job is a full-time job and requires on a full-time basis the services of the best men that the member countries can assign to it. The Council therefore decided that each government should appoint a deputy to its representative on the Council in order that the Council can function continuously in giving direction to the work of the organization. The deputies are to select from among themselves an outstanding man as permanent chairman, who in addition to presiding at meetings of the deputies, will be responsible for directing the work of the Council. The Council decided that the following five tasks should be undertaken by the deputies. First, to coordinate the various planning activities related to defense. Second, to recommend the measures necessary to carry out these plans. Third, to consider common political problems related to the objectives of the treaty. Fourth, to promote and coordinate public information on treaty questions. Five, to consider the development of political and economic cooperation as contemplated in Article 2 of the treaty. This list of tasks is worth citing in full in order to emphasize the importance of the work which is to be undertaken by the deputies, and the need of securing from each country a man of the highest qualifications who will have the complete confidence of his own and of all other governments. The ability of the organization to get on with its job will very largely depend upon the caliber of the men who are appointed as deputies. It will equally depend upon the support they receive from all branches of their governments and from their peoples. Perhaps the most important action of the Council was the recommendation to governments of a principle to guide the development of the common defense. This principle is the creation of balanced collective forces rather than the duplication by each nation in a large or small way of what every other nation was doing. After a careful review of the plans which had been prepared, it became evident to each of us that the principle of balanced collective forces was the only principle which could reconcile the resources available with the demands upon them. It is the only way in which forces can be developed to meet successfully any initial attack and to carry through to a successful conclusion any war which may be forced upon us. For the task of providing an adequate common defense and adequate standards of living is so large that waste and unnecessary duplication will prevent its achievement. This principle of balanced collective forces is of great and of perhaps revolutionary significance. It has its legislative origin so far as this government is concerned in the Mutual Defense Assistance Act of 1949, which stipulated that the assistance to be granted by the United States to other North Atlantic Treaty countries should be used to promote, and I quote the language of the Act, the integrated defense of the North Atlantic area. This principle demonstrates that each country will rely on every other member of the community, and that the community will look to each country to contribute what it is best able to contribute to the common defense in accordance with a common plan. This principle demonstrates that each country recognizes that its own security is no better than the security of the community as a whole. This principle will give tangible proof to an aggressor that he must face the combined resources of the community, and that there will be no opportunity to pick off one member of the community at a time. The United States, as the most populous member of the North Atlantic community, and the one with the largest and most productive plant, has necessarily a leading role in building balanced collective forces. If we faithfully observe this principle, and direct our energies to the creation of such forces, we will find a corresponding response from the other treaty members. The President has authorized me to say that he supports Secretary Johnson and me in our view that we must make this principle work. For we can see no other way to accomplish the job of defense, and at the same time, to get ahead with the constructive task of building a successfully functioning economy in the free world. The job cannot be done unless we do our full part, which includes the provision of mutual defense assistance. If we and our Atlantic community partners each take our respective share of the common burden, the goal can be attained. I am confining my present remarks on this vital point, the point of the building of balanced collective forces, to this reference only. Since within the week I shall appear before the appropriate congressional committees in support of the mutual defense assistance program, when I shall have an opportunity to discuss this problem more fully. These are the main outlines of what was accomplished at the meetings in Paris and London. I believe that it was a good ten days' work. Most of what was done was a beginning of still further progress. Beginnings are very important. It is an experienced, an inexperienced, and a foolish traveler who does not make sure that he is on the right road at the beginning. The Atlantic community is on the right road. We have gone some distance down it, and we know where we are going. We have the machinery to carry us much further. We have learned much regarding the cooperation necessary to make that machinery work. How far and how fast we go depends on each country, but perhaps especially upon the United States. We also have the opportunity to do this. This is a great opportunity to do this. These meetings, which I have just attended, will be as important as the government and the people of the United States choose to make them. If we now support, on a sustained basis, the measures necessary to make this cooperative venture a success, we will not find wanting a similar response from our friends and allies. Together, we shall make a major contribution to the United Nations whose charter remains our basic guide. This road is the road to peace. The concept of the free community is one which can bring peace and prosperity to the world. Individually, no one of these countries, including the United States, has the strength, even if it had the desire, to determine the course of the future. Together, this community has the human and material resources, the skills, the initiative, the tradition, and the devotion of free men. And it also has a dynamic idea, which can give us confidence that the future belongs to freedom. In our unity, there is strength. And in our strength, there is the foundation of peace. Thank you. Thank you.