Section 30 authorizes this council to, quote, expel any member with the concurrence of two-thirds of all the councilmen, unquote. Then we come to sections 886 and 890, which I think must be read together. Section 886 deals with conflicts of interest. It prohibits a councilman from having any interest, directly or indirectly, in any transaction concerning which the city pays a price or consideration. It prohibits a councilman from appearing before a city agency as attorney or counsel on behalf of private interests. These provisions, of course, are designed to prevent any possible conflict between the public obligations of a councilman and his private interests. Implicit, of course, in all of this is the objective of our municipality that a councilman may not use his influence as a public official or his position as a city legislator to benefit private interests with which he may be associated. Section 890 of the charter provides that the council and the councilman and all other officers and employees of the city, quote, are hereby declared respectively trustees of the property, funds, and effects of the city. So far as they are or may be committed to their management of control or control, such trustees are hereby made subject to all the duties and responsibilities imposed by law on trustees, and such duties and responsibilities may be enforced by the city or by any officer thereof, unquote. It is these provisions with which we are of necessity concerned in this proceeding. The council of the city of New York is a legislative body. Its relation to the mayor is comparable to that of the state legislature to the governor and of the Congress to the president of the United States. With a natural and traditional autonomy, it has a right to be jealous of its prerogatives. It is designated by our charter as the sole judge of the fitness of its members. These sections of the charter to which I referred were enacted to prevent a possible conflict of interest on the part of those whose salary is paid, quote, in whole or in part from the city treasury, unquote. The laws were put on our books as guideposts, pointing out when we were skating on thin ice and when we are in solid rock. I do not think that this council should concern itself with any technical violation and that you are herewith presented with basic issues. Now, the hearings pertaining to the fitness of one of your colleagues entail the highest sense of public responsibility and solemn understanding on your part. That, I am sure, you know far better than I. But this, as I understand it, is an unprecedented proceeding. I would like to state for the record that I conceive it my duty to present to this council all pertinent evidence which is relevant and all facts which are germane that the paramount public interest is in achieving justice to Mr. Quinn and to the people of the city of New York. I consider that this hearing is an earnest search for the truth, that my obligation to be objective is no less than my obligation to be thorough. As such, I am in a very definite sense the counsel and advisor to this important legislative body, the aim of which is to discharge this serious public responsibility in a manner consistent with our traditional concepts of fairness and justice. To no branch of our government, either the executive or the judicial, has there been entrusted a greater delegation of power as representatives of the people than this right given to you to judge your own membership. It is a power, however, which is coupled with a stern public responsibility. This was Julie attested to when your body decided upon these proceedings in the public interest. The borderline between germane testimony and the broad interests of justice may at times not be simple. But I do respectively submit that we should permit no equivocation or diversion from the relevant issues so that we can complete this hearing fairly, which I think is the most important consideration, and promptly an almost equally important consideration. And I think it should be done with due regard for the rights of all concerned, and the counsel in particular, which I understand and believe is most anxious, to properly acquit itself of this important obligation. And now, if I may, I'd like to come to the issues. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Tenney sent his report to Mayor Wagner, in which Commissioner Tenney stated his conclusions as follows. During the period of Councilman Quinn's employment by Triborough Carting Corporation, that company obtained contracts with the City of New York for snow and ice removal and was paid approximately $130,000 from the City Treasury for such services. No evidence has been adduced that Quinn was instrumental in securing such contracts or that he profited thereby. This would be pertinent only in determining whether he had violated the applicable provisions of the New York City Charter knowingly and intentionally. The fact of his employment alone would appear to constitute a violation of Section 886, Subdivision A, parentheses 1, close parentheses, of the Charter and grounds for his removal under Section 886, Subdivision C. B. One. Councilman Quinn accepted employment by Triborough Carting Corporation, a company actively engaged in the collection of fly ash, F-L-Y-A-S-H. Shortly after the passage of legislation introduced by him, which was designed to permit the use of fly ash in cement and thereby provide a market for fly ash in New York City. Two. Councilman Quinn appeared before the Board of Standards and Appeals and correspondent or otherwise dealt with other city agencies in connection with the erection of three gasoline stations on East Gunhill Road, Bronx, NY, in which he was financially interested. Three. Councilman Quinn appeared before the Department of Licenses on the question of the applicability of local law number 29 of 1956 to companies such as Triborough Carting Corporation at a time when he was a salaried employee of Triborough. Four. Councilman Quinn introduced in the Council a bill to amend local law number 29 of 1956, the effect of which would be to remove Triborough Carting Corporation from effective regulation under said law at a time when he was in the employ of such company. There is a serious question whether the findings set forth above under B, subdivisions 1, 2, 3, and 4 constitute violations of the New York City Charter or other applicable statutes. It is recognized that Councilman must, on occasion, appear before various city agencies in connection with pending legislation or in behalf of their constituents. To so appear for a fee or compensation would clearly be incompatible with their civic responsibilities and contrary to the law, parentheses, New York City Charter, Section 901, close parentheses, to appear on behalf of or in the interests of a company by which the councilman was employed or in which he was financially interested or to sponsor legislation in its behalf or in its interest would seem to be equally incompatible. City officials, elective or appointed, occupy a fiduciary position, New York City Charter, Section 890. The question of intent or recompense or motive is beside the point. The law is designed not merely to prevent improper acts by city officials or employees, but also to prevent suspicion thereof. Recommendations. It is recommended that a copy of this report be forwarded to the City Council, the Corporation Council, and the District Attorney for the County of New York, for their information and such actions may be deemed appropriate. It is further recommended that prompt consideration be given to the enactment of appropriate legislation, more clearly defining the duties and obligations of councilmen, city officials, and city employees in matters in which they may be financially interested. Now, a copy of this report and the testimony and evidence upon which it was based was also turned over to Mr. Quinn and to each of the members of this committee of the whole as members of the council of the city of New York. I understand that came about as a result of a resolution or a request by this council of Mr. Tenney. The testimony and the report have been in your hands for some time, and I have been advised that no action was taken because you did not wish to interfere with the investigation which was pending in the District Attorney's Office of New York County. On January 17, 1957, the Grand Jury of the County of New York filed a, quote, report of the 3rd December 1956 Grand Jury, unquote, generally referred to as the presentment. This was based on voluminous testimony and evidence respecting, quote, the conduct of Councilman Hugh Quinn in order to determine whether the crime of receiving a bribe or taking an unlawful fee was committed and whether Section 886 of the city charter was violated, close quote. Upon completion of its investigation, the Grand Jury found that Mr. Quinn did not commit a crime and made the following recommendations and findings. I'd like to read that verbatim, if I may. We now turn to Section 23, Headed President of the Council. Subdivision B. Subdivision B. The President of the Council may be removed or suspended in the same manner as provided in this Charter with respect to the Mayor. Then we turn to Section 31, Entitled City Clerk Duties. Towards the end of the paragraph number A, the City Clerk may be removed on charges by a two-thirds vote of all the Councilmen, subject, however, to judicial review on certiorari. In Section 886, there is no provision as to the mode of removal of a City Councilman. Section 890 is a trustee provision of the Charter which contains no reference to removal for any violation thereof. And it is my contention that you gentlemen are acting improperly, without basis in law, under Resolution 845, because a resolution is an implement of a local law. And since there is no local law and no provision of the Charter which permits the holding of removal proceedings, It is my contention and my humble opinion that these proceedings should be discontinued and the entire Committee recess. We want this hearing, but as we all know, and especially the lawyers in this room, A citizen of this country, a citizen of this state and city, is entitled to be represented by counsel who has a solemn duty under his oath as a lawyer to protect his client's rights and to see that all proceedings are conducted according to law and within the law. Because, gentlemen, once we permit proceedings to be conducted not as provided for by the laws that we have made to govern us, then we have no democracy. And I say that in fairness to Councilman Hugh Quinn, who has put in for the city of New York and for the people of Queens 20 years of his life, as a good councilman, that he should be given a fair, proper, and legal hearing in accordance with law. Fitness for office. Very general. It may mean a lot of things. What does it mean? Does it mean that you gentlemen want to examine into the qualifications of Mr. Quinn? Does it mean that his fitness is being questioned by reason of the fact that during his 20 years of service of as councilman, he has proposed and worked and studied 2,000 bills before this body? Does it mean that he is mentally or physically unfit for public office? And if his fitness is being questioned because of misconduct, are we entitled to know what the alleged charges of misconduct are? Have we a right in all fairness to be given a bill of charges, just as any other official of this great city is entitled to receive, so that we may make proper answer and defense? Or are we to proceed in a proceeding as set out by Mr. Kreutzer, that the issues are embodied or basically contained in a report of the Commissioner of Investigation, who only examined a few people in connection with Mr. Quinn's activities? And since when does the Commissioner of Investigation in making a report of facts that he has determined from an examination of witnesses come to a conclusion that anyone has violated any section of the law? His report contains conclusions to the effect that Mr. Quinn has unwittingly or apparently violated Section 886, Subdivision A, when a grand jury, which only heard one side of the case, absolved him after listening to numerous witnesses and after Mr. Quinn appeared before that body on five separate occasions voluntarily under a waiver of immunity and testified for nine hours. And that body, which can only pass on violations of the criminal law, absolved him of any misconduct or wrongdoing under 886A. Is that how we're going to conduct these proceedings? Issues based on a Tenney report that says that the section involved in effect is vague and indefinite and should be clarified by this body? Do we try or hear people on vague and indefinite sections of our charter? Do we try or hear people on behalf of the criminal law? Do we try or hear people on behalf of the criminal law? The worst offender under the law would not be tried in a court under a vague and indefinite section of law. And then we are to consider the issues to be basically found in the testimony taken before Commissioner Tenney. All you gentlemen have seen the testimony. Can we base issues on testimony where Mr. Quinn did not have the right to confront witnesses, to cross-examine them, to determine the truth? Are we going to proceed on issues contained in testimony when, as I recall, one of the questions asked of one of the witnesses, what do you think Mr. Quinn was doing in your office? Is that a proper and legal question to ask of a witness? And then we come to the grand jury report. I have attacked that report in the court of General Sessions. I have a notice of appeal prepared to be filed to take an appeal from the ruling of the court. Are we going to believe that the issues are contained in that report when, as I pointed out to the court, and I wish to point out to you gentlemen, in what is called a summary of the evidence. On page 15, during the period of Mr. Quinn's employment, Triborough Carding Corp sold $17,500 worth of ashes to the New York City Transit Authority. That is an incorrect statement of fact that the agency involved was the New York Port Authority, a bi-state agency, having nothing to do with the city of New York or being an agency of the city of New York. Are you gentlemen going to take a summary of evidence and deemed that to contain and the issues and deemed that to contain the issues, basically, on which we have to stand before you? and then we come to the grand jury minutes. One thousand pages of grand jury minutes and I have never seen one word. I have asked Mr. Creutzer that, in all fairness to Mr. Quinn, that I should be permitted to read those minutes. When I made my application in the Court of General Sessions for an inspection of those minutes, that was in connection with my application to expunge and strike the report of the grand jury. Based on the fact that I wanted to prove to the court that although I contended a summary of evidence was illegal and improper, that even the summary contained in that report was not correctly stated by reason of what I just quoted from that report. That application was denied, but I would like to have you gentlemen listen to a statement made in the argument on those motions, and these are the stenographer's minutes issued by the official stenographer in the matter of the application of Hugh Quinn to expunge the report of the grand jury taken on January 28, 1957, in which Mr. Scotty, the Chief Assistant District Attorney, said at page 74. May I read from the beginning? Mr. Chaston, now I would like, Your Honor, to decide what you should do with this motion to inspect the grand jury minutes. The court, shall we consider it consolidated with this motion? Mr. Scotty, I can save time. The court, you want to be heard on it? Mr. Scotty, yes. I can save time. I will tell you what my reservations are. Ordinarily, I would have no objection at all, but since the grand jury has decided to refer this testimony to the City Council, and since from what I can gather in the newspapers, dash dash, the court, they can't do unless I say they can. Mr. Scotty, I understand that, Your Honor. Dash, with Your Honor's approval, of course. The court, all right. Mr. Scotty, my thought is this, colon, I would rather, when the time came, to have the City Council or the lawyer designated by the City Council to make that decision. In other words, this testimony, with your approval, will eventually be handed over to the City Council in connection with its public hearings, I take it. The court, that is the general scheme of things if this thing stands up. Mr. I don't know. You say it to check it off along, I do really rescue the Army and only do with the