We are speaking to you from Lake Success. It is a pleasure to introduce the noted stage and screen star, Mr. Brian Ahern, conveying a New Year's card to the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we take pleasure in sending one of the most unusual New Year's cards ever sent. Even while matters of great moment are pending, and world statesmen of their time they have lent to wish you all the sum of human happiness in the year to come. Stand right here and you will see every race, skin and creed go by. Custom and costume of every variety that you can name will catch your eye. A turban from Somaliland, a fez from Tripolitania, a bowler hat from Kent and a fedora from Pennsylvania. Yet, in spite of outward variation, we can in frankness claim that no matter from what nation we come, we are all very much the same. So from UN we all combine with every single flag unfurled to bring a word of Auld Lang Syne from the peoples of the world. The President of the United Nations General Assembly, His Excellency General Carlos P. Romulo. I am happy to extend my cordial greetings to all the friends of the United Nations. And by this I mean all men of goodwill who love their fellowmen and yearn for peace. As 1949 ends, those of us who have given our best to the United Nations feel that we have not been disappointed. That the tension is leveling off. And if we but persevere and be not discouraged, the world will soon achieve a degree of equilibrium, resulting in our casting away fear and suspicion, arrogance and pride like heavy unwanted ballast. Happy New Year to all of you. His Excellency Sir Mohammed Zafruloghan of Pakistan. Today we begin a year that will close the first half of the 20th century of the Christian era. On the scientific side, this half century will stand out as having made a record not hitherto approached by any other three centuries put together. But on the moral and spiritual side, there has been a great void. We must make a supreme effort to fill that void during 1950. If that void continues, man and all his works will perish, and with them all culture and civilization. While therefore exploiting God's bounties, man must put himself in direct communion with God. I wish all of you a very happy and spiritually full new year. May apne sab Pakistani bhainyo ko saleh now Mubarak baad kaita hum. Amen. From Poland, Mr. Julius Katzsuki. May I use this opportunity to send to all of you on behalf of my delegation and on behalf of all those I do represent my warmest greetings for the coming new year. Let us hope that the year 1950 will mark great steps in international cooperation towards international security and the stability of peace. Let us hope that the year 1950 will be a year of great events, of events in the liberation of mankind from the fear of war, from the fear of starvation, of unemployment and of crises. Let us hope that it will mark new efforts for establishing a close cooperation for the benefit of peace and humanity as a whole. These are my wishes and I'm sure the wishes of every man and woman throughout the world. Of the Netherlands delegation, Dr. C.J. Van Hoeven-Gerdhardt. I'm very glad to wish everybody who is listening to me a happy new year and everything he personally is looking forward to in the course of that year. And now I'm going to try to say the same thing in my own language which I'm sure is not easy for you to understand. I wish everyone who hears this year and everything he wishes to me and I hope that this year will be a great opportunity for everyone. His Excellency is a great opportunity for the future. His Excellency is Syed Al-Kadi Mohammed Al-Amri, Minister of State of Yemen. The Yemen delegation wishes you a happy new year. I am happy to speak from New York and I am the member of the Yemen state. I am happy to speak from the United States. Mr. Benjamin Cohen of the United States. As we approach the year 1950, we find ourselves confronting difficult and critical problems. Some of the most difficult and critical problems that have ever faced the ingenuity of man. We are fortunate, however, in having the United Nations as a functioning organization. It cannot do everything, but it can do much to assist us to meet in a satisfactory way some of these difficult and critical problems. May we make progress in the coming years. May I add my personal greetings to all of you for the new year. His Excellency Dr. Victor Andres Belounde of the Peruvian delegation. My English, of course, is not correct. I present my apologies. English is a very difficult language, easy to flirt with, but difficult to conquer. As a coquettish lady. Well, I say in English that I am very much enthusiastic about the results of this assembly. In two months' work, we have achieved the solution of some problems. And I am glad to say that the Latin American countries has corresponded to the hope that were placed upon them. They are the faithful guardian of the principle of the Charter. I give the greetings for the Christmas and New Year. I hope that this new year will bring peace and prosperity for all the countries of the world. It is a pleasure and honor to direct some words of greeting to radio listeners, expressing the most fervent votes of the Peruvian delegation. Because the year that starts, I will be completely happy for everyone. Mr. Aubrey Eben of Israel. On the conclusion of the fourth regular session of the General Assembly, I send all my listeners my best wishes for a happy new year. The session which we have just completed has been significant for its serious attempt to clarify the relations between the great powers. I believe that the general balance sheet of the Assembly proves the capacity of the United Nations to contribute to the clarification and solution of complex international problems. It is on that hope that the peoples of the world bring this year to a close, hoping that the next one will witness far greater steps towards the consolidation of international peace. I send my greetings to all my listeners for the new year with that hope strong in my heart. The Reverend J. D'Souza, Delegation of India. Divergences of view and even serious differences among different groups have manifested themselves. But I think that two facts stood out and may be borne in mind at the conclusion of our work. The first is the intense desire of all the nations for peace, assured and uninterrupted peace. And secondly, the realization that in spite of the differences among us, the United Nations organization is still the very best machinery so far thought out by man to ensure this continued peace. Let me, in one of the beautiful tongues of India, wish you a happy new year and pray that in the new year, all that is good may come to you and to all men. I wish you a happy new year. I wish on behalf of the Norwegian delegation to greet you all and wish you a very happy new year. And I am convinced that this new year will be a good year for the United Nations. We are now at the end of the session of this session of the General Assembly. And I think that I am correct in saying that this has been a more responsible assembly than any of the others I have been to. And I think that is a good omen for the United Nations. And I think that the next assembly, the assembly of 1950, will be still more responsible and will also bring positive results. I wish all the listeners a good new year for the new year. From the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, His Excellency Mr. Andrei Vyshynskiy. I wish people a happy new year. And from the Dominion of Canada, General Andrew McNaughton. I appreciate this opportunity to speak a word of Christmas and New Year's greeting from Flushing. I send to all the personal greetings of the members of the Canadian delegation. You have just heard a cross-section of world leaders from countries far away and near in the happy connection of wishing you and yours the best for the coming year. But just a moment for an observation. What you have heard is not an idle theme. Your representatives in the Councils of the United Nations are helping us toward realizing an age-old dream. A dream that echoes through every land and county. A dream of a world without the curse of war. Where the least of us may claim our rightful bounty or, tell me, what is living for? This road has many a difficult turning. But if you look ahead, there, just around the bend, you'll find the world is slow but surely learning that we can and will call each other friend. A happy new year, everybody. A happy new year, everybody. A happy new year. Get archivovency in yourself at all. Either way, letessesверж recherches emerge there. A happy new year, everybody. A happy new year. A happy new year, everybody. New Year's card to the world. Narrated by Mr. Brian Ahern has come to you from United Nations Headquarters at Lake Success. New Year's card to the world.