Tonight we bring you the first lecture of a series to be broadcast weekly on Sunday nights at 9 o'clock, entitled Psychoanalysis and Everyday Living. These lectures transcribed earlier will come to you under the auspices of the Auxiliary Council to the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis as part of their program of public education in this field. This series was inaugurated by WNYC last spring, and due to its popularity, is now being presented to you in a more expanded form. To introduce this lecture series to you, we have asked one of the charter members of the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, who was also their president for several years, to outline the program for you, Dr. Harold Kelman. Dr. Kelman is currently, and for the past several years has been, president of the American Institute for Psychoanalysis. In addition, he has been identified with the public educational program of ACAP since its inception over eight years ago. And now, here is Dr. Harold Kelman. Good evening. I feel this is a very significant occasion, and one for which I wish to express appreciation to the public-spirited policy of this station. Tonight's lecture is the first in a series whose content is implicit in the title, Psychoanalysis and Everyday Living. In this very comprehensive group of lectures, you will hear many doctors, all members of the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, or the American Institute for Psychoanalysis, its educational affiliate. Our orientation is based on Dr. Karen Horneye's constructive theory of neurosis. It is our purpose to acquaint you with our thinking in this comparatively new science and the understanding of the self, and it is our hope to convey information that you may find significant and applicable in your own life. For, as Dr. Horneye has said, I believe that man can change and go on changing as long as he lives. And it is because the desire for change, for growth, is universal that we are bringing you these lectures. We are grouping the series as follows. First, the problems of childhood and the beginnings of neurosis. Second, the role of sex in the life of man. Third, general problems every human being must face. Fourth, specific personality problems that beset humanity. And lastly, our answers to the questions that might arise under, Are you considering psychoanalysis? Tonight's lecture is entitled, The Origin of Neurosis in Childhood. There will follow five other lectures concerning children, concerning such subjects as the oldest and the youngest child, the career mother, and problems of adolescence. Our speaker tonight is Dr. Norman Kelman, Assistant Dean of the American Institute for Psychoanalysis, Staff Psychiatrist to the Jewish Family Service, and a practicing psychoanalyst with both children and adults. Dr. Kelman has lectured widely and has presented original material on child analysis at the New York Academy of Medicine and the New School for Social Research, as well as at the American Institute for Psychoanalysis. And now, I present your lecturer of the evening, speaking on the origin of neurosis in childhood, Dr. Norman Kelman. Dr. Norman Kelman. Tonight, we bring you another lecture in the series, Psychoanalysis and Everyday Living, which comes to you transcribed each week at this time. These lectures come to you under the auspices of the Auxiliary Council to the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, or more easily referred to as ACAP, as part of their program of public education. The orientation of the entire series is based on Dr. Karen Horneye's constructive theory of neurosis. And now, here is Dr. Harold Kelman, who has introduced and will continue to introduce each new category of lectures in this series. Dr. Kelman has been for the past several years and is currently president of the American Institute for Psychoanalysis. To give you some of Dr. Kelman's background, for over nine years, he was chief of neurology and psychiatry of the United States Public Health Service at the Marine Hospital, Stapleton, Staten Island. He is author of the many articles on neurology, psychiatry, and psychoanalysis. He is a lecturer at the American Institute for Psychoanalysis and the New School for Social Research. In addition to being a charter member of the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, Dr. Kelman has been identified with the public education program of ACAP since its inception over eight years ago. Here is Dr. Harold Kelman. Good evening. Several weeks ago, I introduced this series of lectures to you on psychoanalysis and everyday living and outlined our program for the year. During the intervening Sunday evenings, we have talked about the problems of childhood and their influence on the adult life of the individual. Beginning with tonight's lecture, our next group of speakers will concern themselves with the problems of sex, the innumerable and complex problems that arise in the life, in the love life of the individual. Many different doctors will be presented to you, all being members of the Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis or the American Institute for Psychoanalysis, its educational affiliate. As you know, our orientation is based on Dr. Karen Horneye's constructive theory of neurosis. Our purpose is to acquaint you with our thinking and the understanding of the self. And our hope is to convey information that you may find significant and applicable in your own life. Among the subjects to be discussed during the next few weeks are masculinity and femininity, femininity, healthy and neurotic love, responsibility in marriage, and growth through love and sex and other titles. Then, upon completion of this special group of lectures on love and sex, our next category of titles will be based on general problems. We are confident they will be of interest and of value to you. And tonight, I am going to speak to you about the role of sex in the life of man.