Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the reviewing stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the reviewing stand presents four teenage students, three boys and a girl. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the problems which American youth face and the attitudes of young America toward these problems. And now our moderator James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are members of the National High School Institute, now in session on the campus of Northwestern University. You will hear four high school students, seniors in their high schools next year, discuss some of the problems which teenagers face. This program has become an annual summer feature on the reviewing stand. We're glad to welcome to our microphone Miss Joanne Alaban from Spartanburg, South Carolina, our only girl on this program. How do you think you're going to get along with these boys, Joanne? Oh, just fine, I'm sure. Good. Then we have George DelVal from Santa Fe, New Mexico, Joseph Frank from Burlington, Vermont, and George Fredrickson from Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Now what are some of the more important problems which American youth face? Joe? I think the outstanding problem facing teenagers today and facing everyone today is world peace. The international situation in the past and in our times has really been quite a mess. In our own lifetimes, we've seen the Second World War, not really seen it, but lived through it. We have now experienced our country at another war, Korean War, which we hope will now come to a successful climax, and also the Iranian situation we now realize is also a critical hotspot of the world. The international situation, I think, is the outstanding problem. It really has kept America, Americans worrying through the years, and I personally hope that peace will come in our day. That was Joe Frank from Vermont. Now we've got two Georges here this morning. George Fredrickson from South Dakota wants to say something. Well, I think if we remember the fact that everything that happens in the world situation today is going to have a rather direct effect on our future. In other words, the possibility of peace is going to have an effect on how we will spend our future lives, and what our attitudes, and what our actions will be. So I think it's very important that we, that we as young people search for the true true motives and reasons in this world situation. But I would say that our leaders, by their very actions, by the fact that they have been seeking a decision, a conclusion to world problems for such a long time, and still have many varying viewpoints. It would seem to be evidence that the world situation is a very difficult and complex thing, and can't be settled by a few simple moves. Well, certainly one facet of this international situation that you men here face pretty directly, and Joanne not too indirectly, is the, is military service. George, what, what attitude do you take toward that? This is our other George, George Del Val from Santa Fe, New Mexico. Well, I take the attitude that we must have some sort of military service, but we need a better program of deferment. Now the present system that's taking in the college men with the higher IQs, rather deferring them, and taking in those whose IQs are not so high, does not give it a well-balanced program. Because we can see that we need many great leaders in the army with high IQs, and not only those with the lower IQs. You're referring to the, the, uh, the national testing program which is given in the colleges, which provides a basis for, uh, deferment to certain, uh, young men, providing them with an opportunity to continue their college education. You, you, you see certain weaknesses in that. Do you think it's unfair, George? I certainly do. Because you may get good leaders from these men who definitely don't have the highest IQs, and then you may not. And then you need, uh, smart men to help run the army. I would agree with George DelVal's criticism of the present, uh, draft program. It's a little discriminatory against certain occupational classes, such as the farmers, for instance, who, uh, really contribute to America as much as anyone else does. Uh, I think the, uh, solution to the problem of military service and of keeping America strong for democracy, and ready, always ready to stand guard and fight for it in this world is the new proposal of a six months, a universal military service program. It seems ideal because it really wouldn't interrupt a person's education as much as a, uh, 27 months program would. Who is proposing that, uh, Joe? Uh, I'm not sure exactly who put forth the proposal, but I understand that it is. Has it reached the status of a congressional bill? It seems to be receiving serious consideration today in Washington. As I understand it, uh, the power has been granted to create such a program when the time becomes necessary. I believe it was included in a recent congressional bill, but largely such a policy as this would have to be a policy which would come after a settlement in the Korean War, because it is a peacetime program. But I think it's a very excellent program from the standpoint that we will have, uh, we will have large reserves of trained manpower without actually having to sustain a tremendous army, which would be a tremendous cost, and perhaps in the long run to weaken the nation. Yes, uh, this program is extremely practical, and I want to agree with George, uh, Fredrickson this time on that. Uh, of course, it's true that it's something which must be undertaken in peace, because in the crisis which we are in now, it would take too much of our resources to expand and embark on a program such as that. May I say to George DelVal here that the, that some of the thinking behind the, the deferment of college boys on the basis of, of these tests, permitting them to continue in college, is that they, they might conceivably make a larger contribution to the military service after having had benefit of college education, the point being that they're, they're deferred and not exempt from military service. Well, I think it's very important that we train our engineers and men in technical skills for, in the event of a future war, why those people are going to be very vital. I've heard it said that the next war will be a scientific, a technological war, so it's very important that we do train these men. So I think there might be some merit in considering deferment of men for in scientific and technological fields, if, uh, a program of two, two or three year universal service, for instance, was adopted. But nevertheless, these smart men that could go in right now could be helping the army sooner than if they were better trained. Well, I think they're going to help the army much more when they're, when they have this tremendous training. Now, some people propose that the army undertake to train these men, that they use certain facilities and train them through the army by drafting everyone and then sending them out to various fields. That might be the fairest policy. I remember we discussed this issue on the Northwestern University reviewing stand some months ago. We raised the question, who should be drafted? I remember the Colonel Armstrong, Director of Selective Service here in Illinois, was a member of the panel and others. And interestingly enough, to me at least, the issues that were raised in that discussion are almost precisely the issues which you young men and Miss Alaban have been discussing here today. I want to ask you a question, Joanne, about a, uh, another type of, uh, problem that youth faces. Do you think that, that youngsters of your age today face somewhat more limited opportunities than they did, uh, oh, a generation ago? Are the, are the frontiers gone, thus denying you the, the kind of opportunity that your father and mother had and your grandfather and grandmother had? What do you think about that? No, I definitely think not. I think exactly the opposite. I think the frontiers are much broader today than they were 10 or 20 years ago, particularly the scientific, uh, frontier. I mean, now everything is run scientifically from farming to television and there's a definite, uh, frontier there, not only, uh, in that but in the occupational fields too, other than that. You have the feeling then that there are actually enlarged opportunities rather than fewer opportunities. Definitely. Yes, I agree with Joanne, uh, you can't strike it rich today with income tax and the, uh, in effect and with the physical frontiers gone, but there's such great frontiers on the technological, uh, in the technological fields for one to, uh, enter into. There's a wealth of opportunity available and I hope that we teenagers will really take advantage of it. How about, uh, opportunities for women, uh, Joanne? Well, I think the opportunities for women now are much greater than ever before also because now you can go to a college and if you take a census, I would venture to say that 90 percent of the women are preparing themselves for some occupation after graduation. Do you like that idea? What if we have 90 percent of our women in occupation? What's going to happen to all the babies or lack of babies? I don't think that's gonna, uh, interfere with it too much. I think, you know, naturally every woman's, uh, thoughts are of marriage and her wishes are for marriage and so I definitely think that, of course, all women will go ahead and get married and when they do that, the children will be, uh, of a higher standard, of a higher level mentally and, uh, spiritually, physically, otherwise. Well, I believe it's necessary for the women to get better educations because if they don't have them, they can't bring up their children in, uh, a more educated world later on. That's true. Uh, that's right. We'll really be raising the level of our society if our women have the higher college education too, as well as the men and I'm glad that Joanne has pacified my wonder as to whether women would forego marriage. I wouldn't want to see that. I shouldn't think so. Well, now there's one, there's one, uh, problem that, uh, your elders think you face whether you think so or not. Uh, a lot of, a lot of old people seem to, older people, let's put it, like myself, uh, seem to think that the, the, kids of today are, are lacking in, uh, in moral stamina and moral stature, that, uh, there's, uh, uh, we're deteriorating, uh, morally, that we don't have the, the, the strength of, of courage and will that we used to have. Do you, you think that's true, George? Well, don't you find that your father before you said the same thing about your generation? Seems to me I did hear him say that once or twice. Well, I think that, uh, we seldom, though, give our elders credit for some of the wisdom they have. They always picture the teenager as a little worse than he really is, but there, there are certain problems with teenagers. One of these problems is that, uh, certain practices are considered fashionable or considered necessary for popularity, and, uh, the teenager is willing to follow the crowd in many types of activities which I think are, are degenerating morally. I would include the problem of alcohol and tobacco as a moral problem because I feel that, uh, it's a problem of weakening your standards to follow, to follow the crowd and to engage in these activities. Uh, to go along with what George is saying, I believe we're losing our individuality. Yeah, how do you lose your individuality? By following the crowd and, and not, uh, living up to the highest within you. In other words, you, you, you don't have the strength to stand up for the, the things in which you really believe. That is, you, that's what I'm afraid is happening. You capitulate to the, the group and drift along with them. Uh, this memorial degeneration certainly is a problem. I, I don't think our parents can be overly concerned about this, or, and there's almost no limit to the concern which can be worthwhile in this matter. Uh, there's a lot to be done and I would agree with George again, uh, that, uh, more, that tobacco and, uh, drink are probably the lowering of moral and ethical standards also. Now, uh, uh, our, uh, tobacco, it is the habit of smoking and drinking, are they moral problems or health problems, George? Well, I think they are both. I really think that there are certain moral aspects that enter in and certain health aspects. While it can be shown, of course, by studies that tobacco and, and alcohol do weaken the health, I think that, uh, it's a problem which I think is against the standard of teenagers particularly to engage, for instance, in alcoholic beverages when they... To excess. To excess, yes, in alcoholic beverages so they lose control of themselves, for instance, through intoxication or such problems as that. I really feel immoral. But I don't, uh, believe that they are necessarily immoral because many teenagers who do smoke and, say, drink a little bit are not necessarily immoral. They have very high standards and yet they smoke. Well, I would not feel if they did, let's say, smoke to excess and drink heavily, I would not feel if their standards were high. I wouldn't either. As you would think that, uh, that, uh, these habits might be a, a, uh, uh, uh, a sign of certain weakness in, in, in moral fiber. Yes, I would. Yes, I would. But you do find those who do smoke, uh, sometimes have very great characters. You can notice right here in our own institute this year, a lot of the boys and girls do smoke, but, nevertheless, their character is excellent. Uh, that isn't, uh, this drinking and smoking isn't exactly a question of moral practice, but it is a matter of moral standards. That's right. That's definitely true because it takes the strong fiber of moral feeling that we must always be doing righteously, uh, to keep people from going into these bad practices. Well, now, uh, we've been talking about some of these, uh, problems which American youth face. Uh, what kind of an attitude do you think that, uh, that teenagers bring to these problems? What kind of attitude do you bring to them? Are you, generally speaking, optimistic or, or pessimistic? Well, I, I personally am pretty optimistic about the future. I, I feel there are certain problems that be ironed out, and yet I have enough faith that we will eventually reach a solution to these problems. It seems to be the general attitude, though, of most teenagers that, while being optimistic about the future, they aren't particularly concerned with it. They aren't particularly concerned with studying the implications of the future. And I think, while it's possible to be optimistic about the possibilities of achieving world peace, and the possibilities of achieving a higher standard of living in the future, we must also be concerned with the alternatives which may happen, uh, adversely to these things. Are you, are you saying that they're sort of happy-go-lucky? That's right. I think that's a very good word. If we are optimistic, I think there certainly is more certainty of our attaining the goals we're looking for. Uh, it really isn't an inherent fault of the youth so much, this, uh, uh, this carefree feeling towards the problems. It sort of is fostered, I think, by our environment, because of the fact it's so easygoing. Our country has built up such a tremendous standard of living for everyone that we don't have things placed upon our shoulders in this country as youth of other countries have problems placed squarely in their laps. Uh, perhaps, uh, the whole basic fault here is a lack of a serious approach. A serious optimism is what I would call for. I agree with Joe, because if we have a serious optimism toward our problems, we'll take a more healthy outlook and eventually get more done. Might it not be, though, that, uh, that, uh, we live in a land where there are, uh, teenagers, uh, denied the kind of opportunities that you, uh, young people apparently have, who would, uh, face these problems with a little less, uh, equanimity, who might be a little more pessimistic and a little more skeptical, more skeptical as a result of the kind of difficult situations in which they find themselves? Well, there certainly are teenagers, particularly about the problem of military induction. Let's see, very little hope of anything but years and years of military service. So, subsequently, they cast all their well-laid plans aside and say, well, what's the use? I'm just going to the army, so why should I prepare myself for anything? I think that's a very definite weakness. I think that we should go ahead with our plans and, uh, not worry too much about, uh, the possibility of military service, even though we may think about it, not to, uh, well, concern ourselves greatly with the worry of the situation. I suspect that is a factor in the, in the lives of a good many boys, though, that, uh, that might contribute to some skepticism. Do you, do you think so? I'll agree with you there. It is, we, uh, and it isn't confined to, uh, high school lads. We encountered it among, uh, college boys as well. I think, in general, though, the, the, the attitude taken is the one that you discussed, uh, earlier. Uh, do you think that, uh, young men and young women of today are, are, are, uh, pretty well prepared to, to cope with these problems we've been discussing? I think they're better prepared to cope with their problems than whether the generations before us, because we have more opportunities to learn how to cope with them. Well, I would not agree with that entirely. I, I do not feel the teenager today is completely ready to meet his problems. Largely because of the fact that he does not take the time or the interest to study, uh, the problems that he is going to face in later life. He doesn't study the implications of the future and so forth. He doesn't learn the background of what's happening in the world, international and national politics and policies. So I think because of this, we could say that, uh, teenager has not concerned himself enough with the future so that he is not too well prepared to meet it. I think teenagers really have the potential to go ahead and meet these problems. Uh, preparation is the thing which must be acquired and, uh, I agree with George that many people are going to face in later life. I agree with George that many teenagers today lack that preparation because of a sort of lackadaisical attitude towards things, that life is easy and so forth. Perhaps our parents could tighten up on us a bit and make it a little tougher. I'm afraid that people are just not realizing their responsibilities that are being placed upon the teenager of today. They aren't, uh, realizing this and if they did, I think they would cut out a lot of things that they are doing today. Now there's one, uh, American institution with which you people, uh, come in contact, uh, very directly indeed. The, the, uh, the schools. Uh, we were talking about your, your competence to, to deal with these problems and I have an idea that the, the schools you attend are, are, are pretty important factors in determining that competence. Wouldn't you say so? How adequate are the schools? Do you think they're doing their, their job? Well, I think the schools are, it's my own opinion, the schools are too concerned with preparing people for specialized occupations and vocational training and so forth. And while these things may be important, I think there is not enough emphasis placed on how to live in the world of tomorrow. How to know, uh, how to know how to set a standard, a code of, by which to operate and how to know how to deal with and think about the problems of the world as a whole. In other words, how to be a citizen of the world rather than merely a person who can hold down a job somewhere in some certain occupation and make a living. Well, I can't speak for the public schools because I attend a Catholic school. And, uh, I can't say how the public schools run it, but in our school they, teaches our moral obligations first and then our physical needs. But, uh, I do not think that the synagogue movements and the church movements in our country today are prepared to undertake the total education of American youth. Uh, perhaps they could do a better job than the, uh, public schools, but we must concern ourselves with public schools because of the fact that's where the bulk of the education will be, uh, done. I think that definite constructive steps could be taken to improve the education in our public schools today. Very practical courses are needed to help the high school students to learn to think and to live more than to, uh, take up, uh, courses which are not of especially important value in their lives from a practical standpoint. A course like public speaking, which will teach a person to have confidence in himself and poise, and will give him the ability to go forth and speak up in civic matters and to be a responsible citizen. And a course like sociology, which makes you aware of all the problems in our society. Those are two courses which I think should be universally required in our public schools and are not today. But don't you think that, uh, the present laws concerning the separation of church and state make it rather hard for the public schools to teach such things? It wouldn't make it hard for them to teach, uh, the two things that, uh, Joe referred to, of course, that is the social sciences and public speaking. Incidentally, that strikes me as a rather strange, uh, marriage, uh, Joe. Why this emphasis on public speaking? Of course, as a teacher's speech, that's music to my ears, but why are you interested in that? Well, I've seen in my school that those who have had public speaking are better prepared to undertake responsibilities in general everywhere. In clubs, in organizations, and, uh, citizens, they are better prepared to stand up and speak for what they believe in. And that's the type of citizens we have to have in our democracy. Well, if I may say so, if the kind of, uh, competence which you young people exhibit here today in, in, uh, discussing your problems and ways of meeting them, uh, is, uh, is, uh, an example. Of what you get through some training in public speaking. I'm all, I'm all for it. Because if, in the degree that it's addressed to the, to the solution of your problems and the problems that you continue to face, becomes a very important social method. But we haven't answered, uh, Joe's question here. He, he suggests that the public schools are stopped from, from, uh, doing the kind of, of, of, of job in the, in the, in the field of morals that ought to be done. Uh, because of the, uh, some interpretations that have been placed on our constitution. Well, naturally all of us feel that, uh, some type of, of education, religious education is necessary for youth. We feel, we all of us feel that, that that is an important part of any, any education. And yet because of present laws, it's very difficult to do this directly. But I think that, uh, in any kind of a history or literature or any other course which develops a general liberal background, a general cultural background, uh, such things as, as high standards, such things as appreciating the, the finer things in life and molding our lives to higher qualities can be taught by a successful teacher and interjected in such courses. And if we had more teachers who would, who would not exactly follow the, the textbook curriculum entirely, but would put in a few ideas of, well, what can we do in this world and how, what does this mean to us? Like when they're reading great literature or something, how can we apply this to our lives and so forth? Something could be achieved in that way. And, and we get the idea today that, uh, our society places education as a mockery from the place of teachers in society. Uh, education is not held in high enough respect and esteem by, uh, America to general, in general today. I think we've all heard the statistic about, uh, more money being spent each year on liquor than on education. And it really is sad, but that is true. I think that there is a need for a wholehearted concern for the bettering of teacher standards, uh, salaries and their place in the eyes of the community. All those things, uh, have to be brought up to a higher level before education will really become, uh, more serious and dignified. I think so too because, uh, a teacher actually sets a standard for the students she is teaching if she would remember that when, uh, choosing this profession. And always through her classes and everything should remember that she is setting an example for the students that she is teaching. How much of an influence is the church and organized religion in the lives of teenagers? How does that strike you, George? Well, it's a very great influence in my life because, as I tell you, I was brought up in a Catholic school. However, I don't know how it would be for those who have not had this religious training. Well, I feel that, uh, the church does not play as important a part as it should in the part of, in the, uh, lives of the youth. Uh, there's difficulty in bringing the youth to church meetings to, to have them, uh, get the right religious education. It seems as though, uh, the youth of today do not have time or their interests do not lie in such fields that they will take the opportunity to go to church and, and gain a little religious education. Might I say there that environment plays a large part. What do you mean by environment? You mean... That the, um, our parents and before us set the standards for which their children and the youth of today are going to live by. And if they are not interested in the church and the religious organizations, therefore the children below them are not going to be brought, um, up in the church. What is your attitude, Joanne, uh, your attitude generally toward the older generation, your parents, grandparents, and their, uh, contemporaries? Do you think they've let you down? No, I wouldn't say they had let us down. You think they're a pretty shabby lot, by and large? No, I wouldn't say that, that at all. But I'm afraid that some of them are not realizing that the youth of today are looking to them for examples. Uh, yes, the parents of today are in general, I think, and the majority of parents are undertaking their responsibilities seriously. But not really seriously enough. I think more parents must take their responsibilities more seriously in order to inculcate in their children this, uh, serious and religious approach in life. Uh, there definitely needs, well, our parents, uh, it's hard to say. Uh, our parents, I think, could have done a little better by us if more of them, uh, had a serious approach, uh, to giving us the education we need. What do you, what do you young people think are the special responsibilities and opportunities of youth of today? Well, I think one of our main responsibilities is to, uh, in the, in the field of international relations, in attempting to achieve a lasting world peace, through advancing forward through the United Nations and other units, and attempting to mold the world closer together. And also, along with this policy, attempting to raise the standard of living so that there can be, there can be some, uh, bottom to the standard of living of the people in the world. In other words, giving everyone the basic necessities of life. Peace is the first thing I see that we must strive for. And once we have a reasonable peace, in order to keep it, we must strive for a strong economy in this world. I'm sorry, but our time is up. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion. Teenagers face their problems. Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast, with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for ten cents and Cohen. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just one dollar for the next four months. Two dollars fifty cents for an entire year. Right to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Today our guests were students attending the National High School Institute at Northwestern University. Joanne Alaband, George DelVal, Joseph Frank, and George Fredrickson. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, what does the American heritage mean? This program is being conducted in cooperation with the American Library Association, which is celebrating its 75th anniversary. Our guests will be Ralph E. Ellsworth, director of libraries at the State University of Iowa. Clarence R. Decker, president of the University of Kansas City. And John A. Wilson, professor of Egyptology at the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, what does the American heritage mean? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. With a cordial salute to Paris, the city of light, on her 2000th birthday. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Ruined at the University of Minnesota Scooby and Ole Ready, Cleveland Party Agency. Theaal ی la