Monday, January 6, 1941, the President of the United States presents his message on the State of the Union. We speak to you from the floor of the House of Representatives in the Capitol building in Washington, where the microphones of the National Broadcasting Company are placed to bring you this important address. Here in the House chamber, in joint session assembled, is the House of Representatives in the Senate of the United States. Here, too, are the members of the President's Cabinet, and every seat is filled, and additional chairs have been placed in the well of the House before the white marble rostrum of the Speaker, to accommodate the distinguished men and women prominent in our government who are here now. We see the Cabinet seated in their special seats in the well of the House. We see the Attorney General, Mr. Jackson. We see the Postmaster General, Mr. Frank Walker, and all the rest of the Cabinet members are seated in these special seats placed for them just to the left of the Speaker's rostrum, here in the well of the House of Representatives. In just a few moments, the doorkeeper of the House, Mr. Joseph Sinat, will announce the President of the United States, and then the Presidential Party will make their way through the broad doors to the left of the rostrum, and the President will come to the Clerk's desk, here on the Speaker's rostrum, and present his message on the State of the Union. Seated at the Speaker's desk now, before a huge American flag, is the Honorable John Nance Garner, the Vice President of the United States and President of the Senate, and with him, the Honorable Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House of Representatives. In the Executive Gallery, immediately ahead of us, the doorkeeper is now entered, and the doorkeeper is now entered, and we shall hear his announcement. The doorkeeper, Mr. Joseph Sinat, has just announced the President of the United States, and any moment, we expect the President to make his appearance, preceded by the members of the Escort Committee, appointed by the Senate and the House of Representatives, that will bring him here to the Clerk's desk, from which point he will read his message. All the members of the House, all the members present here in the House chamber, are now standing, all the Senators, around the first few rows of the House chamber, are standing, everyone in the galleries, too, everyone on their feet now, awaiting the entrance of the President of the United States. There is complete silence now, on the floor of the House chamber. We see now the committee making their way through the broad doors, Senator Barclay, Senator Austin of Vermont, and behind them, the House committee. Senator Harrison is there. We see the minority leader, the Honorable Joseph Martin of Massachusetts. Senator Romney, the Sergeant at Arms, has just come in, and there is the President of the United States, has made his appearance here, on the floor of the House of Representatives, where the House of Representatives and the Senate are in joint session. And as the President makes his way to the Clerk's desk, from which point he will speak, the House and the Gallery accord him a tremendous ovation. At his side is his naval aide, Captain Callahan. The President goes now to the Clerk's desk, and in just a moment, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Sam Rayburn, will introduce the President. And now the Speaker's gavel, and the announcement to introduce the President, to make his address on the State of the Union. A tremendous ovation he's given Mr. Roosevelt, as he stands there at the Clerk's desk. The gavel now, and the Honorable Sam Rayburn. Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, members of the 77th Congress, I address you, the members of this new Congress, at a moment unprecedented in the history of the Union. I use the word unprecedented because at no previous time has American security been as seriously threatened from without as it is today. Since the permanent formation of our government under the Constitution, in 1789, most of the periods of crisis in our history have related to our domestic affairs. And fortunately, only one of these, the four-year war between the states, ever threatened our national unity. Today, thank God, 130 million Americans in 48 states have forgotten points of the compass in our national unity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is true that prior to 1914, the United States often has been disturbed by events in other continents. We had even engaged in two wars of European nations and in a number of undeclared wars in the West Indies, in the Mediterranean, and in the Pacific for the maintenance of American rights and for the principles of peaceful commerce. But in no case had a serious threat been raised against our national safety or our continued independence. What I seek to convey is the historic truth that the United States of the nation has at all times maintained opposition, clear, definite opposition, to any attempt to lock us in behind an ancient Chinese wall while the procession of civilization went past. Today, thinking of our children and of their children, we oppose for enforced isolation for ourselves or for any other part of the Americas. That determination of ours, extending over all these years, was proved, for example, in the early days, during the quarter century of wars following the French Revolution. While the Napoleonic struggles did threaten interests of the United States because of the French foothold in the West Indies and in Louisiana, and while we engaged in the War of 1812 to vindicate our right to peaceful trade, it is nevertheless clear that neither France nor Great Britain nor any other nation was aiming at domination of the whole world. And in like fashion, from 1815 to 1914, 99 years, no single war in Europe or in Asia constituted a real threat against our future or against the future of any other American nation. Except in the Maximilian interlude in Mexico, no foreign power sought to establish itself in this hemisphere. And the strength of the British fleet in the Atlantic has been a friendly strength. it is still a friendly strength. Even when the World War broke out in 1914, it seemed to contain only small threat of danger to our own American future. But as time went on, as we remember, the American people began to visualize what the downfall of democratic nations might mean to our own democracy. We need not overemphasize imperfections in the peace of Versailles. We need not harp on failure of the democracies to deal with problems of world reconstruction. We should remember that the peace of 1919 was far less unjust than the kind of pacification which began even before Munich and which is being carried on under the new order of tyranny that seeks to spread over every continent today. the American people have unauthorily set their faces against that tyranny. I suppose that every realist knows that the democratic way of life is at this moment being directly assailed in every part of the world. Assailed either by arms or by secret spreading of poisonous propaganda by those who seek to destroy unity and promote discourse in nations that are still at peace. During 16 long months this assault has blotted out the whole pattern of democratic life and an appalling number of independent nations great and small and the assailants are still on the mark threatening other nations great and small. Therefore as your president performing my constitutional duty to give to the congress information of the state of the union I find it unhappily necessary to report that the future and the safety of our country and of our democracy are overwhelmingly involved in events far beyond our borders. Armed defense of democratic existence is now being gallantly waged in poor continents. If that defense fails all the population and all the resources of Europe and Asia and Africa and Australasia will be dominated by conquerors. And let us remember that the total of those populations in those four continents the total of those populations and their resources greatly exceeds the sum total of the population and the resources of the whole of the western hemisphere yet many times over. In times like these it is immature and incidentally uncool for anybody to brag that an unprepared America single-handed and with one hand tied behind its back can hold off the whole world. No realistic American can expect from a dictator of peace international generosity or return of true independence or world disarmament or freedom of expression or freedom of religion or even good business. Such a peace would bring no security for us or for our neighbors. Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety. Thank you. Thank you. As a nation we may take pride in the fact that we are soft-hearted but we cannot afford to be soft-headed. we must always be wary of those who with sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal preach the ism of appeasement. We must especially beware of that small group of selfish men who would clip the wings of the American eagle in order to feather their own nests. The happiness of future generations of Americans may well depend on how effective and how immediate we can make our age felt. No one can tell the exact character of the emergency situations that we may be called upon to meet. The nation's hands must not be tied when the nation's life is in danger. Yes, and we must prepare all of us prepare to make the sacrifices that the emergency, almost as serious as war itself, demands. Whatever stands in the way of speed and efficiency in defense, in defense preparations of any kind, must give way to the national need. A free nation has the right to expect full cooperation from all groups. A free nation has the right to look to the leaders of business, of labor, and of agriculture to take the lead in stimulating effort, not among other groups, but within their own groups. The best way of dealing with the few slackers or troublemakers in our midst is first to shame them by patriotic example. And if that fails, to use the sovereignty of government to save government. men do not live by bread alone, they do not fight by armament alone. Those who man our defenses and those behind them who build our defenses must have the stamina and the courage which come from unshakable belief in the manner of life which they are defending. The mighty action that we are calling for cannot be based on a disregard of all the things worth fighting for. The nation takes great satisfaction and much strength from the things which have been done to make its people conscious of their individual stake in the preservation of democratic life in America. Those things have toughened the fiber of our people, have renewed their faith, and strengthened their devotion to the institutions we make ready to protect. certainly this is no time for any of us to stop thinking about the social and economic problems which are the root cause of the social revolution which is today a supreme factor in the world. For there is nothing mysterious about the foundations of a healthy and strong democracy. the basic things expected by our people of their political and economic systems are simple. They are equality of opportunity for youth and for others, jobs for those who can work, security for those who need it, the ending of special privilege for the few, the preservation of civil liberties for all, the enjoyment of the fruits of scientific progress in a wider and constantly rising standard of living. these are the simple, the basic things that must never be lost sight of in the turmoil and unbelievable complexity of our modern world. The inner and abiding strength of our economic and political systems is dependent upon the degree to which they fulfill these expectations. many subjects connected with our social economy call for immediate improvement. As example, we should bring more citizens under the coverage of old age pensions and unemployment insurance. We should widen the opportunity for adequate medical care. We should plan a better system by which persons deserving or needing gainful employment may obtain it. I have called for personal sacrifice and I am assured of the willingness of almost all Americans to respond to that cause. A part of the sacrifice means the payment of more money in taxes. In my budget message, I will recommend that a greater portion of this great defense program be paid for from taxation than we are paying for today. No person should cry or be allowed to get rich out of the program. And the principle of tax payments in accordance with ability to pay should be constantly before our eyes to guide our legislation. if the Congress maintains these principles, the voters putting patriotism ahead of pocketbooks will give you their applause. In the future days that we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms. The first is freedom of speech and expression everywhere in the world. The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way everywhere in the world. The third is freedom from want which translated into world terms means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants everywhere in the world. The fourth is freedom from fear which translated into world terms means a worldwide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor anywhere in the world. That is no vision of a distant millennium. it is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable in our own time and generation. That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb. To that new order we oppose the greater conception the moral order. A good society is able to face schemes of world domination and foreign revolutions alike without fear. Since the beginning of our American history we have been engaged in change in a perpetual peaceful revolution. revolution a revolution which goes on steadily quietly adjusting itself to changing conditions without the concentration camp or or the quick lime in the ditch. The world order which we seek is the cooperation of free countries working together in a friendly civilized society. nation has this nation has placed its destiny in the hands and heads and hearts of its millions of free men and women and its faith in freedom under the guidance of God. Freedom means the supremacy of human rights everywhere. Our support goes to those who struggle to gain those rights and keep them. Our strength is our unity of purpose with that high concept that can be no end save victory. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. the National Defense Delivered by Mr. Mason H. Biglow, President of the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness of New York City. This has been a presentation of the Interstate Broadcasting Company. National of the даже National Gallery National JOHN H. Miami Holiday Continued cold Tuesday and Wednesday, strong northwest to north winds. Lowest temperature tonight, 15 degrees in the city and 10 degrees in the suburbs. Average temperature tomorrow about 22 degrees. Eastern New York, generally fair and colder. Cold wave in interior of south portion tonight. Tuesday, fair and continued cold. New Jersey, fair and colder tonight. Tuesday, increasing cloudiness and continued cold. Connecticut, fair and somewhat colder tonight. Tuesday, fair and continued cold. Southern New England and New Jersey shores. Strong northwest to north winds this afternoon tonight and Tuesday. Continued partly cloudy to cloudy weather. East port to Block Island. Fresh northwest winds tonight, diminishing tomorrow and Tuesday. Weather, mostly cloudy tonight and Tuesday. Block Island to Hatteras. Fresh to strong north and northeast winds over the north portion and north and northeast over the south portion. Broken clouds tonight and Tuesday. And now, news of the world. Associated press dispatches from the WNYC tickers. Remember, overseas news is subject to censorship abroad. Cairo, Egypt. A British patrol is said to have routed an Italian force in the Matema area of Ethiopia. This is east of Galabat, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. The Italians are said to have left 40 dead and many wounded. British casualties are listed as small. Montevideo, Uruguay. The French freighter Mendoza has put out to sea again. The freighter, attempting to run the British blockade, sailed from Uruguayan territorial waters after having been halted by the British auxiliary cruiser Asturias. The 8,000-ton vessel left Montevideo last night. But she returned to Maldonado Bay, east of Montevideo, this morning after being intercepted. The British ship is understood to have been some distance offshore. There are reports that the Asturias was detaining the Mendota, and circumstances under which the freighter made her second dash are not disclosed. Ankara, Turkey. Staff officers of Britain's Middle East Command have arrived in Ankara for military discussions. Observers say the talks may affect the course of the war in the Mediterranean, Africa, and the Balkans. The British officers came by rail from Adana on the south coast. They arrived there by air from Egypt. They were met at the station by Turkish officers, and at once they began a round of official calls. The British ship was shot by the sea, and the Allies were shot by the sea. The British ship was shot by the sea. And the British ship was shot by the sea. The British ship was shot by the sea. With 12 passengers and 36 crewmen, she is listing heavily to the port, about 300 miles southeast by east of New York. A Coast Guard plane has sighted her bucking heavy seas in a 45-mile-an-hour gale. Five Coast Guard vessels and two merchant ships, the freighter Colita and the tanko S.O. Raleigh, are rushing to the rescue. The West Kebar is carrying a collection of animals consigned to Warren Buck of Ketland, Jersey. Miss Marjorie Lawrence has just concluded the aria divinity du Stix from Gluck's Opera Alceste. Master at Torapanica, the metapolome opera conductor, accompanied Miss Lawrence at the piano. The audience assembled here has greeted Miss Lawrence's rendition of this aria. And that... Ladies and gentlemen, we are a little in doubt here whether or not Mrs. August Belmont is going to... A handful of rails, utilities, and specialties successfully contested light selling in today's stock market. Numerous leaders nodded at slightly lower levels. Prices were uneven at the start, and efforts to work up a definite trend thereafter generally were unavailing. Fractional irregularity persisted to the close. Transfers for the full session approximated 500,000 shares, one of the smallest five-hour turnovers in more than a month. Three of these states' amazing disputes over office are pending. At Charleston, West Virginia, Matthew M. Neely, the Democrat, became governor after 25 years in Congress. He resigned his seat in the United States Senate in order to be governor. There is a dispute over his successor, as Senator Neely was sworn in as soon as January 13th arrived. To be exact, he took the oath at 12.01 a.m., 12 hours prior to formal inauguration. Immediately, he appointed as his successor in the Senate, Joseph Rossier. Oh, uh, the, uh, prelude and mazurka from the, uh, from Coppelia of the Leaves. That's right. It's the prelude and mazurka from Coppelia of the Leaves. All right, round number nine. It has to do with dates. Not the kind you eat or go out on, but the kind you read about and weep. And me too, I never liked history. Mr. Marshman, how many years apart were Johann Sebastian Bach and George Frederick Handel born? They were born the... Each one died. The years, yeah. All right, that's much easier. We'll simplify matters. The, um, Beethoven... Beethoven, I think, died in 1827. That's right, and naturally the other one, the 21 year difference will be 1828. That's right. And I think we have time for one more round, which is the inspiration of Marian Sapir of 1700 Crotona Park East in the Bronx. She writes, One might go to the opera for four easy lessons in murder. I should like the contestants to name the... In third, Marjorie, uh, Sherman Gottesman with 800, and in fourth, Marjorie Bandman with 600. Congratulations to each and every one of you, and thanks for your cooperation. Miss Friedman, you, as the winner, are invited by Symphonic Varieties to attend the concert to be given by Erica Morini on Tuesday evening next at Town Hall, while you, Mr. Marshman, as second placer, are invited to be the guests of Symphonic Varieties at a recital to be given at the Carnegie Chamber Hall by Kurt Engel next Friday evening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.anced ensemble viewing in high演zw grab Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.