Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, are more people turning to God? Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion will center around an analysis of how and why people turn to God, together with current religious trends and their effects upon our lives. Now our moderator, Willis L. Butler, Jr., Assistant Director of The Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's program. Mr. Butler. Our guests today are Charles H. Alberts, Manager and Chief Examiner of the Chicago Clearinghouse Association, who is also a trustee and elder of the Buena Memorial Presbyterian Church of Chicago, and a member of the Board of National Missions, Presbyterian Church, USA. The Reverend Jeanne Bartlett, Minister of the First Baptist Church of Evanston, Illinois. The Reverend Kenneth Hildebrand, Minister of the Central Church of Chicago, and Chairman of the Committee on Television of the Department of Radio for the Church Federation of Greater Chicago. And the Reverend James C. McLeod, Chaplain of Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, the question before us today is, are more people turning to God? But before we attempt to answer the question directly, perhaps we should define exactly what we mean by turning to God. Dr. Hildebrand, what does this phrase mean to you? I wish I could say that it meant an allegiance to God, a high allegiance. I wish I could even say that it meant church attendance. I'm afraid that very often it simply means a certain wistfulness, as people are realizing a certain need in the confusion these days, and they're turning for a power beyond themselves. Mr. Alvarez? Well, I think that turning to God means the recognition of the need to rely upon a power greater than ourselves, and beyond anything the secular world can offer. I think turning to God, after all, is but a first step in accepting God. You're headed in the right direction, so to speak. And from a Christian viewpoint, that only really comes about when Jesus Christ becomes a real vital and factor and force in your life. Chaplain McLeod, If you really mean that people are seeking something greater than themselves to which they can commit themselves, from which they may receive strength to face the difficulties which they encounter in today's living, then I must affirm within the experience of my own ministry on a university and college campus that there is ample evidence of vast numbers and increasing numbers of young people who are turning to God. Dr. Bartlett? The meaning of the subject, to me, centers in the word turning. Now, when I turn around, I may still be in the same spot, but I'm facing a different direction, and every step from that point on carries me in that other direction. I think it was Luther who said that whatever your heart relies upon, that properly is your God. I do believe that this subject implies that there has been a turning around and looking in another direction. Well, now, what importance does church attendance have upon turning to God? It seems to me, Mr. Butler, that it's an important part of this whole thing. However, I believe that a lot of ordinary individuals feel that it's not particularly important that they can be good people, they can be Christian people and not attend church. They can be religious individuals. However, I know in building a campfire, if you let one log glow with fire for a while and put it by itself, pretty soon that campfire dies out. You have to have two or three logs burning together before the fire really continues to burn. And I think it's something like that in our Christian experience. May we not look upon the church in the tangible sense as being at least a practical point at which a person who feels a need may begin. After all, I may feel a need and a hunger. How do I begin? Well, the church is there standing on the corner. It's a tangible thing. So maybe the significance of it is that it gives me some place at which I begin. Well, now, do you think it's possible for a person to attend church regularly through a sense of duty, perhaps, rather than through a sincere desire to worship and therefore really fail to turn to God as we think of it today? Well, I think that's quite possible. I'm sure that there are many motivations that bring people into a church on any given Sunday morning. Mr. Albers? Well, I think that many conscientious people who profess God don't feel the need of worshiping with others of the same mind. It takes time to find that one of the greatest blessings of at least the Christian faith is the fellowship of the church, and the fellowship that church provides. Aside from church attendance, another factor is reflecting turning to God is the great increase in the reading of Christian books and literature that's made available to us now. Well, what do you think about these people who go to church once a year on Easter, for example? Are they turning to God? May I just go back a little bit? So many times you do hear people say, but Japlin, and it comes from young people so many times, I can worship God anywhere. I can worship him by the lake, and I can worship him in the mountains, I can worship him in the fields. Quite true. But I'm still of the opinion that people can learn to worship God anywhere, but they must first learn how to worship him somewhere. And I think in historic Christianity, the church has proven the best and most fruitful way in which men can learn how to worship God. Very good. Well, now that we more or less agree that church attendance is very important in turning to God, are more people turning to God today? I think in the main that the answer to our question is in the affirmative. If you take the standards that are available to us, such as the church attendance as being one, the reading of literature as being another, and the nature of the literature being written, which is an important point, I think the answer is in the affirmative. There's another thing that appeals to me. The newspapers of our country have their fingers on the pulse. And today, if my observation is correct, the newspapers are playing up religious news in a way that they didn't even a few years ago. And that is because there's a demand and a desire for such news. It isn't stuck off in a corner somewhere. It's an important part of the news of our country today. I don't know how correct this survey was, but it was well publicized in newspapers the other day that a survey made of several nations, Christian nations, show that 94% of the people of our country claimed to believe in God. And of that 94%, two thirds claim regular church attendance. That means more than twice a month, by the way. You'll surprise you. Which would mean that 60% of our people are regular church attendance. Now we all know that something like 50% of our own people claim any affiliation with the Christian church. And that certainly would mean, if those statistics are even close to right, that a very substantial amount of our people who are not even church members are regular church attendance. Well now, has church attendance gone up in recent years? I think there is evidence that we have certainly more than kept abreast of the increase in population. It might be somewhere between a 3 and 5% average increase in the number of people who are relating themselves to the church. Along with what Mr. Alvarez has said, I think most people believe in God. With that I will agree. But we do not have an equation at the point that an equally large number of people believe in the church. There is a difference. Well now, has there been any change in the public attitude toward the church? That's rather difficult to say, and one has to generalize from his own experience and observation. It does seem to me that within the last two decades there has been a change on the part of the general public in relation to the church. There was a great deal of skepticism and even opposition to the church in 20 years ago or 25 years ago. I think that has been modified. I would say that there is a new open mindedness, even a hope that the church does have something to give in this situation. Though in many cases that has not moved on to an active commitment. It's rather a, well I'm ready to be shown idea. Mr. Butler, there is a personal observation I'd like to make at this point. I grew up around an army post as a boy. And I can remember the attitude that soldiers held toward clergymen in general, chaplain in particular. And later on I found it through my high school and college days. It was sort of this, men, women, and ministers, you know, three classifications. Not quite human. And later on there was a tolerance. Sort of a, oh, a good natured tolerance or a contempt even for the clergyman and what he stood for. Now today I don't find that. As I move around the city and the various groups of the city, they may not always agree with my position. But they respect it. And they are saying in their attitudes something very different than they said years ago. Well, Kim, Martin Luther said over 400 years ago that every layman should be a minister in his own vocation. So I think you ministers really have a lot of ministers around who you don't know about nowadays. We can use them. Because these laymen are really going to town. They are trying to be a minister in their own vocation. What are they doing, Mr. Albers? How are they ministers in their own vocation? They are trying to live what they profess to be. They are not ashamed. They are not pussyfooting on Christ or the things of the church. And even in business, as I am a layman, I am in the banking business. I deal with people in the high strata of the banking profession, I would say. And yet I believe that I earn their respect and they know where I stand. There is no question about that. I would like to simply underscore what Mr. Albers has said. I think he has put his finger on one of the most significant things of all. Namely the recovery of the sense of vocation and shall we say the ordination of the layman in his vocation. That, to me, is a recovery of the sense of the sovereignty of God over all of life in the marketplace as well as in the church sanctuary, which is at least as significant as any statistics we could bring forth here about church attendance. You were saying then that the man who acts a sincere Christian life behind the counter or behind the plow or the wheel of a truck or wherever it may be is just as important as the minister in the pulpit. Is that about what you're saying? Oh, I'd say no question about it. Good. Well, Mr. Rattler, I would also say that it's very easy, of course, for me to take the role of the devil's advocate and point out the shortcomings of the church. I know how it has been stained by the common customs of mankind throughout the years. It's often much more intent upon getting new members and more members than it is in spiritualizing the lives of those which it already has. It's sometimes stayed the march of truth. It's even marked with bloody persecutions in its history. But I'm quite sure that any one of the men here could refute all of those criticisms that may come of the church. And the carping critics of the church, if they all came in tomorrow, wouldn't make it a perfect church. Perhaps, Jim, one of those shortcomings has been that the church has always been afraid of losing or probably making impotent its religious and spiritual strength by allowing itself to get far off the base into the secular field. I think that's gone too far, and I think the church now more fully recognized the need of taking its position for good and against evil wherever it appears in life. Now, in spite of some of the imperfections of the church which we've recognized, we have said that more people are turning to God, and I assume that we've been speaking primarily of the United States. We've said that. That's right. Is the United States representative of the rest of the world? Well, factually, you must recognize that there's a lot of the world behind the Iron Curtain now. That a great part of the world is non-Christian. That only a small percentage of that non-Christian world is even exposed to Christianity, much less believe in it, because of their steadfast beliefs of themselves. But I do believe that in the missionary effort of the Christian church, that small percentage in all those countries rates in importance far beyond their numerical strength. I'm very glad that Charlie Albers has introduced this concept of the church as being something more than a building on the corner or even a church within the framework of these United States. Most of us who served in the South Pacific are well aware of the fact that there was no island to which we went with the Marine Corps or the Army or whatever it may be, but what we had discovered that the church had been there long before we had, that there were established mission stations, that there were little churches where the natives were worshiping. No, the church is a great mass, a body which has been moving constantly within the framework and the life of men for generations. Isn't it true also that some of the most vital work, Christian-wise, being done today is in some of these newer churches. I've talked with men that have come back from Korea and they are simply astounded by the strength and the vigor and the evangelistic zeal of the Korean people. Right. Even in the prisoner of war camps. One of the big reasons why this exchange of prisoners is such a question is because these North Koreans, prisoners of wars, are vital Christians and they don't want to go back because they know what will happen if they do go back to North Korea afterwards. That's part of the problem, but it's due to the zeal of the church, you see. Well, that holds good too, right in our own country. I was in Los Angeles not long ago and I wanted to see where this national mission money was all being spent. And you'd be amazed that if you didn't bring the sanctuary to the people in these new communities that are being built up by the square block and square mile, there'd be pagan nations growing in this country. Most of them have some church background in years past, but if you didn't bring a church to them now, if the church wasn't on its toes as a whole, as an entirety, there'd be people that never know Christ and never would go to Sunday school as far as their children's concerned. So the church is recognizing that it must follow up the people wherever they go when they get out of touch with the church that once had them. Now we've said that more people are turning to God. Why are more people turning to God? You mentioned that the church must be sure to do its part. But are troubling world events, would you say, at all, responsible for more people turning to God, regardless of what the church may be? But I quote what Dr. Sockman said not long ago, I think being very applicable to the point. He said, the dangers and tensions of our times may prove to be a godsend in driving Christians to a clearer understanding of their faith and a deeper devotion to it. Another reason I think is that the things we have depended upon in many ways have failed us. And out of the sense of that failure, men are turning again to explore the truth that is in the Jewish Christian faith. Jesus told a story which I think is one of the most modern that could be lifted from the New Testament. It was the story of the man who had such an abundant crop that he had to build extra barns to hold his crops. Then when he went out and looked at his barns overflowing, what did the man say to himself? Did he say, now I shall not be hungry this winter? Or now I shall have plenty for some years to come? No, he looked at his full barns and said, now my soul, take thine ease, eat, drink and be merry. In other words, he was trying to get a spiritual result out of his material possessions and it didn't work. Now in some ways, I think that's been a picture of much of our life in America. We've wanted spiritual things or material things for their spiritual results. It hasn't given us ease. It hasn't even made us happy. And out of that, I believe there is a new turning to something else. I would say that in observation of the sometimes described happy little pagans of our colleges and universities, there is ample evidence of a deep and sincere wistfulness on the part of a lot of serious-minded young people who are seeking for something better than that which often, tragically, they have ever known in their homes. And there is evidence of the fact that the increasing attendances at church services adjacent to the campus, such as at Mr. Bartlett's church, at the University Chapel services, all around the community, evidence of the fact that these young people are seeking for a better understanding of God. And that added to the fact that the departments of religion and a great many of our universities are increasing, that the enrollments and courses in religion are increasing. It seems to me as evidence of a deep, sincere, wistful hungering for something more. I think it was Niebuhr who said that Christ is always foolishness to those who never ask the questions to which he's the answer. Well, perhaps the significant thing is not that we found the answer, or that many have found the answer, but at least they're asking the questions. I think we would be glib to say that just because the questions of the meaning of life and what's real and what makes for happiness, those questions are being asked does not by any means guarantee that they will find the Christian answer to them. Years ago, Dean Swift, in one of his writings somewhere, told about a peculiar order called the Struelbrugs, if I remember, I believe he called them. And he said something like this, we, these people were beings created with immortal bodies, but they were destitute of any spiritual natures, and thus they could not suffer, they could only be discontented. Well, now it seems to me that that's about what's happening here. So many times, people are people with immortal souls. They're made for something more than this world has to offer. But because they haven't found the answers, they can only be discontented, which is a terrible thing. And from a purely practical lay side, you've got to recognize that a lot of people who don't go to church, don't belong to church, still recognize the church as the bulwark of the community. They wouldn't live in a community without a church. They wouldn't have their children raised without a church community. Those people are just one step removed from joining the church. And when they get that little added push, they feel in fairness they should support this thing, which is a good thing. And once we get them into the church, I say again that we've got what it takes to sell. We've got fine preachers, and we've got the gospel in itself as infallible. It's that peripheral group in which I'm very interested. I had an experience quite recently in riding on a train and sitting in the club car and listening to a lot of obviously successful businessmen describing the tragic situation that must exist in Russia, where people do not have the opportunity to worship because so many of the churches have been closed. So I interjected the question to the man who was holding forth most strongly and said, and sir, of which church are you a member? And he was taken aback. He said, well, as a matter of fact, my wife is a member of the church, and she sees to it that the children get to church. I said, well, sir, would you be so concerned about the churches? Why be so concerned about the churches that are closed in Russia? You are not at all certain that the churches are open in this country. It's a time for us to be aware and alert of this great freedom which we have, the freedom of worship, one of the basic freedoms, and it's the responsibility of every thinking citizen to see to it that they continue to be. Now, Chaplain McLeod, that brings us directly to my next question. Why don't more people turn to God and specifically to the church? Is the family responsible, for example? If the question is directed at me, I would certainly say that family devotions, the family relationship of mother and father to children, the common family altar is something which is part of our past, a heritage which we have failed to utilize. I think a tragic because we must really know that the great fundamental truths and richness of religion is something which is going to be caught and not taught. So the atmosphere of the home has a great deal to do with whether or not people are devoutly religious. What about the person who says, when I was a boy, I had to go to church and the Sunday school and the prayer meeting and evening service and so on. I just got fed up of it and I don't go to church anymore. I run into that. What do you men say to that? I get the same answer that Mark Twain did. When he told the fellow, he said, well, my good friend, he said, you ought to go back to the church. It may have changed since you were there last some 25 years ago. I still want to say that maybe, maybe in my case that the wish is father to the hope or what have you. But I'm sure that in the case of my three sons, that the time comes in their lives and they're all pretty well grown now, one just getting into college, one in the Air Force and one married. I think that when things get going tough and they haven't something really stable to hang on to, they're going to remember the time at home when every day we sat down and we prayed together. I think it's an influence that's definitely going to stay with them. Well, I hope also, even when things aren't going tough, it will add to the depth and enjoyment of their lives. I'm sure that's right. Well, now, is the church responsible at all for more people not turning to the church and to God? Well, I think we'd be among the first to admit many weaknesses of the church and the church has failed tragically in lots of ways. For instance, it's been criticized for being otherworldly, not dealing with practical problems. And I think very often the criticism has been well founded. However, the church is attempting, as I can see it across the country today, to meet the practical challenge that people are raising. And to deal with social issues. It's funny, the church gets criticized both ways on that, for not dealing with the question of peace and war and labor and management and all the rest. Or, when the church does attempt it, then criticize for so doing, because preach the gospel, people then say. But I think the church can do the job all right and still not forget that this main object can be is to propagate the gospel. Let them speak now the Christian church, to propagate the gospel of Jesus Christ. It can do that and still lend its effort to everything good and put its efforts against everything that's evil. We shall always be indebted to St. Paul, I think, at the point in which he describes the church as the body of Christ. And like all bodies, of course, it has certain functions. Quite like eating and breathing and working and the rest of it. The church has a responsibility for carrying on the sacraments, for preaching the word, for leading people and guiding them in worship and education and missions and brotherly service. All of these things. But it's not perfect. No, and it wouldn't be perfect, as I have said, if all the others came into it. But it's generally imperfect. It doesn't do all that it would like to do. It's a little bit like a man who is running the 440-yard run. That last 40 yards is awful rough going, and I remember it. In other words, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. And the church has a lot of flesh in it, meaning you and me and all the rest of the people. And sometimes we lose out. But that it's keeping on trying is evidence of the fact that it is the body of Christ at work in the world. Well, now, as more people are turning to God, and as more people continue to turn to God, what is and what will be the effects in society? For example, on the personal level, in the family, or in business? What about in business, Mr. Alvarez? Well, I feel definitely in business. A lot of businessmen are superficially Christian. They believe in the church. They're even church members. But it's amazing how they warm up to it when someone with a little more intestinal fortitude, let's say, will talk about it. They're glad to talk about it. But they'll never bring it up themselves. And I think it's mainly because their lives don't square with what they profess to be. And they don't want to be considered hypocrites. They know that if they preach one thing and they know their best friends know they live another way, they can't do it without being hypocrites. And that means the layman that wants to do a job and really wants to do a job for the church has got to make a real effort to follow the precepts of Christ in his own living. I think a second important result would be a meeting of the problem of anxiety in the lives of people today. More and more as a counselor, as the people who come to my study, I'm impressed by the way in which our gospel, that we have to be self-reliant. I'm referring now to the gospel that I think stands over against our Christian gospel. That you have to be self-reliant, that you have to stand on your own feet and be able to take it on your own, is producing anxiety in the minds of and in the spirits of people. They know they're not self-reliant and self-sufficient. And there's a wonderful relief about knowing that you don't have to be self-sufficient, but that there is one on whom you can rely. And one in whom we live and move and have our being. And I think the relieving of anxiety is one of the great gifts of turning to God. Wouldn't you say that today people are beginning to find out that there's a practical side to religion, that there's something here which works down on the ordinary level, helping us get over the problems that we face and the confusions and all the rest of it today. I have something that same experience that you have, Dr. Bartlett, that people coming, all mixed up. And yet here is something that can give strength and satisfaction, and they can lean on it, and people need it today. That's right. Well now, Dr. Hildebrand, how far will this practicality go on the community level, for example? In other words, will we have greater morality in governmental affairs? Yes, I think so. Here is a man who sets himself according to certain ethical principles in the Christian faith. Certainly he's going to be a better man in government or in business or in the community or wherever he is. There is a figure of speech that's been in my mind often these days. I remember I had an old Ford which I bought for $25 in college. That was in the old days. And one day I was driving along and the front wheel got to wobbling. Well, I drove into the garage and he said, now, just one thing, you've got to tighten that thing at the center. In other words, when that wheel began to wobble, you couldn't put a new tire on it and fix it. A coat of paint wouldn't do it. A few new spokes wouldn't do it. There was just one thing that would do it. That wheel had to be made secure at the center. Now, it seems to me that in some ways our society is just about like that. All your fantasies, nothing but security at the center is really fundamentally going to restore the basic integrity and morality of our nation. That's one of the great functions and I think the pulpit is under an obligation to stand and say that with courage and say it again and again in this time. One almost inevitably would recall the prayer of the late Peter Marshall in the Senate when he prayed that all of us may stand for something lest we fall for everything. Very good. Well, now, what are we doing and what can we do to encourage more people to turn to God and specifically to the church? Well, I'd like to say this as a member of a board of a theological seminary that I find that the up and coming fellows today just as a the best, the best there are. I'll put them against any professional students in any other profession. They're going to make the leadership of today and the leadership of tomorrow. And I think they're going to have a very potent factor in what happens in our church. I would like to inject here one note, if I may, that I think we ought not to be too glib, shall we say, about people's turning to God today. I think there is a great potential here. I think there is a tremendous opportunity. And perhaps the crisis in America, religiously speaking, is that it's going to go one way or the other. Well, gentlemen, I think we all agree that turning to God in its complete realization anyway implies participation in the affairs of the church. We've shown that more people are turning to God because of current world tensions and because people have become frustrated over trying to get spiritual results from material methods. We've also pointed out why more people don't turn to God and how we can encourage them to do so. At this appropriate time of Easter, it is encouraging to note an increase in the number of people who are turning to God. At the same time, however, I believe we all agree that this increase is small on a percentage of the total population basis. Much remains to be done and much depends on what is done. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Are more people turning to God? We want to thank our guests for today. Charles Albers, Chicago businessman and lay religious leader. The Reverend Gene Bartlett. The Reverend Kenneth Hildebrand. And the Reverend James McLeod. The moderator was Willis Butler, Jr., assistant director of the reviewing stand. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, how can we improve our highways? Our guests will be Frank Barker, chief highway engineer for the state of Illinois. George Barton, engineering consultant to the Northwestern University Traffic Institute. Sheridan Ferrin, division design engineer in the Chicago office of the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads. And Donald Kennedy, former highway commissioner for the state of Michigan. We hope you'll be with us next week as we ask, how can we improve our highways? The reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.