Still all right. We have a simple problem here, it's more or less of a challenge, due to the heavy snowfall. I don't know if you know the figures or not, but the latest report that we've had, the official weather report, shows that the snowfall all over the city, within the city, amounted to 99,000 tons. Million, million, million, million. Did I say this was a simple problem? It's getting worse the longer I'm back. 99 million tons? Do you believe it? 99 million tons? That's the job that we're confronted with today. Now whether it was 99,000 or 99 million, the principle is the same. First of all, the city has to make its mind up on that principle. You either leave it there, at this time of the year, a dangerous thing to do, to gamble on the weather to help you, with a handful of men poking at these snow piles here and there. Tying up our business, which would be an expensive thing for business. And undoubtedly, the same result as we had once before back in 1920 will happen. That is that your first snowfall will turn to ice. Your next snowfall on top of that is another layer of ice. And the third on top of that is another layer of ice. Ruts on the street, destroying your equipment, interfering with your business in the city. And general discomfort, nobody pleads. Now that's one way of handling this. The other way of handling it is to go at it, while the going is good. Accept the challenge, go at it, and clean the streets. How to do that? They're just, again, a simple approach. No use in making a mystery out of it. The city will have to be divided into sections. A man in charge of each section. Daily reports of the percentage of that section that has been cleared. And complete supervision. Allocation of manpower and equipment. And then supervision. When it comes to manpower, there's only one way to get manpower, and that's to pay them. Nobody should be expected to go out in cold weather for charity. They won't do it. I can't blame anyone for doing it. We have to be prepared to meet a standard rate of pay for this kind of work. Now looking over the figures last night, I noticed that we had about 1,700 pieces of equipment. And we've had about 14,000 odd in manpower. We would need three times, four times that amount of manpower. But if we had that much manpower, we would have to have a complement of equipment to serve that many hands. That means that our equipment would have to go up by anywhere from 1,000 to 2,000 pieces, in addition to what we have. Now the purpose of having this meeting today will be to find out, if possible, what we can actually do in the recruitment of manpower, and what we can actually do in the recruitment of equipment. I ask the Board of Estimate to be here to meet with you, so that before we leave here today, we'll have money allocated. There'll be no question about that. We'll have the necessary audit set up by the controller planned for, so that that can go ahead. And then the job of recruitment would start at that point, additional recruitment. I think we also should ask the police commissioner to call back again through the police precincts the emergency civilian grouping that helped out so splendidly during the war, the civilian defense group. Now the purpose of calling them back and the amount of volunteer work that we could expect from them would be limited, but at least we could have it on a block-to-block basis. There are certain rules that we must agree on today for the public. The question of unnecessary use of the streets by automotive equipment, privately owned and operated at this time, is important. We have to have some rule on that. We also have to have some of the old-time rules of property owners, ordinances that are still in existence, that have not been enforced in the last 10 or 12 years, but they've got to go back to it. One of them is to clean those sidewalks and to hold the property owner responsible for cleaning the gutter in order that the water can flow into the catch basin as soon as the sun hits that pile. Now, that generally is the way it looks to me coming back. That is that we can do a swell job on this, provided that we organize it properly, that we have the manpower, we have the equipment, and that we have the money, which we are here today to take care of. Now, I see Mr. Howard Coleman here, and Mr. Tobin. Mr. Coleman, I'm very grateful to your representative at LaGuardia Field. I think with the problem that you've had out there, that it did a splendid job in getting off planes, and I needn't mind telling you that it had a grand job to get me in there instead of Buffalo last night. And I thank you, sir, and the Port Authority and the management at LaGuardia Field for doing that. I love it. Perhaps we could start at the beginning and have Commissioner Powell... Well, I think the beginning might well be the traffic problem which would come from the police department. What is... what has been done and what is left to be done. Have we got anyone here, Commissioner, from the traffic or you prepared for that? Well, yes, we have Mr. Mulligan, but I think I can report on that. Yeah. From the standpoint of the police department, as soon as the snow fell, it became our job to see that... that the sanitation department, truck movement was facilitated so that they could clear the snow from the streets or push it to one side. That was a... something that was absolutely necessary so that we could further move essential and vital commodities. and I refer to fuel oil, coal, foodstuffs, medicines, and the important public services that we have such as fire and ambulance, emergency trucks of various types. So we set out to... to assist in every possible way. Trucks were scattered all over the streets. They were tied up in intersections and at every conceivable angle, and it was necessary to employ the services of our emergency trucks to get that straightened out. They were also concerned with the... with the trucks that were obstructing the fire-run and ambulance-run streets. Those were our immediate concern. We still have... that concern. And... the traffic situation as it... concerns... mid-Manhattan now and... downtown... Manhattan... is in... good shape, I'd say. Insofar as... upper Manhattan is concerned, there is... something to be done yet. Of course... in the... other boroughs, Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, particularly in the suburban parts of them, there is much to be done. The... the number of... cars that were removed by emergency trucks, number 640, that is, trucks and passenger cars, 640 were removed in these past... 24 hours... 48 hours. The... the breakdown on... on these here... um... uh... trucks that were abandoned and... uh... that is, that abandoned today, as of today, uh... reads as follows. That is, these are the trucks that still remain on the streets, uh... trailers and buses as well. There are 857 trucks, there are 24 trailers, and 62 buses. This is not taking into account the number of private cars that are still parked at the curbs and... will take some time to... remove. I notice, in traveling through the streets, though, uh... day by day, or hour by hour, uh... the owners of the cars are digging in there and getting them out. And where they're taking... taking them to, I don't know, but they're off the streets, uh... which is very helpful. We still have a big problem to do in the outlying sections of the city, Mr. Mayor. And, uh... I would urge that, uh... we immediately move into that area, into those areas, and, uh... with all the manpower and, uh... equipment that's possible. Uh... that is, again, necessary for the... for the very vital movement of fuel, oil, and coal. We have received a number of complaints, and talking, uh... as the chairman of the mayor's fuel, oil, and coal committee, uh... we do, uh... have a central office operating at police headquarters, uh... to which all complaints are forwarded. Of course, we also receive complaints from the health department. Some of them go directly there, but they're redirected to us. The number of complaints that we received, uh... recently has grown daily. Uh... that is, progressively, it's getting worse. And, of course, much of it is occasioned by the impediment that's caused to the movement of these here trucks by snow. So it's very important that we open up these arteries as quickly as we possibly can. The mayor's, um... thought on, uh... forming block parties is an excellent one. And, uh... that should be immediately instituted. In that direction, Mr. Mayor, we could, uh... call upon not only the civilian defense... The old civilian defense workers, but, uh... veterans' organizations, the public generally, the property owners, uh... of the immediate... who are front on the immediate street. Uh... But the movement of these supplies affects everyone. Not only the small homeowner, but the apartment house owner. I think a big job can be done in that direction. And the police department, Mr. Mayor, is on a, uh... on an, uh... an extra shift with our men. We've asked our men to work four hours overtime after each shift, and they've come through. And we intend to employ them, uh... in these here, uh... suburban areas to help out there and see if this vital supplies get through. That's about the story. All right. Uh... Commissioner Bernicke, uh... what problems have hospitals got outside of ambulances? Well, we're in pretty good shape, Mr. Mayor. We had a... We had a lot of this conference before last. But the first army came to very much and our animal service and both of them. As a matter of fact, I haven't set the total of the city last night and today and now it's running as good as this ever was. We got all of our milk in. We had a little trouble getting into that yesterday, but K&P came through and made a very nice and threatened and uh... and and uh... So we have no complaints to all. We have that we have that we have that we have that we have Dr. Mustard has has the health department any problem that you have at the moment? No particular problem, Mr. Mayor. We have the best we have the food supply is coming in about the normal. The food supply in the stores is uh... adequate for the present. There is a problem with the delivery of the small stores on the side streets. Uh... But uh... Otherwise the situation seems fairly stable from the standpoint of the problem. We have at least a few days of grace to work. Thanks, sir. Uh... Dr. Jensen uh... How about uh... the schools? Uh... Well, a lot of things just to wait for the schools to be closed so that we don't have a problem uh... as we still with 10 schools. We do have a problem in the side of the car and that's uh... our tax will be there. ...to be there. So we have a problem proceeding uh... some 10,000 children who are on release and I talked to our kitchen this morning and they think that their trucks will get through to the 100 schools where we feed those children all this weekend. We don't anticipate any great difficulties. Uh... Normally we feed any more but during the time the schools are closed the children the children ordinarily that did not come but we think we can take care of them. We have enough food to prepare these sandwiches to milk. We expect deliveries because we're sure this morning will come so I think we'll be all out. Thank you. Uh... Mr. Schultz markets what problem have you got there? There's no problem Mr. Mayor. Food is after we offer for at least four days. Milk is coming from all sections both by truck and by tank car. The bakeries are working overtime and there's plenty of bread. The only difficulty we've encountered is getting into the outlying sections and the milk. No companies are delivering our main thoroughfares at the outlying sections and selling from the truck. There's plenty of bread, plenty of bread, 100 feet, 100 feet, plenty of fish, plenty of bread. Thank you. Uh... Commissioner Quayle, the fire department seems to be having a lot of trouble. Well, Mr. Mayor, our greatest hazard right now is the number of hives that are covered with snow. We have a total of 84,700 hives throughout the five hours. We worked 9,760 fire department offices up until midnight last night of a total personnel of 10,800. We have accomplished the clearance of snow away from the highlands on the main on the to the extent of about 25,000 hydrants. We still have approximately three-quarters of those hydrants that are still covered. We may continuously move on the radio to the public to operate with this and dare to get that snow away from the hydrants. That would be one of the first jobs civilian defense people could do, wouldn't it? I think that's very definite. That is a prime importance to us. It's a real hazard and while our main lautrides are opened up, the side streets are still horribly congested in the snow. And the result of that is that we must drag our lines in from the main lautrides in order to get to fires on side streets. And if the public will cooperate to the extent of clearing those hydrants, at least expose them so that we know where the hydrants are when we get in there, it will relieve the jeopardy considerably. All right. Is there any other problem that you know of? Yes, might I ask a question? Yeah. Commissioner, some of the sections in Queens, some of the sections in Queens, particularly in the outlying areas, in the frame house areas, the main plowed streets are four and five blocks apart in some instances. The what? The plowed streets, the main streets, which are plowed and open. are four and five blocks apart. Wouldn't you have a great deal of difficulty in fighting fires within those areas on these side streets? Well, our difficulty there will be instrumental. Yes, sir. Now, going into the Rockaways, the Rockaways were closed up until about 9 p.m. last night. We finally got through Broad Channel around 9 o'clock. The city island was isolated from fire protection up until about midnight. But that was open up at midnight last side. We're confronted with a real hazard in connection with the water and the parts. General, along the lines of what you suggested, especially with regard to old regulations, I think your announcement should include the responsibility on all property owners to clear the inlets for the fuel oil and for the coal service, along with this fire harness. We'll take that up. The board sits down afterwards and we hear the whole story, Hugo. Commissioner Williams, what could you contribute to the emergency? Corrections. What problem have you got? Are your people well housed, Commissioner? They're well housed, well fed. Well fed. It's the timing. We let them out to place now, Mr. Matt. Are they comfortable? They are very comfortable. Glad to hear that. Lieutenant Mark, I have report, we have a superintendent. We have an anticovaya food, fuel it for weeks and weeks ahead. We haven't waited, though, keeping the speaks and the sidewalk clean in the... How are you fixed on manpower over there? I can stand some manpower. I mean, have you any to give? No, I wish I could. And we have a few miles of streets up the Riker's Island... How many prisoners have you got doing short-term? Prisoners doing short-term? Yeah. Mostly all of them are high-city prisoners. They're not even sentenced. They're a week to trial. The only man... We could take care of that. We could take care of that very easily. You wouldn't want to use them. Why not? You'd have to need a nice correction to have business. Give them a suspended sentence and a shovel. You'd have one of the things to do. The only ones we possibly could use on Riker's Island, those that have been in the Senate for short-term. They'd be busy up there for four or five days cleaning up the island. We have two men to come out of the streets up there alone on the island. That's what we're cleaning up. Have you got them working out? Easy. 24 hours a day. Prisoners? That's right. Okay, that's good for them. That's all right. Commissioner Kinnella, what have we... We're in pretty good shape. Fortunately, the further north we got unless we got a practical we got 10 inches and 17 inches of the shelter all the way down. So we're not in any difficulty out of the town of the establishments. We're not going to have any trouble there. You know, a little trouble out in Long Island at one of our places for a fuel supply. But even if we got let down, it's only 50 gallons of water a day. And we break that for cold. We intend to try it. We have very, very little equipment to walk there. And the little that we did have, we've turned over to Commissioner Powell already. And as far as manpower is concerned, we have about 18 repair stations, which are our emergency nature. Unfortunately, we have no breaks of any magnitude the last couple of days. We had one suspected break at 87th Street Length of the Avenue and one break at 100th Street Park and it turned out to be negligible. Very comfortable with the circumstances but unfortunately we can't and anybody else. How about, thanks Commissioner. Commissioner Reid, how are we doing in transportation? Well, Mr. Mayor, we just received word by Mr. Gole that the express lines and the local lines running in Brighton Beach at the last spot we had to clean as far as the rapid transit line is concerned. And I'd just like to say, with respect to that, that the previous big storm took the place more than five days to clean out of Brighton Beach and lower air and the storm listed as a part. So I think that the men all deserve a good deal of pride. They've done a fine job at midnight and the supervisor staff had no sleep at this storm start. Any number of men who worked 24 hours straight for his job will be difficult. The only other job we have to do with respect to rapid transit is to clean the yards out so we can store the express cars in the yards tonight so we have them available for full express service in our morning. Last night and the night before we put the extra cars undercover on the express strikes so we can't let the light because we have what we use to start a strike the first day in the morning. We're going to shift the running time of the express to start tomorrow morning. Normal time is 7-9. The express will start running at 6 o'clock tomorrow morning and continue to run to 10-30. Normal time is 95-7. We're starting at 2-45 tomorrow afternoon. We're running to 8. With respect to that zone, we'd like to have a word for out urging shoppers not to start shopping or do the shopping rather between 10-30 and half-assed through the lights during the day to go after the rush. There's a great plenty of people who will ordinarily use the surface lines who have to use to express one. Talking about surface lines, we have 8-12 lines running in Brooklyn. How many? 8. Some of them only parts. There's 23 not running at all. There's only one bus that's running in Brooklyn and that's on the Garrison Beach. How many are not running in Brooklyn? How many are not running? Yeah, bus lines. Yeah. We have No, leave it up for a while. We have 30 streets on the 32 not running. We have an inspection staff out now going over the routes to see what the street conditions are like. So far, they're not running because the bus are not shaped. They're almost shaped. Running around and they just can't run through the streets because of the conditions of the streets. Probably the trolley lines we had clean with the snow clouds and various other apparatus like the automobiles and the other vehicles running on the streets without change immediately used those streets that stall on the streets and jammed up the trolley lines. It hasn't been for the use of the streets by modern vehicles that we would be running all the trolley lines today. There's not many other vehicles that still stalling. Well, give us that afterwards, Bill, will you please, so that I can incorporate that statement that I make. All right. In Queens, there are 16 routes running completely. There's seven partially running and three not running at all. That's the total situation in Queens. In Bristol, there's 10 out of 22 routes running. We hope to have more running by the morning. Not at all working today. It works tonight. Both Queens are. We would supply gas, oil, and clean between both sanitation and police department. We'd also like the general whatever message is not to urge to do in the can't before. Our people leave automobiles at home. I'd try to run them through the streets. They won't be able to get what they want to go. They don't care what people trying to get out of the way. All right, Bill, thanks. We'll incorporate that on the statement that I'm going to make afterwards, later to see them. Well, now the poor we always have with us and some of them can work. Commissioner, feeling how about relief? Mr. Mayor, the Department of Welfare is operating today and yesterday and today on a regular weekday basis. And for the first time in the history of the Department, with the cooperation of Commissioner Wallinger, we have a departmental representative acting as liaison in each of the 86 police precincts of the city of New York. And each Department of Welfare representative has been supplied with a amount of cash. So in any person in the city of New York who is needy, underage doubting or destitute, we can provide an immediate full and true allowance. I want to say for the record that the State Board of Social Welfare and the State Department of Social Welfare has approved complete reimbursement on that basis of any emergency expenditures made yesterday and today. So the Department of Welfare has been fully manned our headquarters is open, our district offices are ready for business, and we have a question in each one of the 86 police precincts. But we also have our own emergency disaster unit which has been taken on 24-hour duty during the last two and a half days, which in the event of civil fire, technically of that nature, we will be prepared to provide immediate housing, food and shelter for persons so affected. In our municipal lodging houses, just a little light of sunshine, we have practically everyone who can lift the shelter out working now helping the population sanitation. In fact, our population in the municipal lodging houses has fallen down 40% during the last two days. In addition, we will provide the commission for 12 o'clock tomorrow morning, or sooner, a list of employables on our present relief road, and we are going to ask these people to go to work in the present emergency. In addition to that, whatever laborers we have in the potty welfare will be turned over to the commission of power. We have no motor vehicle equipment, there will be many assistance in this particular problem. Would you say that giving these fellows a shovel can increase the population of the lodging house thing? Well, I would say just there's good money in room that were very eager to help out, and those that could work, and we're now lodging house, are working. from the board of estimate chambers in city hall, the mayor of the city of New York talks to you about the city's snow removal problem. Here now is Mayor O'Dwyer. Ladies and gentlemen, this city is facing the most colossal task in its history. In less than one day, more than 25 inches of snow blanketed the 320 square miles in which 8 million of our citizens make their homes and conduct their business. To give you an idea of the monumental problem which this has created, I'll cite the figures supplied to us by the United States Weather Bureau. This snowfall, according to the Bureau, amounts to more than 99 million tons. Just think, 99 million tons of snow. The task of freeing our city and restoring commerce and transportation cannot be accomplished by one man or one department or by your city government alone. It requires the cooperation of every resident of our city. You and I and every one of us must meet and conquer the biggest shoveling job with which we have ever been confronted. Your Board of Estimate has just finished a meeting in which its members have unanimously indicated a willingness to appropriate all funds necessary to meet this crisis and to meet it effectively and speedily. I think you must realize that if we have a change in weather, a cold spell, or another snowstorm before we have cleared our main traffic arteries and opened all of our side streets, we will be confronted with a doubly difficult task. It is our plan to appropriate all monies necessary to engage immediately as many trucks as are available. We are prepared to hire all the manpower possible. And I request that all those seeking employment report immediately to the nearest Department of Sanitation Station. You may ascertain the station nearest to you either by reference to your telephone or by calling Worth 23221. I'll read that number to you again. Worth 23221. Every piece of equipment which we own and which we could procure is on our streets working. We have also arranged to hire additional equipment. However, as I've said, we must ask for the wholehearted support and cooperation of every one of our citizens. Here is the way in which you can help. One, that every man physically able aid in clearing the sidewalks. Clear the spaces adjacent to hydrants and where access is required for the delivery of fuel oil or coal. Clear the gutters in front of your homes. If the weather is kind to us, this will let the melting snow drain off. We need the help of every one of our people to do this job. Two, I ask that every private car be kept in its garage or parking place until word is given through the press and the radio that our streets are sufficiently clear for their use. Police will tag automobiles interfering with street cleaning operations. three, in cases of dire emergency where the use of a private car is necessary, don't drive your car without having chains on it. Many accidents have occurred. Much congestion has resulted from optimistic people seeking to drive cars and trucks without chains. Throughout many of our streets, up to this time, there are cars and trucks which have been abandoned. There is serious handicap to us. I have arranged to waive the requirement that towing cars have a special license until further notice. Therefore, you may utilize any adequate heavy truck to tow these abandoned and snowbound cars away. Further, we have set up a service to aid in this. You may secure information through calling worth two, three, two, two, one. The extensions are three, one, four, or two, six, eight. I'll read that number again. Worth two, three, two, two, one, extension three, one, four, or extension two, six, eight. Much progress has been made, but we cannot relax. We must increase our effort. Our bus lines must be restored to service immediately, and at the same time, it is in the interest of the people of our city generally that there be a minimum of interference with the loading and trucking away of snow. For that reason, I request that all truck owners keep their cars in the garage tomorrow, Monday, with the exception of vehicles which are carting foods, milk, bread, medicine, funeral cars, newspaper trucks, and others performing absolutely essential services. I ask our good friends on the New Jersey side of the river to respect this request. I also ask over-the-road trucking operators of merchandise, which is non-essential at this critical time, in the interest of their safety and efficient operation, to withhold trucks from our city until we are better prepared to receive them. rapid transit lines were restored to service yesterday. However, the Board of Transportation, to meet the present situation, will provide extra rush-hour service on the subways beginning tomorrow morning. Normal weekday rush-hour service on subway lines is from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. Tomorrow morning, however, the rush-hour service will begin at 6.30 a.m. and end at 10.30 a.m. In the evening, normal weekday rush-hour time is from 5 to 7. Beginning tomorrow evening, and until the present situation is over, rush-hour service will commence at 2.45 p.m. and end at 8 p.m. Shoppers using the elevated and subway lines are urged to confine their shopping to the hours of 10.30 in the morning and 2.30 in the afternoon. Bus service in Queens is somewhat better than 50 percent, and in Richmond, a little less than 50 percent. Additional lines will be open tomorrow morning in Queens and Richmond, and it is hoped to get additional routes in operation in Brooklyn. I want to extend my thanks to those of the people of the City of New York, to all of the private and municipal agencies and individuals who up to date have cooperated so harmoniously and efficiently in this vast task. The employees of the Board of Transportation and of the Department of Sanitation, Police, and other departments have so far performed a splendid job. At our meeting in City Hall today, we made arrangements to obtain additional equipment. We were assured of continual cooperation from the Army, Navy, Coast Guard, and National Guard, and representatives of private industry. To obtain the additional equipment, I have named a committee to assist Sanitation Commissioner William Powell. This committee consists of Mr. Lawrence Geroza, Mr. William J. McCormick, Mr. Generoso Pope, and Mr. Huey Sheridan, all of whom are in the industry and all of whom have already set into motion plans to obtain additional equipment for this snow removal operation. They are being assisted by Mr. Edward C. McGuire, Commissioner of Commerce. I am happy to say that the program which I am presenting to you not only has the endorsement of the Board of Estimates and other city officials, but also has the support of the Executive Business Advisory Committee of the Department of Commerce and of the Central Trade and Labor Council, AFL, and of the Greater New York CIO Council. With this kind of support and your assistance, we cannot help but do a good job. I am confident that with all of us, you, your next-door neighbor, and your city authorities, working together as a team, we'll lick this problem and lick it promptly. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good night. Mayor William O'Dwyer has spoken to you about the city's snow removal problem. The mayor spoke from the Board of Estimate Chambers in New York's City Hall. We return you now to our studios. and make sure this starts with a lot of make sure those news whatever is in the morning of W così Instead, let's know afterwards that you need a volunteer Jonas to visit the fundraiser for theемся business.