Today we find ourselves faced with a challenge, multiple sclerosis, a crippling nerve disorder. To meet this challenge, members of the medical profession, the lay public, and the patients themselves have combined their forces in a concerted attack upon this disease. It's fitting that our guests today should be representatives of each group. Representing the lay public is Mr. Oliver E. Buckley, Vice President of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, who has worked tirelessly to further the aims of this society. Mr. Buckley, why do you think that multiple sclerosis represents an important problem to the American people? I can answer that question in several ways, Dr. Trager. First, the victims of multiple sclerosis are young adults of our nation. These young people are often in the process of completing their education or have just begun their life's work, when they are first hit by multiple sclerosis, or MS for short. MS, though not a killer, can be a serious crippler. It strikes without warning and may leave widespread disabilities in its wake. Eventually, many patients are not able to earn their livelihood and they become economic liabilities to themselves and their families. Because life expectancy is not noticeably reduced, the costs of long-term invalidism are often unbearable. The security of these affected is threatened because their future is unpredictable. Multiple sclerosis is usually progressive, with the patient becoming more and more disabled. Fortunately, however, there is a hopeful note. Many patients benefit by so-called remissions or relief from attack, in which the symptoms improve for no apparent reason. Remissions have been known to last for many years. Lastly, multiple sclerosis is a common nerve disorder. Unfortunately, more common than was ever realized. Estimates given range from 150,000 to 250,000 victims in this country alone. Thousands more suffer from related neurological disorders. Because of the lack of accurate statistics, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society is now conducting a statistical survey in order to determine the prevalence of MS. Multiple sclerosis is a social, economical, as well as a public health problem. A tremendous toll is taken in terms of wasted human resources and human suffering. For lack of a program of public education, the patient has usually heard about the disease for the first time when he received his diagnosis. The fear of the unknown may have caused him to seek obscurity. Courage and active participation in organized efforts to cope with this disease have come with the recently gained knowledge that the problem is shared by thousands. Before we go further, I should like to explain what multiple sclerosis is and why it has baffled the medical profession. MS is termed a demyelinating disease. Demyelination is the term for the process of destruction of myelin, the fatty substance surrounding the nerves. The destroyed part of the myelin sheath is replaced by scar tissue. When this occurs, impulses cannot pass through the nerve pathways properly. And in some cases, not at all. Some common symptoms which result are double vision, staggering gait, involuntary trembling, lack of coordination, numbness of parts of the body, and bladder trouble. Any part of the body may be affected by multiple sclerosis. Do you have anything to add to this, Mr. Buckley? Yes. One might compare demyelination of a nerve to damage of the insulation of an electric light wire. In the case of the wire, it may cause a short circuit. In the case of a nerve, somewhat similarly, the nerve fails to transmit impulses. The analogy is excellent. And I wish we could carry it further. The electrician can repair and replace the electric wire. But medical science cannot now repair or replace the damaged nerves. However, and this is important, science today is making a concerted effort to conquer multiple sclerosis through research. While we're on the subject of research, would you tell us briefly what the society has accomplished in this and other fields, Mr. Buckley? The National Monople Sclerosis Society is an organization less than five years old. It has supported 13 research projects at leading medical centers throughout the country. Many of these are basic research projects, which we hope will teach us more about the disease mechanism. Others involve the process of testing various types of drugs and other forms of treatment. Five clinics supported by us evaluate current forms of treatment, and some are engaged in basic research. Apart from research, the society has other important functions. With the aid of our chapters, we have carried on a program of public and professional education and services to the multiple sclerotic. In my work with the society, I have become convinced that MS is not an insoluble problem. One thing I believe is particularly encouraging. When remissions or improvement occur, some force must be at play to bring this about. Perhaps if we learn why remissions occur, we might learn how to control this disease. Research, as you indicate, offers hope for the future, and our society is prepared to expand its research program when funds are available. As medical director, however, my problem deals also with the means whereby we can help the patient today, now. It is with pleasure, therefore, that I introduce an outstanding physician in the fields of rehabilitation and physical medicine, Dr. George G. Deaver, Professor of Clinical Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, New York University College of Medicine. Dr. Deaver, what is meant by rehabilitation and physical medicine? The fields of rehabilitation and physical medicine include all methods and techniques of relieving the symptoms of the MS patient and helping him to live with his disability. We cannot always, of course, to use an example, make a wheelchair patient walk. But through a carefully planned program, we may be able to help the patient increase his coordination and enable him to perform more efficiently the activities of daily living. Is the term rehabilitation limited to physiotherapy? No, Mr. Buckley. Physiotherapy involves the treatment through physical means, such as exercise and massage and heat. But rehabilitation is the broader field, which embraces all the problems faced by the patient. Mechanical contraptions and self-help devices, such as braces and gadgets, may enable the patient to derive greater efficiency, independence, and comfort. Rehabilitation may involve counseling and certainly does involve common-sense, everyday psychotherapy. If a physically well person has emotional problems, cannot we expect that a physically handicapped person will have emotional problems, too? I think our listeners would like to know whether treatment must be administered by a physician or whether the patient does the job by himself. I'm glad that you brought that point up, Mr. Traeger, because the physician must evaluate the needs of the patient. Then, the skilled therapist, who works under the direction of the physician, administers the program of physical therapy prescribed by the physician. Whenever possible, there is a social worker who serves as counselor. Finally, the patient must pitch in and work hard in doing the prescribed exercises and in cooperating in the planned routine. In many cases, the patient is the real hero. Would you say that physical medicine and rehabilitation have helped multiple sclerosis patients? In most cases, yes. The extent of help varies with the type of case, however. Multiple sclerosis requires individualized treatment because their disabilities vary. There are several complications, too. The fact that MS is often progressive and remissions occur makes it difficult to evaluate treatment. To my mind, physical therapy and rehabilitation offer the best means of treating the symptoms, preventing disabilities, and maintaining the morale of the patient until the cause and control of MS are found. Thank you, Dr. Deaver, for highlighting the positive means of dealing with MS. The National Molecular Sclerosis Society recognizes the importance of rehabilitation and physical therapy. Dr. Deaver stated that the patient often merits credit for his improvement. We in our society have found that our patients are fighters. They are even now busily enlisting support in their own fight against MS. One of our most active members and also an MS patient is our next guest, Ms. Georgina Davids, vice chairman of our Connecticut chapter. Ms. Davids had a brilliant career interrupted by MS. She served as representative in the Connecticut legislature and has held many other responsible positions. Ms. Davids, I have a question which is of special interest to me. You know that MS has been a hush-hush disease until recently. There are two schools of thought on the subject. One says that patients should be told as little as possible about their disease. The other says that the patient should know about MS and participate in efforts to solve his problem. What do you, a patient, think about this? I'm glad you asked that question, Dr. Traeger, because I feel very strongly on the subject. If anybody should know about multiple sclerosis, the patient should. The patient has to live with MS, doesn't he? Remember that patients are people. Of course he should be told the truth about this disease, but he should be made to understand the hopeful aspects, too. In what way hopeful, Ms. Davids? Well, hopeful, since physiotherapy can be helpful in coping with the disease. Hopeful because life expectancy is longer than previously supposed. I myself have had MS for about 30 years. My body is of little use to me. Therefore, I put my mind to work over time. Hopeful inasmuch as science is working full-time to find the cause and control of MS. And I believe with all my heart that someday this will be accomplished. May I add that 17,000 other members of our society believe this to be the truth. Medical science, if given the proper support, will do for multiple sclerosis what it has already done for many the heretofore fatal diseases. It's heartening to hear that, Ms. Davids. Tell me, what function does a society play in the life of its patient members? The society is a vital morale booster to the patient. Dr. Trager, it does us good to know that something is being done now to solve multiple sclerosis. We, like everybody else, are social beings. And we have found that the society may stimulate social relationships between patients and encourage self-expression. Will you tell us how, Ms. Davids? Certainly, Dr. Trager. I'm the editor of a newsletter for the Multiple Sclerosis Patients Club of Connecticut. We are a serious-minded group, but we have our lighter side. We hold informal meetings as well as fundraising and social events. In that way, patients get to know each other as friends and, might I add, have a good time doing it. We always find that there are those less fortunate than ourselves and get great satisfaction out of helping them. In any event, we are no longer in the darkness and the terror is gone. Most important of all, we are better able to carry our message to the people. Message? What message, Ms. Davids? The message of Multiple Sclerosis. The message of our young people who have to live with this disease, who can no longer work for a livelihood or carry on their normal pursuits. The message that more clinics and laboratory work are needed for the treatment and study of MS. This is the message of the disabled who urge the American people to take the problem of Multiple Sclerosis to its heart as it has done with so many other diseases. We are convinced that when the people know the ravages of MS, they will rise to meet the challenge it presents. That's a wonderful message, Ms. Davids. Thank you all for coming. With your help, Multiple Sclerosis, MS, may someday stand for mystery solved. Thank you.