Sir Winston's resignation as British Prime Minister is the most commented on subject in the Netherlands press during this last week before Easter. This so often prematurely announced news, which had at last become a fact, was published by the papers in front page headlines. The editorial dedicated to this event was on the third page, and an extensive biography appeared in virtually all papers. The parting of the 80-year-old British statesman was first rumoured a few weeks ago. The independent conservative paper de Telegrafe wrote at the time, When three years ago Sir Winston came into power, he solemnly promised the people of Britain to devote all his powers to a fact in easing of the tension between East and West. Recent reports have shown that he went to great length in these attempts. He even intended to have a two-man conference with Russia. If Sir Winston is to resign his post within the very near future, we fear that we must conclude that he considers the chances of easing the tension remote. That was de Telegrafe some weeks ago, reacting to the first rumours about the changes at Downing Street in London. With the confirmation of these rumours, Sir Winston's unique personality is once again shown more than clearly in the press commentaries. For instance, the same paper, de Telegrafe, this week characterises him as an inexplicable phenomenon, too great a man to remain inside a harness. The paper, de Catholique Volkskrant, even calls him too great for Britain, and it writes about his four careers during one lifetime. The editorial staff recalls the Churchill of the South African Boer War, a figure, although genuine, not very popular in the Netherlands. And it then makes the comparison with the immensely popular Churchill of the most recent World War. Young and old know the war leader, very often the Netherlands' only inspiration during the days of misery and oppression. During those days we heard Roosevelt's voice, but he seemed to remain a stranger. We listened to Churchill, who, with his staccato sentences, his frankness and his unyielding stubbornness, sustained and fed the flame of resistance. Sir Winston seemed to draw strength from defeat and adversity without the compromising so tempting to the weak at the beginning of the struggle. The words of this great leader always spoke to the heart, in the same way as they made the enemy tremble. That was the Volkskrant on the close ties the war created between Churchill and the people of Holland. In addition, the Protestant paper, Trau, brings back to memory the historic relation between Churchill's forebears and the Netherlands' stadtholder, William III, who became King of England in the 17th century. Churchill is the scion of an old family which has given England many great sons. He is the direct descendant of the Duke of Marlborough, who eventually assumed the political heritage of stadtholder King William III. Marlborough was a real Englishman, standing for England throughout. Against this background we see Churchill's role. Churchill has a world vision. Churchill fought for the heritage of our civilisation. As minister, during the conflicts both of 1914 and 1940, he stood for saving the world. He is the man of liberty. However, he does not forget he is British, and Britain is the centre of the world he visualises. That was the picture of the Protestant paper, Trau, of a great personality, and, to a certain extent, of the limitations of Britain's grand old man, whose exit from the political stage can hardly be imagined by the people of this generation. These words about Churchill's hard-to-imagine exit are quoted from the Netherlands' paper best known abroad, De Nuve Rotterdamse Courant. However, it's noted in the editorial that actually he has not left the picture. Even though Churchill has surrendered the highest responsibility, he has not left the stage. He will remain working as a friend and advisor. A friend and advisor, not only to his own party, but to his own Britain as well, in fact, to the whole world. And that is comforting, because he is one of the very few the world has come to consider, without knowing him personally, as a faithful friend, whose word is wanted in time of doubt. That was written by the Rotterdamse Courant, and it expresses the feelings of the close relationship, born through the war, of the people of Holland with Sir Winston. Elsewhere in its editorial, the Rotterdam paper stresses once again Churchill's ambition to be an apostle of peace. About this, we've already quoted a few lines from another paper of some weeks ago. On the same theme, the Nuve Rotterdamse Courant writes, He will enter into history as one of the greatest war leaders of mankind. However, this honor, although perhaps in keeping with his character, was not in keeping with his dearest aims. He would have considered his task completed only after the establishment of the peace. This noble aim caused him to retain his leadership for longer than he perhaps intended to originally, possibly for longer than was desirable. Who will be able to say whether his famous speech on May 11, 1953, in which he alluded to another Locarno, didn't set off a nearly fatal chain reaction in Europe? Was Churchill perhaps too much engrossed by a thought of peace and by the conviction that he would be indispensable in the decisive discussions with the Russians? He happened not to be the one. And with this paragraph from the Nuve Rotterdamse Courant, on the note of tragedy in Churchill's career, we conclude this Netherlands press survey given on the occasion of the resignation at the age of 80 of a very great statesman. ... ... ... ... ... ...