Ladies and gentlemen, in these spring months of 1950, the School of Commerce, Accounts, and Finance of New York University is, as I am sure you know, celebrating its golden anniversary. Tonight, as one of the public events that take note of our 50 years of existence and expansion as a professional school of this university, we are inaugurating the Edwin L. Bernays Anniversary Lectures, and that will deal with the overall title of the Social Responsibility of Managing. These lectures are made possible by the gracious generosity of the Edwin L. Bernays Foundation through the interest of a widely admired and highly respected member of the faculty of our Department of Journalism, Mr. Bernays himself, Adjunct Professor of Public Relations. This lecture, the first of the series, will deal with the general topic from the point of view of the social engineers. Your speaker tonight is a noted and distinguished author and lecturer whose written words, I suspect, are familiar to us all. For his numerous book publications have attracted wide attention since 1925, at least. Educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at Harvard, your lecture brings to this task a varied academic background, a wide experience in various phases of business investigation, a long experience with a certified public account, a penetrating mind, a keen social sense, and always a courageous, a willingness to pioneer. Universities, you know, all too often remain an anchor in midstream. And the university faculty, all too often, are prone, I fear, to develop a kind of mental ennui, rust on the brain. Unused tools will corrode. And so it is good for us educators to read and to listen to what a keen-eyed social observer, outside of our academic wall, thinks of our social ministry. There is, I think, today, perhaps no more stimulating intellectual irritant, outside the classic educational halls, than the speaker of the East. In the university, and in the college, it is always so easy to assume an educational primacy for the humanity, and a definite subordination of the social sciences. We can go overboard on the theory that the disciplines of the humanities, rather than those of the social sciences, for example, are much the most vital matters of educational concern. Because they deal with individual values, aesthetic, moral, and spiritual. And yet, if rigidly applied to our educational processes, that hypothesis would reflect a purely aesthetic view of life. And it would sharply limit, I think, effective training for citizenship. Because it would neglect the importance of the social values themselves. And because it would cloud the fact that the preservation, or the realization of individual values, depends so much upon the maintenance and the advancement of economic welfare. Now, in a college of business, of course, we are necessarily concerned with the problem of training for business efficiency, and for social idealism. A business leadership constitutes a social ministry, and one that I think is indispensable to enterprise, surely. So it is not invidious toward other forms of social ministry, to summon business, and to an evaluation of its social achievement, and of its social opportunities. It's in that spirit that we welcome heartily our lecture of the evening, and offer him complete freedom of common. We hope that he will exercise that freedom. For we would not want him to say what he did not think, or to think what he did not say. It is a very real pleasure to present to you now, as a speaker of the evening, Mr. Stewart Chase. Chairman and friends, it's a great pleasure and a great honor to lead this series on social responsibility, which Mr. Bernays has done so much to stand behind. I am going to take as my overall title, Social Science, the Friend of Management. Packed on the door of my study in Connecticut, to remodel Bond, but we haven't got any fireproof hay, is a cartoon, which David Lilienthal sent me long ago, when he was with the TVA. A very sour-looking gentleman, no longer young, is seated most uncomfortably inside what seems to be a cake of ice. The drawing is labeled, People are no damn good. Mr. Lilienthal said that it helped him to keep going over the rough places, and I find a glance at it does the same for me. The old curmudgeon who was making himself so miserable would be surprised to find how much warmer and more comfortable it would make him to trust people a little. The encouraging part is that social science can now prove him wrong. The cumulative findings to date go far to vindicate the lesson of this cartoon. People are all white, but some of us have crabbed and distorted ideas about them. We see through a cake of ice darkly. What we see may be not in the space-time world at all, but in our heads, images created by past conditioning. Abraham Lincoln once put it this way, and I quote, Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world? Now Lincoln sensed intuitively what scientists later have been able to demonstrate. Not long after he made this statement, Lewis H. Morgan began to lay the foundation for the science of cultural anthropology, which deals with group behavior, not with measuring skulls, by studying the family system of Seneca Indians in upstate New York. Following Morgan's modest beginnings, other brilliant men, Sumner, Boas, Melinowski, and a galaxy of famous names, developed the culture concept, the central finding in the whole field of the social sciences. And I think I'm speaking by the book there, because the Social Science Research Council, which as you know is a kind of clearinghouse of the seven learned societies, sent out a questionnaire to representative social scientists throughout the country, and asked them amongst a series of questions, what did they consider the outstanding accomplishment? And not only anthropologists, but psychologists, sociologists, economists, political scientists, historians, came back with the culture concept, the number one accomplishment. The assumption that people are no damn good cannot be fitted into the culture concept. A culture comprehends all the people in a given society. It is a set of patterns in which every individual grows, a matrix in which he is placed. It is the basic datum for the study of man. Now you'll remember the good old standard definition about organizing a talk. Tell them you're gonna tell them. Tell them. Tell them you told them. Well, in our limited time here together tonight, of course I can't hope to summarize all the findings of social science which can be helpful to management. The best I can do is to pick out here and there a few highlights collected while I was writing the proper study of mankind, and some collected subsequently. Our idea this evening is not to provide a handbook for management and its social responsibility, but rather to present some of the background upon which handbooks can be based. The idea is to urge managers to keep an open mind regarding the value of social science research and its practical application to their day-by-day problems. I will also want to discuss the personal relationship between executives and social scientists. This is a rather new approach, and we'll take that up in due course. Suppose we begin by looking at a few findings of social scientists that are contrary to current assumptions, and thus relatively newsworthy. Nothing so startling, of course, as man bites dog, more on the order of man doesn't have to bite man. People are no damn good is one of these assumptions, and it is a more common belief in our democracy than one likes to think. The culture concept, based on observations in many different societies, refutes it, as we have seen. A more widely held doctrine is that most people are inherently lazy. They won't work unless they have to. Never would work dependably unless bribed or intimidated into it. Now, neither the social scientists, the physiologists, nor the biologists can find any solid evidence for this assumption. Man, the scientists tell us, is a working animal. Unless he keeps his mind and his muscles active, he tends to degenerate rapidly. But people naturally prefer certain types of activity to others. Nobody seems to like coal mining very well. While preferences vary, of course, between individuals, some cannot take an assembly line. Others can. The latter indulge in pleasant daydreams, while fitting on the left front fender, and never need consult the company psychiatrist. Perhaps you saw in the Herald Tribune this morning, however, a sad story by Professor Weiner, that pretty soon we're not going to have any assembly lines. That new machine they're working out that can think and has a memory, that's going to do the whole thing automatically. Of course, we had a forerunner in the A. O. Smith Corporation, making automobile frames with no human hand touching the assembly line. But according to the Weiner story, it's coming along rapidly. I was recently invited to analyze the pension system of one of our great industrial companies. I found that a very serious problem is developing there, due to the human tendency to work and be active. The plan of this company provides compulsory retirement at age 65, and many of the pensioners, though free of financial worry for the rest of their lives, do not know what to do with their freedom. Some of them are cracking up mentally. Said a man of 60 in this company, and I quote, It's really tragic, you know. So many of the fellows don't want to think about the future. They'll have to go sometime, and they'll miss their jobs, and the companionship of the men they've worked with so long. For 20, 30, 40 years, they've followed a routine. Getting up at a certain time, going to work, coming home, relaxing, reading the paper. And all of a sudden, it stops. They get up in the morning. They have nowhere to go. Nothing to do. To meet this problem, the company now gives passes to pensioners, so that they can go back to the old shop and watch others doing what they are no longer permitted to do. It is also hiring social scientists as old age counselors to start five years before retirement, helping people develop new industries and new hobbies preliminary to the ordeal of idleness. And, of course, this all ties into a problem we've known for a long time. I remember I had a chapter about it in my Men and Machines published 20 years ago. That's the problem of leisure time. As working hours dropped from 60 to 50 to 40 and now headed towards 30 a week, this leisure time problem is coming to the fore. Dr. Alexander Layton, whom we will have quite a lot to say about later, notes that much thinking at policy-making levels follows the line that man is innately lazy and prone to do nothing unless prodded by the threat of punishment or lured by rewards, a little like the carrot in front of the donkey's nose. Yet, says Layton, and I quote, the weight of evidence from careful study is on the side of assuming that work is one of the enjoyed and rewarding human activities, and that most people under normal conditions actively seek it. If people won't work, and sometimes they will not, it probably indicates that the conditions of work are abnormal. There is something wrong with the job, not with the man. Management, instead of cussing the help, would do better to concentrate on finding out what the abnormal conditions are and remedying them. We had a very interesting seminar on this whole question of what makes workers work up at Silver Bay last summer, that YMCA conference on management problems. Allied to the assumption that people are lazy is the well-worn doctrine of economic man. This colors not only classical economics, but a good deal of managerial thinking as well. It is the assumption that money makes the mayor go, that economic gain is the only incentive which makes people work and which gets things done. It follows that the more money you can offer, the harder people will strive, and per contra, if no gain is offered, the whole economy is likely to collapse. The late Dr. Elton Mayo of the Harvard School of Business Administration was one of the first to use controlled experiments in testing this assumption. They were carried out in the Hawthorne plant of the Western Electric Company some 20 years ago, and have become social science classics. Especially the story of the girls assembling telephone relays, that little gadget that looks like a pocket whistle. Now I do not need to repeat anything but the conclusions, as you all know this story. It was found that the incentive which above all others affected the girls' production rate was the sense of being recognized, of being consulted, of feeling important. You remember that after almost two years of experimentation with various types of wage rates, and hours, and rest pauses, and working conditions, they went back to the base period of 48 hours, no Saturdays off, no rest pauses, no hot lunch on the company, no piece work incentive, nothing. They gave that test a good long time, they gave it 12 weeks, and when they came to examine the automatic counters that the girl dropped the relays through, they found that output had jumped to an all-time high. Meaning, of course, that all these various new conditions they've introduced had had no effect in relation to certain other factors. That is the factor of being recognized, of being consulted, of feeling important. Economic man or woman seems to be mostly made of straw. Modern managers are increasing output and morale by putting this assumption in its proper place, as only one of many incentives, and under certain conditions, a minor incentive. The 14 men in the bank wiring room at the Hawthorne plant provided an equally startling lesson. These men had formed an unofficial team, complete with leaders for regulating production. Bonus plans, work incentive schemes of management, collapsed in impotence before this well-knit organization, which nobody was ever conscious of organizing. And yet, woe betide any individual in a shop or an office who defies the unwritten regulations of such an informal group, which now functions, or is potentially ready to function, wherever two or more people are working. Studies are clustering around this and allied phenomena under the somewhat formidable title of group dynamics. Group dynamics. You're going to hear more and more about it. No manager can afford to neglect them. Group dynamics. You're going to hear more and more. They are beginning to show, these studies, not only the negative power of groups, but the enormous reservoirs of positive action, which can be released when conditions are, as the experts say, correctly structured. Man is a social animal, as well as a working one, but we are still learning how much he can sometimes surpass himself under the stimulation of his fellows. One way to think of it is the energy released in a fire panic, but in reverse, plus instead of minus. Now let's look at a concrete example. In the January fortune this year, Russell Davenport tells the story of one of Joe Scanlon's demonstrations in union management participation to increase production in a machine tool plant in Massachusetts. I think there are about 500 men in the plant. As many of you doubtless know, Mr. Scanlon used to be an official of the Steelworkers Union and is now a full professor at MIT. He is perhaps the most dynamic social engineer in the field of labor relations today, and thus eminently fitted to deal in group dynamics. He's certainly the most dynamic one that I know. He knows very well how to set up joint committees, which can take output right through the roof, by releasing energy and intelligence in the rank and file, which hitherto has been bottled up. He can release it in management, too. The plan that Russell Davenport describes in Fortune is only one of about 40, which Scanlon has set up. He told me about his first plan when I was in Cambridge the other day. Very interesting. I wish I could give it at some length. It was a steel mill near Pittsburgh, 2,000 employees, heavily in the red at the bottom of the depression. Scanlon is a cost accountant as well as a social engineer, and he knew through his accounting experience that the mill was about done for. At the same time, he'd become interested in the new Steelworkers Union, had resigned his place as a cost accountant, had gone into manual work, and had become the local president of the union. He went and examined the books, found out that the trouble was just as bad as the management said it was. He then called a meeting of the union, locked the doors, and kept the men there practically all night until he'd hammered into their heads that the company was going broke, that they'd lose their jobs, and that they had to take a 25% wage cut for six months if they wanted to keep going. Well, they demurred. They said, how about those Cadillacs? How about those big limousines? And Joe laid it on the line as a cost accountant. And finally they agreed, the company was saved, and it is still operating efficiently. Here we have a challenge to another widely held assumption, namely that workers have no place in management problems. It is for the boss to decide and for the worker to do what he's told. Social scientists are finding that both extremes are bad. Full participation by unions in top decisions creates an impossible administrative situation. The Russians experimented with that in their factories in 1920 when the unions took over, and found that production dropped to about 10% of the pre-war total. But on the other hand, complete company dictatorship, no matter how benevolent, stifles the normal desire of human beings to contribute ideas to his work, and blocks off his interest and his energy. So somewhere between these two extremes lie maximum morale and efficiency. At certain levels, it has been repeatedly demonstrated that the worker can make helpful and important contributions to management problems. Scanlon's work, the history of the amalgamated clothing workers, the labor management production committees of the war, not all of them, but some of them, suggestion box results, the training within industry programs of the War Manpower Commission, all show this trend. Its vast possibilities are just beginning to be opened up. The class struggle is as cardinal in the Marxian hypothesis as economic man is cardinal in the Manchester School hypothesis. By this doctrine, as you know, there are only two dynamic classes in any society, the owners and the workers, the exploiters and the exploited. History is supposed to be nothing but the story of their timeless and unending warfare. Now, there's just enough truth in the class struggle to make a powerful appeal to many people. Workers readily grasp at it when they feel that the future is hopeless. Labor leaders often base their strategy upon it, even though they have never read Das Kapital. It will come out as a set stereotype in some of the speeches of labor leaders, witness the perorations about the wicked bosses and the downtrodden workers. It is possible, furthermore, that many managers, many managers, accept the class struggle as a fact, without, of course, embracing the Marxian proposals for solving it. They feel antagonism in their employees and they generalize it into an inevitable condition. Two classes, always opposed. In Europe, veneration for the doctrine is widespread on all levels, from employers to workers and not forgetting Mr. Bernard Shaw. But anthropologists and social psychologists report no such animal. You will not find the class struggle in the cross-cultural index at Yale as a human universal, in the sense that monogamy, for instance, is a universal. That cross-cultural index is a very interesting storehouse of social science in which the various societies and tribes, races that have been analyzed by competent anthropologists are there catalogued under the various habits and mores. Monogamy is found to be a human universal. Every society, every study, rank and file will be practicing monogamy. In some societies, you may find some polygamy or polyandry on the side by those who can afford it or stand it. But by and large, mass of the people are practicing monogamy. It's a universal. In the proper study of mankind, I list 33 universals. Up at Yale, you'll find many more. And the class struggle isn't in there. Dr. Ralph Linton documents the way in which class struggles may appear in certain societies or sections of societies at certain times, especially in times of rapid cultural change. The typical society down the ages, however, is one where each individual enjoys a particular status in his total culture pattern, is satisfied with it, and shows profound inertia about leaving it. The chief motive that made the girls in the relay room at Hawthorne work so industriously was recovery of a sense of status, a sense of belonging. Since the Industrial Revolution began, class struggles have been breaking out here and there, Harlan County, for instance. But they are temporary, local outbreaks, a product of our factory system rather than of human nature. If Linton and the social scientists are right, Marx is wrong. Lenin, Stalin, and the Kremlin are off in a blind alley. The class struggle doctrine lists all working farmers as downtrodden peasants. The Kremlin leaders today wring their hands about the dreadful poverty of our American serfs and peasants. Now, it's perfectly true that there are pockets of dire poverty in American agriculture. I was also told, while lecturing in Pullman, Washington, the state of Washington, last month, that the average income of the peasants working the rich wheat lands in that county in which the State Agricultural College is situated, the average, mind you, after taxes, was $28,000. Now, one cannot clamp the straight jacket of the class struggle on actual conditions in America, or in Europe, for that matter. It is a useless concept for predicting human behavior. Well, we've taken a brief look at five assumptions widely held by Americans, including some managers. First, people in the mass are not much good. Secondly, homo sapiens is inherently lazy. It's in the genes. Third, pecuniary gain is the only real incentive, doctrine of the economic man. Four, workers have no concern with the problems of management. Let the boss decide. And five, the doctrine of the class struggle. Social scientists in recent years have been taking these assumptions, and others as well, through a sort of wind tunnel to test their validity. And the results are mostly negative. The contraptions do not fly. They can't stand up. At the same time, scientists offer managers valuable knowledge on how to improve human relations, how to increase both morale and output in the shop. Indeed, a whole new concept of the function of management is beginning to emerge from the work of social scientists in the last generation. Dr. F. J. Reflingsberger puts it this way in the Harvard Business Review, and I quote, he, by the way, is co-author of that classic that describes the Hawthorne experiments, Management and the Worker, which you've all read. And I quote, I should like to suggest that the manager is neither managing men nor managing work, but he is managing a coordinated set of activities. He is administering a social system. This is the human relations approach, as contrasted with any approach which implies that people at work can be considered separately from their work. When Joe Doakes goes through the factory gate, this is Chase now, not Rufflingsberger, and rings up his time, he takes his whole cultural background right along with him. The factory is not something sternly apart from the community, subject to more logical rules. It is inseparable from the community. It is as much the community as the house and lot, Main Street, the church, the school, the ball field, and the Elks. Joe will bring his misunderstanding with the wife at the breakfast table right through the factory gate to aggravate his none-too-happy relations with his supervisor. Culture is a seamless web. All useful conclusions about human relations, about the behavior of groups, social psychology, are relevant to the factory, the office, and to the profession of management. That came out so clearly when I took the JR course in the TWI programs during the war, the Remington Arms program in Bridgeport. I wasn't training for supervisory activities. I was there to gather material to write an article. But I sat in there with the supervisors and foremen, took the course, and listened to their human interest stories about the men working for them, and how trouble was cleared up time after time by going outside the factory, into the home, and clearing up the situation there. Now let's just look briefly at a sample checklist of some relevant research that the social scientists are carrying on now, use and benefit to managers. Here, for instance, is aptitude testing. It is useful in all fields. It was particularly useful for selecting Air Force pilots in the war. You'd probably still be fighting the war if it hadn't been for Flanagan's work on selecting pilots. And it has, of course, a great future in industry. Maybe it's not too much to hope that someday aptitude testing might be applied to candidates for Congress. Maybe interested to know that Dr. Flanagan is now back at Pittsburgh University working on the characteristics that make a man or a woman a good executive, good manager. And here's public opinion research. This technique is proving very helpful in giving both management and union officials a knowledge of how the rank and file feels about the shop. When I was called in by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey to take a look at their labor relations, well, I could go around and interview shop stewards, interview supervisors, interview top management, interview this one and that one, and come to a general conclusion. But I was only one individual, not too wise of one either. But along comes Elmer Roper, goes down to Baton Rouge, and he gets the mass opinion of everybody in the plant. And so I was able to check some of my one-man conclusions with these public opinion surveys. Some of them fortified what I had come to believe, and some of my conclusions I just had to throw out of the window. They wouldn't stand up. Then here's all the work on two-way communication which is going on. A healthy shop needs two open communication lines from workers up to management and from management down to workers. Grievance machinery, suggestion boxes, application of some elementary principles and semantics, shop bulletins, joint conferences, are all being experimented with to clear these communication lines. Counseling. I mentioned earlier social scientists as old-age counselors in one large company with an ambitious pension plan. The Hawthorne experiment demonstrated the value of interviewing workers by outside experts for the release of tensions and grievances. Some companies are experimenting with skilled counselors for mental disturbances. Counseling has a great future in industry. Then there's a very interesting new development which we may call vertical round tables. Dr. Francis Bradshaw, eminent psychologist, has set up an interesting experiment in group dynamics at a large New Jersey plant. Its purpose is to improve communication and understanding between the seven levels of management in that plant. The seven levels from the beginning supervisors up to the big shot on the top. And they are meeting under the principles of group dynamics with Dr. Bradshaw as the leader and giving us some very interesting results that may have a wide application in industry. Role-playing. This technique is making some headway in industry too. A union using it can put labor men in the shoes of company officials prior to negotiating a contract. The management group using role-playing can have a corresponding experience. A better plan for achieving mutual understanding, it is difficult to imagine. It ties in very closely with group dynamics. I first heard about it from Dr. Douglas McGregor when he was at MIT. And unions there that he was working with were pretending, you see. In a preliminary session, the two or three of them represented the management and the others represented the workers. And then they went to it and negotiated the contract in advance. And it gave them the other fellows point of view. Race and religious discrimination. Social scientists have a world of sound information on this score, both in pure science and in applied. Dr. Louis Wirth at Chicago University has done some outstanding work in the field of application. The two or three of them have been the same. Perhaps you saw in the magazine section of the Times on Sunday, the leading story about a five-volume study on discrimination in race and religion throughout American society as great application to management problems. Then there's the whole broad field of conditions of industrial peace. Not struggle, but peace. And there you should take a look at the comparative studies now being published by the National Planning Association. Where a score of companies with good labor relations over the years are being intensively analyzed for common factors. Which always tend to make good labor relations. We've had a lot of studies in bad labor relations. This is something new. Good labor relations. Pension systems, which we mentioned earlier. Economist Sumner Schlichter can be very helpful in analyzing the whole broad pension picture. And statistician Louis I. Dublin, Vice President of Metropolitan Life, can also be very helpful. Pensions, of course, are now sharing the headlines with the H-Bomb. Reasons for labor unrest. That's something that baffles a lot of us. Baffles a lot of managers. But if you take a look at Volume 4 of Warner's Yankee City series, which we referred earlier, which contains a masterly account of the shift of the shoe industry from a handicraft culture, where the worker was an independent craftsman, to mass production and mass distribution and mass finance, where he's just a cog in a vast impersonal machine, you get a much clearer picture than you ever had before of the reasons for industrial unrest. The psychological reasons. Nobody can read this story without greatly broadening his understanding of the labor problem. I gave a whole chapter to it in the proper study of mankind. Now, the above is very far, far indeed, from a complete list of current research. But it gives us a fair example, I think, a fair sample of the kind of findings which have helped and can help management in establishing social responsibility in this, the fifth year of the atomic age. Well, now let's turn to a new and I believe pretty important consideration of our thesis. In his latest book, Human Relations in a Changing World, Dr. Alexander Layton, psychiatrist and anthropologist, devotes some chapters to the personal relations between the policy maker, the executive and the social scientist. Based on his own experiences in the Pacific theater during the war. Once and again, a slight tinge of unprofessional bitterness creeps into the discussion, perhaps, for Dr. Layton's team, which included Clyde Cluckhorn and Ruth Benedict, among others, took quite a beating from the high brass. But by and large, however, it is an objective account, making points of central significance to both policy makers and social scientists. The policy maker, says Layton, in one of his disillusioned moments, tends to use social science the way a drunk uses a lamppost, for support, not illumination. The high command in the Pacific tended to look on scientists, and especially social scientists, as long hairs, impractical visionaries stuffed with theories. Now, this is not too far from the usual view of top management and industry until recently. If the conclusions of Layton's team out there in the Pacific coincided with those of the high command, which were arrived at more or less intuitively, the generals and the admirals were complementary. But if Layton's conclusions did not coincide, then the impractical visionary stereotype was forthcoming, and the report was buried in the files. Dr. Layton, first gives us a careful account of what his team did and the techniques it employed. I don't know where else you can turn to find the actual techniques of a good modern team of social scientists in action. A major problem, which puzzled the generals and admirals, was whether Japanese morale could be cracked, and if so, how it could be cracked. The morale of the fighting forces was known to be high, and it seemed likely that civilian morale on the home islands was equally strong. The high command was faced with decisions which involved human psychology, social behavior, the culture pattern of the Japanese people, problems not concerned with ballistics and logistics, but with social science. Let me give you a short quote from Layton as to the attitude of the high command. There were many in the top command who felt the Japanese morale was a solid wall of uniform strength which nothing could destroy except the actual killing of the men who displayed it. Every Japanese soldier was regarded as an ideal fighting machine, fearless, fanatic, obeying instantly, something not quite human that looked only for an opportunity to die for the emperor. Prisoners of war would be exceedingly rare and would be of no value as sources of information. Psychological warfare would be useless both for softening resistance and for securing the surrender of soldiers." End quote. Well, you see what a formidable task the executives had lined up for themselves by these assumptions. Take no prisoners, fight for every foot of ground, practically an endless war. Dr. Layton's division went to work testing these concepts. That was their first task. To begin with, the team set up a list of 14, 14 basic statements about human nature, such as, as, there exists psychological uniformities common to all the tribes, nations, and races of human beings. And again, all people, everywhere, are disturbed by threats to life and health, by discomfort from pain, cold, heat, fatigue, and bad food, by threats to children and family, by enforced idleness, there's idleness again, restriction of movement, insecurity. And again, when the threshold for stress is exceeded, all people, everywhere, respond with known physiological patterns. And so on, 14 of them. The division then constructed an information screening machine, which fed facts daily into the hopper to be matched against these basic assumptions, like reports coming into a central weather bureau to be mapped. The facts came from prisoner of war interviews. They got a few early in the war. From captured diaries, captured letters, especially from Japanese officers, and captured official documents. They came from reports from neutral observers in Japan. From translations of Japanese newspapers and magazines. From monitored Japanese broadcasts. The team also collected background descriptions based on novels, histories, travel books, movies, plays, and anthropological studies. Ruth Benedict prepared her analysis of Japanese culture, which was later published as the Chrysanthemum in the Soul. The word, which many of you have read or should read. Despite the passions of war, Leighton's division kept their scientific objectivity. They knew that the Japanese were human, like anybody else. But equally important, they learned to understand the behavior patterns of the Japanese culture, which were different from anybody else. They could reconstruct with high probability what was going on in the minds of Japanese soldiers. They told the American top command that under certain conditions, Japanese would surrender and give useful information. They were neither supermen nor apes. The Japanese military were the same. Now, this conclusion was amply confirmed later in the war as Japanese units, both in the Philippines and Okinawa, surrendered first by the hundreds and then by the thousands. And as prisoners, many cheerfully gave valuable information. So the predictions of the generals and the admirals about fighting for every foot of ground, about taking no prisoners, turned out to be 100% wrong. Some of those predictions, as a matter of fact, would have fitted Germany better than Japan. Although more Germans than Japanese surrendered in combat, Germany as a nation fought until it was dismembered. But Japan quit while still a relatively whole and functioning country. Now it would be hard to find a more dramatic and conclusive case of wrong judgment leading to wrong decisions, which involved countless human lives. Fortunately, some of the military were enough impressed by Layton's reports to modify a few of their earlier decisions. Now, let's make a few observations about how policymakers and social scientists arrive at conclusions. Although the average executive tends to discount theorists, thinking himself such a practical fellow, it was the scientists in the Pacific who tried to be objective, fact conscious, shy of hasty generalizations, and the executives who indulged in some high and lofty theorizing. Witness the theorizing about Japanese morale. By and large, the high command tended to underestimate the Japanese strength before the war and to overestimate it during the war. Now we can discount for Layton's frequent rebuffs, but enough still remains to make a very arresting point. The typical executive has his own private psychological theories about human behavior. He does not call them theories, but of course that is what they are. Everybody has theories about the behavior of other people, built up from childhood. We couldn't deal with our fellow man without having our own theories about them. Now, executives often show shrewdness, wisdom, tolerance, but they also tend to exhibit prejudices, notions, sentiments, stereotype responses, and current fashions in executive thinking. Compare, for example, the excitement about the term free enterprise today with twenty years ago when it was rarely mentioned. Common sense is highly prized by many executives, perhaps over prized. Common sense tells us, among other things, that the world is flat and that it is impossible for men to fly. The social science approach to human relations, says Layton, differs from the executive in that neither the experience of one individual nor the prevalence of ideas is accepted as a warrant for truth. The scientist tries to build his concepts on systematic observations by competent men with many checks and no preconceptions. As a result, his conclusions, while not final, are often closer to reality than those of the average manager. Remember, we are not talking about the cost system in the drop-forged department, but about human relations. Remember, too, that the most important policies and decisions of the manager lie in the field of human relations. Both managers and social scientists use definitions, categories, facts, and logic to arrive at their conclusions. But in social science today, facts play the dominant role. Layton pictures logic as a kind of bridge to tie facts together. Reasoning that has very long spans between the peers of supporting facts must be suspect to a scientist. The conclusions of the policymaker, however, are often supported by a structure of logic with dangerously long spans between the peers of fact, or so it seemed in the Pacific theater. Sometimes the facts were not peers at all, but statistical festoons, having no part in the foundation. Said a big shot to Layton, we're pressed for time this morning and must decide this matter at once. Tomorrow we can figure out the reasons. Dr. Layton's team clashed repeatedly with the big shots and felt that they were not able to make their full contribution. But even with the differences between their modes of thought, the team helped to save many lives, both American and Japanese, by showing that the Japanese soldiers were only human. They might indeed have saved us the eternal shame of Hiroshima if their reports demonstrating the collapse of morale on the home islands, these reports were turned in early in 1945, had been read and acted upon by the high command. The team knew that Japan was going to collapse in the fall of 1945, nine months in advance. Layton is convinced, however, and this is a very important point, that the social scientists, as such, should not make decisions. That is the executive's function. The scientists should lay the facts and the probabilities before the manager, just as other experts do, accountants and engineers and lawyers. There are, of course, emergencies when the executive must decide off the top of his mind in a hurry, as undoubtedly that chap had to do that we just quoted. There is no time to marshal the peers of fact and apply a careful structure of logic. Snap, as Uncle Ponderivo used to say in the H.G. Wells novel when he bought a new company. The social scientist well understands the occasional necessity for such drastic action, but he cannot afford to prejudice his professional reputation by being responsible for it. The good scientist must deal in probabilities rather than absolutes. He must beware of becoming too closely identified with policy and getting an emotional vested interest in it. He must keep his scientific detachment. It is far better for the executive to fire the social scientist, however wise, than to surrender decision-making to him. For a surrender would corrupt both men. The real solution is for managers generally to acquire a better understanding of modern social science, and how a scientist arrays facts and logic to reach conclusions. The manager indeed needs to become something of a social scientist himself to get the most out of the new findings which are now pouring in. He especially needs to know more about checking his intuition against the growing body of dependable knowledge about human behavior. He needs, I think, a good elementary grip on two new mental tools. The culture concept and semantics. Using semantics as a means of clearing communication lines between people. After all, this is not a specially advanced proposal. Most American top executives today are college men. More and more colleges are giving students large drafts of modern social science. I went out to the Pace Institute of Technology in Cleveland the other day to help the faculty set up a course in social science, compulsory course for all the freshmen. The Harvard School of Business Administration is staffed with very competent scientists skilled in these tools, and has, as you know, considerable prestige in executive circles. Doing a lot of sound work right here at New York University. Dr. Layton is now at Cornell. Even the Foreign Service Institute of our State Department is drilling career men, our future diplomats in the culture concept. The leader must lead, keeping the long hairs out of the front office. It is exciting and hopeful, however, to think of a future where leader and professional scientists not only cooperate, but where the leader becomes a kind of amateur scientist himself. Thank you very much. applause applause applause applause p