Through the facilities of New York's Municipal Broadcasting Station, we bring you the second phase of the New York State Narcotics Investigation conducted by the State Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein. We are speaking to you from hearing room numbers one and two of the State Office Building at 80 Center Street in downtown Manhattan. The first part of these hearings was conducted from these same quarters last June and was intended to ascertain what conditions existed in narcotics traffic and addiction right here in New York City. During the interim, the Attorney General staff has been engaged in seeking some solution to the general problem. Today's hearing will deal with problems of rehabilitating the narcotics addict. Assisting Mr. Goldstein will be Sidney Tartikoff, an assistant attorney general for the State of New York, and Ben Gim, special assistant to the attorney general. Right now, we are in hearing room number one, in which the press, the radio, and the news real photographers is located. Directly in back of that and connected to this room is hearing room number one, which is given over to the public. Your announcer is located with two engineers at a small table to the left of a 15-foot-long raised table where the attorney general and his assistants will sit. And at the present time, the various still photographers from the newspapers are taking pictures of the attorney general and his assistant. On the platform, too, we can see State Senator Seymour Halpern. This table, at which the attorney general sits, is at the front of hearing room number two, and directly in front of it is a slightly raised platform on which is the witness's chair. The witness will face two stenotype operators. And now we see that the State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein, is ready to commence proceedings. And now, the Honorable Nathaniel Goldstein, Attorney General of the State of New York. The State and our cottage hearings is now in order. May I, for the record, identify the persons on the rostrum? To my extreme left is Senator Seymour Halpern, the author of this investigating bill. Next to him is Benny Gim, a special assistant attorney general assigned to the investigation. On my right is Sidney Tartikoff, the assistant attorney general and chief of staff. This hearing marks the second phase of the state narcotics investigation. The mandate of Governor Dewey and the state legislature does not clothe me with either police or prosecuting powers. Such powers rest wholly with respect of police and prosecuting agencies. The first order of business was to ascertain the existing conditions. And that we did in New York City last June. Since then, my staff has been engaged in finding the answer. Today, we shall treat with a problem of rehabilitation, which falls into four groups. A, the teenager. B, the male prisoner addict. C, the female prisoner addict. And three, the confined addict. The pattern of addiction revealed during the first hearing has already resulted in increased action by many governmental, local, and private agencies. The narcotic squad in New York City Police Department has been reorganized and increased from 40 to 86, a rise of 115 percent. New York City Sanitation Department has since June destroyed some 40,000 pounds of marijuana found growing in 274 locations throughout the city. Sheriffs throughout the state have been alerted to destroy marijuana weeds when found in areas outside New York City. The courts have uniformly increased the severity of sentences for dope pushers and dope peddlers. Public schools have stepped up their activities and are related to the dangers of narcotic addiction. All this spells progress on many fronts. But this is not enough. For a public policy which treats drug addiction solely as a penal and correctional problem is not contributing to a solution. Drug addiction is a serious public health menace. And we must treat and rehabilitate the drug addict, protect society from him and the dope peddler, and educate our citizens to the specter of drug addiction. This hearing will deal with those phases. We intend to show how this disease can attack persons on all levels of society. We'll hear the stories of the struggle of some of these addicts. We'll hear the testimonies of eminent authorities in the field. It is my sincere hope that out of these hearings will come the bases for the effective treatment and rehabilitation of the addict and his restoration as a useful member of society. I do want to again express my gratitude to the press, radio, television, and newsreel agencies for the important part they played in creating and maintaining public awareness of the problem which is now plaguing America. In the past, many efforts were made to find an answer. But somehow or other, at some point, that effort stopped. This time, it must not stop. As these hearings develop, it will become apparent that the answer can't be found through the integrated efforts of federal, state, and local governmental agencies. The public dare not and cannot permit a failure at this time. Mr. Tarnikoff? Mr. Goldstein, you have already indicated in your opening remarks the receipt of information with regard to the destruction of marijuana in the city of New York. In accordance with your request, an official communication was received by your office on the date of October 15, 1951, from Andrew W. Moraine, Commissioner of Sanitation of the Department of Sanitation of the City of New York. And at the outset, I should like to have the official communication of Commissioner Moraine received as an exhibit in this proceeding, a letter dated October 11, 1951. So we see the mark, Exhibit 12. This exhibit briefly shows the breakdown of the marijuana destruction in New York City between June 16, 1951 and September 15, 1951, by the New York City Sanitation Department. It shows in the borough of Queens, there were 628 lots inspected. Of that number, 139 were found to be growing marijuana weeds, or a total of 17,445 pounds. In Brooklyn, 749 lots were inspected, showing 91 lots contained marijuana weeds, or a total of 17,200 pounds. In the Bronx, 181 lots were inspected. 41 were found to contain marijuana weeds, or a total of 6,260 pounds. In Manhattan, 80 lots were inspected, showing three contained marijuana weeds, for a total of 155 pounds. In Richmond, 478 lots were inspected, no marijuana found, and no lots were found to contain any at all. In other words, the total is 41,060 pounds, which, if converted into cigarettes, would amount to 41 million marijuana cigarettes, worth about $20 million to dope peddlers. For a second, Mr. Targa, please. I should like to call as our first witness this afternoon, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benny Gim. Mr. Gim, who was seated at the rostrum table, now comes to the witness stand to be sworn in. Mr. Attorney General, in view of the fact that Mr. Gim has already appeared in these proceedings and has already been sworn in his appearance in June, I do not believe that it is necessary that he be sworn at this time. You may proceed. Mr. Gim, just by way of review, it is a fact, is it not, that you have been a Special Deputy Assistant Attorney General assigned to the narcotics investigation on the staff of Nathaniel L. Goldstein since the inception of the narcotics investigation in about April 1951. That is correct, sir. And you have continued as a member of the staff, actively engaged in this investigation from its inception to the present time. Yes, sir, that's right. Now, at the time of the public hearings which were conducted by the Attorney General in the month of June, it is a fact, is it not, that there were certain statistics supplied by the Police Department of the City of New York which were at that time relayed into the record of these proceedings. That is right, sir. Now, briefly, by way of review, and before we proceed to the more up-to-date statistics, would you, by way of review, give us again the total of arrests which were made by the New York City Police Department for narcotic violations during each of the years 1946, 47, 48, 49, and 50, and including the first three months of 1951 in the same order in which they were stated at the original public hearings in June? Yes, sir. Well, in 1946... Mr. Jim, would you try to keep your voice up and into this microphone? Well, in 1946, there were 712 narcotic arrests. Of this number, 33 took place in the 121 age bracket, and 679 persons were in the adult age group. In 1947, the number of narcotic arrests was 1,014. Of this total, 78 were in a teenage group, and 936 were 21 years of age and over. In 1948, the number of narcotic arrests was 1,305, of which 130 occurred in a teenage bracket, and 1,175 adults were arrested. In 1949, the total number of narcotic arrests was 1,410. Of this number, 175 were teenagers, and 1,235 were adults. In 1950, the number of narcotic arrests was 2,482. Of this total, 521 occurred in a teenage bracket, while 1,961 were adult persons who were arrested. For the first period of 1951, which was... The figures that you're giving us at this time are the figures for the first quarter of the year 1951, and they are figures which were publicly revealed at the hearings conducted by the Attorney General in June of 1951. That is correct, sir. And what are the figures which were given originally for the first three months in 1951? Well, the total arrests in all age groups was 1,153. 298 of these persons were teenagers, and 855 were adults. So that for the first three months of this year, the police department had reported to us that up to the point of March 31, 1951, there had already been arrested in the City of New York 1,153 persons. Is that correct? That is right, sir. Now, did you, at my request, communicate with the Commissioner of Police of the City of New York, and did you obtain additional statistics from the Police Commissioner's office reflecting the arrests from the period of April 1st to September 30th, 1951? I did, sir. And how many additional arrests were made after April 1st, 1951 in the City of New York based on violations of the narcotics laws? Well, there were a total of 1,684 additional arrests in all age brackets. Now, if you add the original figure for the first quarter of the year to that which has now been revealed to us by the Police Commissioner for these last succeeding six months, how many arrests have now been made in the nine-month period ending September 30th, 1951? Well, for this nine-month period, the total arrests in all age groups is 2,837. Now, Mr. Kim, comparing that figure for the nine-month period in 1951, for the total of all of 1950, what percentage so far in 1951 by what percentage, rather, have we already exceeded all arrests made in the year 1950? Well, for this nine-month period, there is already a 14% increase over the 1950 total. And running that back by way of comparison with the number of arrests made in the entire year of 1946, how does those figures compare? Well, for the nine-month period of this year, the total is already about four times the figure of the entire year for 1946. so that based on the nine-month figure to September 30th, 1951, do I state it correctly, Mr. Kim, that the figures supplied to us by the police commission of the city of New York indicate that there are a higher number of arrests already made in the nine-month period of 1951 than have ever been made for narcotic law violations in any preceding year in the history of the city. That is true, sir. Now, at the hearing in June of 1951, do you recall, Mr. Kim, that the Attorney General requested and we made a chart projecting or estimating how many arrests the city's police department would make in 1951 predicated upon the figures which were in hand at the end of the three-month period. Yes, sir. That's right. We did. Now, would you tell us how our projected figure in 19... given at the hearings in June of 1951 actually compare with the figures so far produced to September 30th, 1951? Well, generally, we underestimated our total figures in the June hearing. So that the fact is, is it not, that there are a greater number of arrests than we even anticipated at the time of the hearings in June? That is... It's true, sir. Mr. Gimm, as a matter of fact, if we are to project our figures for the entire year 1951, based upon the first nine months of 1951, we would arrive at a figure of 3792. That is right, sir. which is five times as much as 1946. That is right, sir. And 50% over and above 1950. That is true, sir. Now, specifically... Now, I just want to also carry you forward with the arrests in the under-21-year group. Projecting that for the entire year 1951, based upon the nine months of 1950, we'd arrive to a figure of 840. Is that right? That is right, sir. And that's 30 times as many as we had in 1946. That is right, sir. And 50% above that of 1950. That is true, sir. Well, now, before we proceed further, Mr. Attorney General, I should, at this time, ask that the communications from the New York City Police Department, from the Office of the Commissioner of Police, covering the statistics which have just been referred to in the testimony given by Mr. Gimm, be received in evidence in these proceedings. So, receive the law of Exhibit 13. Just before we leave those police figures, Mr. Gimm, do I state it correctly, that the activity of the last nine months, including the first three months of the year and the more recent six months, has shown an increase both in the teenage number of arrests as well as the adult arrests for narcotic law violations. That is true, sir. Now, carrying forward the statistical survey which was conducted by the Narcotics Investigation Bureau, did you, at my request and pursuant to the order of the Attorney General of this state, received from the New York City Department of Correction and from the office of Commissioner Albert Williams statistics with regard to the number of persons incarcerated in the city jails on narcotic violations. I did, sir. Now, at the earlier hearings in June, we did at that time reveal to the public and to the press the statistical indexes of persons incarcerated in the jails in New York City for each of the years 1946 through and including the period of April 15, 1951. That is correct. Now, would you briefly restate the figures showing the number of persons who were in the city jails sentenced on charges involving sale or possession of narcotics for the earlier years and up to and including April 15, 1951? Well, in 1946, there were 281 such persons. In 1947, the figure was 329. In 1948, it rose to 485 and again rose in 1949 to 576. In 1950, there was a total of 1,031 persons arrested and sentenced on charges involving sale or possession of narcotics. And at the close of the year 1950, that was the largest number who had ever been placed in the city institutions on narcotic law violations in the history of the city to by now. Is that right? That is true, sir. And what were the figures for the first three and a half months in the year 1951? The figure was 614 persons. Now, have we received from the Office of the Commissioner of Corrections of the City of New York figures covering the number of persons in the city jails on charges of sale or possession of narcotic drugs from April 15, 1951 to September 30, 1951? We have, sir. How many additional persons have been so incarcerated? The total figure now about the additional numbers of persons incarcerated is 565. Now, adding together the figures for the first three and a half months and those now supplied to us by the Commissioner of Correction for the immediately preceding five and a half months, that is the first nine months of this year, how many in all have been incarcerated in the city jails on narcotics violations so far in the year 1951? Well, as of September 30 of this year, the total figure is 1,179. And on the basis of the nine months figure, to have stated correctly, Mr. Gimm, that that is in excess of the high point of 1,031 reaching 1950. That is true, sir. And by what percentage does it exceed on a nine months basis the figure of 1950? It's a 14% increase over 1950. And how does that compare with the figures of 1946? Well, this figure of the current year, which represents only nine months, is already four times the number of narcotic violators in the entire year of 1946. Now, again, referring to the projection which was made by the Attorney General, in the June hearings of 1951, we made an estimate, did we not, at that time, as to the number of persons who might be incarcerated if the rate of activity continues, as was indicated it was continuing during January, February, March, and the first half of April? Yes, that is right, sir. How do these figures compare with the projection or estimate which was made by the Attorney General at the hearings, the public hearings, held in June of 1951? Well, they're generally conformed with the estimates made at that time, except in a few instances we underestimated again. Mr. Ginn, taking our first item, the person sentenced on charges involving sale or possession of narcotics, you show up to September 30th, 1951, a figure of 1,179, is that right? That is correct, sir. Now, if you project that for the entire year 51, we would show 1572 or 1,572. That is right, sir. Now, taking a second category, those who are committed for other crimes but are users of drugs, we show for the first nine months of 1951, 1,886, is that so? That is true, sir. For the entire year that would be projected at 2,520. That is correct, sir. Now, in that second category, there were 237 under 21 years of age for the first nine months of 51, is that so? That is right, sir. To make a total 315th of the entire year, so project it. Yes, sir, that's right. Now, if we take the voluntary commitments in category 3, you show 607 for the first nine months, which would make a total of 792. That so? That is correct, sir. Now, if we add all three categories, we would show for the first nine months of 1951, a total of 3,672. That is correct, sir. And their projection for the year 1951 are 4,884. Is that right? That is right, sir. Now, Mr. Attorney General, at this time, I should like to have marked as an exhibit in these hearings the original communication received from the Commissioner of Corrections of the Department of Corrections of the City of New York in the form of a letter dated October 9, 1951. So I receive marked Exhibit 14. Now, Mr. Jim, the figures that have been discussed by you so far today are figures which were in part reflected in a hearings held in the month of June, plus such additions as have been made available to us by both the Police Department and the Department of Correction to September 30, 1951. That is true, sir. Now, in addition to the figures which we had from these agencies, did we during the summer months and down to the last week or two, did we conduct a survey and investigation with regard to the persons incarcerated in state prisons and reformatories in the state of New York? We did. And did there go forward from the Office of the Attorney General a communication to every one director or superintendent of every prison, every reformatory and every county penitentiary in the state of New York? There did. And did we receive responses to our inquiries? We have. And have we, or rather have you before you, the statistics which are reflected by the responses which we receive from the major prisons, reformatories and penitentiaries in this state? We have. Now with specific regard to Attica prison in the state of New York, how many of the persons who were incarcerated in Attica on felony charges were found there to be drug addicts or drug users and at the same time will you tell me how many were in fact charged and prosecuted for drug violation? In each of the years from 1946, August 31st, 1951. Well, in 1946 in Attica prison, there were 12 persons who were either drug users or drug violators. In 1947, the number was 11. In 1948, the number was 4. In 1949, the number was 5. And in 1950, there were five persons who were either drug users or violators. prisoners. Now, for the eight month period of the current year, there are six persons incarcerated in Attica prison who are either drug users or drug violators. Now, with regard to the Department of Correctional Reception Center at Elmira, did we receive statistics from that place? We did, sir. Now, do I state it correctly, that all of the prisoners who were at the Department of Correctional Reception Center at Elmira are persons who are under the age of 21? That is correct. That's the place where teenagers are originally sent as a reception center and from which they are thereafter transferred to various reformatories and other prisons? Yes, sir. That's right. And what statistics were reflected in the report which we received from the reception center at Elmira? Well, in 1946, there were 25 teenagers who were either drug users or drug violators. In 1947, the figure was 13. In 1948, the figure was 29. And in 1949, the figure was 38. Now, in 1950, there were 115 persons under the age of 21 who are in Elmira Reception Center who are either drug users or drug violators. Now, what happened during the first eight months of this year at the Elmira Reception Center? Well, for the first eight months of this year, there are 198 teenagers who are either drug users or violators in the Department of Correction Reception Center at Elmira. Now, what is the total inmate population at the Elmira Reception Center? Or what was it? During all of the year 1951, how many prisoners were received at the Elmira Reception Center during the entire period of time from January 1st of this year to August 31st? Well, the total number of persons incarcerated for this eight-month period at Elmira is 912. So out of the 912, there are 198 who are either drug users or who are there on drug charges? That is correct, sir. What percentage, therefore, of the inmate population at the reception center of Elmira have been involved in either drug use or drug law violation? Twenty-two percent. Now, did we attempt to obtain the residence or the geographic locale from which these boys who were there for drug violation or for drug use came? We did, sir. And did we obtain from the authorities at Elmira statistics and their figures as to where these teenagers were coming from? Yes, sir, we did. What is their report show? Well, 199 of these persons came from New York County. Fifty-eight came from You're now giving me the figures for both 1950 and 51, are you not? That is true, sir. In other words, 115 of these boys were there in 1950, 198 were there in 1951 to August 31st. A total of 313 boys under 21 who were at the reception center in Elmira charged with either drug violation or were there and found to be drug addicts. That is right. Now, where are those boys coming from? Well, 199 came from New York County. 58 came from the Bronx, 35 came from Kings County, 10 from Queens, 4 from Erie County, 2 from Westchester, 2 from Orange, and 1 from Oneida, 1 from Nassau, and 1 from Chautauqua. That is, we also attempt to make a survey at Elmira to find out the nature of the crimes for which these youngsters were there incarcerated apart from drug law violations, those that were found to be drug users. For what crimes had they been sentenced to Elmira during this 1950-51 period? Well, they had been sentenced from crimes ranging from robbery, burglary, grand larceny to manslaughter, gambling, and forgery. Now, did we also receive a similar report from Sing Sing prison? Yes, sir, we did. And Sing Sing prison, located in Austin, New York, is one of the large institutions for the reception of those convicted of felonies. Is that correct? That is true, sir. And how many persons were incarcerated in each of the years 46 through 1951 who were there either by reason of violation of drug laws or who were found after incarceration to be drug addicts? Well, the number of persons who were either drug users or drug violators in 1946 was 60. In 1947, the figure was 81. In 1948, the number was 53. In 1949, the number was 63. And in 1950, there were 101 persons incarcerated in Sing Sing prison who were either drug users or drug violators. Now, what are the figures for the first eight months of 1951 from Sing Sing prison? Well, as of August 31st of the current year, there are 143 persons incarcerated in Sing Sing prison who are either drug users or drug violators. How many persons were incarcerated in all in Sing Sing prison during all of the year 1951 to August 31st? A total of 811. And what percentage of the 811 were found to be either drug users or in some way involved drug violation? The entire inmate population of Sing Sing? Over 18%. And did you endeavor to find out where these people came from, those who were found to be either drug users or drug violators? I did, sir. And for the years 1950 and 51, what are the figures of the county locale from which they came? Well, 44 came from Kings County, 8 from Queens, 142 from New York County, 41 from the Bronx, 1 from Nassau, 4 from Westchester, 1 from Rockland County, and 1 from Richmond County. And for what crimes generally were the drug users at Sing Sing, for what crimes were they incarcerated? Well, these crimes included homicide, robbery, assault, burglary, larceny, manslaughter, forgery, and rape. Now will you refer back to the figures which we received from Green Haven Prison. Now, Mr. Gimmy, at the outset asked you whether it is not the fact that Green Haven Prison was open for the reception of prisoners on October 1, 1949. That is true, sir. So that we have no statistics, obviously, for any period earlier than that which commences with October 1, 1949. That is right. Now, how many persons in Green Haven Prison in the year 1950 were either drug violators or users of narcotic drugs? Well, in 1950, there were 73 persons who were either drug users or drug violators in Green Haven Prison. And how many were there in 1951 to August 31st of this year? Well, thus far this year, as of August 31st, there are 37 persons incarcerated at Green Haven Prison who are either drug users or drug violators. And incidentally, of that 37, are there any who are under the age of 21? Yes, sir, there are. There are two persons. Now, how many persons in all were received in Green Haven Prison from the beginning of this year to August 31st, 1951? 262 persons were received at that prison. And out of the 262, 37 of them are there either on drug law violations or have been found to be drug addicts. That is right, sir. And what percentage of the total inmate population at Green Haven Prison in 1951 are involved with narcotics in one form or another? That is about 14%. And did you ascertain from where in the state of New York by county these prisons at Green Haven came? Yes, sir, I did. Would you state them for the record? Well, 30 of them came from New York County, four from the Bronx, one from Queens, two from Kings County, none came from Richmond, one from Nassau, and one from Westchester. And what was the nature of the crimes for which these persons at Green Haven had been incarcerated, those who were not incarcerated for drug law violations? Well, these crimes included larceny, robbery, burglary, manslaughter, malicious mischief, assault, rape, and sodomy. Now would you refer your attention to the Westfield State Farm at Bedford Hill. Now do I state it correctly, Mr. Gimm, that the Westfield State Farm is a reception center for female prisoners operated along similar lines to the reformatory reception center at Elmira? Yes, sir, that's right. Now did we obtain from the authorities at Westfield the figures for the number of incarcerations and the number of drug law violators and users at Westfield in the preceding year, starting with 46? We did, sir. And what were the figures that were submitted to us by the superintendent of Westfield State Farm? Well, in 1946, there were three persons who were either drug users or violators. In 1947, the number rose to eight. In 1948, there were nine persons. In 1949, there were ten persons who were either drug users or violators. And in 1950, there were 27 persons there who were found to be either drug users or violators of drug laws. And oddly, 27 who were there in 1950, how many were teenagers, that is, under 21? Nineteen persons were under 21 years of age. In 1950, how many persons had been admitted to Westfield State Farm for all manner of crimes? A total of 187. And what percentage of that total were found to be either drug law violators or drug users? 14%. Now, so far in 1951, for the eight-month period in 1951, how many in all have been admitted to Westfield State Farm as prisoners for all crimes? 181. And how many of that 181 have been found to be or were sentenced there for narcotic law violations? 13 were sentenced for narcotic law violations. How many of them were teenagers of the 13? Five of the 13 were teenagers. And how many others who were sentenced for other crimes to Westfield were found to be drug users? 62 persons. And of the 62 others that were there, how many were found to be under 21? 36 of them were under 21. And all told, there were then 75 in all who were there for either narcotic law violation or because they were users of narcotic drugs. That is correct, sir. That's out of a total inmate population of 181? That's right. What percentage is that, Mr. Gimmel, of all the inmates at Westfield who are involved with narcotics? 41%. And what residents did we ascertain? Where did these people come from who were sentenced to go to Westfield State Farm? Well, 91 of them came from New York County, five came from Kings County, three from Erie, two from Nassau, one from the Bronx. And will you tell us the nature of the offenses other than the violations of narcotic laws for which these girls or women were sentenced to Westfield State Farm between January 1st, 1950 and August 31st, 1951? Well, these crimes included prostitution, wayward minor, youthful offender, petty larceny, attempted burglary, third degree, attempted grand larceny, second degree, assault second degree, attempted petty larceny, assault third degree, robbery, and conspiracy. Now, Mr. Gimm, in addition to the survey which we did with regard to the state prisons, did we attempt to further establish the extent of drug addiction by canvassing private sanitariums and private hospitals who advertised for some of these for treatment of drug addicts? We did, sir. And how many such private sanitariums and hospitals did we have occasion to interrogate and investigate? Over 20. And as a result of the investigation that we made in these private sanitariums and private institutions for the treatment of addiction, what conclusion have we run? Well, of all the private institutions canvassed, we did this with the thought that whatever additional data we might gather would only reflect a minute portion of the total number of drug addicts seeking treatment because, obviously, it would only cover those who were desirous of and economically able to afford private institutional care and treatment. Well, now, firstly, what did we find was the average daily cost to a patient in those private sanitarium which had facilities? What was the average daily charge for treatment of drug addiction? Approximately $30 a day. And what was the approximate period of time that these persons were kept in private sanitarium? Ranged from two to three weeks. And what was the nature of the treatment which was there furnished to them? Well, obviously, it only covered the physical withdrawal from the drugs. During a relatively short stay? That is right, sir. Now, did we, in this survey, particularly, develop statistics with regard to one particular private sanitarium located in the borough of Manhattan in the city of New York? We did, sir. And how many persons had there been treated for drug addiction since 1948 to the present time? A total of 423 persons were admitted at that particular institution since 1948. a total of 423 persons in the city of New York. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Now, Mr. Gim, in addition to the survey in which you assisted, did we also interrogate a number of young people who were either seeking help, who were drug addicts, or those who had gone for care and treatment to institutions, and did you interrogate them and take their statements on recorded tape? I did, sir. Now, what is the first of these tape recordings which you took? Can you briefly summarize for us the substance of what was told to you? Well, this is a story told by a 20-year-old girl on the eve of her admission into the United States Public Health Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky as a voluntary patient. Her history of addiction dates back to 1949, one year after she had left Julia Richmond High School because of pregnancy. A man at a party offered her a marijuana cigarette. She continued using marijuana for about four months and then started taking a combination of cocaine and heroin, known as a speedball by hypodermic injection. Marijuana had failed to continue to give her the desired kick. The cocaine and heroin were provided by a, quote, boyfriend, end quote, who sold drugs. In return for her own supply, she sold drugs for him and also slept with him. She was arrested in New Jersey on a charge of drug addiction and was given a three-month sentence followed by probation. In prison, she was forced to break her habit, quote, cold turkey, end quote, with all its resulting pain and suffering. She was released from prison in April of 1951 and immediately began using heroin, this time purchasing it herself but with money supplied by a friend. This friend has a legitimate job and is interested in marriage and unaware of his girl's addiction. Because she realizes that addiction is ruining her health, that she is still young and she wants a happy life with her young man, and because of her child, who is now with her mother, she decided to enter Lexington, determined to be cured. And Mr. Attorney General, at this time, I should like to play for you and for the public the interrogation on sound tape of this 20-year-old girl who for obvious reasons will not be otherwise identified. You may proceed. I'm a special assistant to the Attorney General. Now, young lady, in telling me your story, I want you to be careful not to mention your name or any other particulars which might in any manner identify you so as to cause you embarrassment. First of all, let me ask you, how old are you? I am 20 years old. And did you attend school in Manhattan? Yes, I did. And what school did you attend? Junior Richmond High. What was the last year that you were in school? 1948. Did you graduate from school? No, I didn't. Why did you leave school? Because I was pregnant. Will you tell me when you first began to use drugs? I began to use drugs in 1949. And what was the, what were the circumstances of your use of drugs? How did you happen to begin using drugs? I don't know. It was on a party of people and somebody offered me something, so I tried it. What sort of people were they? Were they musicians? Oh, one of them was. One of the persons. Was he the person that offered you a marijuana cigarette? Yes. And you tried the cigarette? Yes, I did. And after your initial experience with the cigarette, what happened? I started using cocaine and marijuana, I mean, heroin. Well, prior to that, you used marijuana for some time before you actually started using cocaine, did you not? Yes. About how long did you continue the use of marijuana? After. After you first used it? Oh, I didn't use it long before I started using it. Was it a few months? A few months, yes. And then you started using cocaine. Cocaine. Was that because marijuana no longer gave you the kick, if I may say, use that term? That you wanted? Yes. How did you happen to get cocaine? Would you mind speaking up? A friend of mine, he was dealing, so. As he was selling cocaine? Yes. And so he gave me some heroin, but I had been using it before then. And how did you use cocaine and heroin? As a speed boy. You mixed them together? Together. And then you took the combination by hypodermic injections, is that right? Yes, that's right. This friend of yours that sold cocaine and heroin, did he eventually become your boyfriend? Yes. And he furnished you the drugs? Yes, he did. Did you tell me that you used up to a sixteenth of an ounce daily? Yes, of heroin, yes. And about how much would that cost you? Fifteen dollars. But you didn't have to pay fifteen dollars for the drugs because your boyfriend furnished them for you, is that right? That's right. What did he expect you to do for him in exchange? What would you have to do? I didn't really have to do anything because he bought my clothes and I did sell for a while. But you sold some of the drugs for him. Were there occasions that you had to sleep with him? Once in a while, yes. Did there come a time when you were arrested? Yes. By the way, during this time that you were using drugs, you were not employed at any time, were you? No, I wasn't. Did you ever look for work? I looked for work, but I couldn't keep the job because it was a habit. I couldn't work. Now let's get back to the time when you were arrested. On what charge were you arrested? On drug addiction. And that wasn't in this state? No. Because in this state it's not against the law to be a drug addict. What state was this that you were arrested? And what sort of disposition was made of your case? Did you get a sentence in jail? Yes, I had three months sentence, three months in probation. You were still addicted to drugs at this time, were you not? When I got arrested? When you got arrested. Yes. But your hat was broken when you were sentenced to serve in prison, is that right? Yes, I had broken it in jail. How did you break it? Did they give you cold turkey treatment? Yes, I had to break a cold turkey. Did this cold turkey treatment cause you any pain and suffering? Yes. Can you tell me something about that? Well, it left you weak, your legs, my legs hurt and I had cramps. I threw up a lot for about four or five days. Then afterwards still, you still don't feel well because you're weak and... This was, let's see, now you were actually arrested in late 1950, were you not? Yes, December. And you served about three months. So you actually came out around March or April of 1951. In April. Now tell me what happened when you left prison in April of 1951. Well, I started using heroin again. Why did you start using drugs again? You were physically withdrawn from drugs then. Did you ever form a sincere desire to stay off of drugs? Yes, I did, but I guess it was in my mind all the time. The thought of getting drugs was in your mind all the time. Yes, all the time I served in jail. So at your first opportunity you lapsed into the use of drugs again. How did you get drugs this time? Oh, this time I bought them myself, but I had a boyfriend. that supplied money, but he didn't know that I was an addict. He still doesn't know I'm an addict. Does your boyfriend use drugs? No, he doesn't. Is he engaged in a legitimate occupation? Yes, he has a legitimate job. He works hard. and he furnishes you the money to buy the drugs, but he doesn't know that you use it. He doesn't know. You have a baby at the present time, don't you? And where is your baby now? He's with my mother. Now tell me, you're about to go to Lexington on a voluntary basis, is that right? That's right. what were the factors, or what made up your mind to decide to go to Lexington to take a cure? Well, because it's ruining my health, and I have a child, and he needs clothes, and all the money that I get I have to use towards my habit, and I'm not getting anything out of life. I'm still young, and I think if I do get really cured this time with medical treatment, I can stay away from it. I believe if I can get it in my mind to stay away from it, I will, and I'm going to try. It's very hard. Has the fact that you now have a decent boyfriend with a legitimate occupation, has that anything to do with your resolve? Yes, it has a lot to do with it, because he's a very decent person, and I don't think that he would like very much to know that I'm an addict. You're still addicted right now? Yes, I'm addicted right now. And how much heroin or other kind of drugs are you taking? I take about $12 worth now. It costs you $12 a day? Yes. And your boyfriend is furnishing you this money? Yes. Have you had your shop this morning? Yes, I do. When do you intend to go to Lexington? This Sunday. Do you feel that this time, after your cure at Lexington, you will be able to lead a normal happy life and will be able to stay permanently off of drugs? Yes. I see. Thank you very much for giving us the benefit of your experiences. Yes. again, the interrogation which was just played, that was one of a number of interrogations that you personally undertook and conducted with these teenagers. That's right, sir. Now, the interrogation we've just played is that of a girl who was on her way to Lexington, Kentucky seeking a cure. That's right. Did you also, and during the course of the recent month or two, also conduct an interrogation of a young boy who had just come back from Lexington, Kentucky? Yes, sir, I did. Now, will you briefly summarize for us the details of the interrogation which you took of that boy who had just returned from Lexington, Kentucky? Well, this is a story told by a boy 18 years of age, shortly after his release from the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. He first started using narcotics while on vacation from a high school in the Bronx. He began using marijuana when 14 because he felt, quote, like having something special that night, end quote. He eventually began using heroin. Last March 9th, he was arrested for possession of narcotics and ordered to Lexington for treatment. He describes the course of treatment in the sordid language of the inmate. He found many other teenagers there, including his younger brother, who was age 16, who was there as a voluntary patient. He believes that he and other teenagers should not have been thrown in with odor addicts because this intermingling taught him more about drug addiction and how to get drugs. He's determined now to stay away from drugs in an attempt to reconstruct his life. Mr. Attorney General, I should now like to have played for the record of this second interrogation by Mr. Benny Gimp. You may proceed. I'm a special assistant attorney general on the staff of Nathaniel L. Goldstein, who is now conducting an investigation into the extent and scope of the use of narcotics in this state. First of all, young man, in telling me your story, let me have your age. 18. Do you go to school at the present time? No, I don't. Did you go to school in this city? Yes, I went to Samuel Gump, his vocational high school in the Bronx. And what year did you leave school? In April, 1950. Tell me, how old were you when you first started using marijuana? 14 years old. And how did that happen? How did that come about? We were going to a party. Would you mind speaking up, please? I was going to a party with a friend of mine, and we just happened to feel like having something special that night. And we saw this guy, and we bought it off him because he said he had some. Had you heard about marijuana before then? Had you seen it around? Yes. Very often I've heard about it, and ever since I can remember, the guys around the neighborhood, I've been taking it. When was the first time that you took heroin? In 1949, in about July. And my father's candy store friend offered me some. I see. Did there come a time when you started taking heroin regularly? Yes, I did. I started in July 1950. You started sniffing heroin? Yes. And then eventually you went to skin popping? That's right. Then, from skin popping, you went to main lining? Right. Was there a time when you were arrested for possession of narcotics? Yes, I was. I was arrested on March the 9th, 1951. What sort of disposition was made of your case? I was given youthful offender treatment and sent to a public health service hospital in Lexington, Kentucky. Just prior to going to Lexington, did you have to supply yourself with enough narcotics? Yes. for the time it would take to get to Lexington? That's right. What did you have to do to obtain your supply of narcotics on that occasion? Since I wasn't working at the time when I came out of Yale, I would wait for Dauphine to come around the neighborhood and I'd beat him for his money. How would you beat him for his money? Well, I've never seen him before, but one junkie can tell another. And you'd overgo and ask him if he wanted anything. And if he'd say yeah, you'd tell him to wait for you on the corner because it was hot, in other ways, the cops were around to give you the money and you'd go get it for him. And if he did that, well, you'd go with his money. You'd take his money but you'd never return. Right. And you took that money and bought narcotics for yourself so that to maintain your habit for the period in transit to Lexington. Is that right? That's right. What month did you enter Lexington? I entered in April the 16th. Of what year? 1951. Tell me what they did to you at Lexington. Were you placed in the withdrawal ward in the beginning? Yeah, they called shooting gallery. And they bring you down with a drug which you don't even feel except that it takes some of the sweat and some of the what they call monkey on the back which is a back ache that just keeps on going. It doesn't let you lay down. It bothers you and your nose runs. You still have a little upset stomach though because when you're coming down off the drug you feel you have diarrhea which is natural because you are constipated when you are using it. And a lot of times even when you're coming down you go and eat and you have nothing and you no drug no narcotics at all and your stomach isn't accustomed to eating that quantity of food or the richness of it. You just let it out. Most of drug addict lives on coffee and cake and sweets and candy and sodas and that and beside what they use the drugs I mean that's how they get so skinny. Did you lose weight yourself? Well since I had to keep it from my folks I'd always make sure I'd get home about supper time just about equal and I wouldn't go home very high and I wouldn't go home sick. And you had to force yourself to eat? I forced myself to eat at the table and then I knew that if I would stop eating I always was a heavy eater and I gained 20 pounds up in Lexington and I'm weighing 170 now that I came out. I always knew that I was going to get skinnier and skinnier and the folks would take a notice into it so even while I was working I'd always go out and just stay about neutral feeling good and go have something to eat. I always try to keep something in my stomach. Now in getting back to the shooting gallery at Lexington how many days were you there? I was there two and a half days on the third day they moved me out. Where did they move you? They moved me to a place they called Skid Row. And what is Skid Row really? Skid Row is another part of the hospital which is the part where they see if you're really coming off and if you still feel a little sick and the doctor comes around like every morning and sees you and if you still need a shot they have to give it to you. And what they do is that a droffing can hardly sleep when he's off drugs. So right there they just get you and they give you what they call a goofball to make you sleep at nights and you just keep going off until by the time you get into population you're all set to work and take part in whatever else the hospital has to offer. After Skid Row were you sent to population? Yes. That is where you were sent in contact with the inmates. With the other older people and the fellas your age. Did you discover a lot of teenagers at Lexington? Yes there was. There was a lot of them from my neighborhood. That you knew personally? Yes I did. And they were around 18 or 19? 19. Or even younger? There was my brother there who was... Your brother also went to Lexington? Yes. He was 16. Did your brother go there on a voluntary basis? On a voluntary basis. And you were sentenced to serve there until cured? Right. After population, that is your... While that population you're assigned work to do. Right. What type of work did you do? Well I did sanitation work. We cleaned up... I would keep... Where we are living quarters and the hallways clean in our part of the hospital. That means every week there was an inspection. You'd have to polish the doorknobs and brass. You'd have to clean up your room. Make that... Make your bed especially neat that day. Take all the dust for wherever... Wherever dust could accumulate that... That's where they look. That place has to be sparkly. Let me ask you. Did you get any sort of psychiatric treatment at Lexington? Yes. We... First you're called down to Miss Dangerfield. And she's a psychiatrist. She gives you inkblots and tells you if you see anything in them. And then you have a... I went to see this Dr. Thorpe who helps out anybody with troubles over there. He's very good to get along with. And he asks you questions about how you get on it. Any troubles at home. And he tries to advise you on how the best way to smooth them out. Well how many times did you see a psychiatrist in all the time that you were at Lexington? Twice. How many months were you at Lexington? Four and a half. It's 135 days for the whole cure. Do you think that you could have used more psychoanalysis? In a way the people who were sent up there don't go much for it. But I think if they would stress that point a little more it would help. Fine. Did you find that in your association with the various inmates at Lexington that there was absolutely no segregation that as you were thrown in with the young addicts, the old addicts, the voluntary admittees, the persons who were serving their endocrininal sentences? That's right. They keep you all together. What effect did that have? Well you learn more. You learn more about what? About drug addiction. I see. You learn that like a drug addict who's up there from the south, a lot of them use morphine down there. You learn that with morphine the only way you can obtain it is through a doctor. And if you can't make a doctor, well actually they... What do you mean if you can't make a doctor? You mean to get drugs off a doctor by deceiving him? Is that it? That's right. You go in and tell them that you have some sort of pain or something or something's wrong with you and you're on your way to a hospital in another state and you're just passing through or something or other and that you've been taking morphine and that it's been keeping you going and for this and that. And if you'll be able to con him out of a prescription, well then you got it. Sometimes they say you have to go to two or three doctors. Do most of the inmates in Lexington talk about drugs continually? Yes. That's the main topic over there. Do you think that most of them have a sincere desire to abstain from the use of drugs? Well, some of them, mostly are prisoners that are young in age, definitely got to stay off. They have a place over there that they call the do rights. That's where the people, if your guy goes in and he doesn't want to talk about drugs with anybody, he doesn't want to, well he just wants to get away from it all. He wants to make up well they put him with the do rights. The inmates classify them as do rights. They just don't want to associate with that. Did you yourself have a sincere desire at that time to stay off the drugs? Well, when I was alone all by myself and you really get to thinking about things you've done and that you really haven't accomplished anything, you know, you tell yourself and you really mean it that you're going to stay off it. That is, when you were alone, you felt like you wanted to stay off the drugs. That's right, but when you get together with the fellows and they start talking, the funny part about a drug addict is that he only thinks about the good times he had. He doesn't think about the times he had to go sick and the times he had to wait a while and wait and wait until he can get that next fix. And that is really torture, is that right? That's it. And there's a lot saying that, well, a man's under the influence of a drug that some people, sometimes he goes haywire. Well, I don't know about any other drug, but about Herod, it's a time when the person hasn't got the drug that he goes haywire, when he's sick, when he needs it. Otherwise, when he's got it, I don't see no other other, I don't know a dope fiend who doesn't want to sit down and just smoke or even listen to some soothing music. Not reading in particular because, well, your eyes close up on you, they get heavy and drowsy, but you just sit there in a relaxed position, smoking and listening to the radio. I know that's what I think. But you think the dangerous time is when a drug addict is without drugs, that he might do irrational things, he might commit crimes. That's it. That's the time when a drug addict is really dangerous. I see. When did you leave Lexington? August 28, 1951. And I got home on August 29, the next day. Have you had occasions since August of 1951 to take any drugs at all? No, I haven't. I've been offered them, and they've asked me, a lot of people, mostly my friends, they told me, are you going to stay off it? A lot of them have advised me to stay away, and those that are on it, who came from Lexington and have gone back on it, even they have advised me to stay away. That is, even those persons who are relapsed into using drugs have advised you to stay away from drugs. Right. Do you intend to stay away from drugs? I do. Tell me, what is the motivating reason for your desire to stay off of drugs? Well, when I got out of school last year, the first thing I wanted to talk about the folks. I figured I wasn't doing enough at home. But when I started using junk, well, I didn't make no progress at all. And I found, I realized that when I was in Kentucky. I had more time to think over there. And there's nothing to divert your attention. You just think about what you've done wrong and what you'd like to do better. And everything that you've thought about doing comes back, and you really get to see you haven't accomplished anything. So when you get out, that's what I want to do now. Do the things that I want to do. And you think that using drugs would prevent you from living your happy, normal life? That's one thing that goes without questioning. Because like a drug addict, all the drug addicts up there say, if you got a million dollars, and you start using drugs, you could be a millionaire. There'll always come a time when you'll always be down. Always. It does not but tear you down. By the way, you went to Samuel Gopper's high school. Did you take physiology or hygiene there? No, I took hygiene. I see. Was there any instruction concerning narcotics? No, there wasn't. In other words, all the time you were in school, you received no instruction concerning the ill effects that narcotics would have on you? None at all. I see. Now, in recounting your experience at Lexington, what do you think of Lexington as a whole? What's good about it and what is bad about it? Well, as a whole, the convalescing period over there is very good. They've got work, all sorts. You can work as a farmer out on a farm. You can work in a dairy. You can work inside in a garment shop. You can work in a laundry. Any place you get. You can work in a hospital. If you notice a little about making hospital beds and taking care of patients. Now, that's what they call occupational therapy. That's it. And you think that has a definite beneficial effect on your morale. That's right. And how about the food? The food over there is a vest. Do you think the people there give you understanding and sympathetic treatment? Right. Now, is there anything bad about Lexington? Except that they should take away the younger boys from the older. You think that there should be segregation and the teenagers from the adults? They said something about doing that in August. I don't know if it was done because I left before. They said they were going to take all the teenagers and put them away. But in places like that, they go talk around, you know, rumor starts. But at the time you left, the teenagers and the adults were still mixed in together. Do you think further that you could get more psychiatric treatment there? Right. You should get it. And do you think that what little psychiatric treatment you had there helped you a great deal? It did. I see. Well, now, thank you very much for coming down and giving us the benefit of your experiences today. I should like to, at this time, Mr. Attorney General, call to the stand, Dr. Paul Zimmering. Dr. Zimmering, please. You are listening to the hearings on the second phase of the New York State narcotics investigation from the State Office Building in downtown Manhattan. We pause 10 seconds for station identification. This is WNYC, the voice of New York City. Hi, sir. And, doctor, will you give your full name and your address to the stenographer, please? Paul Zimmering, 8 Gramercy Park. Now, you're regularly licensed as a physician to practice in the state of New York. Yes, sir. Of what medical school are you a graduate, doctor? Bristol University Medical School, Bristol Langley. And where did you serve your internship after graduation from medical school? At Bellevue Hospital. And, uh, after you completed your internship, did you enter into the general practice of medicine? Yes, I did. And, uh, up until what year did you continue as a general practitioner? Up to 1943 when I entered the army. Now, you enlisted in the medical corps of the United States Army, did you not, in 1943? And what was your rank or rating in the army? Uh, captain. And did you, uh, as a captain in the medical corps while you were stationed in the army undertake to do psychiatric work? Yes, I did. And where were you assigned to do psychiatry in the United States Army? Well, I was assigned to the 5th Convalescent Hospital. And where was the 5th Convalescent Hospital located? Saipan and New Caledonia. That was in the Pacific Theta? That's right. And after... I withdraw that. Did there come a time, doctor, when you were made chief of the neuropsychiatric division of this 5th Convalescent Hospital? Yes, sir. And after you had completed your service in the army, did you return to the practice of medicine here in the state of New York? When I, uh, when I was separated from the army, I entered Bellevue Hospital and did a residency in psychiatry. And for how long were you serving as a resident in psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital in the city of New York? Two years. And that brings us up to 1948, is it not? That's right. And what was your position at Bellevue in 1948? I became a junior psychiatrist. And were you subsequently advanced to a higher place at Bellevue? In a half year, I became a senior psychiatrist. Now, doctor, ever since 1948, to have stated correctly, that you have been a senior psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital. That's right. And you have held, and you are now holding a position of senior psychiatrist in charge of the male adolescent ward at Bellevue Hospital. Now, in addition to the work that you're doing at Bellevue, do you also hold a teaching position at one of the medical colleges of the city? Yes, I do. At what school, please? At New York University School of Medicine. And what other professional associations or affiliations do you have? Well, I'm a member of the Society for Medical Psychoanalysts. I'm a member of the New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry. I'm a member of the New York Academy of Science. All right, doctor. I guess so. Thank you. Thanks, Kevin. Doctor, at the present time, you're working over at Bellevue Hospital. Are you not? Yes, sir. And do I state it correctly that included in the work which you're now doing, you have the charge of adolescent boys who are generally there by reason of some misconduct and who come in on this ward known as the Male Adolescent Ward? That's right, sir. Except that the population of the ward is made up not only by delinquent boys or boys that get in trouble with the law, but also boys sent in from agencies and brought in by their families for certain problems in behavior. Now, more recently and during the past eight months through a year, have you begun to receive at Bellevue Hospital teenage boys who have been referred to your hospital for treatment as drug addicts? Yes, sir. That started last December, December of 1950. Now, in a relative sense, that's a rather recent phenomenon at Bellevue Hospital. That's right. You didn't have this kind of thing before December of 1950. I have some statistics on it if you're interested. Between the years of 1940 and 48, there was never a case of an adolescent addict admitted into Bellevue. In 1949, we had one case. In 1950, there were six cases admitted. In the first two months of 1951, we had 56 boys and 19 girls between the ages of 14 and 20 admitted into the psychiatric division of Bellevue Hospital for drug addiction. Doctor, I take it that you personally have actually interviewed and interrogated the number of these boys. Forty, to be exact. 40 that you personally took in charge and personally interrogated. That's right, sir. Have you made any observations with regard to the social aspects of this problem of teenage addiction or teenage drug use? Well, we've made several observations on it. I don't know just what you're referring to. if you want to, if you're interested in some ideas that we had as to the extent of the problem. Yes, I'd like to have that and I'd also like to have you tell us whether these boys and girls came from any particular area or areas in the city of New York and how they came to Bellevue Hospital. Well, these children came to Bellevue Hospital either through the court on court remands through social agencies and in several cases they were brought directly by their parents or a parent. the greatest incidents appeared to be at that time in Harlem. You mean at the outset when you first began to get these cases most of them were coming from Harlem? At the outset they were almost exclusively from the Harlem area. Now, has that changed somewhat? Yes. we've gotten boys from other areas from the Bronx and we also have reliable information that the addiction has spread among adolescents to Queens and Brooklyn. As a matter of fact, Dr. Zimmering, you have discussed this matter with Dr. Sam Parker, who's the chief psychiatrist in charge of the psychiatric division at Kings County Hospital. Yes, I have. Isn't that so? And it is a fact that Dr. Parker has indicated to you that there are cases coming into the Kings County Hospital of the similar kind that you're getting at Bellevue and these cases are coming from Queens and Brooklyn. Yes, sir. Also, in interrogating some of these boys we've discovered that there are large groups of addicts in various parts of the city particularly in southern areas of the Bronx groups as large as 120 including 125 boys. 125 in one particular group? That's right. And they included boys of various ethnic groups. And Dr., that means, is it not, that they were white and colored of all races, of all creeds, of all backgrounds? Well, I wouldn't say all, of some, at least from the information that we've had. Well, now, Doctor, as you've talked to these youngsters at Bellevue, have you ascertained from them the pattern of the development of their addiction, just how they got into this thing, and the whys of their beginning use of drugs? Yeah, we've collected quite a bit of data. data. Some of it we've incorporated in a paper that we wrote for the Journal for Nervous and Mental Diseases, which was in the form of a preliminary account of our studies, and we're proceeding with this study. There are many factors involved. we feel that for... Dr. Zemmering, may I interrupt and ask you this? You referred to a particular paper which you said had been published in the Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases. What other physicians have collaborated with you on this investigation and study? Dr. James Tulin. Who is Dr. James Tulin? He's a senior psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital. Mrs. Renaud Safran, who is a psychologist who works with us with the adolescents, and Dr. S. Bernard Wartis. And what is Dr. Wartis' position? Well, he has many very important positions. He's chief of the Department of Psychiatry and Urology at New York University, Medical School. he's president, I think, of the American Urological Society. He has many important positions. And these conclusions which are cited in this paper that you wrote, are they the conclusions of yourself or the conclusions of all who participated? Um, they are the conclusions of all who participated. Now, referring again to this problem as you have observed, do these youngsters tell you what it was that first induced them to take the drug? Yes, they do. And what do the terrorists? Well, almost all of them have said that they were first induced to experiment with the drug out of curiosity. And as we continued our interrogation, we also went into various group social pressures that induced these boys to start and keep up the taking of drugs. We've sort of delineated some fairly common, perhaps superficial factors involved in the phenomena of kids starting to take drugs. the quest for new thrills, the striving for status and acceptability, the suspiciousness of and rebellion against rules and prohibitions set by authority, and the deep sense of deprivation and affect hunger or hunger for love. These are some of the feelings, needs, and activities that are especially marked during adolescence. Now, it is a fact, is it not, doctor, that adolescents generally try to conform and be accepted by themselves and their own group? Well, there is a great need for acceptability, and I guess the need to conform probably subserves that need. now, as you've examined these youngsters and talked with them, do you find that the progress of their drug use runs in fairly identical patterns? they start with marijuana and go on to heroin? Yeah, we get a fairly typical pattern in these kids. They don't all start with marijuana. Many of them do. And as the addiction develops, the need for the experience that the drug induces and the extreme discomfort of the withdrawal symptoms makes it more and more difficult for them to break the habit, and then they begin to dread the day that they will be unable to secure the drug. You mean these kids are actually possessed of fears that they won't be able to get the drug? Yeah. Yeah. They become very anxious. They begin to dread the day because of the extreme discomfort that they experience when they are without the drug for 24 hours, I'd say. Well, now, doctor, just what is it like? What are these withdrawal symptoms like that people refer to, these kids, experience? Well, the withdrawal symptoms vary a great deal from individual to individual. They vary according to the length of the addiction. They vary according to the amount of drugs that have been taken. with a fairly mild addiction, there is restlessness, depression, and fatigue or apathy. How about with a more serious addiction? Well, there are a great number of symptoms that they have affecting many organs of the body. There is tearing, sweating, cramps, there is extreme restlessness and uneasiness, and it can go on to convulsions and sometimes, in rare cases, death. death. But there are a host of symptoms that these people suffer when the drug is withdrawn for a period of about 24 hours. In other words, a kid without the drug for 24 hours, if he's been a serious user, will undergo some very painful experiences. doctor, where do these youngsters get the means to obtain these drugs? Well, they'll do most anything after a certain stage to get the wherewithal to buy the drugs. They begin to sell their clothes. They begin to push the drug for other peddlers. They begin to steal objects from their home. They engage in petty robberies. They will, in short, do anything to secure money for the drug. Almost every one of the boys we interviewed had engaged in some serious delinquent activity. One boy left the man seriously wounded, believing, in fact, that he had killed him. Another was almost thrown off a roof for stealing the drug from another boy. Many have seen or known of serious injuries or deaths directly or indirectly related to the use of heroin. Now, doctor, may I interrupt at that point to ask you this? You're now describing, are you not, what these boys will do after they have become used to the drug or after they have become addicted to the drug? Yes. Is that right? Now, generally speaking, from the background as you've studied it, these boys, the home background, the parental background, as a group, apart from their use of narcotics, are they antisocial? Are these hoodlums or gangsters? No, they're not. We became interested very early in our study with the fact that this group of adolescent drug addicts had some common features. others. And one of them, and a very striking one, was the fact that these were nice kids. They were non-aggressive. They were verbally adept. They were socially graceful. Hostility did not make up an important part of their problems. They related very well to us. And I feel sure from, on the basis of the boys that I've seen, that they're not primarily hostile, destructive kids. In other words, that element in their personality makeup does not come into play until after they've been on the drug. The only time that they'll resort to stealing and antisocial activities, the only reason for it, is to secure money for the drug. They don't steal for the sake of stealing. They don't resort to violence for the sake of violence. Now, doctor, you've had a number of these boys at Bellevue who've been referred to you for treatment. Are all of them what you would call truly addicted? No, they're not. The whole problem to us is a very interesting one because we have to consider that many, many thousands of youngsters in this city are introduced to the drug, yet they never become addicted. Many who are subject to the same pressures never even try the drug. Others become occasional users. Or they give it up when they become aware of its unpleasant side effects and the dangers of tending addiction. However, with the youngsters who have come under our study, the need for the experience that the drug induces is so great that once they have been set on the narcotic road, there's no turning back. The course is an inexorable progression from sniffing the drug to skin popping to mainline shooting, from long periods of euphoria to progressively shorter ones, until their only expectation is for momentary relief from unbearable tension and depression, and from hustling at our jobs to selling one's clothes, to selling the family valuables, to petty thievery, and finally to major criminal acts in order to ensure a continuous and increasing supply of the drug. Well, tell me, generally, would you say that these kids get involved in drug-taking because they have poor judgment, or are they... No, they don't have poor judgment. We've done psychometric studies on all these boys. We find that their intelligence, their potential intelligence, is in accord with the...that for the general population of our ward. And they run a wide range from dull normal to superior intelligence. Indeed, these kids are aware of the consequences, and they're tortured by fear and guilt, and yet they're so stripped of will that they become fatalistic as to the dire outcome. Many request that we take them away from home and send them to some place where if they develop a strong nostalgic urge for the drug, it will not be available to them. This pleading for help in the adolescent addict is very impressive to us. It's our experience with adolescents presenting other problems that no matter how bad the home environment, no matter how much they are mistreated and rejected, they will resist being sent away from home, and they'll desperately hold on to even a shred of a parent. Doctor, I want to ask you again because I want to get this very clear for the record. From your own interviews with these boys and your own observations, do you think that these boys are gang boys? are they typical of a gang atmosphere? No. Some of these boys have been in gangs. A lot of kids get into gangs, street gangs, and so on, and in some parts of the city, you're practically an outcast unless you are in a gang. But certainly these boys are not typical of gang boys who join the gangs for destructive purposes. You mean if they have gang associates, they're of a much better social level? Most of these boys have left gangs. It's interesting to note that very few of these boys had a court record for delinquency prior to their addiction and prior to their coming to Bellevue. In other words, Doctor, do you find from your conversation with these boys that they have, generally speaking, no criminal background at all until after they have begun the use of narcotics? That in general is true. In other words, the pattern is not from crime to narcotics, but rather from narcotics to crime. That's right. Now, Doctor, just what is the problem with regard to the treatment of these adolescent addicts? What's the problem that you have down at Bellevue? What's the problem they have over at Kings County, if you know about it? And what is it that we have to do? Well, there's several problems, I think. It's important, on one hand, to understand the nature of this apparently new phenomenon of drug addiction among adolescents. And in order to do something about it, I think it's imperative that we understand what it's all about. I felt when we first began receiving cases at Bellevue, as a matter of fact, I felt a little indignant and resentful. Because the courts would send a boy into us who had been taking heroin, and they'd say, we're sending this boy in to you for, quote, cure, except they didn't have it in quotes. And we felt at that time that this was completely unrealistic, and that the court did not understand just what the nature of drug addiction, particularly as it affects adolescents, is. And then, subsequently, we found that there were many misconceptions, or we felt there were misconceptions, in the minds of other agencies, as far as this problem of drug addiction goes. Well, now, will you just tell us, doctor, in your own way, exactly what you think these misconceptions were that the courts had, and these other agencies had, and what a proper conception of the problem is? All right. We feel that the problem of drug addiction in adolescence involves a dynamic complex of determinants, including economic and social factors. We do not understand fully the significance of our findings, and we're continuing with the study in order to further clarify the problem. I don't want to go into the nature of our findings. They're very interesting to us, but they may bore the audience here. But I think a couple of things should be mentioned. First of all, the fact that these boys are non-aggressive has certain psychological implications. We feel that these are boys who tend to deal with their problems in a certain non-aggressive way. They tend to withdraw from society, isolate themselves, and not meet their problems in a forthright, aggressive way. We also found, amongst many other things, that these boys all suffered from feelings of inferiority and inadequacy. We also found one thing that we feel is significant. We've worked with adolescents now over a period of about four years. And it's been our experience working with adolescents during this period, especially with adolescents of Negro and Puerto Rican descent, that they all suffered psychologically from the discriminatory practices and attitudes directed against their racial group. They feel more keenly than other national minorities, that they live in an alien, hostile culture that considers their racial characteristics as stamps of inferiority. They suffer almost continuous injuries to their self-esteem. Many of their activities can be understood in terms of their efforts to repair or conceal their wounds. Then we found that in handling these boys on the ward, another misconception, only about 20% of these boys that we saw on the ward had even moderate withdrawal symptoms. Well, now, Doctor, let's understand that. Yeah. What you're telling us now is that of the entire group that you received, whether through court commitment or from social agencies, that the overwhelming bulk of them were not truly addicted in the medical sense of that word. They were not severely addicted. Not severely addicted. They all had some discomfort. Well, now, let's take those two groups and treat with them separately. Of those who are truly addicted or seriously addicted, you've got the same problem there, have you not, as you have with any other drug addict? I believe so, except that hasn't come into our experience. Let me clarify. In no case have we had to resort to intensive therapy of withdrawal symptoms. In no case have we been forced or have we found the indications for giving heroin in decreasing amounts. Now, what you're discussing now is what is generally called withdrawal therapy. That's right, sir. And, Doctor, for the record, would you just define that process of withdrawal therapy for us so that we all understand it? Well, in severely addicted people, particularly adults, the symptoms that they begin to suffer about 24 hours after they've been without the drug are so severe, that in the interest of medical treatment and also in the interest of helping these people, they institute, the doctors institute a medical regime whereby they gradually withdraw the amounts of heroin that are given to these people so that there's a minimum of suffering. And finally, these people are fairly comfortable without heroin. They may be given ordinary sedatives for a period of time. So, actually, you're administering a dosage of narcotics in diminishing amounts daily until you've reached the point when you've avoided any administration of narcotics at all. That's right. And in that way, you gradually withdraw them down. That's right. Doctor, is that the most humane way of undertaking a cure of acute addiction? I certainly think so. Is it less dangerous than abrupt withdrawal? Yes, not only in terms of the acute suffering of the patient, but the possibility of death. There is a possibility of death. There is a possibility of death. With abrupt withdrawal. That's right. Is that abrupt withdrawal what is sometimes referred to by addicts themselves as, quote, cold turkey, end quote? Yeah. That's what they call cold turkey. That's what they mean, being taken away from the drug abruptly. That's right. Now, you say that at Bellevue, it was not necessary to go into this gradual withdrawal therapy for these boys. That's right. It was not necessary, nor did we ever have a case of a boy who asked for heroin. We found that the symptoms that they had could be very effectively controlled by moderate doses of ordinary sedatives. Now, those who had no withdrawal symptoms at all, doctor, do you feel that Bellevue has anything at all to offer those boys? As possibly constituted. Well, no kid, none of these boys had absolutely none. However, taking into consideration the lack of adequate, really adequate facilities for handling this problem, I'd say that Bellevue Hospital served a very important service. There was a service to be obtained. That's right. What I was trying to find out, doctor, is as presently equipped and constituted, has Bellevue, the facilities, and the regime, and the personnel, to carry through a complete program of treatment, cure, and rehabilitation of adolescent drug addicts? No. I think we did a very good job under the circumstances. Doctor, I don't want it to be misunderstood. I know you did. What I'm trying to find out whether, in your own opinion, you were able to do as good a job as you think can be done. No, sir. Now, generally speaking, do you find that these youngsters are, in any way, psychoneurotic? Do they require intensive psychiatry? Well, I can only generalize in making a statement on an answer to this question. In general, I would not have called the vast majority of the boys that I examined psychoneurotic. They were what I would call personality disorders. They did not suffer from any crippling symptoms or caricatures. And under ordinary circumstances, I believe that most of these boys would have made an adequate adjustment. They would have worked out some sort of fairly satisfactory solution. These personality traits that we observed and we believe have some importance, which, when combined with certain conditions of life, predispose these boys to drug addiction, these personality traits are not easily influenced by therapy. While most of these boys have a sincere desire to be rid of the enslaving habit, there is no motivation for psychotherapy, for introspection and change. Many authorities have come to the conclusion that therapy of drug addicts is unrewarding. The relapse rates are high. Now, let me interrupt you at that point, Doctor. Have you perused the literature on the cure of drug addicts? Yes, I've done to some extent. And I stated correctly, do I not, that it is generally accepted by most physicians and psychiatrists and others in the field that drug addiction is a serious problem and that the drug addict is rarely cured. Yes, I think that's generally so, and it's agreed by practically everybody who's worked with drug addicts. But reversion with the drug addict is the rule and not the exception, isn't that so, Doctor? That's right. That's right. Now, do you feel the same way about these youngsters, that they fit into that same category? I can only speculate. However, I have a fairly firm conviction that with proper management of the problem, that the prognosis in the adolescents may be much better than with adult addicts if remedial intervention is started early. In adolescents, the character structure is not completely set. Certain morbid psychic processes are more readily reversible, and the adolescent is more readily influenced by corrective experiences. We feel, therefore, that under favorable circumstances and with time, most of the adolescents could be saved from true addiction. The histories of adult addicts reveal that a large proportion of them started a narcotic habit during the middle or late adolescent period. Many of these people, who are now apparently hopelessly addicted and derelict, could have been helped had they received proper attention soon after the onset of their addiction. Doctor, in other words, do I crystallize your own thinking when I say that you honestly believe that we can save these kids now? We may not be able to save them if they continue to go along on the road of addiction. I honestly believe that. And you feel that in the problem, as you now find it reflected in the cases at Bellevue, that you have in the main no serious psychoneurotic problems to deal with in these youngsters. They have not reached the point of developing or evidencing acute withdrawal symptoms or other emotional instabilities. Do I state that correctly in summary, Doctor? Yes, in essence it's correct. I'd just like to elaborate one point. When I say that these boys are not typical psychoneurotics, in that they don't suffer from any crippling symptoms, I don't mean that these boys do not have problems and perhaps very deep and important psychic problems that require handling. However, there are two things to consider. One, the fact that it's extremely difficult to work with these boys psychiatrically, and two, that there just aren't the facilities to do it at this time, even if it were possible. And, Doctor, you feel, however, that the facilities now existing at Bellevue and Kings County are inadequate for a full program of therapy and rehabilitation. Absolutely. But you do feel that there's every reason to develop such a program because if we can develop it, these kids can be saved. I believe that. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you, Doctor. Harry, we'll now recess until 3.15. We remind you once again that you are listening to the hearings on the second phase of the New York State Narcotics Investigation from the State Office Building in downtown Manhattan. We pause ten seconds now for station identification. This is WNYC, the voice of New York City. During this intermission, we might bring you a brief resume of what has passed before, and perhaps, perhaps, we may be fortunate enough to interview the State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein, himself. Before we start, however, here is a brief federal note on narcotics. As one of the last of its actions before adjourning yesterday, the Senate completed the congressional call for tougher sentences and denials of clemency for repeat offenders against the narcotics law. The measure grew out of the Senate's investigation into interstate crime, during which it was shown that the drug habit had taken hold on an alarming number of the country's teenagers and those in early manhood. The new bill, which was sent to the White House for approval, calls for imprisonment from two to five years and fines up to $2,000 for first offenders, five to ten years for second offenses, and from ten to twenty years for subsequent offenses. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the State Attorney General, the Honorable Nathaniel Goldstein, and perhaps we can get a little better insight into these narcotics hearings from the Attorney General himself. How do you do, sir? Thank you, sir. If I may, I should like to summarize what has happened during the afternoon. In my first hearing last June, I made the statement that narcotics lead to crime rather than crime and narcotics. I think today we've had some evidence. We've taken some of our New York City police figures, and we've shown that there has been an increase in the incident of narcotic drug selling, and also on those picked up who are drug users. The same holds good for the New York State correctional and penal institutions and for all the other penal facilities. We've also played two recordings, one of a youngster going to Lexington, Kentucky, and the other coming back from Kentucky, and they both tell the same stories about drug addiction. Drug addiction is a very serious health menace. These youngsters are really sick and not criminals. Unless we check this addiction, we are bound to obtain a serious situation in our youth. For in order to obtain the drug, these youngsters will turn into crime, and they have turned into crime. And I should like, if I may, to go through a few of the figures. Let's take, for example, Sing Sing prison. I think we have shown that in Sing Sing prison, for the eight months of 1951, out of a population of 912, there are 201 who either are there for drug selling or are using drugs. Which means about 22% are either using drugs or selling drugs. Now, if we go to the Elmira Reception Center, upstate, which is the reception center where all those under 21 are incarcerated, there we show a fully 20% usage. As we go on to Westfield Farms, which is the state prison for women, we show this amazing, alarming figure. For the first eight months of 1951, there were 181 women incarcerated. Of that number, 75 were either there for direct narcotic drug violation or were the users of drugs. Out of the 75, 40 are under 21 years of age. Now, the entire population, 41% are there for drug use or for selling drugs. Now, this is a very serious situation because compared with prior years, we've jumped some 300 to 400% in many instances. Again, I say, this is very alarming and the answer must rest with the state, the federal and local authorities. We have recessed for another five minutes and I shall now return to the hearing very shortly. Thank you ever so much. That was the State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein. In the interim, before we return once again to the hearings, we'd like to summarize for you, if we may, exactly what went on here. First, the Attorney General identified those on the platform with him, Mr. Sidney Tartikoff, the Assistant Attorney General, who did most of the questioning, and then Mr. Ben Gimm. Mr. Goldstein then read his prepared statement and if we may, we'd like to quote directly from it. He said that the first order of business was to ascertain the existing conditions and that this was done so in New York City last June at the initial hearings. Since then, the staff of the Attorney General has been engaged in finding the solution. Here a direct quote, Today we shall treat with the problem of rehabilitation of the attic which falls into four groups. A, the teenage attic. B, the male prisoner attic. C, the female prisoner attic. Lastly, the confirmed attic. Then detailed the increased action by many governmental, local, and private agencies. Finally, he said, We intend to show how this disease can attack persons on all levels of society. We'll hear the stories of the struggle of some of these addicts. We'll hear the testimony of eminent authorities in the field. And of course, you just heard from Dr. Zimmering, a noted psychiatrist who is a senior psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital. Mr. Goldstein went on, It is my sincere hope that out of these hearings will come the basis for the effect of treatment and rehabilitation of the addict and his ultimate restoration as a useful member of society. The first witness called was Deputy Attorney General Ben Gimm. He was questioned by Mr. Sidney Tartikoff. Ben Gimm first testified that he was on staff since the inception of these narcotics hearings by the New York State Attorney General's office. He reviewed the arrests of New York City Police Department and Narcotics Department at the hearings in June, which showed a rising trend in both the teenage and adult narcotics users. Ben spoke of the charge in private sanatoriums of $30 daily and the fact that people were kept from two to three weeks. The course of treatment only covered physical withdrawal of the drug, Mr. Gimm claimed. A survey was made by the State Attorney General's office of one private sanatorium. There were 423 persons there and also tape recordings of various teenagers who were addicted to heroin were made and a few of those were played. Some of the results, of course, were mighty shocking. The first one was told by a 20-year-old girl on the eve of her admission into the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky as a voluntary patient. Her history of addiction dates back to 1949, one year after she had left Julia Richmond High School because of pregnancy. It seemed that a man at a party offered her a marijuana cigarette. She continued using marijuana for about four months and then started taking a combination of cocaine and heroin known as a speedball by hypodermic injection. Marijuana, it seemed, had failed to continue to give her the desired kick. Cocaine and heroin were provided by a so-called boyfriend who sold drugs. In return for her own supply, she did various favors for him and also sold drugs. This girl was arrested in New Jersey in a charge of drug addiction and given a three-month sentence followed by probation and in prison she was forced to break her habit by the means of cold turkey, that is, complete withdrawal with all its resulting pain and suffering. She was released from prison in April of 51 and immediately began using heroin again, this time purchasing it herself, but with money supplied by a friend. This friend has a legitimate job, is interested in marriage and unaware of the girl's addiction. Because she realizes that addiction is ruining her health and that she's still young and wants a happy life with a young man and because of her child, who is now with the girl's mother, she decided to enter Lexington and was determined to become cured. The next tape recording we heard was a story told by a boy, 18, shortly after his release from the self-same United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. He first started using narcotics while on vacation from a high school in the Bronx. He began using marijuana when 14 because, and here we quote, he felt like having something special that night. He eventually began using heroin and one of the tricks described was not very savory. He spoke of beating a fellow junkie, that is, someone else who was on drugs, beating a fellow junkie for his money. And here we'd like to quote directly. He is speaking to Mr. Gim who did the, the tape recording narrating. He says, well, if I've never seen him before, but one junkie can tell another and you go over to him and ask him if he wanted anything and he'd say yeah and you tell him to wait for you on the corner because it was hot. In other words, the cops were around and to give you the money and you'd go get it for him. And if he did that, well, you'd go with his money. Then Mr. Gim came in and said, you take his money but you'd never return and the young man agreed. Last March 9th, this fellow was arrested for possession of narcotics and ordered to Lexington for treatment. He described the course of treatment of the inmate. He found many other teenagers there, he said, including his younger brother, 16, who was a voluntary patient. He believed that he and the other teenagers should not have been thrown in with older addicts at Lexington because this intermingling taught him more about drug addiction and how to get the various drugs. He spoke of making a doctor. He received drugs from various doctors by deceiving them, by saying he had some sort of pain or something or something wrong with him, and in that way learned to take morphine and spoke of so-called conning a doctor out of a prescription, although it did take him sometimes two or three doctors before he did get the drug wanted. He also brought out another fact about Lexington, Kentucky, the U.S. Public Health Service hospital there. There, um, he said he liked the convalescent occupational therapy program and thought it was well carried out. He also brought out that there were no instructions concerning narcotics in his hygiene class at Samuel Gompers or any other school. This fellow says he is determined now to stay away from drugs in an attempt to reconstruct his life. The second witness of this afternoon session was Dr. Paul Zimmering. He was called to the stand next by the Attorney General. While an Army Captain, Dr. Zimmering, became a psychiatrist. Leaving the Army, he became a psychiatrist at Bellevue, where, eventually, he became, in 1948, a senior psychiatrist and was placed in charge of the male adolescent ward. Last December, he said, Bellevue began receiving boys who were addicts for treatment. Between 1940 and 1948, Dr. Zimmerman claimed, there were no adolescents admitted for drug treatment, according to the records there. In 1950, there were six. In 1951, before the first six months anyway, there were 56 boys and 19 girls between the age of 14 and 20 admitted to Bellevue for treatment. Teenagers were brought in by courts, social agencies, and parents. At the outset, cases came almost exclusively from Harlem, the doctor said, and this has changed recently. Addiction, according to the Bellevue records anyway, has spread to the Bronx, Queens, and Brooklyn. Dr. Zimmerman says that they found out that large groups of addicts, sometimes as many as 125, of various ethnic groups were prevalent, particularly, he said, in the southern part of the Bronx. This was the pattern of addiction, according to Dr. Zimmerman's interrogation by himself and other members of the staff. Most teenagers seemed to experiment with drugs out of a sense of curiosity. There was also a striving for status, perhaps new thrills, a rebellion against authority, a hunger for love, a sense of deprivation, and the general pattern seemed to be marijuana first, then heroin sniffing, so-called skin popping, and finally mainlining or injecting the drug by hypodermic needle directly into a vein in the arm. This pattern was generally followed by the average teenager interviewed. Dr. Zimmerman also found children, after being addicted and not being able to secure the drug, were in dire fear fear of not being able to do this, and so went into all sorts of depressions because of it. Dr. Paul Zimmerman described the withdrawal symptoms, here choosing his words very carefully, of drug users. In mild cases, he said that restlessness, depression, fatigue, and apathy were present. In the more severe drug user cases, there was sweating, tearing, cramps, extreme restlessness, and uneasiness, convulsions, and very rarely, death itself. Dr. Zimmerman pointed out that those addicted youth would turn to crime and do anything, almost anything anyway, to secure the drug. Most of the young men he met were not antisocial. They weren't hoodlums or gangsters. And to quote him directly, he said they were nice kids as a group. They weren't hostile, and they weren't destructive either. The bad personality element, he said, comes into play only after using the drug and then needing it very badly again. He claimed that most of these youngsters had good judgment and have intelligence about the general range. Most know the dangers, but try to resist it, and they cling to home and parent, and a vestige of home. He also said that very few boys had court records prior to addiction. In general, it was narcotics to crime. The pattern followed, and also, that fact, I believe, was mentioned by the state attorney general in his brief summary a few moments ago. As for the problems of treatment of adolescent addicts, well, he said first to understand the nature of a drug addict was very important, claiming that the court or other various agencies did not understand the problem of drug addiction. They had various misconceptions. There were also economic and social factors involved. These he did not go into, though he did admit that the staff of Bellevue Hospital who were working on these youngsters who were addicted to drugs did not fully comprehend the findings themselves. Dr. Zemmering found also that these boys were mostly non-aggressive types. They withdraw, they isolate themselves. He said, too, that all the boys who were taking these drugs or drug users were suffering from feelings of inferiority and inadequacy, claiming, and here we quote, that Negro and Puerto Rican boys feel keenly that they suffer discriminatory practices on the part of society. Most boys, Dr. Zemmering found, were not severely addicted. Bellevue has never had to give heroin in gradual and smaller and smaller amounts or use what is known as withdrawal therapy and, as a matter of fact, the boys did not ask for it. He could use sedatives and go about his business in the same way of getting these boys away from drugs. He described also the so-called abrupt withdrawal or cold turkey as it is known to the dope user, which brought a maximum of suffering and might even result in death. Dr. Zemmering claimed also that as equipped and constituted at present, Bellevue does not have the adequate facilities or personnel to carry on a complete rehabilitative therapy program. Mr. Tartikoff, who was doing most of the questioning, asked, are most of the boys who were brought in on drug charges and are for curing psychoneurotic? The answer by the doctor, psychiatrist, Zemmering, was generally no. These boys had personality disorders. They, the boys, could have worked out an adjustment in ordinary circumstances. though he agreed that addiction is rarely cured, Dr. Zemmering felt that the habit could be cured in most of these adolescents, adolescents rather, that they could be saved from drug addiction with time and favorable conditions if the habit was caught soon after starting on drugs. Notice now that many of the gentlemen are coming back, gentlemen of the press as well as the various members of the State Attorney General's staff. Mr. Tartikoff is back at the present time. We are standing right now. We were sitting before. We're standing or rather leaning over and we notice that most of the people who were here earlier have left. They haven't arrived back yet. The motion picture cameras are standing as silent sentinels since nothing is happening at the present moment and we might go into our description of this room which we had planned to do earlier but because the hearings were getting underway we didn't. Your announcer is located with his engineer at a small table to the left of a 15 foot long raised table where the Attorney General and his assistants sit. This table is at the front of the hearing room. We are in hearing room number two which connects directly into hearing room number one. In hearing room number two is located the press, the radio and various newsreel cameras. In hearing room number one the members of the public. Directly in front of this table at which the Attorney General and the staff sit is a slightly raised platform on which is the witness's chair. To the left of that looking into the room are two gentlemen who work the very complicated stenotype machines. At the end of the Attorney General's table that is the end opposite us sits the gentleman with the tape recording equipment and he's sitting there right now we understand we are going to have some more tape recordings possibly another medical doctor in this second half of these second hearings by the New York State Narcotics Investigating Board. Looking into hearing room number one we can see two more long tables rather that's number two at which are seated the various members of the press local and national and on the left side of the room as we look into it are four newsreel cameras behind which were standing the silently efficient operators. These cameras are mounted on a table and the newsreel sound engineers stand on the floor level watching and adjusting their various dials and knobs. On the newsreel cameras around you undoubtedly can hear their war and also some lights are turned on some rather bright lights and we can feel them on our eyes. During these hearings last June they were very very uncomfortable but since the temperature seems to be around 60 right now we don't mind too much when the lights are turned on. These combined hearing rooms numbers one and two are about 100 feet in length and about 10 feet wide. At the head of the room is the United States flag to the left of that flag is I believe the flag of the state of New York to the right of it is the flag of the city of New York and directly in the rear of the room there is also a flag and over hearing room number two is a clock which says at present the time is 3.20 and we think that we'll pause once again before recommencing for station identification. This is WNYC New York City's own station. Thank you. Thank you. Now the Attorney General has come back once again and I believe very shortly we'll start again. There's the gavel. Very advanced convening. Mr. Tarnikoff. Mr. Attorney General you have already heard earlier this afternoon the tape recordings of two young people one of whom was a youngster who was on the eve of departure to Lexington and one was a youngster who had just returned from Lexington. Now in addition to those which you have already heard I should like to advise you that we had interviewed many adults who had been hospitalized for drug addiction in the facilities maintained by the United States Public Health Service both at Lexington and at Fort Worth in Texas. And at this time I should like to have you listen to the interrogation which was conducted by me of a 37 year old woman. She tells a story concerning herself. She is now a happily married housewife and mother. Her history of addiction began at the age of 16 and when out of curiosity aroused on a date she first smoked opium. Later having become fully addicted she started using heroin. purchasing it from peddlers on the streets. She earned the money she needed for the drugs by being a prostitute. During her 20s she made four or five attempts to get cured at private sanitariums each time being discharged and pronounced cured but immediately thereafter reverted to use of drugs. The use of drugs continued until she was about 34 years of age. she was arrested 33 times for prostitution vagrancy and other violations and served jail sentences ranging from a few days to several months. On two occasions upon sentence of the court she was sent to the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. In addition she went voluntarily on three separate occasions. The methods of treatment were substantially the same on each occasion. A reduction withdrawal period of about seven days after which she was given a job as a cook at Lexington. When she was a volunteer patient she only once remained for the entire period recommended by the authorities. She states that from her observations most of the inmates have no sincere desire or wish to be cured but rather await the day of release so that they may return to their use of drugs. On the next to the last visit as a volunteer she was already pregnant with the child of her marriage and she left Lexington to go home and have her child. After the child was born she returned voluntarily to complete the cure and remained the full five months being subsequently discharged as medically cured within the meaning of the law. She attributes her present cure to her marriage her child and an overwhelming determination to lead a normal happy life with her family. I should like at this time Mr. Attorney General to have this tape recording made a part of the record. You may proceed. I should like to tell you that I am an Assistant Attorney General attached to the staff of Nathaniel L. Goldstein who is the Attorney General of the State of New York. I've asked you to come in to see me today so that I could discuss with you some part of the history of your past addiction to narcotic drugs. We know that you have had a drug habit or had a drug habit for many years and that today you have been rehabilitated and cured and I stated correctly do I not that at the present time you're married and you have a child and you don't as a matter of fact live in the city of New York no I don't but you've come here at my request and how old are you? 37 years old and now that you have acquired a husband and a child and by reason of treatment that you've had it is the fact is it not that you have completely overcome the drug habit and that you are no longer a slave to the use of drugs? I have overcome the drug habit. Now how old were you when you first commenced the use of drugs? 16 years old. And at the time that you first used drugs did you live in the city of New York? No I didn't. Did you live anywhere in the state of New York? No not New York State. You lived somewhere in New England is that right? Yes Boston. And how were you introduced to the use of drugs when you were 16? By meeting some fellow and going to smoke opium out of curiosity. And were you attending school at the time that you first used drugs? No I was working in Boston as a waitress I had finished high school. And you started by smoking opium. That's correct. And eventually did you develop a habit out of smoking opium? Yes I did. And how old were you when you first realized that you were actually addicted to the use of opium? Between the age of 17 and 18. And when for the first time did you attempt to rid yourself of the habit by undergoing treatment? Well when I was about 23 or 24 I had a doctor take care of me and a nurse in my own apartment. And did they succeed at all in getting you off the drug? No. I take it that you continued to use narcotics in the form of opium. I used opium and a year from then I started using heroin, pure heroin. And the drugs which you obtained during this time, were they drugs which were obtained illegally? Illegally. You bought them from peddlers on the street? That's correct. And how were you able to obtain the money and the wherewithal to supply yourself with these drugs? By being a prostitute. Now, how many times during the period when you were in your 20s did you attempt to get yourself cured of the drug habit? About three or four times. And did you make these efforts to be cured by going into hospitals and sanitariums and institutions? Sanitariums. And did you stay in these places as long as you were required by the medical authorities to stay? I stayed in the sanitarium for two months and I was pronounced cured. And when you went out, did you immediately go back to drugs? I went back to drugs immediately. And how many times did that happen, that you went into a sanitarium, you were pronounced cured, you went out and you immediately reverted to using drugs? Four or five times. Now as you look back at it now, can you tell me why in your own mind it was that you immediately reverted to the taking of drugs? drugs? Because I hadn't made up my mind definitely that I wanted to stay off the drugs. So that although the drug was actually out of your system and you had no withdrawal system or discomfort, mentally you had never reached the point where you yourself had determined that you were rid of the drugs and wanted to stay away from the drugs. That's correct. Now, you continued, did you not, to use drugs until you were about 34 or 35 years of age. That's about two years or so ago. It'll be three years. About three years ago. Now in addition to the private sanitariums that you were at, did there come a time when you found yourself in conflict with the law? Yes, several times. And how many times would you estimate that you were arrested on charges of prostitution, vagalency, and other violations of the law? About 33 times. And were you sentenced to go to jail on some of those occasions? Yes, on quite a few occasions. And I take it that those jail sentences ranged from periods of days to months? That's correct. And despite that, and despite the fact that while you were in the jails, you didn't have drugs, the fact is, is it not that as soon as you got out of prison, you were out on the street, you immediately went back to taking drugs? I immediately went back to using drugs again. And will you tell me why it was, again, that you returned to the use of drugs even though it was out of your system after being in jail for extended periods of time? I still hadn't made up my mind to stay off of drugs. Now, included in the places to which you were confined, is it not the fact that you were sent to the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky on several occasions? Yes. How many times in all did you go to Lexington, Kentucky as a patient at the hospital? Four or five times. Now, of the four or five times that you went there, how many times did you go there of your own choice, and how many times were you ordered to go there on the sentence of the court? I went there my own choice, two or three times. And the remaining times you went there because you were compelled to go there as a matter of the judgment of the court? That's correct. Now, was the method of treatment at Lexington during the four or five times that you went there always substantially the same? Yes, it was. And will you briefly outline to us just what the method of treatment was that was administered to you at Lexington on the occasions when you went there, both as a prisoner patient and as a volunteer patient? The treatment is the same as a prisoner and a volunteer patient. You get the same treatment. It's a reduction cure. It takes from seven to ten days. And then what happens after you're withdrawn from the drug? After you're withdrawn from the drug, you're giving some kind of a job and then you work the rest of the time. Well, what kind of a job did you usually get at Lexington? Cook. You worked in the kitchen as a cook? That's correct. And did you, on each occasion when you went down as a volunteer, stay the full length of time that the authorities at Lexington wanted you to stay? No, I didn't. In other words, when you were a volunteer, you checked out whenever you felt that you wanted to get out? That's correct. And how short were some of your stays as a volunteer? One was 48 hours. Another time was 12 days. And another time was 10 days. Now, as a matter of fact, on the next to the last occasion when you were there, you had already been married and you were pregnant with the child which is now yours? That's right. And you checked out then, did you not, so that you could come home and have your baby? That's right. And after your baby was born to you, you decided yourself, did you not, to go back and finish the cure? Yes, I did. And the last time you went back, which was about three years ago, you stayed a full six-month period? I stayed five months. Five months. And when you left the last time, you were discharged as medically cured within the meaning of the law? That's correct. Now, on some of the earlier occasions when you were there, you had also received a certificate of discharge as cured when you were there as a prisoner patient? That's correct. And yet you weren't in fact cured in the sense that you immediately went back to the drug? I wasn't cured. Well now, why weren't you cured even though you received a certificate that you were discharged as cured? I still had not made up my mind. You mean your interest was still in obtaining drugs? That's correct. Well now, you had the opportunity while you were at Lexington on these several occasions to meet and talk with others who were there both as voluntary patients and as prisoner patients. Did you, while you were there, gather any impression as to the attitude of the others who were there? Yes. The others have about the same attitude as I had. Some have made up their mind they want to stay cured and some others just haven't made up their mind. Well, what proportion or percentage would you say, particularly amongst the prisoner patients, are there who sincerely want to get well? A very small percentage. And how about the voluntary patients? How many of them do you think are there who sincerely want to get well? Also a small percentage. Now, do you think that with regard to those who sincerely want to get well, do you think that the facility at Lexington gives them every opportunity to get well? Yes, it does. I take it, then, that you feel that until the patient has determined for himself or herself that they really want to be cured, that the facility at Lexington can't really cure you if you're not willing to be cured? That's correct. What's the nature of the interest of these patients who are at Lexington insofar as drugs are concerned? Well, their interest is they don't seem interested in anything else but drugs. That's the main topic. You mean it's the main topic of conversation amongst the several inmates? That's right. And did you yourself engage in conversations about drugs on the earlier occasions when you were there? That's right. And did you learn anything from those conversations? Some things, yes. Well, did you learn anything that was good? No. Well, what is it that you learned? Well, I learned how to go to a doctor the minute I got out, just about an hour away from Lexington. Were you informed there by other inmates as to where you could get drugs when you got out and how to make a contact and score as that word is used amongst drug addicts? Yes. And did you avail yourself of the information on several of these occasions to get drugs as soon as you got out of Lexington? Yes. Now, on the earlier occasions when you got out of Lexington, did you return then to New York City? Yes. And what did you do when you came back to New York after you were supposedly cured? What did you do for a living? The same thing I had done. And what was that? Prostitution. And in working in that field, did you find yourself back with the same associates who were using drugs and the same contacts who were supplying drugs? Yes. And the last time you got out, and that was after you were married and after you had a baby, did you go back to that same environment? No, I did not. As a matter of fact, you went to live in a different state, didn't you? That's correct. And at the present time, you maintain a normal household and you live a normal family life? That's correct. Would I be stating it fairly that that is one of the chief reasons why you returned to Lexington the last time with that determination which you say you had to get well and to stay well? That's correct. And if you were planning a facility for the treatment and cure and care of drug addicts, have you any ideas at all of what you think ought to be done or what you think such a facility, how it ought to be run or operated so as to make it possible to cure and rehabilitate addicts? Well, I think that would be up to the person. They should have somebody to talk to them, possibly a doctor, some psychiatrist. Maybe he could find out if they really want to be cured. There's a possibility. Do you think that if a psychiatrist would talk to some of these people and find out what it was that was disturbing them and driving them the drugs, that it might help them? It may be, but also psychiatrists could find out if they definitely were sincere about wanting to get off. Well, would you take those who were sincere in wanting to get off and separate them from those who weren't really interested in getting well? You wouldn't have to. If a person's mind is made up, it doesn't make any difference who's around or what the conversation may be. If your mind is thoroughly made up to be offered drugs, it doesn't interest you when they talk about it. You were there the last time and you heard the same conversations that you heard in your earlier visits, but the last time you weren't interested, were you? I wasn't interested. I made no comments. I had nothing to say on it. I listened, but I had no comments to make. And that was because you went there and you knew at the time you admitted yourself that you weren't there for any other purpose than to get well and stay well. That's correct. So, summing it up, you feel then that it's the individual and the individual's determination, which is the prime factor in whether or not he or she is going to get well. That's right. Lexington has the facility which could make it possible for a person to get well if that person really wants to get well. That's right. That's the way you feel about it. That's the way I feel about it. Well, I want to thank you very much for coming in and giving us the benefit of your views and your opinions. I should like, Mr. Attorney General, at this time to call Dr. Marie Niswander. Dr. Niswander. Thank you. Thank you, my man. Stand up, please. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Niswander. Would you please give your full name and address for the synagogical? I'm Dr. Niswander. And Dr. Niswander, would you permit me to assist by spelling your last name? Is it N-Y-S-W-A-N-D-E-R? That's right. Niswander. Dr. Niswander, you're a graduate. Are you not of the Cornell Medical School? Mm-hmm. And after your graduation from medical school, where did you intern? At Meadowbrook Hospital. That's in Hempstead, Long Island. And Meadowbrook Hospital is a county hospital operated in Nassau County? Yes. Mm-hmm. Now, after you had completed your... I'll read your voice up, doctor. Sure. After you had completed your internship training at Meadowbrook Hospital, did you thereafter enter the public health service of the United States? Yes. When was it that you first enlisted in the public health service? I believe it was 46. And were you assigned as a doctor at the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky? Yes, that's where I was assigned to go. And how long did you spend at Lexington, Kentucky in your role as a doctor in the United States Public Health Service? One year. And do I state it correctly, Dr. Niswander, that during that one-year period you were in charge of the women's facility at the public health service hospital at Lexington? Yes, I think it's called the women's division. It was a building, a separate building for just women. And, doctor, this hospital at Lexington, Kentucky, operated as it is by the United States Public Health Service, is a hospital designed for the care and treatment of drug addicts? Yes, yes, it's true. Now, were you working at that institution as a psychiatrist? Yes, both psychiatrist and yet also had to do the medical treatment as well as the surgical treatment too. It was, you did everything. I'm sorry. During the year that you spent in charge of this women's division at Lexington, Kentucky, can you tell me possibly how many female patients they had who were there undergoing treatment? What was the census? I would say about 120 patients were there at all times. Now, a lot came in and went out. In other words, the average daily census was 120? I think so, as I recall. Now, you left Lexington, the facility at Lexington, Kentucky, in what year, please? 47. And did you then come back to New York? Yes, yes. I went to Bellevue. And what did you do at Bellevue Hospital? I was in charge of the disturbed women's ward for two years. And that also was an assignment in psychiatry? Yes, that was straight psychiatry. And that was during what two years? Or during what period? 47 to 49. Now, after you had terminated or completed your analytical training, did you then go in to practice as a psychiatrist? And are you presently practicing psychiatry in this state? Mm-hmm. That's correct. That's correct. Doctor, without asking you to disclose specifically what your connection is, do I state it correctly that you're presently working in one of the leading psychiatric clinics in this city? Yes. You're a member, are you not, of some of the psychiatric societies and associations? Mm-hmm. The American Psychiatric, the New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry, quite a few others. Doctor, I neglected to ask you this earlier, but you are, are you not, a physician-duty license to practice in the state of New York? Yes. Now, doctor, I'm not sure going back to the time when you were serving at the facility at Lexington, Kentucky, and ever since then, do I state it correctly that you have had and you still continue to have an interest in the problems of the treatment and cure of narcotic drug addicts? Yes, I think one can't help but if you've worked with it to be interested in it. From your own observations as a doctor and a tenant at Lexington, Kentucky, how would you divide narcotic drug addicts? Would you say that they fall in more than one class? Well, yes, it depends on how you're going to divide it in terms of prognosis. Of course, there are those that one feels will have a better prognosis than those which have had one relapse after another. Well, with regard to the desire to be well or the desire to be cured, would you say that there are two classes of addicts? Those who sincerely want to get well and those who are not sincerely interested in being well? Yes, yes, I would think that's probably true. Well, just what is it that motivates these people who really don't want to be well? I think probably habit is one of the biggest problems. It's their whole way of life. You see, it's not just drug addiction per se, the drug, but the whole way of life that goes into obtaining the drugs, their friends who are drug addicts. They take the easiest pattern and I think something like this accounts for the high recidivism. Is that answering your question? Yes, it is. You just mentioned the high rate of recidivism and that may be a little bit of a technical term, doctor. You're referring, are you not, to the high rate of relapsing the tendency of these people to revert again and again to the taking of narcotic drugs? Yes, we'd see that at Lexington where patients file the record of a patient. When they come in, they would have, well, if they hadn't been to Lexington ten times before, they had been in some local place and over and over and over again. Actually, doctor, of the people who come to Lexington, from your own observations when you were there, a great number of them had been there on more than one occasion. Oh, my, yes. There were those that were what we call the first offenders. Then there were the voluntary patients, which we didn't know whether they had records because it was all very secret. But those that we did have records, the recidivism was tremendous. It almost looked as if they spent more time in jail than they did on drugs. And, doctor, even though these people would be serving sentences in jail for prolonged periods of time under circumstances where they couldn't get the drug with which to satisfy their habit, the fact is that their history would reflect that as soon as they were back out on the street again, they'd be back on drugs. Unfortunately, that's true. Despite all the therapy that was administered at Lexington? Yes, yes. Doctor, have you any ideas of your own as to what Lexington's own statistics are with relation to the percentage of good results they have, how many, what percentage of people they claim to be able to cure? No, I don't. I'm sure they've put some out. It's a very difficult thing to get statistics on, so I don't know how accurate anybody's are, but I... But what is your own estimate or your own approximation? I would just say 15%, and that may be a very generous, very generous indeed. You see, one of the things is you don't see the ones who've been cured, they don't come back, but when one gets a kind of feeling for it, I would say 15%. Now, I don't know how that stocks up with official figures or... Well, I have seen some figures issued recently in which the figure was given at closer to 25% whom Lexington claimed had been cured. Do you think that would be a very generous estimate? I would think that's very generous. In other words, even by Lexington's own statistics, 75% of the people who go to Lexington revert to the taking of drugs after they've gone through the full hospitalization. May I say, I wonder if that 25% wasn't taken during the war. I don't know, but during the war there was a decrease, I believe, in the use of drugs. Well, doctor, in your own way, and bearing in mind that we sitting here are not doctors, in your own way, would you, in layman's language, tell us why it is that this problem seems so disturbed, why the prognosis, as you physicians use that term, is so poor? Well, I think I mentioned a little of it before. I think you have a three-fold problem. One, the drug addicts' own estimation of themselves, in which they've lost their self-respect. They have sunk to levels of behavior in regards to society, and they no longer are ashamed, they're no longer afraid of authority, in which they're, in their own personal philosophy, they've subserved all values to getting drugs. Then I think you have their way of life, as I said, this habit, and this way of life, it's a cultural milieu of their own terminology, their own humor, their own meeting places, and then you have the third thing, the physiological action, what they call a yin, which is a tremendous desire for drugs, which comes over them, and they get it when they've been off drugs for years. I don't know what the analogy is, I suppose it would be like a cigarette, you know, you want a cigarette, well I suppose if you multiplied that by 10,000 or something, you would have what they call by a yin, which is an overwhelming desire for the drug, and at these times then, all their good resolve usually breaks down, and that's when they need help, that's when they need custodial care to overcome that period, so I think you'd have about, I think those three factors account for this, the difficulty in the prognosis. So that, bearing in mind the difficulties that you find, because of the factors that you have so definitely enumerated, is it your opinion that the best estimates of the effectiveness of cure are not particularly encouraging? Unfortunately, I don't like to admit to it, because you know, we always feel that we always have to look on the side that one must and can, somewhere there is a cure, and, but up to now, with the, what we know so far, or what's been done so far, it's a difficult problem, very. Well, so that we understand this a little more clearly, doctor, this isn't some disease that responds to an antibiotic or penicillin. No, I wish it were. This isn't a disease which you can treat with some specific remedy. Not that we know of now. what are the underlying factors which make for drug addiction, or make one addiction prone, if there is such a thing? Well, I guess we have to start off with every illness which has its ramifications in behavior, because this is a form of behavior, and we must say that it has an emotional basis. emotional problems that make people attracted to one thing or one form of behavior is against another. Is it, are you now referring to what I would call a basic emotional instability? Yeah, but then one has to add more, because one can say, well, most people or most adolescents go through trying periods. Why does one person become a drug addict and another not? Then I think you have environment. environment in which perhaps you have a, well, not perhaps, we know in many cases you have an adolescent who's disturbed, who doesn't respect the authority of their family, and they're in an environment where drugs are the thing, stimulated perhaps by either other companions, behind them, peddlers perhaps. In other words, the availability of drugs is a very important factor. Of course, there'd be no drug addiction if there weren't. Well, Dr. Niswander, fortunately for the well-being of the people in our community, there are always available a certain amount of legitimate medical supplies of narcotics. Isn't that so? That you've got to have as a practicing physician. And you recognize the need for legitimate medical narcotics? Oh, yes, yes. I would qualify that. On the whole, I think in good medicine, I'm saying generally speaking, there's not much occasion to give narcotics outside of a hospital. Generally speaking, that on the whole, good medicine would preclude giving narcotics to a practice in an office. Narcotics per se is not a cure for any malady that you know of. No. Now, Doctor, you were referring before to those who are not particularly interested in getting well. Now, you recognize, do you not, that there are adults, even some who may be addicts of some long-standing who nevertheless are sincerely anxious to be well? Yes, yes, I think so. I've seen that amongst patients at Lexington who certainly feel that way. Well, now, is the fact of self-determination of the desire to be well, is that a factor in improving the prognosis? Oh, yes, of course. In other words, Doctor, there is a big difference, is there not, between the patient who wants to get well and the patient who's indifferent? Oh, I should say, almost, almost, I say, would spell the difference between a good prognosis and a bad one. Well, what do you think, Doctor, of a system which intermingles those who want to get well and those who aren't particularly eager to get well? Oh, I feel very strongly about that point. I think that there's no question that there should be segregation. It's going to be a difficult thing to carry out if it ever gets instituted anywhere, but certainly it should be done. This is just common sense. And do you also have any ideas, Doctor, with regard to segregation between teenagers who haven't developed very much of a true addiction and adults who have a serious addiction? Yes, yes, certainly there should be a segregation on the basis, if of nothing else, the time used, because not only because of the drug, but of those other points I mentioned, that the time factor involves this deterioration of values and this formation of habits in a way of life, you see, so that if by virtue of nothing else, the adolescent who is younger has not got these things so firmly established. Well, now, from your own experience down at Lexington, the fact is, is it not that by reason of factors not completely under the control of the authorities at Lexington, that there is no segregation? That was true when I was there. There was no segregation. I understand they've tried. To what extent, I don't know. I've understand, but I do know that they felt the need for it. But as you said, it was something that was beyond their control on the whole. So that if we are to assume that they have not yet arrived at the point where they have been able to segregate the prognoses, generally speaking, of all the patients at Lexington would be somewhat defeated by reason of the intermingling of your patients with good prognoses and your patients with poor prognoses. Is that so? Yes, sir. Now, even assuming that there are those who don't want to get well, do you think that the government, the state, can safely allow these people to remain at large? Even if they have no desire to be well? Puts me in a difficult role, sort of shifting over to the custodial side. I think that by safety, I think the major thing that letting drug addicts wander around the community, their major harm would be in terms of beginning people, starting people on drugs. That would be one danger. And the other would be that they create this need for, and I think you'd know better than I, but it would create the need, it seems to me, for the peddler to just be a circle. They go around and around. Doctor, don't we go beyond that? We've been talking about the human side of the drug addict. We have forgotten for the moment society. Now, isn't a drug addict a potential crime carrier? Yes. In terms of crimes, the crimes, to the best of my knowledge, are mainly petty. They, I don't know what the technical word is, they women prostitute, the men, pimp I think is the word, and they do some, I've seen on the records, drunk roll and roll a drunk, but on the whole, they're not much more serious than that, but they are indeed serious in that sense. Well, then your testimony doesn't agree with the actual records. So I think if you check the records, you'll find that in very many cases, they turn to a major crime rather than minor crimes. This, I didn't know. I could believe it, but I didn't, I didn't, I didn't know that. So therefore, it's just essential to protect the public as is the drug addict himself. In other words, my point is that we have a two-pronged thing to solve. Number one, we must protect society against the addict carrier, against the addict, who may be a crime carrier, and two, we must cure the addict. Yeah, yeah. Dr. Niswander, isn't it the fact that addiction itself is contagious in the sense that the addict makes more addicts? Yes, this isn't true of all addicts, but certainly it's true of a great, great number of them. And not only that, what I think one of their, their biggest crimes is that they re-addict the addict who, say, has been to Lexington. And you see, then they come along with the helping hand. And during these periods of stress, when I mentioned, when they have a yin, then another drug addict supplies the drugs. So that, um, they, they just keep the thing going. Well, now, you were making a point before, and I'd like to develop that a little further. The addict on the street, who's not institutionalized, he is, is, in himself, is he not, he is the market for the peddler. Isn't that so, Dr. Niswander? It certainly is. And the more drug addicts that we allow to roam out on the street, the greater is the market which we permit to be created for the peddler. That would seem to fall. So that if we can get the addict, curable or incurable, good prognosis or bad prognosis, out of the community, we will, at least in some measure, destroy the market for the peddler. So that while it's true, Dr. Niswander, as you suggest, that if you had no drugs, you'd have no addicts, isn't it also true that if you had no addicts, you'd have nobody for the peddler to sell to? Mm-hmm. Doctor, this problem of drug addiction has, I would assume, and I'm sure you'll correct me if I'm wrong in my assumption, some very serious as well as interesting facets. Yes. We talked before about addicts making addicts. Now, I know that you attended a conference which was held at this office by the Attorney General, or rather held at his office on September 29th of this year, at which 14 experts were in attendance. And did you hear, as I heard, the statement made that pregnant female addicts will give birth to addicted babies? Yes, that's true. Mm-hmm. And in your own experience at Lexington, did you find that you had occasion to deliver women at Lexington who gave birth to addicted babies? Is that yes? Yes, yes. Your answer is yes. That's true. As I recall, that we had the difficult process of taking them off drugs. Difficult. You mean taking the babies off drugs? Taking the mothers off drugs and had a very much weakened child in delivering. In other words, it's a well-known fact that babies born of drug addicts are addicted to it because the same bloodstream... They're addicted to it at birth. At birth. The addiction is devout right in the fetus. That's right. Doctor, I take it then that you agree that we need two kinds of institutions. One, to treat those with a reasonable prognosis of getting well. Probably those with the sincerest desire of being well. And we also have to institutionalize even those who aren't particularly interested in getting well to get them out of the community and quarantine them from themselves. The peddler and the rest of the community. Yes, that would seem to be one of the phases in beginning to go into this whole problem. Certainly an important one. Well, Doctor, what of that which we discussed from your own experience is missing from the Lexington program as you know it to exist? Well, we've said one thing, the lack of facilities to segregate the first offenders or the comparative novice. That'd be one thing. And the other thing is the probation period. The, what do you call it? The follow-up period. That I believe it's a rule of the Bureau of Prisons, correct me if this isn't right, that the offender has to go back to that community from which they were sentenced. Yes. So that the drug addict then who is off drugs has to go back in the same community. Well, right there you've got a problem. And then there's so very little rehabilitation work. It's a very difficult rehabilitation thing and I don't believe they're set up or have done very much at any rate. So that that would be another reason, another thing lacking from the Lexington thing, lack of rehabilitation. Doctor, just one final question that I'd like to ask you. I know that you are a very fine, quite as a psychiatrist. Do you think that psychiatry in and of itself is the answer to the treatment and cure of addicts? No, no. Far more complicated. Far more than that? Far more. It's just a partial element of the answer. Oh, yes. A very small part too, probably. Thank you ever so much, Doctor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The meeting stands adjourned. I mean the hearing until tomorrow at one. Thank you. You've been listening to the testimony of Dr. Marie Niswander, who was a witness just now. Before this, the narcotics investigation of the state of New York, conducted by the state attorney general, Nathaniel Goldstein. You've been listening to the second phase of these hearings. Now, we'd like to give you a resume. The assistant attorney general, Mr. Sidney Tartikoff, after the recess, introduced a tape recording on which he himself acted as interviewer. On that tape recording was the story of a woman of 37, now a happily married housewife and mother. Her history of addiction began at 16, when out of curiosity, aroused on a date, she first smoked opium. Later, having become fully addicted, she started using heroin, purchasing it from peddlers on the streets. She earned the money she needed for the drugs by being a prostitute. During her 20s, she made four or five attempts to get cured at private sanitariums, each time being discharged and pronounced cured, but immediately thereafter reverted to the use of drugs. This use continued until she was about 34. She was arrested 33 times for prostitution, vagrancy, and other violations, and she served jail sentences ranging from a few days to several months. On two occasions, upon sentence of the court, she was sent to the U.S. Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. In addition, she went voluntarily on three separate occasions. The methods of treatment were substantially the same on each occasion, a reduction withdrawal period of about seven days, after which she was given a job as a cook at Lexington. When she was a volunteer patient, however, she only once remained for the entire period recommended by the authorities. This woman, who is of course anonymous, states that from her observations, most of the inmates have no sincere desire or wish to be cured, but rather await the day of release so that they may return to their use of drugs. On the next to the last visit as a volunteer, she was already pregnant with a child of her marriage and left Lexington to go home and have her child. After the child was born, she returned voluntarily to complete the cure and remained the full five months, being subsequently discharged as medically cured within the meaning of the law. This woman attributes her present cure to her marriage, her child, and an overwhelming determination to lead a normal, happy life with her family. Our next witness was Dr. Marie Niswander, a psychiatrist. She was assigned in 1946 to the self-same United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. She was a psychiatrist there. She also had to do surgical work. At the hospital, Dr. Niswander was in charge of the women's division during her one year there. Between the years of 1947 and 1949, the doctor practiced psychiatry at the Disturred Women's Ward at Bellevue. At present, she practices psychiatry at a well-known clinic. Dr. Niswander, in her testimony, divided drug addicts into those who wanted to get well and those who did not, claiming that the desire to get well is extremely important. Those who do not want to get well, she said of, these people are that way because they take the easier way out and fall into a habit. Their rate of recidivism by such people was very high, at Lexington anyway, during Dr. Niswander's experience there. The major harm she claimed, upon questioning by Mr. Sidney Tartikoff, of allowing drug addicts to roam free on the streets is that, well, one-off times, they convert others to drugs and start other drug addicts and new on drugs, those who have tried to cure themselves or have been pronounced cured. They create a market for drugs, these addicts, and they are potential criminals. She agreed that if there were no drug addicts, there would be no market for drugs, which was a point raised by the state attorney, General Goldstein. She thought at first that most of the cases she had run into anyway were people who had taken to drugs and eventually had turned to minor crimes, although she agreed with the Attorney General that in all likelihood, these same people might turn to major crimes. Under questioning by Mr. Tartikoff, she condemned a system whereby those who want to get well and those who do not are intermingled. At Lexington, Dr. Marie Niswander testified, there was no segregation, at least when she was there. The doctor estimated that the percentage of those people who were cured at Lexington was 15%. That was a rough estimation on her part. The Lexington figures, according to the Assistant Attorney General, 25%, which Dr. Niswander, the psychiatrist, claimed was a generous figure. She maintained also that at Lexington, pregnant women addicts will be addicted to drugs. That is, the children of these pregnant women will be addicted to drugs at birth. She agreed with Mr. Sidney Tartikoff that there should be two types of institutions for drug addicts, one for those who do sincerely want to get well and those who did not. This sort of institution would be maintained as a sort of custodial one. Answering the question, why does drug addiction continue, Dr. Niswander said, drug addicts have lost their self-respect. They'll do anything to get drugs. Their sense of values deteriorate. And also that taking drugs is a way of life, a habit. Finally, the physiological action, the yen for drugs, the overwhelming desire, which breaks down their resistance, is a very difficult thing for drug addicts to avoid. This is the period Dr. Niswander claimed during which the drug addict needs custodial care. As to why drug addiction starts, Dr. Niswander outlined, one, emotional instability. And of course there was more, she didn't go into that. And environment, where drugs are the thing and can be obtained, of course, drug addiction is going to continue. In the public interest, we've brought you the second phase of the New York State investigation into narcotics use and traffic in New York City, conducted rather by State Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein. This broadcast originated at the State Office Building at 80 Center Street in downtown Manhattan. The witnesses heard from today were Ben Gimm, New York State Deputy Attorney General, Dr. Paul Zimmering, a senior psychiatrist at Bellevue Hospital, and Dr. Marie Niswander, a psychiatrist at a well-known clinic here in New York City. She was formerly of the Lexington Hospital, the U.S. Public Service Hospital at Lexington. Public Health Service, that is. There are also several unidentified users of drugs heard from. Their testimony was brought to you via tape recording. Today's hearing dealt with Rehabilitating the Narcotics Addict. These public hearings will be broadcast again tomorrow at 1. We return you now to our studios. Tom Lynn was your broadcast engineer. This is Martin Bush speaking. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. WNYC, the voice of New York City, joins once again with WNYC FM to bring you our regularly scheduled programs. Now this is the only comfort you mother... and the importance of a video. It's all praises. ... ... ... Vy... ... ... ...