City Hall. Radio's microphones are now in front of City Hall, and the occasion is the farewell ceremonies in honor of the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, American Ambassador-elect to the Republic of Mexico. Very fortunate for all of us, and because we now have the opportunity to witness the magnificent spirit of festivity here in front of City Hall, the weatherman has proved to be a good citizen and sent us this lovely Grover Whelan weather so that we can really turn out a real reception. Because it seems, no matter what the early morning may say, if Grover Whelan has a reception in front of City Hall for any reason, under any appointment, the weatherman always cooperates. I think sometime when Mr. Whelan was police commissioner, he must have given the weatherman a ticket and he never wanted another one. So we always get good weather, and this beautiful day here today has certainly been a dedication to this magnificent civic turnout to the young immigrant boy from Ireland who only a few years back was climbing ladders and all sorts of construction material to help build the Woolworth Building, that Cathedral of Commerce, directly across City Hall Park. We often wonder if the young Irishman at that time ever looked over at this model of architecture and beauty, the City Hall, because it is a gem of architecture. And within its precincts have taken place the world-shaking events that have seen the government of the City of New York continue right through from the early colonial days and in this actual building from the year 1811. The Honorable William O'Dwyer Mayor of the City of New York goes from this building to greater honors in the international scene, and no doubt his apt training and development as a citizen from the early beginnings in the true tradition of democracy, well, he understands the human relations, the human relationships, and he no doubt will find himself able to interpret the situation diplomatically, no matter what it may be, when a crisis may arise. And after the training which the great and wonderful City of New York gives to anybody in any part of that training in the structure of this great government of the City, the Mayor is certainly equipped for any emergency that may arise. In fact, I think he may find it more peaceful anywhere else if one is looking merely for peace and a static condition. But an active man like the Mayor of the City of New York was proved by his rise from the very ranks through the great police department who now, the members of which utterly fill the square here in front of City Hall, and which is an appropriate touch. Our great army of blue, in fact, we have two armies here in New York too, the police department and the fire department, because we're now facing a world crisis, but even in the times of absolutely accepted peace, the men of the police department and the fire department have a constant battle in the protection of life and property within the gates of our city. And if every bit of crime was to vanish from our city, the element of emergency would not vanish with it, and the life of the policeman would still be at stake in the emergency that may arise. We hear a lot about bombs and all that business. We know what a terrific strain that would throw on our city departments, particularly police and fire. But we do think and hope that in the time to come and before any such dastardly deed can ever take place again in any city in the world, that situation will rationalize itself because we're rapidly approaching the opportunities of better understanding and unity. And no place in the world are these qualities accented than right here in New York City and by the distinguished people who have accomplished things and have come here to this City Hall to be acknowledged by the people of the City of New York and the person of the Mayor of the City of New York. There's an expectant moment now. I don't know just whether Mr. Whelan is ready to pick up the program and act as chairman, but until such time as he does, why, we'll just try to describe the scene for you. Because every foot of ground here, this very, very historic ground, City Hall and the environs of City Hall is crowded with human beings. And the city departments have a recess in order that they may participate in this farewell, this O.D. Day. In military parlance, of course, O.D. is the Officer of the Day and a very active and very much used Mayor of the City of New York. I say that because unquestionably from the very moment of his inauguration, Mayor O'Dwyer has had a constant and anxious service to the people of the City. Coming as he did after a war crisis and meeting the situations that prevail under those conditions, he has had to resolve that situation as it occurred from time to time. He's kept a sense of humor, which is a wonderful Irish quality. Being Irish myself, I'll stick up for the Irish and I think I'll have a lot of people agree with me. But whatever your nationality is, why, we all know that in the great scene we have to act up to it as men, meet the situation and resolve it for the greatest benefit and the greatest good for the greatest number. The school children are having a real holiday. They've cheered the sailors, the soldiers and the Marines. It's certainly heartening to see the patriotism of these youngsters as the various uniform groups paraded through the plaza here to take up their positions. We're getting ready for the anthem now and in just a moment we'll hear the voice of our children. The national anthem, first United States band. Mexico. Let's do right now. This entire anthem is milestone to be seen in a perfect summer here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The National Anthem by the United States Air Corps Band, soloist, Charles Coleman, Metropolitan Opera. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. ¶¶ ¶¶ Fellow New Yorkers. Where's Dave? Where's Dave? Dave! Fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens, the Honorable Groh-Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the Farewell Ceremonies in honor of the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, American Ambassador-elect to the Republic of Mexico. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, the musical program that follows will be a short piece or march by each one of the bands gathered here so that we will lose no time in this heat. I will only call upon each band as the other one completes its march. The United States First Army Band. I think you're all aware of the vastness of this plaza here at City Hall and the dressing of the City Hall Plaza. You'll have to pick up a sort of an echo because the First Army Band is way out near Park Row, the old Boston Post Road, and you'll merely get a re-echo of the band because even if we had microphones down there, this tremendous parade demonstration would have dislocated the lines. So for that reason, we pick it up in echo effect, and Mr. Whelan will announce each band and kindly bear with us if you get but a faint echo of the quality and the beauty of these military bands. of the ones from the people in campus. And so. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. The United States Air Corps Band. again. Whenever spring breaks the blue again, time may lie heavy between, but what has been is past forgetting, this sweet memory across the years will come to me. Though my world may go awry, in my heart will ever lie, just the echo of a sigh, goodbye. We'll see you again. Whenever spring breaks through again, time may lie heavy between, but what has been is past forgetting, this sweet memory across the years will come to me. Across the years will come to me. Though my world may go awry, in my heart will ever lie, just the echo of a sigh, goodbye. Just the echo of a sigh, goodbye. Hot or no hot, I think Charles Coleman should sing a song that he sang for Mayor and Miss O'Dwyer on the occasion of their public announcement. One enchanting evening. Some enchanted evening you may see a stranger, you may see a stranger across the crowded room. And some of the people who may see a stranger, you may see a stranger across the crowded room. And somehow you may see a stranger, you may see a stranger, you may see a stranger, you may see a stranger, you may see a stranger. And somehow you know, you know even then, that somewhere you'll see her again and again. Some enchanted evening, someone may be laughing, you may hear her laughing across the crowded room. And night after night, as strange as it seems, the sound of her laughter is the most important evening. you may hear her singing. You may hear her laughing, you may hear her laughing across the crowded room. And night after night, as strange as it seems, the sound of her laughter will sing in your dreams. The sound of her laughter will sing in your dreams. Who can explain it? Who can tell you why? Fools give you reasons. Wise men never try. Some enchanted evening. Some enchanted evening. When you find your true love. When you find your true love. a cross a crowded room. Then fly to her side. And call her your own. Or all through your life. You will dream all alone. Once you have found her, never let her go. Once you have found her, never let her go. It's a very interesting commentary that Sergeant Eddie Dillon of the Police Department accompanied the great tenor from the Metropolitan without any notes. In any emergency, the Police Department arises to the emergency. Tell the Metropolitan that the police will help them out anytime. My fellow citizens, we are gathered here today to honor to the first citizen of the city of New York, who has been called by the President of the United States from his post as mayor of our great city to serve as American ambassador to the Republic of Mexico. History would note with regret if we did not recall, briefly at least, here and now the career of a young man, an immigrant, who came to our shores in June 1910. The events of these forty years seem to be taken from a storybook, and we would not believe any part of it if we were not living in the time. And may I express the opinion that it could not happen in any place in the world except in our beloved and glorious country, the symbol and embodiment of world peace and free enterprise. I have spoken from this rostrum many, many times, but no occasion has moved me as deeply as this one. What title shall we give to our story? The opportunities offered in America? Will to succeed? It couldn't happen here. He came. He saw. He conquered. He's our prosaic and hackneyed. And so we will title our fairy book story, An Irish Lad from Bohola. What a place it must be to produce such a lad. To Spain he went alone, unaided, unheralded, to study for the priesthood. And after several years in a Jesuit university, he found he did not have a vocation, so he took to the sea and landed, as he always has, on his feet as a coal passer. And his first port of call was South America. He liked the country, but being a prudent lad, thought he would see the world first before settling and finally taking off. His next voyage as coal passer was to North America. With his ship entering the harbor of New York, he squeezed his well-formed head through the port hole, starboard side. And beheld the mademoiselle of Bedloe's Island, who, he claims, gave him the nod. This unusual action on the part of Miss Liberty, and the fact that our lad had great discernment, and recognized beauty as an art as far as women are concerned, made him decide that if a gal of steel and granite could fall so quickly for him, this was the place. He also remembered that Manhattan Island was purchased from the Indians by the Dutch for $24. And he further pursued the thought that if he could get a profitable job, maybe he could take over the island himself. And so our Irish lad took a job as bartender in the Belmont Hotel. It was a good start. His attention was next attracted to the finest, and he became a cop. His superiors very wisely assigned him to the Brooklyn waterfront so he could look across the ocean and see the green hills of Ireland, and dream and dream, dream the dreams that only an Irish lad could dream. Although usually fatigued after a tour of police duty, he nevertheless found enough energy to study law and succeeded in passing the bar examination. Most lawyers liked to be judges. And the lad of our story was no exception. In the course of a few years, he was sworn in as a city magistrate. This court, because of its limited jurisdiction, did not quite quench the ambitious thirst of our storybook lad. And so he moved on to a court of higher legal jurisdiction, the county court. On this bench, the Democratic Party nominated and the people of Kings County elected him District Attorney. As Chief Prosecuting Officer, he made a distinguished record and broke up a notorious gang of mobsters known as Murder Incorporated, and sent most of its leaders to the electric chair. As Chief Prosecuting Officer, he was called to the Colors by President Roosevelt and rose to the rank of Brigadier General, United States Army. Shortly after his return from war duty, he was nominated and elected Mayor of the City of New York, and in November 1949, re-elected. Now the lad we've been speaking about has reached the top rung of his ladder and has been chosen by President Truman to serve in the broader field, the Foreign Service of the United States, as American Ambassador to the Republic of Mexico. Before asking His Honor, His Excellency, the Ambassador-Elect of the Republic of Mexico, to speak, I should like to read two messages. Three, rather. Regret exceedingly must be out of town on August 31st to attend meeting of the New York State Directors of Civilian Defense in Albany. I learned to respect and admire General O'Dwyer during our wartime association, and I wish that I could be at the farewell ceremonies to indicate my respect for him. General Lucius D. Clay. Cable from Oslo, I very much regret that it is impossible for me to accept the invitation to a farewell ceremony for Mayor O'Dwyer on August 31st, owing to meetings in Oslo on that day. Mayor O'Dwyer's leaving New York City will mean a great loss to the United Nations, which will always be indebted to him, and remember with gratitude all he has done for the United Nations. We feel sure, however, that New York City's relations to the United Nations will continue to be the best that Mayor O'Dwyer's successes will carry on in his spirit and in accordance with his ideals. Please convey Mrs. Lee and my best regards to Mayor and Mrs. O'Dwyer. Regret exceedingly cannot arrive on time to join in paying tribute to New York City's beloved Mayor O'Dwyer, true friend, great American, high personal regards, General Carlos Romulo, President of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I present to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mayor O'Dwyer. Mr. Weiland, Mr. Impletteri, members of the Board of Estimate, Mr. Miller, Assistant Secretary of State, distinguished ladies, gentlemen, and men and women from the services, who are here, and the ladies and gentlemen of the city who are perhaps listening in. Mr. In a few more days, I will no longer be the Mayor. I am going in response to a call by the President, a call which honors me highly to assume the duties of Ambassador to Mexico. the President, a excellent call of the Jedi Stevenson CEO,istan darauf, then to separate my son from the 103th Ilberμα, women the women the GPA clause for Ms. O'Dwyer, toda esa family I've had to serve this city. Pride in what has been done to make this city a better city. And humility because I realize the greatness of the city's needs. Affection, this is one strong emotion for the loyal and devoted friends who have worked with me. And then of course with that goes sadness at the thought of leaving them and the many pleasant associations I've had in this city before I became mayor and since I became mayor. This city has been good to me. It has been good to me far beyond any expectations I could possibly have in 1910 as an immigrant. This city has conferred many honors upon me during the intervening years. It has paid to me the highest of all tributes that it could pay within the city's power or city's business by bestowing an election twice to me the honor of being the city's mayor. It is my hope and prayer that in the accomplishments of the administration you will find some measure of recompense for the debt of gratitude that I still owe. This morning I released a detailed report on the activities of the city departments and agencies during my administration. I am willing to accept the judgment of history on this record. This is a record of what was actually done. History will have to make its own decision as to whether or not it was worthwhile. It is to be distinguished of course from the welter of discussion, arguments, contentions, controversies which precedes the concrete action in a democracy like ours. What has been done was achieved through the combined efforts of a public spirited citizenry and the many city departments and agencies. It is the record of the 200,000 loyal and diligent city employees. Without them the things that have been accomplished would never have progressed beyond the paper stage. Without them, the city employees, our constructive programs would never have emerged as the real and living vital things that they are or at least that we hope them to be. In a huge city like New York, embracing so many diverse interests, the administration of municipal affairs is sometimes unabitably beset by controversies and differences. Occurrences of this kind have at times diverted public attention from the many construction projects which have been constantly advanced all over the city. I know that the major accomplishments will live in the public mind long after these differences are forgotten. In 1945, ladies and gentlemen, before I became mayor, I promised you that I would devote all of my heart, mind and energies to help to solve the acute problems then facing the city. The tremendous housing shortage, the suspension of school construction, the deficiencies in our hospital facilities, and the chaos in our transit system, and the many pressing needs of our population. These are only a few. I carry away with me the deep satisfaction that this promise has been conscientiously fulfilled. During the administration, we initiated and carried to substantial completion the largest public housing program ever undertaken by any municipality. And all of these things that are not completed will be completed because your board of estimates remains the same. Because these men have worked conscientiously on these problems and understand them and have supported them. And if I mention at this time anything in relation to the success of these things, I want you to thoroughly understand that I include an entire board of estimates that never existed. That never once backed away from a hard job during this administration. The same is true with regard to hospitals. The transit crisis then existing at that time has been brought under control. And a vast program of transit improvements is underway. When we came into office, school construction was at a standstill. During the four-year period from 1946 to 1949, we built or started an average of one school, one new school a month. Now since January of 1950, this rate has been doubled. We are now building and will continue to build at the rate of two schools a month. For the first time in the city's history, a complete program has been started to forever protect our beaches from pollution. Our first concern has always been the welfare of the children of the city. Directly or indirectly, the life of every child depends upon the services that the city gives it. Major emphasis has been placed on the expansion of health, educational and recreational services for children, and on programs designed to curb juvenile delinquency. We have increased the pay of city employees and improved their working conditions to the fullest extent permitted by budgetary limitations. But I wish, and so does the Board of Estimates, that we have been able to do a great, great deal more. We have provided for a comprehensive survey of the whole city government, strengthened and expanded the city planning commission, and established a bureau of smoke control. During this administration, a new approach for fostering cordial labor relationships was adopted. We established a division of labor relations, which was first, the first municipal unit of its kind to be created. This agency has become a model for other cities. Now the city's enlightened labor policy has resulted in developing friendly relations, not only between labor and industry, but also between the two major labor organizations themselves. Our plans for further development and growth of the city look forward to the commencement of the Second Avenue subway, to the construction of more hospitals, more schools, more public housing, to the completion of the sewage treatment works program, the expansion of our water supply sources, and steps to relieve traffic congestion. I'm confident that these projects will be advanced with the same vigor and energy as we have put into the work done in the past four and a half years. Now, before saying farewell, I feel that I should tell you, the people of the city of New York, why I have agreed to re-enter the service of the federal government in the field of international relationships. I have been summoned by the President of the United States to undertake a job of vital importance to our nation's interest. I feel it my duty in this period of crisis to accept this assignment, this great honor. Wherever my duties may take me, this great city will always be my home and its people, my people. The spirit of fellowship in our city is an example for all the world to follow, a haven for all the races and creeds. It exemplifies true brotherhood. We have been in the forefront of a fight to combat racial discrimination and to spread the gospel of tolerance. This proof that all peoples can live in harmony as good neighbors will be a guiding light in my new task to further cement our cordial relationships with our friendly neighbor to the south, the Republic of Mexico. The post to which I have been called offers a fine opportunity to serve the cause of democracy in a world threatened by the menace of totalitarian aggression. I am determined to give my best efforts to meet the challenge of the grave responsibilities which rest on all who have a part in shaping our international relations and these troubled times. And now, my final farewell. To the members of the Board of Estimate, City Council, Department Heads, and to all the city employees, I want to express my appreciation for your loyalty and cooperation while I have been mayor. To you, the people of this great magnificent city, go my heartfelt thanks and good wishes. May you continue to progress towards a better and a happier life in accordance with the best traditions of American democracy. Now, after this, I am delighted to perform my final official act. To cite a citizen of our city for exceptional and extraordinary public service and award to him the first gold medal of honor of the city of New York. This is the citation. City of New York, Office of the Mayor. Know ye by all these present that I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for extraordinary public service, Grover A. Whalen, citizen, who for the past 30 years has served his city at the call of the mayor and office in many, many volunteer capacities. In rendering this public service as a top business executive and administrator, he has given to business and industry leaders the sacrifice that private citizens should make if our free institutions and enterprise systems are to prevail. President Franklin Roosevelt, on the occasion of the dedication of the federal building at the New York World's Fair 1939, labeled him the number one salesman of the United States. President Franklin Roosevelt, as mayor of the city of New York, I wish to add this to his titles, Mr. New York, for his foresight, his public service in promoting and advertising the city of New York as the leading cultural, industrial, and hospitable center of the world. And we had further recorded that he was the first citizen to suggest that the mayor of the city of New York be promoted and officially suggested as the most desirable site in the United States for the United Nations capital. For these and innumerable other public services, I hereby award to Grover A. Whalen the first gold medal of honor of the city of New York, signed William O'Dwyer. The mayor of the city of New York is now taking out of a very beautiful green leather case in Boston gold, the gold medal of the city. The cameramen are yelling now for service. Thank you, my boys. The mayor wants a pause. Thank you very much, Mr. Whalen is going to speak. Mr. Whalen is going to speak. It's a great privilege and honor to receive this at your hand. The photographer's must have their moment, and since there are two sides to this stand, but the charming ladies are on our side here. Oh, what's the matter with the pictures, boys? The lowering of the mayor's flag by the uniformed services. This is a very touching ceremony, and for the first time in years have I seen the mayor's flag absolutely in public exhibition. Because it is flying here, it is the standard flag of the city of New York, but above the ancient Dutch coat of arms are five blue stars in the white field. Otherwise, the flag is the same. And down goes the flag slowly, and this is an emotional moment as the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable Vincent Impelletari, tomorrow's mayor of the city and mayor of the city of New York. And Mr. Whalen stand there in order that Mr. Whalen may receive the flag and pass it to the honorable Vincent Impelletari. I don't know whether they'll explain this to you, but the idea is I believe that Mr. Impelletari will give the flag to the mayor as a souvenir of love and respect, which we, the people of the city of New York, hold for his great service to the people. And now the cameramen are having some innings over on the other side. They're folding up the flag now. The mayor seems a little bit anxious about something. Mr. Whalen's coming back. Mr. Whalen. Acting Mayor Vincent Impelletari, who has been a teammate of the mayor's for the last almost five years, will now present the mayor's flag to Mayor O'Dwyer, Ambassador-elect to the Republic of Mexico. Acting Mayor O'Dwyer, President Impelletari, Director, Mayor O'Dwyer, Chair, and Mr. Whalen, Mayor O'Dwyer, President Impelletari. Mr. Whalen, Mayor O'Dwyer, Mrs. O'Dwyer, Ladies and gentlemen, you've all been extremely patient. extremely patient. Merrill Dwyer really is touched by this ceremony to such a degree that it's almost impossible for words to describe. He has asked me, in your interest, to make this presentation ceremony just as brief as possible. And I intend to follow his admonition. I have been a very close associate of Merrill Dwyer for a great number of years, but in almost daily contact with him for the last five years. As we sat there discussing this ceremony today, he said, Vinnie, it's just five years ago that you and I started off campaigning together on exactly the same kind of a day as today. Since that time, five years ago, I've been at Merrill Dwyer's right-hand side, I've shared his problems, and I know from personal contact day after day of the effort, the courage, the vision, and the intelligence with which Merrill Dwyer has directed the affairs of the great city of New York. Hardly a person in the city of New York would know that as of the day Merrill Dwyer took office on January 1st, 1946, this great city of New York, in its tremendous hospital plant, had only 300 beds for cancer cases. Thank God for the vision and the imagination of Merrill Dwyer. That condition has been completely eradicated today. As of January 1st, 1946, the people of the city of New York were praying for housing. Again, thanks to the courage, the vision, and the determination of Merrill Dwyer. Today, 190,000 people have been moved from slum areas into clean, decent, low-cost housing. Again, thanks to the vision of Merrill Dwyer. Today is, of course, a day of rejoicing, and it's also a day of sadness. It's a day of sadness for those of us, members of the Board of Estimate, who sit here at Merrill Dwyer's left, telling him, by their presence here today, that although he's going on to further endeavors in the cause of his country, as fellow members of the Board of Estimate, they're going to continue to see to it that the people of the city of New York enjoy the fine administration sponsored and spark-plugged by Merrill Dwyer. As he goes south to our good neighbor to the south, those of us in America know that President Truman has selected exactly the right kind of man to spread the gospel of the good neighbor policy to our good friends to the south. the good neighbor to the south. So, Mr. Mayor, today, as I take over the heavy responsibilities of the job that you have filled so effectively and so efficiently for the last four years and approximately eight months, may I say to you, with God's help and the enthusiastic support of the same people who gave you tremendous cooperation in your administration, I will, to the best of my ability, carry on in your tradition. Mr. Mayor, the photographers have taken the, uh, President of the City Council, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, who will be mayor tomorrow in the succession when Mayor O'Dwyer leaves tonight at midnight. They've taken them over to the side now in order that the photographers may get an impression of this presentation of the mayor's flag to Mayor O'Dwyer. It was re-, it was reduced from the mast with proper ceremonies by the mast bands and, uh, Commissioner Impeletere is making a speech over at that side, but it's entirely off mic and you wouldn't be able to get it, I do not believe. So, uh, thanks to the photographers, the, uh, radio does not hear what President Impeletere... President Impeletere, will you pass a review? And now Mr. Whelan. Yeah, no, no. Take your position along... The photographers are still making demands and Mr. Whelan has asked for the review to begin. Mr. Whelan's back again. This is such a happy party that nobody's boss, everybody's having a good time. But Mr. Whelan is a great disciplinarian and, uh, when he wants the thing done, he wants it done. And he's asked for the formation of the review now and in true, uh, police regulation, they've responded to the command. And in spite of the demands of the photographers, they've gone into formation and they're going out at parade rest into Park Row, which you know is the old Boston Post Road that led from the tip end of Manhattan Island all the way to the great colonial city of Boston, which was one of the great colonies at the time that New York City was the colony of the, uh, early beginnings of our country. And within a few blocks of this hallowed spot here at City Hall, the government of the United States began. Remember that. At Nassau on Wall Street. George Washington took the oath of office here at the Nassau on Wall Street on the spot where the sub-treasury now stands. He marched through Wall Street with the members of Congress at that time. Those thoroughly frightened men who had proclaimed one of the greatest documents in the world. Man's right, inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness in the face of all these established governments of the world that had been imperial in their sway, but not as democratic as the American tradition so translated the idea of human relationships. George Washington marched to St. Paul's Church, which is right at the foot here of City Hall Park, and which is now being restored to its colonial proportions. And many of the defacing remarks that, uh, marks rather, that had been added to it by well-intentioned people are being removed, and the church is coming back to its original beauty of colonial times. It's not a rebuilding job in any way because it's the oldest public building of its kind in New York City, because it has been in constant service since the middle of the 18th century, the actual building itself. And we have this tie-up with the colonial history of our city, with the facade of this beautiful City Hall facing at the end of City Hall Park, the Chapel of St. Paul, a chapel of Trinity, which itself has established since colonial days at Rector and Broadway, facing Wall Street and the, uh, Government House as it was then. The treasures of Government House were moved to City Hall, and they are here now, the actual furniture, whereby the Government of the United States began. So if you're passing this City Hall, remember, it's a great tradition, it's a wonderful city, and the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has just sorrowfully turned away and gone into City Hall, in order that he may enter the car that will be part of the ceremony as the parade passes in review. A little description of this for the radio audience, which might help. It's intended now that the, uh, massed organizations here in front of City Hall, the military organizations and, uh, the civic organizations, the police, fire, and, uh, city departments, will, uh, go down Broadway and around the end of City Hall Park, and come in from the Broadway side. And then the mayor of the City of New York will pass in review in a car with Mrs. O'Dwyer. And the bands will play Auld Lang Syne as the car slowly moves away, and the mayor of the City of New York exchanges his responsibility to this great corporation of the City of New York to enter the international scene and the diplomatic service of his country. We do know from the world crisis that are facing the United States of America and the mayor that diplomacy is indeed a very essential feature of the present-day scene. And we hope, in time, that the superior type of diplomat will remove forever from the scene the war and carnage and the threat of bombs and destruction that is still in the minds of some people the best way to obtain a result, that is, by the assertion of power. We're gradually learning to translate the love of power into the power of love. And believe it or not, as confused as the scene may be, we here in this building have heard many of the great men of the world talking in an aside before an official program and on the air. And we have heard their wonderful ideas, not expressed publicly, their hopeful ideas which were not ready yet for crystallization in a public opinion, for fear they might be accused of taking sides. Because even though you have your side, you have to wait till the situation has developed, whereby the right and the good and the justice and the honor that you stand for can properly assert itself and not be mixed up in a mere rabble or row over the discussion of a point. Diplomacy has a difficult job. Communications has shrunk the dimensions of the world. We're all closer together and radio and television and all the other factors are making us realize there's no sense to any of it. If we'll just spread out and utilize the open spaces, develop as human beings and really assert the principle of a united people in united nations. Cameramen are having some fun now with Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan received a gold medal from the mayor of the city of New York and a scroll, calling him Mr. New York. And I guess from now on we may even drop the name of Grover Whelan, but that wouldn't be so good. He's so much a part of the civic scene that Mr. New York might be lost in a rather obscure definition of a great man. He'll be Honorable Grover Ray Whelan, Mr. New York. And the one great thing about Mr. Whelan that I can say after 26 years of association, he'll turn from a monarch, a ruling monarch, to answer a question that you ask him. If you are concerned with the work that he is concerned with himself at the time, he is the soul of courtesy, the soul of organization, and the soul of efficiency and cooperation. Mr. Whelan, now the police units are moving out. You've raised him at this you say, seven of the starave, and George Floyd, I called him to force his girlfriend and called kings ofатика, ministers ofqua and Yellowstone where he's been sneaking, words, are embraced byじолов portrayal. This is the yogime then, time of warfare. You've been fear of BE& sweets, Well, if there's anything to this nutrition theory and vitamin D, in addition to taking part in this beautiful ceremony here today, we've received a copious amount of vitamin D if that is the function of sunlight, because it's been a beautiful sunny day in front of City Hall, which seems almost like the history of the building itself. The day started a little cloudy and stormy and doubtful, but finally the clouds broke and the sun came through and everything is happy again in New York, and we've taken leave of the mayor of the City of New York. The car has just left from the park row entrance and gone up toward the Gracie Mansion and is the final appearance of the Honorable William O'Dwyer, mayor of the City of New York, as a public official before the general public. He is now on his way to fulfill the function of ambassador-elect to the Republic of Mexico. And so as we look at St. Paul's Chapel here at the tip end of City Hall Park and its rejuvenation through in the hands of the artists and artisans, masons, stone cutters and so forth that are bringing that chapel back to its colonial beauty and the proportions and inspirations might we say because it saw the beginnings of this nation. The Declaration of Independence was read in the presence of George Washington under one of the windows here of the mayor's larger office where he holds semi-private receptions on the west end of City Hall here facing Broadway. As we look and see that golden angel above the telephone company building there, it seems appropriate that where the steeple of St. Paul's leaves off, the golden angel, which however, I believe is an electrical allegory of some kind, but here it just looks like an angel in beautiful gold bristling in the sunlight with its arms raised in inspiration and its eyes to heaven. There goes our Department of Sanitation band and the final division of this parade and turnout to honor the young Irish lad who came here in 1910 as a coal passer, served in the different trades of our city, helped build the Woolworth Building and finally became mayor of the City of New York, concluded that tour today in the ceremonies here in front of this historic building. Well that is about all from City Hall. We thank you for your kind attention. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.