New York City, someone said, is the home of the modern cliff dweller. Well, it is a fact that New Yorkers, by and large, live in rented apartments. But whether it's a cold-water one-and-a-half-room flat or a 12-room Park Avenue duplex, a New Yorker's home is still his castle. And that's because New York City, like most of the nation, enjoys rent control. As part of its public service programming, WNYC brings you a weekly discussion of the problems that arise under rent control. As usual, we have with us tonight our authority, Mr. Nathan W. Math, General Counsel to the City Rent Commission. Mr. Math. And that winds up another Monday evening of discussion about your city rent laws. Your guest expert, as usual, has been Mr. Nathan W. Math, General Counsel to the City Rent Commission. This program is heard every Monday evening at 6.30. This has been a public service presentation of the Municipal Broadcasting System. Every Thursday morning at the same time, WNYC, in cooperation with the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York, invite you to join Carolyn Hawkes and Dr. George Wood Clapp in another of their informal chair-side chats about you and your dental health. This morning our genial conversationalists are going to talk about how dental conditions affect your speech. And if that isn't a cue for a fluffed line, we don't know what is. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hawkes and Dr. Clapp. And that ends this morning's chair-side chat with Carolyn Hawkes and Dr. George Wood Clapp about you and your dental health. Today our two regulars talked about how dental conditions affect your speech. Dr. Clapp and Ms. Hawkes come to you every Thursday at the same time, presented by WNYC and the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York, as public service to the more than eight million men, women, and children in the metropolitan area. Be sure to be with us next week at the same time, when we draw our chairs up once more for Dr. George Wood Clapp and Carolyn Hawkes, and eavesdrop on a chair-side chat about you and your dental health. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Every Thursday morning at the same time, WNYC, in cooperation with the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York, invite you to join Carolyn Hawkes and Dr. George Wood Clapp in another of their informal chair-side chats about you and your dental health. This morning our genial conversationalists are going to talk about how dental conditions affect your speech. And if that isn't a cue for a fluffed line, we don't know what is. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Hawkes and Dr. Clapp. You are listening to the Proceedings from the United Nations, now in session at the Palais de Chaillot in Paris, France. This is New York City's own station, WNYC. And now we return you to the Palais de Chaillot in Paris, France. You have been listening to the last plenary session of the United Nations at the Palais de Chaillot in Paris, France. This last session of the UN in Paris has been brought to you in its entirety, as has every session of the UN here in New York and Paris by your city station. WNYC will broadcast special meetings of the UN between now and January 5th, the date when the UN reconvenes at Lake Success here in New York. For complete gavel-to-gavel coverage of the United Nations in action, from January 5th on, stay tuned to America's leading non-commercial station. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.·