Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson, E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Before starting this meeting this evening, I would like to remind all of you and invite all of you to listen to Station WNYC on Thursday evening when the past Tuesday evening series, The Psychology of Emotional Growth, will be broadcast. Tonight is the second meeting of our Sunday series, 1950, Midpoint in the 20th Century. The subject for discussion this evening is Balance in an Unbalanced World, and our speaker is Mr. John B. Hughes. Mr. Hughes was born in Nebraska and spent most of his adult life as a newspaper man and radio commentator. And his byline, News and Views by John B. Hughes, his famous coast-to-coast radio listeners. Mr. Hughes, the war correspondent, and then he operated the mid-planes broadcasting system and brought some very fine radio to that section of the world. And I am very happy to present Balance in an Unbalanced World with Mr. John B. Hughes. Mr. Hughes. Thank you, Mr. Fairchild, and good evening, everyone. Balance in an Unbalanced World is like any other topic. It depends upon the interpretation of the words, the semantic understanding which is applied. Balance, one of those words like security. What is balance? I'm quite sure I haven't the slightest idea any more than I know what security is. I know what security might be for me, but I'm not sure what security might be for you. And I know what balance seems to me, but I don't know what balance might seem to you. Our desire for balance creates its own imbalance, just as our hope for security creates its own fear of insecurity. Certainly we're living in an unbalanced, unbalanced world, in an insecure world. We can tell that by reading the newspapers or listening to the radio. We know by talking with our neighbors, our family, our friends, that this is an unbalanced world. But what is balance? What is security? We have managed to devise so many new locks for our doors, our safes, so many new devices to protect ourselves, that we have created our fears. I sometimes think that we have devised so many new locks for our safes and our business offices and our homes, that we can't go to bed at night and rest in peace without that terrifying fear that our devices will not keep us safe. And so we have tried to manage balances in this world by creating organized systems and devices by which we may have some balance. We have devised our community government and our national government and we are attempting to devise a world government in order that we might have some balance among the peoples of the earth. And as we try to create these devices, and as we do devise them, we perhaps contribute to our imbalance the more. I often think of the most terrified hour I ever spent in my life. As I look back on it, I think it was the most terrified period. A more terrified hour, and it was spent in my own childhood home, in the kitchen of that home, with the doors securely locked with my mother there with me. The one person in the world in whom I had implicit faith and on whom I would place the greatest confidence. And yet I was terrified. Far more terrified than I was on a night spent in the, underneath a building that had been shattered by a typhoon that was still raging. Or more than a night spent in a foxhole back of Japanese lines during the war. And this particular night I'd like to tell you about just as an illustration of insecurity and perhaps imbalance, or unbalance, if you may, from lack of understanding. As I say, it was in the kitchen of my childhood home. It was on a night when my father was going to be away until late at night. My father was not many times away from home at that particular time. And so, my mother and I had a feeling of insecurity. There was an unfamiliar feeling about our situation that night. Mother had bolted the front door as soon as the son deserted us with his warmth and light. But there was no bolt on the back door, and she had locked it with the ordinary key. And then she had devised a safety mechanism. She took a piece of wire and put it around the shank where the doorknob was, you know, that comes out a loop of wire. And stuffed both ends down through the handle of the key. I don't know whether any of you have ever done that or not. But according to my mother's lecture on security, it was to prevent anyone from the outside, from turning the key and pushing it out, you know, or with a burglar's tools, or even if you just jiggle a key from the outside of the door, you know. An ordinary lock and an ordinary key, you can get it to fall so the thing falls down. You can push it out and then a pass key you can put in and unlock it. I've gotten into my own apartment that way many times. When I let somebody lock the key on the inside, one went and took a bath and I couldn't raise them and I knocked on the door. So a mother fixed this wire, wound it securely and pushed it through so no one could get in. During that time, she gave me a little lecture on caution. It was one of mother's chief topics in the education of a child, caution. And so we had secured ourselves from without. We had washed the dishes together and she started her ironing. I was reading from a book aloud to her as she ironed. The night was full of sounds, as nights under unfamiliar circumstances always are. Oh, there were a variety of things. There must have been a hoot owl. There was a horse whinnied somewhere in the barn nearby. There were mice, unquestionably, in the house. And there was something strange that happened, a bang, a loud bump on the outside of the house. I don't know, it might have been a boy throwing a rock or a stick or something like that. I haven't any idea what that was. There were sounds. And of course, mother, in her caution and her security, had pulled the blinds safely down. Lest some ill-meaning marauder might come by and look through the window and see that a poor, unprotected wife and child were there all alone. But at the same time, we were deprived of the opportunity of looking out into the moonlit night and knowing that the world was all right and still there. Finally, earlier in the evening, before it got dark, I had tried to find my dog. I couldn't find him anywhere. I called and whistled and he didn't show up. And finally, after we'd sat there for some time, I reading and she ironing, I heard my dog barking in the distance. Rather a vicious bark, too. We could tell that. He got closer and closer to the house and finally he was right at the back door. And he was barking very viciously. Oh, it was a tremendous bark. He was very angry, very irritated, and we were very alarmed. Now, the normal thing would have been to open the door and invite him in. Make sure that everything was all right, but we were a little bit too alarmed by that time because we couldn't see out and we didn't know what might be out there and what he might be barking at. So we didn't do that. Besides, that door was locked very securely with that wire thing over the handle of the doorknob and down through the key. And finally, all of a sudden, he gave a tremendous yelp of, like a scream. I mean, this dog, this awful yelp of fear or pain or whatever it was, I don't know, sounded like pain to us. And then he was quiet. And that terrified us the more. Especially me, because it was my dog and I could visualize him out there with a knife through his heart, his throat cut, anything could have happened. There must have been a maniac there that he was trying to protect us from who had killed my dog. And we sat tensely, Mother and I, waiting and listening. And then came that, well, we almost expected it, but there came the little gentle sound. It was as if someone were fumbling with the knob, the latch on the back door. We knew someone was trying that knob. We only had a coal oil lamp in the kitchen and we couldn't see too well, but we knew someone was trying the knob to try to get in that back door. And the sound seemed to last a long time. Then it stopped. We thought we heard a footstep. Then nothing happened for some time. I worried about my dog and terrified, too. It was tense. Mother finally tried to console me and assure me. But I had tears in my eyes. I was certain that death was not far off. She finally began to iron and at her coaxing, I finally began to read, but softly, so I could hear if the marauder, this maniac, this fiend that was trying to get into the house, should break a window somewhere else and make his way into the house. And it was a long, long, terrifying evening until we heard the solid footsteps on the front porch and my father's key in the lock. We went into the other room and he came in, followed by my dog, whom we searched for wounds. He seemed to be well. We told father the story and he went outside and searched the premises. We found no blood. We found no indication that we were, had been the intended victims. And yet I still, 35 years later, can't convince my mother that there wasn't some marauding gent on that back porch that night. That the dog chased a cat under the back porch. And that finally he got too close and the cat scratched his nose and that's why he whelped and yelped. And that then he finally came up and put his paws on the back door and touched the knob and made that noise and whined a little. We heard him, rather appealing. We thought he was crying out there, wounded. And of course, mother was a very gentle, humane sort of person. And I've seen her nurse the wounds of many a dog and risk the scratches of many a cat. But she wouldn't open that door. It was locked and wired and we were secure and safe. And yet I've never been more terrified in my life because of something I couldn't see and couldn't understand. And perhaps today, many of our fears, much of our unbalance, is generated by what we don't understand. Why don't we understand it? Why don't we understand what's going on in the world? Why don't we understand what's taking place in this organization of human beings that we call a civilized world? Why don't we understand? Well, there's some people that tell us we're being violently and maliciously misinformed. We're being misinformed. There's no question about that. But is it malicious? Is it violent? I'm not sure. I don't know. Our sources of information are the radio and the press, publication, the lecture platform. Whatever it is, our sources of information are what we in this country call free. In other words, the people who control the medium of information, I, who stand here tonight and talk to you, am saying what I want to say, and it is conditioned by my point of view. The person who publishes a newspaper and who in turn controls, to a certain extent, the people who write for that newspaper, to a certain extent, I say, and I'll come back to that, writes or edits or publishes from his point of view. The broadcaster to whom you listen speaks from his point of view. If we are misinformed, I think it is the result of bad habits of thinking in the world. I think it is the result of an extraordinarily bad development of attitude on the basis of individual thinking. Now, why? It comes over a period of time. You can't pinpoint it. You can't just say that this man or that man is the designing character who is heading us toward World War II and misleading the entire American public in order to, World War III, I mean, and misleading the entire American public to his end and his purpose. I find it difficult to believe that we have today in this world a mastermind of cunning design trying to destroy civilization. I find it even difficult to believe that that was Hitler's intent. He was a vicious man who certainly brought great disaster to the world. But he had an ideal. Most evil men have ideals. Most of these ideals, unfortunately, are not designed for individual profit. I don't find myself able to feel that William Randolph Hearst sits out at San Simeon plotting and scheming to devise what new lie he can tell to the American public. He's lied, of course, and perhaps he realizes that he has lied. It's been charged and proved many and many times. But I have an idea that he believes that he knows better than the poor, ignorant, public newspaper reader of the United States what that reader should be told. I think he probably has a very righteous feeling about his distortions of world affairs, as printed in his papers. I don't even believe that Colonel McCormick in Chicago sits up in his beautifully wood-paneled chamber, top of the Tribune Tower, and schemes about how he shall next hoodwink these people about Great Britain, about politics in the United States, about Soviet Russia. No. I believe that he has a very righteous approach to the things that he does, to the orders that he issues, to the commands that he gives, to his press, to the people who write the stories. He does dictate, of course. He has, with his words and phrases, influenced the thinking of the people of the United States a very great deal, as have our other so-called press lords. But they are creatures of habit. Habit born of, one, journalistic ideas, journalistic experience, journalistic experience, thus the journalistic habit, and two, political or economic thinking, born of attitudes toward thinking. We know that Colonel McCormick, and many of the other dictatorial, shall we say, editors of the country, dictate what they may have printed in their newspapers, which they control. That's more true of the press than it is of the rulers of radio. I'm sure of that. I say it from experience, with both of these media. Colonel McCormick has, perhaps, with the establishment of words and phrases, done almost as well as the creator of Barney Google did, with establishing the phrase, M and X, or something like that. Some of these comic strip creators have great influence, too. Colonel McCormick, at one time, decided that it was a tragic thing that a word in the American language was taboo, a medical word, and that people feared to acknowledge a certain disease. And he gave orders to his editorial staff that the front page of the Chicago Tribune should carry on a headline the word syphilis every day for 30 days. And he broke down in the Chicago area the resistance to that word to the extent that thousands upon thousands of people came to the clinics to receive treatment for something which they had feared to confess even to a doctor. But by the same token, another word, another phrase can be used to distort the thinking of the people to an unsatisfactory way to create unbalance and insecurity. The press, the venal press that has been called, and of course it is, after all, press and radio both must cater to the people who give it its support. You and I support the radio. As citizens of the United States, we support the radio and the newspapers by buying the products of the advertisers, naturally. But it's the advertisers who give the money to the radio and the newspaper, and therefore the newspapers have, and the radio, have developed a habit of not saying anything or printing anything that might offend the people who give them that support directly. Now this is a habit, understand. I don't mean that some president of a corporation calls up the editor of the newspaper or the manager of a radio station and says, don't say anything about this or don't print that or don't print the other thing or don't say this. That has happened occasionally, but that's not the practice, that's not the test of anything. It's a habit. The press and radio don't say anything about something that might offend free enterprise or the legend of free enterprise, which they believe is in the minds of the people that support them. I say the legend of free enterprise because it becomes a legend, that belief. There, more harm to real free enterprise has been done by the legend of free enterprise than by any direct attack upon it, I'm quite sure. The press and the radio are guilty of distorting the news of the world today. They are guilty of not giving us the full facts, not because of any evil intent. Please, I defend the press and radio. Why? There's a habit, you know, a bad habit, shall we say. For one thing, the cub reporter, let's go back to the beginning of the whole thing. It all starts in the city room. It starts with a young man, any correspondent, any editor, started out with city room journalism. And he starts with the idea of trying to be successful. He's ambitious. He becomes a cub reporter. But he knows that the city editor has certain habits and certain convictions and he must appeal to him. He must, sure, he must serve him. After all, that's the boss. So what happens? He wants to get his story on the front page. He wants to get a byline. His name's the head of the story. So he's got to write a thing that the city editor will like and the city editor will like it if it'll sell papers, if it'll appeal to readers. That's what you build a newspaper on, is appealing to the readers. That's why you can take some of the major newspapers and you can go down the line and take column after column and it's completely sandwiched in there. I mean, it's sex in one column, it's murder in the next, and it's world affairs, sensational world affairs in the next one. And in some papers you can find every other column sex on the front page and, or sex murder. And then the world affairs and national affairs sandwiched in sometimes down at the bottom of the page. But the cub reporter wants to get his story on the front page because if he can write a story covering a maybe insignificant thing, so what happens? He goes out, he's working for an evening paper and the deadline is one o'clock for the last edition. He goes to cover a fire. He starts out there at 12.30 and he hasn't got much time to get that thing into the evening edition. He's got to phone it into the office. He goes and it's a big fire. There are a lot of fire engines around, there's a lot of smoke and there are a lot of people running around yelling and he has very few minutes. He's got to find out fast what's going on. And so he comes along and he sees that there, he talks with a fellow there who's been standing at this particular entrance to this big building for a long time and the fellow tells him that three people have just been carried out. So he's got three people injured. So he goes on around and he comes to another entrance and he meets another fellow and the fellow tells him that three people have just been carried out of the building. He's got six now. And he goes on and pretty quick, first thing you know, he's talked with five people who saw three people carried out the building. He's got 15 people injured in the fire. And he comes up to a man who's standing wringing his hands and tearing his hair and crying aloud and the fellow obviously is important. He's well dressed and he asks and he finds out this man is the president of the company that owns this building. And he comes up to the fellow and he says, what would you estimate the loss? The fellow says, oh, it's a total loss. It's a million dollars. It's gone and the whole thing. So he's got a million dollar loss. So quick, he runs and puts a nickel in the slot and the pay phone. He calls the office. It's a million dollar fire. It's 15 people injured up to now. And that's the story. It's quick. It's on the front page. It's a headline. It's a good front page story. Three days later, you may see in page 14 that this particular fire, there was a damage of $15,000 from water damage, smoke damage, and that three firemen were overcome by smoke and were carried out during the... given first aid treatment on the scene and went on their way. Probably doesn't even get in the paper. That may be an exagger... No, it's not an exaggeration. It's happened. I did that myself. But it becomes the habit of journalism. You're always trying to beat the other fellow in the first place. You want to beat the other paper to the story. You want to get it there first. It's fast press coverage. Sure, it's wonderful. We like to get our news fast. We're dissatisfied with the newspapers because it takes them an hour of time to get them off the press before we get them at home. We've got to listen to the radio. Radio gets news fast, too. Sometimes it makes mistakes. Not because it wants to make mistakes, but because of this habit of trying to serve us, the American people, with fast news and the habit, sensational news. You can't get a headline on the front page with peace and happiness. Suppose two people sit down in a restaurant. They're having a conversation. They just talk. It doesn't make news. But suppose all of a sudden one fellow gets up from one side of the table and he picks up his salad bowl and dumps it on the head of the woman sitting across the table from him and she happens to be a moving picture star. Boy, that's news. Or suppose two people sit down across the table from each other, two men. One man has a tremendous idea. He's convinced that it will revolutionize the world. It's an idea that will be one of the greatest benefits to humanity that has ever been conceived. The only trouble with him is that it requires money to put this idea over. And he has arranged a luncheon with a man who has the money. And they sit there and this man who has the idea explains it to the man with the money to put it over. And the man with the money agrees. They shake hands. They go on their way. They create a new foundation. Fifty years later, that luncheon is recorded in history. But it didn't make news at the time. But suppose that the man with the money refused. And the man with the idea had talked to so many people trying to get his idea over that this was the last straw. He got up and he pulled a gun out of his pocket and shot the man with the money. It's on the front page. So believe me, the most important events in history today are not on the front page. Because the most important events in history today are being made in an unsensational way. What do you hear of the United Nations on the front page primarily? Russia walks out. Does that make history? No. But there are a great many of the agencies of the United Nations that are going along, working, trying, to solve the problems of human relationship in the world. And there is no sensational argument and no Russian walkout and they never get in the newspapers. Nobody knows anything about it. We have today the greatest revolution in the history of humanity in full swing. Three quarters of the people on the face of this earth are engaged in active revolution. I mean active. We're in the midst of it too. We have a revolution going on in this country. any Republican can tell you that. But there are three quarters of the people on the face of the earth that are actively engaged in it. I mean actively to the point of survival, to the point of fighting for their homes, for their livelihood, for the creation of their economic, social, and political organization. it's our fight, it's our battle. We also live on the earth. And inasmuch as these affect more than half the people of the earth, they affect every human being. And what do we know about them? We don't know anything about the revolutionary activities of the people of India. We won't hear anything more about it for a long time. As a matter of fact, we have seen very little about it in the press, heard very little about it on the radio. It was a thing that, well, they had a war out there a while back, they had some revolutionary activity, they fought the Dutch, or they fought the British, or they fought us, or they fought somebody anyway, they fought. And they were trying, some guys out there that were communists principally, were trying to set up an independent Indonesia. Well, we read the other day that now the United States of Indonesia has been established. And it's, well, that's done, that's fine, wonderful. How are they going to eat? How are they going to live? What's their economic organization? What is their political organization? What kind of a government are they going to have in Indonesia? What do we know of Indonesia? Well, undoubtedly, that many of you know something about it. What's happening in China? Certainly, the communists have won. Communist China. They can't be accepted by the United Nations because the United Nations still recognizes nationalist China, the Kuomintang, Chiang Kai-shek. How can we have anything to do with this communist who's in Moscow now, this Mao Zedong? We can't possibly recognize anything like that because we don't know anything about it. Our State Department is in a great quandary. It has been all the time about these things, and it always will be, and thank goodness it will be. There should be a quandary. But what support does it get from the people of the country who don't understand, who don't know, who can't find out? The State Department's situation in regard to Indonesia. May I tell you this little incident that happened? I have also heard the same quotations from leaders of revolution in Indonesia. Throughout Asia, the leaders of revolution during the past generation have looked to the leaders of revolution in the history of the United States. They have based their ideals and their objectives on what we accomplished in our own revolution. And they look to us for support, spiritual support as well as material support, and material as well as spiritual, because it was impossible for them to believe that we could have had such an experience in revolutionary history and not believe in these fundamentals of human rights. So do you think it is now too late for us to have influence in China? No, it certainly is not. Why is Mao Zedong in Moscow instead of in Washington? Very simple. He got material and spiritual support. Perhaps more spiritual than material? I don't know, but at least he got support. I think perhaps more spiritual than material. material. And why are there others in China today who are hesitant? Why are there others who are not in Formosa and who are not in Xinjiang, who are in Shanghai or Canton or Nanking, many of them American educated, who believe in the future of the Chinese Republic based on free enterprise and democracy in the ideal sense? And what do we know of this today? As I said, there are reasons reasons why we don't know what's going on, why we wonder whether or not our State Department is doing the right thing, why our State Department is so hesitant, why our State Department, for instance, permitted Soviet Russia to beat us to the recognition of what was a fait accompli in China, why we continued to maintain the fiction or to maintain support of a fictional government that had not existed as a leadership of people for years, only because of our sad lack information, only because of the distortions like 15 men wounded in the fire and a million dollar loss. And I again say, in defense of the press and radio, that it is not an evil design to plunge you into World War III. It is a bad habit which is difficult to correct. How are we going to correct it? Well, there isn't any easy way, but I would like to suggest a possible formula which is not original with me. I'd like to suggest one possible chance. Oh, sure, there are a lot of suggestions. Oh, goodness, we've had violent opposition, we've had George Selby's books, which nobody reads, and attacking the press, but of course, most of the attacks always come on a basis of such a specific attack that they become as violent as what they attack. So frequently this happens. The same with our citizens' committees. Too often are centered around a particular political or a particular economic organizational idea, which immediately becomes suspect by a lot of people who otherwise agree with the principle, and the first thing you know, we're going off nowhere and everybody is a communist or everybody is a fascist, and where do we get semantics again? Semantics sophistry. But there's been a suggestion that we should have a national board of review. Of course, there are some people who say that we ought to have government control, press and radio. We have plenty of examples in the world to prove that that is not right. that will not work. That is the destruction of any freedom. Because once you give a government an opportunity to control the thinking of a people, the government can come into the hands of a minority which can dictate the thinking that will mean its survival, and therefore the destruction of liberty, the destruction of everything we know as desirable, I'm sure, is threatened by that idea. The idea of a sort of national board of review, a group of outstanding men who would pass on reports to the press and radio, is almost as dangerous, almost as easy to be influenced. It's appealing in some respects, but there was a suggestion made by Milton Eisenhower, president of Kansas State College, long-time worker in public affairs, a man who has, well, he was for three years, I believe, chairman of the National Commission for UNESCO, a man who has given himself very freely to public life over a long period of time. He's a brother of the president of Columbia University, the general. Milton Eisenhower, I have known for many years, and a discussion in Manhattan, Kansas, resulted in this suggestion from him, I don't think it's been publicized before, that in each town, if we want a fair and full information from our press and radio, in each town, there might be a committee of citizens a watchdog committee, shall we say, that would take it upon itself to watch, to understand, to inform itself, and to be responsible for calling attention to the press and radio of errors for which maybe local press and radio men were not responsible. See, most of our press and radio news comes to the newspapers and radio stations out over the country by one of the three news services, AP, Associated Press, or United Press, or International News Service, and that in each case in these local committees, they watch what can be done, what is being done. He proposed that there should be a section of that committee dealing with local affairs, one dealing with national affairs, and one with international affairs, and that in each of those sections, individuals be assigned to particular fields of interest. In other words, let's say on the local committee, I suppose there would be one man assigned to the mayor, and one to the chief of police department, and one to the chamber of commerce, and one to the local labor organizations, and so on. But, and on the national level, it would be as obvious in its division. And on the international, one individual who would concern himself with each nation, and with each major conflict, or major problem in current affairs, if one man would concern himself with informing himself thoroughly, you and I don't all have the time to read everything that we can possibly get our hands on in the way of specialized information. Now, let's say that in regard to the British health plan, let's say that there had been a man in towns, in each town, who had taken it upon himself to inform himself thoroughly. He couldn't go to England, but he could get information from every possible source. It might have been possible for him to call the attention of the local editor or the local radio commentator, when that editor or commentator found himself using the propaganda that was put out falsely attacking that particular plan. Now, I don't mean to say that the British health plan is correct or it's right or that a similar plan would be right for us. That isn't what I mean at all. But we do know that there has been a lot of attack on that plan that was based on false premises, on half-truths and so forth. Okay, suppose one person were qualified and he would be able to write through the committee to the newspaper editor or the commentator and call attention to that falsehood. Or that in the case of Yugoslavia, where there has been the great, tremendous falsification and distortion during the past two years, one of the great misunderstandings of world affairs today, if one man could have fully informed himself in the town and called the attention of the editor. Now, letters to the editor are a wonderful thing. You write them, I write them. Letters to the commentator, letters to your congressman. But they are of small influence as compared with the day-after-day repetition of the pat words and phrases of the prejudiced editor, of the prejudiced commentator, who coins a phrase and hammers it and until it's being repeated, such phrases as Cold War, as Iron Curtain, as Welfare State, as Fascist this or Communist that, or read this and quite that and so forth. If such citizens' committees formed of responsible, reliable people, could be formed with specialization and with, of course, an attempt to avoid, somebody might have to lay down a blueprint on this, a sort of a master key, a sort of a suggestion plan that would prevent the fitting of bias against bias, that is, you know, whether threads would meet. You wouldn't want the threads to meet to exactly nor to be at complete right angles. In other words, in the committee, let's not put the Serbian patriot, assign him to cover Tito Yugoslavic. There would need to be an objective approach, if possible, as much as possible, and a report to the committee. It is a possibility. It is a plan. I believe that Milton Eisenhower intends to carry it further. I think he believes, intends and hopes that he may be able to carry this to a great many people in the country and to develop the idea to a point that might be effective. He has suggested doing it through the national organization of UNESCO, a worthy purpose that could engage the interest and activity of a great many American citizens who believe that a well-informed people can decide for themselves what is balance between truth and fear. What is balance in this unbalanced world? Without it, without some such approach to a balanced thinking, we have no chance of a respectable relationship between the government of the United States and the government of the Republic of China or the government of Yugoslavia. No United Nations organization can achieve it without decent approach on the part of peoples of the world to understanding with other peoples. countries. We, of course, in this country know that there has been a great deal of misinformation in other countries. The people of Nazi Germany, for instance, were fed exactly what the Nazi regime wanted them to know. The people in Russia today, in Soviet Russia, are not allowed to know the truth about world affairs. The people in Japan, pre-war Japan, were not allowed to know anything except what their military leaders wanted them to know. And those ideas, of course, were based on a superiority complex, on a world rulership idea. We know that we have no such intent. And I agree that we are not being fed by either government or our press, a diabolical fiction or mythology, such as the Japanese idea of divine origin and divine destiny, or the Nordic myth of the Nazis. But we are being given half-truths and misinformation and distortions of fact because of the bad habit of news coverage. Only the action of the people of the country can correct that. No one organization, no one letter, no one action, but only by the concerted effort of the people. Huh. We know that we don't want to rule the world. We know that, well, of course, you know this idea that the Japanese were of that divine complex. They were of divine origin. They were destined to rule the world. They haven't gotten over it yet, believe me. And the Germans, probably, most of them, or a great many of them, have not gotten over that Nordic myth that they are a superior race. And it's funny to us that these people should have these strange ideas, but does it ever occur to you that wherever men have gotten together, wherever human beings have gotten together, they believe in their superiority? any family is inclined to look down on the family next door. You can find something they haven't got that you've got. Or you can find some way in which their ancestors are not as good as your ancestors. We in this country know, of course, that we're better than anybody else on the face of the earth. We know it. We know it. We know it. That's no myth. We have better clothes. We have better food. We have better automobile. Of course, we're better off. We make more money. We have better places to live and meet and all that. We know it. But so does every group on the face of the earth know that it is superior. It is the most natural, fundamental human instinct. There's one legend, one little story about that I want to tell you, a legend in the Philippine Islands. It's a myth of the Visayans about the origin of man. When the supreme being decided to create man, he got all the raw materials together. And he molded the figure of the first man. And he molded very carefully and skillfully, and he finally had the figure created mold. In a... But then, it was necessary to complete the process. He put it in the oven to bake. And after being put in the oven, God waited a sufficient length of time, and finally he opened the oven door and took out the first man, and he was very unhappy. He had left it a little too long. It was burned black. So God was dissatisfied and put it aside, and he started all over again. He got the materials together again, and he formed another man. And he was very careful this time. He molded carefully. He made the features just the way he wanted them, and he got it all done just right and put that in the oven, and he watched very carefully this time. But perhaps he was a little bit too nervous about it all, and when he opened the oven door and took him out, he was underdone. He was white, pale. God was dissatisfied and put him aside. And so he started again the third time. He got the materials together, and this time he was very, very, very careful. He molded so carefully. He worked so skillfully. And he had the man all molded, and he put him in the oven, and he watched the temperature just right, and he watched the time. And when he took him out, man was a beautiful golden brown, and God was satisfied. Every human being on the face of this earth has reason for pride. He may not have a phi beta kappa key. He may not have a derby hat. He may not wear a sunflower in his buttonhole, or an elephant, or a donkey. But he has reason for pride. And until we, in this country, who have a free press and a free radio, demand that our information be based on the common interest of humanity, we shall be misinformed by the pure habit of an aggressively commercial world which we like. Darn it. The bad habits of man have created man's inhumanity through dishonesty to man. We can't, each of us, publish a newspaper or own a radio station. But we, each of us, can actively demand that we get the fullest possible and the fairest possible information. Only then will we have a chance of balance. Of balanced understanding. I doubt that we will ever have a perfectly balanced world. I doubt that I should want to live in a perfectly balanced world. But I would like to have a sufficient amount of balance to make war impossible. because I believe, along with one of our great atomic scientists, who said some time ago, that we're bound to have peace in the world. There's no question about it. We are now destined to have peace. The only question is whether we have peace with or without people. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Hughes, for that very nice presentation of Balance in an Unbalanced World. Thank you. I noticed that you spent most of the time basing your unbalance on something to do with newspapers and misinformation and radio stations. And here's a gentleman that writes in. Isn't balance in the world to be achieved by proper ethical education that stresses truth and honesty? Why, certainly, education is the only answer. Education is the only chance for man's understanding of man. Ethical truth and honesty are the simplest approaches, and that's all there can be. There's no other answer. Well, I do agree, I gather, sir. Yes, sir. Your name? Mr. Fishler. Benjamin Fishler. Mr. Hughes, has it been your observation that with a greatly increasing number of college graduates, that there is a lesser demand for the type of man-bite dog stories and more of the kind of information as your committees that you suggested were going to assure? Thank you, Mr. Fishler. Less demand for the man-bite dog stories and more demand for the type of committees. There is, I don't find any great change in the press and radio or publications because of an increase in college graduates. I'm afraid we have not, not got away in any way from the man-bites-dog approach to news. On that subject of the college graduates, it's a well-known understanding in the journalistic profession that a graduate of one of our good schools of journalism never is a success as a journalist. Only a man who learns through the hard school of the city room is a good newspaper man from the commercial journalistic point of view. Now, there's a field for the educated writer. He winds up writing for specialized publications which no one ever reads. When you have a newspaper with two and a half million circulation, which finds on its front page nothing but sex and flop house murders and virtually no attention to the major... What is the great story of the day? Why? Because it doesn't make headlines. You can't make headlines out of peace and happiness and success and progress. There's not too much of it going on, but there is some. But you can't emphasize it. You can't get it into the minds of people. You can't get people thinking about that. You have them thinking about Russia walks up. And I don't think there's been any change because of more college graduates. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hughes. Good evening, sir. Mr. Hughes. Excuse me. May we have your name before we start? Jack Hamlin. Mr. Hughes, since a government of any country that can never be willing nor capable to have a harmonious and respectable relationship with the people of its own country, the people who support it, the people who back it and wishes to preserve it in its power, how can you possibly expect a government of any country to have a harmonious and respectable relationship with a government of any country who do not support it, who do not back it, who did not put it in power, who do not wish to preserve it in power, but rather to destroy it because of competitive reasons and expend its own power? Thank you, Mr. Hamlin. I should like to have a chance to discuss that a little more fully and get the complete idea, but I am a little bit inclined to doubt the fact that it's impossible to have a government respected by the people who put it in power. There have been such governments. It is true that there will always be antagonism to and dispute with, difference with, the decisions of a government in power under democracy, but isn't that better than having people without the right to object, without the right to dispute, without the freedom. I can criticize from now until 7.30 tomorrow morning many of the methods, techniques, and the effects and influence of two-party government in this country, and can criticize the government, and can criticize the opponents of the government, but it does meet the needs of the people of this country to a great degree. I believe we have only come a short way toward the objective of government which is satisfactory to the people governed. I think there can never be a perfect government, but I see no reason why it is impossible for us to understand a government which meets the needs of its people, even though it is not our government, and to understand the processes of our government, even though we may not always agree with them, if we can have a fair understanding of those processes. I am saying that one of the reasons we do not, we as a people, a majority of Americans hate certain governments in the world today is because they do not understand those governments at all. That does not mean a blanket support of every government in the world, believe me. I do not mean that. But a great many of our prejudices are based on misunderstanding. So are our prejudices about our own government. Perhaps our own, many of our own government's actions are based on a lack of understanding on the part of the governed people that might help us to influence our representatives in that government. Thank you, Mr. Hughes. Mr. Schaefer would like to know, if you do not overemphasize the power of the press in view of the fact that both Roosevelt and Truman were elected in spite of the opposition of most of the American press. Well, that's very true, but you realize that there was a very, very slight minority there, a majority. I mean, you also had radio which was able to carry an appeal over and beyond the influence. Now, in things that I've been talking about, radio is denied, let us say, as far as reaching the people of this country by Tito of Yugoslavia, by the leaders of the Indonesian Republic, by the democratic leaders in China. And I do not mean the communists. I mean the democratic leaders, apart from the absolute communist leaders of the communist forces that have won the military victory. There is no way by which you, as the people of this country, can hear statements from liberals, neither communists nor Kuomintang, in China. There is no way by which you can hear any report from moderates in Yugoslavia, or any way in which you can hear a great many things about some of the factors that you are conditioned in your influence, or conditioned in your thinking, in your reaction, in your attitude, by the press and radio, in words and phrases which are based on prejudice through this habit. All right, Mr. Hughes, here's a young lady. Your name, please. Lois Reich. Mr. Hughes, does our State Department and congressional investigators come to decisions because of habit or because of the pressure which is exerted by various interested groups upon them? And also, do they get the information which influenced their decisions from the prejudiced local press? I think the State Department gets information without depending upon the press, but I think that there are individuals in the State Department who may influence decisions who are influenced by the press and by the same type of thinking. Their decisions are not motivated by the pressure of the public, but they could be to a greater extent than they are. Thank you, Mr. Hughes. Yes, good evening, sir. Murray Sims. Mr. Hughes, it was stated that writers of our daily press are faced with the problem of commercialism and therefore to create little white lies to make front page news. Will you tell me whether or not contemporaries like Westbrook Pegler, or A. All, have no malice or forethought in what they say and that their intent is not to propagandize and to indoctrinate with their own form of ideology? And then as an afterthought, I'd like to state, is there such a thing as unbiased thought? Is there such a thing as unbiased thought? No, there is no such thing as unbiased thought. It is impossible, of course, for any reporting to be 100% objective. Answering the first part of your question, I do not believe that Westbrook Pegler has the idea of destroying democracy, of overthrowing the American government, or of destroying what we consider to be the progressive civilization. He is biased violently and you and I disagree with him heartily. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good evening. Mr. Dorothek. Did not the Democratic administration set up purposely a Frankenstein of fear of the communists in order to get Congress to follow it in its demand for setting up the West against the East? Yes. Perhaps in fear, perhaps in misunderstanding. There is no question about it that it was built up. I can't put my finger on who started it. I don't know. It may have been military men. It may have been a politician who wanted to stay in office. But certainly, there has been built up. This fear of the East that is part of what I'm talking about. There is no need for this great fear, some of which has vanished right now. but they'll try to stir it up again because it makes headlines. It's sensational. It's exciting. Thank you, Mr. Hughes. Good evening. Elwood Shainer. Mr. Hughes, have you, in your experience, ever known newspaper personnel to invent news for various reasons? For example, propaganda, fill up space, and so forth? Yes, of course, they have invented news. Invented it, usually, based on an idea they picked up somewhere. I remember one very tragic story that began in San Francisco during the United Nations conference in 1945, the organization of the United Nations. A reporter, a very reputable reporter for one of our leading press associations, wrote a story based on an idle remark he heard from a waiter on the back stairs in the kitchen of the Mark Hopkins Hotel, or no, in the Fairmont Hotel where Stathinius was staying, and it hit the front pages of almost every newspaper in the United States and created an absolute false impression. It was manufactured, but that newspaper reporter was not trying to upset the conference. he was merely trying to get his story out in front. He heard a remark, he made a story out of it, it was phony, completely phony. That was ill-advised, it was irresponsible journalism, but we have it all the time. Thank you, and can we have honest sources of information when all our newspapers and radios are owned and controlled by a few millionaires? This is a question, I'm not making this up now. Now, any movement to get honest information, on the part of the people would necessarily be controlled by leaders from this rich minority. Is this so? And go ahead. I'd like to say very briefly in reply to that, that of course, the press and radio must be controlled and is controlled per se by wealthy people. It takes big investment. However, they are subject to the influence that government is subject to. As I have said, they can be influenced by the threat of an economic process. The committee that I suggested could carry forward farther its pressure. If it didn't get action out of an editor or a broadcasting station by letters, if it didn't get those letters printed, if it did not influence the editor toward fairness, not toward prejudice or toward a privileged group, but toward fairness, it could carry it forward to door-to-door operations, even to boycott. One of the most prominent of American commentators of a few years past, he is dead now, was taken off the air by his sponsors, not by the government as he was said to have charged, but by his sponsors for the simple reason that both the AF of L and the CIO applied a boycott to his sponsor's product. It began to have effect, and they canceled his $50,000-a-year contract. Another firm picked up the contract and put him back on the air. The AF of L and CIO both switched their boycott to the new firm, and he was canceled again. It can be done by concerted action. I do not recommend, in what I have suggested here from the Milton Eisenhower suggestion, the action by a limited group, but by a citizens group that will consider all of the interests of a community, be it a large community or a small community, all the interests of the people of this national community and the world community. Thank you. Is our misinformation due to habit, as you stated, or to the desire of vested interest to retain their special privileges, especially on the part of a frightened, what is this? Oh, yes, free enterprise. It's due to both. It's due to both. All right. How are you going to have a balance of peace and understanding when two nations, the United States and England, differ in their opinions of China? One recognizes Communist China and the other does not. How can this problem be solved? Well, of course, that's ridiculous. I mean, the United States has just not recognized what has already happened. That's all. All right. Well, Mr. Hughes, thank you very much for an informative evening tonight. There's a lady here.