Music with David Randolph, heard each Sunday at 5, will not be heard this afternoon because of the following special broadcast. Your city station takes this opportunity to present an important message on rent control. The Honorable Erwin Steingut, Democratic Leader of the New York State Assembly, is here in our studios to present this message which is of particular interest to the tenants of New York City. The Honorable Erwin Steingut. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. I've been asked to speak to the people of the City of New York at the request of Mayor O'Dwyer on what we consider the most important piece of legislation that will be considered by the New York State Legislature between now and the time we adjourn and we expect to adjourn next Thursday or Friday. I am a member of the so-called State Rent Commission and we've been deliberating on the kind of a bill that we thought we ought to draw for the best interest of the people of the state of New York. I had sat in at these meetings and hoped that we would be able to draw a non-partisan bill. On Wednesday of this week I was confronted with a 28-page bill in rough draft and after reading that bill I found myself in a position where I could not agree with the Republican members of the commission and more especially the governor of the state of New York because it became known as the Dewey bill. As a result of which we drew a Democratic bill. The Mayor and the Democratic members of the Legislature are opposed to the so-called Dewey Republican bill. Senator Quinn, who is the Democratic leader of the State Senate, and I as Democratic leader of the New York State Assembly, have introduced a bill that will provide effective rent control for all of the people of our state. I want to talk to you today about the differences between the Dewey bill and our bill. And we need your help to keep the Dewey bill from being passed. In a period of inflation, ladies and gentlemen, where the cost of living has been rising and rising, rent becomes an important item to the people of this nation and more especially to the people of this city. Therefore, I want to compare these two bills. And more than that, I want to call your attention seven main points of difference, important points of difference, which are vital in the writing of a good rent control law. The Dewey bill freezes rents at the level of March 1, 1950. At the present time, there is litigation pending in the courts seeking to invalidate the Sharkey laws. If this litigation is successful, then under the Dewey bill, any increase in rents until March 1, 1950, will be allowed to the landlord. And the tenants who have not been paying these increases because of the existence of the Sharkey laws will be forced to pay all these back rentals at a time when they may not be in a position to. Our bill eliminates all danger of these large back payments. It freezes New York rentals at the March 1, 1949 level. This is, in our opinion, an important difference in so far as the Dewey bill is concerned. Under the Dewey bill, rent control is ended for any apartment that was altered or remodeled since February 1, 1947. That means that any subdivision made in New York City since that date, which now has a control rent under the city law, will be decontrolled. There are thousands of such apartments in this state. They are as much entitled to the benefit of the rent control as are any other. Under our bill, they will continue to be subject to controls. The city laws now impose severe restrictions on a landlord's effort to evict a tenant and remodel his apartment. The Democratic bill continues these controls. Under the so-called Dewey bill, these restrictions are removed. Any landlord who proposes to remodel an apartment can put the tenant out, and once the alteration is completed, the apartment is no longer under rent control. I predict that if this bill becomes law, thousands of New York tenants will find themselves in danger of eviction by landlords seeking to remodel their apartments in order to remove them from rent control. Our bill eliminates this danger. It controls evictions for remodeling, and it continues such apartments under rent control. Item three. Under the city laws, rent increases have been subject to strict supervision by the city rent commission. No substantial increases have been allowed. The Dewey bill, however, provides for rent increases in two stages. Until next year, the commission can adjust rents. When a hardship has been shown, and also on the ground that comparable accommodations are producing higher rents. Our bill limits rent adjustments to cases where real hardship has been shown. But after January of next year, the Dewey bill imposes no effective limitations on rent increases. It provides that the commissioner shall formulate a rent control plan to take effect March 1, 1951. And that plan shall be effective unless it has been disapproved within 30 days by both branches of the legislature. In other words, the Dewey bill provides no safeguards for 1951 unless prompt action is taken by the legislature. This, in my opinion, is the most flagrant effort to surrender legislative authority proposed in this state in my 29 years as a member of the state legislature. It means that after the next state election, the commissioner can do anything he likes with rent control, regardless of the terms of the state law, unless both houses of the legislature disapprove his actions. In his message to the legislature, the governor proclaimed that state legislation would give tenants peace of mind. What peace of mind can they have for next year under those provisions, or these provisions, rather? Our bill provides state rent control for two additional years. Like in other legislation, it can only be changed or amended by the legislature. The city laws have two important protections for tenants. When the landlord has reduced essential services, in such a case, no rent increase can be awarded, and what is more important, the commission can decrease the rent. Our bill continues these provisions. The Dewey bill makes no provision whatsoever for rent reduction. It requires only that the landlord certify that he is giving all the services that he gave as of March 1st. The commissioner has no authority to get behind the landlord's certification. This is a curious provision, when as every tenant knows, one of the major problems faced by tenants in the decrease in services to which they are entitled. Now, item five. New York City tenants have insisted properly that rent increases should not be awarded unless tenants are accorded a full hearing with a chance to cross-examine witnesses and examine all the landlord's figures. The Sharkey law accords them that protection today. Our bill continues these protections. The Dewey bill does not, and its provisions on this subject are deceptive. It requires a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Now, any lawyer knows that these ways leave the State Commission free to limit hearings to a written protest or to a mere affidavit. Real hearings will not be provided for if this bill becomes a law. Now, item six. Our bill incorporates the strict controls upon the evictions now embodied in the New York City rent laws. The Dewey bill would weaken these controls considerably. It dispenses in many cases with any requirements of a certificate of eviction before the landlord goes to court. It permits the landlord to evict a tenant to provide accommodations for the use of relatives. It puts no limitations on evictions. And as I said, where the landlord wishes to remodel, alter, or demolish the building, a strict control upon evictions is the very heart of the New York City Rent Administration. Tenants will regret the day if these provisions of the Dewey bill become law. Now, seven. The most revealing portion of the Dewey bill is the appropriation it provides for its administration. It calls for only $1 million plus the unexpended balance of a previous appropriation making less than $2 million and a half dollars in all. The City Rent Commission estimated that it would cost more than this sum to provide an adequate administration of the city rent laws for New York City alone, regardless of the rest of the state. Where will Mr. Dewey find a highly skilled and trusted administrator of which his message spoke so glibly to administer these laws in the whole state for less than their administration costs in New York City? The only way he can do this, I assure you, is by doing away with full hearings on rent increases, the thing that we in New York City find most important in the handling of this important problem. Our bill provides, as I said, for these full hearings, and it calls for an appropriation of $4 million, because we know this is necessary if really hearings are to be held. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the legislature has but one week to go. Now, this question must be settled by next week. You can help. We need your help. There are but 63 Democrats in the Assembly out of a total of 150. There are but 25 Democrats in the Senate out of a total of 56. We are in the minority, but we're going to fight to the end that we get a rent law in this state that will give the people of New York City the kind of protection that they're entitled to. Speak to your friends, your relatives. Ask them to write a letter today to the governor of the state of New York, State Capitol Albany. Tell them that we demand the kind of a rent law that we've lived under in New York City. Tell them we'll take no less. For myself, for my party, for the mayor of the city of New York, we intend to continue this fight right up to the bitter end. We're going to demand the legislature to stay in session until we have passed a fair and an equitable rent law. I hope we can do that without rancor, without differences of opinion. We have no pride of authorship. All we want is a bill that we'll give to the people of the City of New York and to the State of New York, if you please, the kind of protection they're entitled to. This is an emergency. The people must live under these circumstances, realizing, or at least in the hope that we, the lawmakers of the state, will give them the protection that they are entitled to. We'll continue the fight. You must help by writing to the governor, to your senator, to your assemblyman, and more especially to the legislative leaders. The fight has just begun. I hope that we will come out victorious. I don't know what is in store for us next week. Rest assured that we'll give no quarter until our friends in the legislature, the Republican members of the legislature, see eye to eye with us. And I hope that when we have concluded the business of the legislature next year, New York City and the State will get the kind of a rent bill that, in the final analysis, will be fair, not only to the tenants, but to the landlords as well. We want a fair bill. We want an honest bill. We want to give the tenants of this city the kind of protection they're entitled to. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Don't forget to write these letters as I asked you to a moment ago. You've been listening to a special message on rent control, presented by the Honorable Erwin Steingut, Democratic Leader of the New York State Assembly. This message has been presented by your city station in the public service. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
