Commemorating the anniversary of the death of the late President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, ceremonies commensurate with the occasion will be held at his former home at Hyde Park, New York. We now join the networks for these ceremonies during which the President of the United States will speak. This day is the second anniversary of the death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 32nd President of the United States. And on this late afternoon, several hundreds of persons have gathered on grounds of the Roosevelt estate in Hyde Park, New York, not far from the flower-covered grave of the nation's wartime President. In this broadcast, we shall hear first from Henry Morgansaw, former Secretary of the Treasury and now President of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Foundation. Here is Mr. Morgansaw. Ladies and gentlemen, we've come here as friends and neighbors of Franklin D. Roosevelt to pay homage to him on the second anniversary of his death. These services have been arranged by the Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial Foundation. His purpose is to create a living memorial which will perpetuate the Iberia for which Franklin D. Roosevelt lived and died. He will begin with an invocation by the Reverend Frank Wilson, chaplain of United States Navy. Let us pray. Almighty God and most merciful Father, who has given unto us a lively faith and hope after that thy dearly beloved Son, Jesus Christ, died and rose again from the dead, we commend to thy continual care all those precious souls now in paradise with thee, especially thy servant Franklin, to whom was delivered the office and the will to accomplish for mankind everywhere those things that belong to their peace and welfare, for his ministry and prophetic vision, and that thou hast not faith to call many to be stewards of the same ideals for which he spent himself, we render unto thee thanks, we praise and worship thee, and we humbly beseech thee, as we call upon thy holy name, that we may continue to show ourselves thankful for these benefits and for those greater yet to come, by going forward with bold confidence and true loyalty, that the heathed stone may grow to its full fruition, namely, thy blessed kingdom to cover the earth, and mankind's redemption to be accomplished. Send thy blessing upon this assembly, and those which will follow in the years to come, that the good work begun, continued, and ended indeed, may become the answer to our prayer, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Wilson. Friends, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial Foundation is precisely what its name implies. An organization formed to honor the memory of the late president, and to aid in the perpetuation of the principles of democracy for which he lived and died. This foundation is dedicated to the establishment of a monument, not of marble or granite or bronze, but to a living memorial. Franklin D. Roosevelt was profound in his belief in the importance of education as an instrument for the achievement of freedom from what? Freedom from fear, in attaining the ideals of democracy. Guided by this ideology, the foundation is planning the establishment of a system of international scholarships. These scholarships will be endowed for the encouragement of study and research, and the stimulation of the broadest possible dissemination of the results of that study and research. Like the famous Rhodes Scholarship, students from all over the world will be able to live and study in America, get to know our people, understand our ways of life, and carry this knowledge back when they return to their native land. While the plans for the development of this broad living memorial are being elaborated and considered, it is obvious that the element of time requires that at least one preliminary project be undertaken immediately. To that end, the foundation is now concentrating its preliminary work on a basic project, that of assembling the record of the life of Franklin D. Roosevelt and the historic times in which he served the people while in public office. This record should be complete, it should be accurate, it should undoubtedly be varied in form and voluminous and extent. Obviously, it cannot be assembled in photo in the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, here at Hyde Park, on any one place, anywhere on earth. It is hoped that much of it will be deposited in the Hyde Park Library, but a central part of it will be in the Library of Congress, the National Archives, in the libraries of universities and various other institutions, and in private hands in this country and in all countries. Some of the record exists not on paper anywhere, but in the memories of individuals still living. These recollections must be recorded to the fullest possible extent through the means of letters and interviews. In the pursuance of this preliminary project, the foundation will main contact through consultants and special committees, with scholars in the fields, not only in education, history, and the social sciences, but with those of all other scholarly disciples as well, to the end, that the material assembled may, as far as it is humanly possible, be fully accurate, objective, and as time progresses, that will be made available to students and to writers. The foundations will seek contributions for the support of its broad general purposes as well as for this specific project of the assembly of historical materials, which in the nature of things is set first in point of time, so that the materials may be collected before they disappear. The work that are here, I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of presenting to you Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt, ladies and gentlemen, I am very much gratified on this second anniversary of my husband's death, that the Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial Foundation was able to announce its plans for a real and continuing memorial to his memory. I am, of course, deeply interested in making available the papers and collections which deal with the period in which he was active in public life to the historians of the future. Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt, the history of the history of the history of the history of the history of the history of history of history, history is valuable as it throws light on the past to enlighten us on what we may do in the present. The scholarship which have been suggested for the future will carry out one of the aims very dear to my husband's heart. I am sure that he felt that we needed education in the art of living together. Mr. Franklin D. Pittsburgh Dr. Franklin D.George Mr. Buddha better financing on everything in the world except on man and his ability to get on with other men. This man felt that today our great trouble lay in the fact that we knew so little about man himself and we could help so little when difficulties arose between man and man. Stripes, wars, all the disturbances that confront us today arise out of our lack of knowledge as to how to train man to promote the interest and understanding which must exist in a cooperative society as against a competitive one. As we look back over history, we are deeply interested in the people who in different periods led the nation and left their mark on the growth of the nation. We know quite well that what they contributed in their day would not be an adequate contribution to our own day. What they did contribute, which is never-ending, is the character and spirit they brought to their public life. If they had courage in meeting the questions of their day, they will inspire courage in new generations to meet new questions that confront a new period. If they had some spiritual qualities or some intellectual qualities, they spur people to move forward and that will be a continuing spur to future generations. When people talk today about preserving the new deal, I am always a little amused because to meet the problems of today, there would indeed have to be a new deal. And such solutions as met the years of the Depression in history and prepared us to carry on the most difficult war in history would probably not be the solution to meet the problems of peace as they face us today. A wise and much-traveled friend of mine said the other day that one of the things we need to really help Europe today and to gain an understanding of Russia is a real knowledge of the present outlook on life. The present, the man of the soil all over Europe, is the man who needs to be inspired and to gain courage to build up his devastated land. Too few of us in this country have an understanding of the people who have formed the basis of European society and perhaps more than we realize of far-eastern society. Perhaps the curiosity that characterized my husband about all things which he touched in life is one of the characteristics that we need above all others in approaching the problems of a world returning to peace after a most devastating period of war. The Memorial Foundation, under its present guidance, will, I am sure, develop into an interesting organization which will help to bring to bear on the problems of today the spirit which found the answer to problems in 33 and in 41 and which will never be satisfied by the past but will see to it that the past helps to illuminate the future. That was the spirit in which my husband lived. We take you now to Kansas City. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. My fellow countrymen, one year ago today, I stood in silence beside a newly built tomb in the Rose Garden of Hyde Park. The tomb is a simple memorial of pure white marble. The inscription on it tells only that the man whose Hyde lies there was born in 1882 and that he died in 1945. But there is another and greater memorial to Franklin Delano Roosevelt which tells a fuller story. That story has been told to me a thousand times. I have seen it in the eyes. I have heard it in the words and I have read it in the hearts of men and women all over the country. It has come to me from those whom I have met in my travels on trains, on ships, and in the air. Even in foreign countries. It is a natural human response of people everywhere to something in the character and personality of Franklin Roosevelt. It is a response to his understanding and his sympathy for suffering. An understanding and a sympathy that were deep and sincere because they were born of a tragic personal experience. That experience made Franklin Roosevelt peculiarly sensitive not only to the sorrows and sufferings of others but also to their most cherished hopes and aspirations. More impressive than marble monoliths or anything printed on paper or carved in stone is the unending pilgrimage to that sheltered grave behind the high hemlock hedge above the Hudson. In the 12 months just past a half million persons have stood where I stood a year ago today. Time will confirm Franklin Roosevelt's outstanding place in history. It is not for me or for any of his contemporaries to attempt to measure his great stachy or to estimate the impact of his words in his deeds upon the days of his years. Today, as I face back to my visit to his grave a year ago, it is uppermost in my mind that he was a great humanitarian. That he brought hope and courage to despairing hearts when fear was destroying the face of the people. And that, through the most terrible war in history, he remained a symbol of fortitude, justice, and humanity. Franklin Roosevelt rests in a spot he held dear, his home. He died fighting for what he loved most, his country, his home, his institution, his people, sharing their stubborn belief in freedom under a just God whose almighty beneficence, in whose almighty beneficence rests the hope of the world this day. His home and his grave are in the nation's kingdom. let us bow together in a moment of silence tribute to his memory. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard the President of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. Warители of the United States プンネルrar Lets go inside for the United States and Mr.esp Sioux of the United States and Mr. Hayır est intoruction and 결과 of the American Wasser and suspense Obrig jednak for our our families have 찾아 our Representatives and for our our women eating The End The End