The radio's microphones are now on the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall, and the occasion is commemorating the inaugural flight of the Italian Line Service, and a distinguished committee has turned out to wish good luck to this event. Mr. Whaler, Mr. Pope has just asked for the anthem. I wonder if he's doing this than the Bradwickioso Perquè program ... There has power, but it's not gonna be spec translation, as to that and the blinking reports... ...but at the Harvest 것이 there! This is a fun harvКА. I've never chosen to report it on the IB side to suggest that when you listen to light Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. General Generoso Pope, Jr. is presiding, and he will introduce the regular order of program, a reception by the mayor of the city of New York, commemorating the inaugural flight of the Italian Air Service. Mr. Pope. Prince Bocelli, Mayor O'Dwyer, Your Excellencies, Ambassador Tarcani and Ambassador Dunn, Councilmanic President Impeletteri, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen. We are gathered here today to commemorate the inaugural flight of the new Italian airline. I'm very happy to see so many dignitaries present, because we cannot underestimate the importance of this new Air Service. Not only is it a service to both the people of Italy and the United States, but it is symbolic of the great recovery put forth by Italy since the war. I want to take this opportunity to congratulate all of you connected with the Italian airline for doing such a magnificent job. And now I'm very happy to present an American of Italian origin who holds one of the highest positions in the city government of the city of New York. The President of the City Council, the Honorable Vincent Impeletteri. Mr. Pope, Your Excellency Ambassador Dunn, Your Excellency Ambassador Takiani, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I am very happy indeed today to participate in the ceremonies which mark such a very important event in good relations between our city, our country, and the people of Italy. It was my pleasure on behalf of Mayor O'Dwyer and the people of the city to witness the arrival at Idlewild Airport of the Italian Lady, which was the first plane of Lini Eri Italiani and which inaugurated direct air service between New York and Rome. On board the plane were the distinguished United States Ambassador to Italy, the Honorable James Clement Dunn, Prince Pacelli, President of the New Line, and many outstanding representatives of the Italian government and of the airlines. This event at Idlewild, as well as this event today, has a two-fold significance, both of which are of tremendous importance to our countries. First, it shows the tremendous strides which have been made in the post-war rehabilitation of Italian industry, largely through cooperation with American policy and American business. Secondly, and more important, this is another great milestone in continuing the strong bonds of friendship which exists between our two countries. This new airline brings us closer together in our common purpose for the preservation of the great liberties we enjoy as democratic nations. We all certainly realize how tremendously important this cooperation between Italy and America is today in this troubled world picture. I am not acting in the role of the mayor's representative in this program because the gentleman who made this ceremony possible and who, throughout the years, has demonstrated warm feeling and understanding for the people of Italy is present with us today. I refer, of course, to the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. For myself, I want to publicly congratulate all the persons whose cooperation and effort have resulted in the establishment of the LAI and express the wish for a most successful future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Impelitari. Now, it's a pleasure and a privilege to introduce a man who, since the end of the Second World War, has done a magnificent job of representing the Italian government here in the United States. His Excellency, the Italian ambassador to the United States, Alberto Tarchiani. Mr. Mayor, Ambassador Don, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great satisfaction for me to be here today to express the feeling of the Italian people and to thank Mayor O'Dwyer and all the municipal authority for this splendid reception that they gave to the new Italian airplane that arrived from Italy only two days ago. So, this is a new and great evidence of friendship. Mayor O'Dwyer gave many of this evidence to the Italian people. And I am glad and happy to remember what he did for the city of Rome when he was in charge of the food that the Romans could consume during the terrible month of June and July 1944. Mayor O'Dwyer, in that occasion, did what any Roman would have liked to do. Really, he represented for the Roman people a blessing that will be always remembered. In every occasion, when there is to give a proof of sympathy and friendship to Italy, Mayor O'Dwyer at the city of New York is always ready and give the best possible welcome and the best possible reception. I am very happy to thank him again in the name of the Italian people, because for the Italian government, we will talk briefly, my friend, the Under Secretary Malintoppy, in the name of the Italian people to say to Mayor O'Dwyer at the city of New York, thank you, and God bless America. Thank you, Ambassador Tarkiani. The next speaker is a man who has given much help for the recovery of Italy since the last war. He has taken time out from his busy routine to fly over on the inaugural flight of the new Italian airline. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a privilege to present the United States Ambassador to Italy, the Honorable James C. Dunn. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Pelletieri, Ambassador Tarkiani, and all of my fellow passengers, on the Lai trip. I really am just a passenger. I'm a little bit off my beat right here. But to me, it was a great pleasure to accept this invitation to come on the inaugural flight of the first commercial Italian airline, direct from Italy to New York. And I must say that they deserve the greatest compliment and congratulations for the organization and the smooth running of the flight. And I hope that they will go on for many, many years. The last time I saw our distinguished host, he was in the uniform of a general of the United States Army. We worked together during the war at that period. And I see that although he may have taken off the uniform, he's still in there swinging. And we need him very much. I also wanted to thank him myself deeply and on the part of all my Italian fellow passengers for the honor that he has given to Italy today in preparing this reception and marking here in the city of New York the advent of the arrival of this first flight. Because, of course, to Italians, New York is even a greater city than it is to us Americans. They look to New York for everything. It's the best of everything. And when the city of New York, in the person of its mayor, takes his valuable time to receive the Italian visitors, they deeply appreciate it and it will be deeply appreciated in Italy. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ambassador. And now, representing the Italian government, the Under Secretary of Civil Aviation, Enrico Malintropi. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Signor Sindaco, Signori e Signori, a nome del Governo italiano che ho l'onore di rappresentare in questa solenne cerimonia, esprimo il più vivo ringraziamento per l'onore che avete reso ai rappresentanti della compagnia Lai che ha inaugurato il servizio che collega Roma con la vostra città. Questo onore va anche, oltre che al merito degli organizzatori della Lai, va anche a tutta l'aviazione italiana. Io porterò il ricordo. L'eco di questa vostra simpatica manifestazione in Italia come segno della amicizia sempre crescente tra il nostro e il vostro grande paese. Thank you, Secretary Malintropi. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it's an honor to present the mayor of one of the largest Italian cities in the world. And I know that he really has a soft spot in his heart for the people of Italy. The mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer.zan?hot uh pretend вокals Mr. Polk, Mr. Pelletieri, distinguished ambassadors, Secretary for Aviation, my colleague, his honor, the mayor of Boys Town, and my dear friends, and my dear friends, and my dear friends, who have come here to celebrate an occasion which is not unusual and has not been unusual since the war. So, we have been expanding our airports, as you know, in the belief that the permanent peace of the world would require a city as large as New York to meet every demand of international and national communications, particularly so in the field of aviation. And it is true that over and over again, since 1946, when this administration came into City Hall, that we have new lines from new cities, from new countries coming through our city, and we have been expanding, as I said, our facilities in order to accommodate them. But never have we had one of these new openings that brought with it the improvement of communications, and in doing so, and in doing so, carried such a precious cargo, as did this one airplane that left Rome to come to New York. When it came here, there were hundreds of thousands of people that said a secret prayer of thanks to God Almighty, that a country so ravaged as Italy was during the past years, should be able to bring itself together so quickly in such a few years, so that it could match in the ultimate of transportation, the engineering brains, the financing and the management of an airline that would start from Rome and land in New York, and would start from New York and land in Rome within a period of 18 hours. For me personally, I have an opportunity of saying to Ambassador Dunn, that the days of which he has been kind enough to speak, and also to Ambassador Tartian, of June, July, and August, and September of 1944, we had an opportunity in those days to see a people completely lashed and reduced to the last word in hopelessness. I remember when my assignment to Rome took place, I was honored with the personal rank of minister, which brought me into the State Department for advice and guidance. I remember how patiently Ambassador Dunn, then a high-ranking officer in the State Department, trained me for what I was to see, the human problem that existed among the 24 million people south of the Pisa-Rimini Line. The war was still on, above the Pisa-Rimini Line. How informed he was, how deep was his sympathy for human beings that had been ravaged beyond measure, not only with one army going south and one army going north, but with years of shortages of food and clothing and medicine that preceded the actual warfare on the peninsula. I'm grateful to him, I was grateful to him then, I was deeply grateful to him when I arrived at Rome to take up my post, and I have never had an opportunity of congratulating him and the people of Italy. Before this moment, that is another reason why I am grateful for the chance to tell Ambassador Dunn how thankful I am to him, and how grateful we all are that he is the man who represents the United States among the 47 million people in a land we all love. So then, going back, those years go by so quickly, uh, 244, and looking at the condition of the people of Italy then, the hunger, the lack of housing, the clothes, worse than that, almost a lack of hope, who came out from under the chariot wheels of war to face a new world with enemy hands against them, even in their lowest state, and how grateful they reached for any hand that would give them the hope of survival. And of course, they looked, not only to New York, but to the United States of America, and with good reason. Their people had done so much in the building of this nation. Not to speak of discovering it. Their people had done so much to win the war. In 1944, which was then drawing to a close, the hundreds and thousands of their blood relatives who wore the uniform of the armed services of the United States and who gave up all they had, their lives, that freedom throughout the world might be preserved, and they did look to us. And it was with the kindness of Ambassador John, the understanding, that gave those of us who were sent into the front, uh, portions of that recovery program. It was there they knew the hope would come. Now what was done for them was not too much. And I would be the last one today, this, on this glorious stage, to say that they were hand fed. What was done for them was to give them just a little chance. What they did was to take advantage of that chance, to build and to work and to remain true to ideals that were, for which they learned at their mother's knees. And which we find culminating this new, here in New York, in a mark of progress, that measures with the best of the postwar world. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, not I alone, but New York City, welcomes you heartily. The cause of this visit means so much, and spells out the progress that you have made, and finger points at the direction in which a great people are bound to pass. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the President of Linea Area Italiana, Prince Don Marcantonio Pacelli. Mr. Paul, Mr. O'Dwyer, Your Excellency Ambassador Dan, Your Excellency Ambassador Tartiani, Ladies and gentlemen, my friends of the LAI. I believe I must not say many things about what we are doing, because so many people more important than I am, told very beautiful things, perhaps more beautiful than we married, about the new Italian airline. I want only to tell you about the consideration that I made two days ago, when we were flying between Italy and New York. We were at the altitude of about 20,000 feet, between the sky and clouds. And I was saying to myself, perhaps in this moment there are so many airplanes that are flying between Europe and the United States. When we land three minutes before, another airplane will land. And three minutes after, another airplane will fly for another destination. Perhaps our arrival is not very important. It is one of the main planes arriving every day in this big city, in one of the big airports of New York. But when we arrived, they opened the door of their airplane, and we stopped for a few minutes on the stairs, listening to the Italian hymn and the American hymn. I looked around me, and I saw the Italian flag near to the American flag. I looked into the haze of all the gentlemen, of all the people who was before us. I felt, I can't say I saw, because it was not only a feeling, it was something real. I saw in the haze of the gentlemen the same feeling I had in my heart. And I began to believe that the people who were waiting for us were not only some people waiting for some airplanes, but they were brothers waiting for someone of whom they have been waiting for a long time. And I began to see that we were really expected. Not only, not expected for the, I say, for our service, because it's one of the many services, but because they were waiting for the Italian flags between the other flags that are in the airport, situated in this line. What can I say now? I could say to you that we will do our best to give a good exercise, to give a good service between the two nations. I can promise it because I am, I am full of faith in our organization, I am faithful in our very good pilots. But I am also sure, permit me to say, that we will have a certain success because we trust in your help, because we are sure to find here real friends who will do their best for the success of our company. Now I want to repeat again all my gratitude to the major, and to the other gentlemen of the municipality of New York, about the very kind welcome, and about everything they did for us in these days. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Prince Pacelli. We will now hear some selections from the Department of Sanitation band, and would you kindly remain seated, ladies and gentlemen, while the guests file off the dais. Thank you. Radio's microphones were in the Board of Estimate room here in City Hall today, when the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, met with the officials who arrived on the first flight of the Italian Air Laird to the United States. The first flight of the Italian Air Laird was held in the city hall today. The mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, met with the officials who arrived on the first flight of the Italian Air Laird service established between Rome and New York City, a service that will take us from the Eternal City to New York, and New York to the Eternal City in a period of 18 hours. The distinguished guests presented by the Honorable Generoso Pog, Jr. who presided, the Honorable Vincent Embrace, and the Honorable Vincent Embrace, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, President of the City Council, who spoke representing one of the outstanding descendants of the Italian nation who has come up to great eminence in this great city of New York, His Excellency Senior Alberto Tachiani, an Italian Ambassador to the United States, His Excellency James C. Dunn, United States Ambassador to Italy, the Under Secretary of Aviation for the Italian Government, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, and Prince Marc Antonio Pacelli, President of the Italian Airlines. The Mayor's Committee, under the chairmanship of the Honorable Groveray Whelan, had as its presiding officer today the Honorable Generosa Pope, Jr., the descendant of a fine, splendid citizen of Italian birth, who just a few months back was in this city hall honoring and giving out scholarships for the Columbus Prizes. And unfortunately, whose face is missing from the scene today, his young son Generosa Pope took up the torch flung by his highly respected and beloved father and presided as chairman here today. That is all from City Hall. We return you now to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. condiciones of the United States, Parkinson APUCATION, and Idoneme Es rescind him to the National Body радing system. APPLAUSE insanely Mr. Polk, Mr. Pelletieri, distinguished ambassadors, Secretary for Aviation, my colleague, his donor, the mayor of Boys Town, Monsignor Carol Abing, ladies, and distinguished friends who have come here to celebrate an occasion which is not unusual and has not been unusual since the war. We have been expanding our airports, as you know, in the belief that the permanent peace of the world would require a city as large as New York to meet every demand of international and national communications, particularly so in the field of aviation. And it is true that over and over again, since 1946, when this administration came in to City Hall, that we have new lines from new cities, from new countries coming to our city. And we have been expanding, as I said, our facilities in order to accommodate them. But never have we had one of these new openings that brought with it the improvement of communications. And in doing so, carried such a precious cargo as did this one airplane that left Rome to come to New York. When it came here, there were hundreds of thousands of people that said a secret prayer of thanks to God Almighty, that a country so ravaged as Italy was during the past years should be able to bring itself together so quickly in such a few years so that it could match in the ultimate of transportation. the engineering brains, the financing and the management of an airline that would start from Rome and land in New York, and would start from New York and land in Rome within a period of 18 hours. For me personally, I have an opportunity of saying to Ambassador Dunn that the days of which he has been kind enough to speak in the, and also to Ambassador Tarkiani, of June, July, and August and September of 1944, before we had an opportunity in those days to see a people completely lashed and reduced to the last word in hopelessness. I remember when my assignment to Rome took place, I was honored with the personal rank of minister, which brought me into the State Department for advice and guidance. I remember how patiently Ambassador Dunn, then a high-ranking officer in the State Department, trained me for what I was to see, the human problems that existed among the 24 million people south of the Pisa-Rimini line. The war was still on above the Pisa-Rimini line. I remember how informed he was, how informed he was, how deep was his sympathy for human beings that had been ravaged beyond measure, not only with one army going south and one army going north, but with years of shortages of food and clothing and medicine that preceded the actual warfare on the peninsula. I'm grateful to him. I was grateful to him then. I was deeply grateful to him when I arrived at Rome to take up my post, and I have never had an opportunity of congratulating him and the people of Italy before this moment. That is another reason why I am grateful for the chance to tell Ambassador Dunn how thankful I am to him and how grateful we all are that he is the man who represents the United States among the 47 million people in a land we all love. Thank you. Going back, those years go by so quickly, 244, and looking at the condition of the people of Italy then, the hunger, the lack of housing, clothes, worse than that, almost a lack of hope, who came out from under the chariot wheels of war to face a new world with enemy hands against them, even in their lowest state, and how gratefully they reached for any hand that would give them the hope of survival. And, of course, they looked not only to New York, but to the United States of America, and with good reason. Their people had done so much in the building of this nation. Not to speak of discovering it. Their people had done so much to win the war. In 1944, which was then drawing to a close, the hundreds and thousands of their blood relatives who wore the uniform of the armed services of the United States and who gave up all they had, their lives, that freedom throughout the world might be preserved, and they did look to us. And it was with the kindness of Ambassador Dunn, with an understanding, that gave those of us who were sent into the front portions of that recovery program. It was there they knew the hope would come. Now, what was done for them was not too much, and I would be the last one today, on this glorious occasion, to say that they were hand-fed. What was done for them was to give them just a little chance. What they did was to take advantage of that chance to build and to work and to remain true to ideals which they learned at their mother's knees, and which we find culminating this noon here in New York in a mark of progress that measures with the best of the post-war world. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, not I alone, but New York City welcomes you heartily because this visit means so much and spells out the progress that you have made and finger-points the direction in which a great people are bound to track. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.