The Birth of American Democracy. We present another in the series of dramatic programs created by students of the high schools of New York. This dramatic sketch, The Birth of American Democracy, is brought to you by the students of New Utrecht High School of Brooklyn. You next hear the voice of your student announcer. America, in the 1600s, a land to which the oppressed of Europe come. Puritans, Catholics, Presbyterians, Separatists, Independents, all those who do not conform to the established Church of England. Both James I and Charles I hold rigidly to the theory of divine right of kings, and consistently harass, persecute, and threaten religious minorities. London, England, 1601. James I, Addressing Parliament. As it is atheism and blasphemy to dispute what God can do, so it is presumptuous and high contempt in a subject to dispute what a king can do, or to say that a king cannot do this or that. And as for all these groups within my kingdom who do not heed to the royal call, I will hurry them out of the land. Amen. At last, the only recourse of the oppressed is to turn away from the old world and cross the Atlantic. And it is in America that the seeds of democracy are sown, where the idea of human rights, the theory of rule by the will of the majority, first takes root. November 11, 1619. On board the Mayflower. John Carver reading the Pilgrim Compact. We, the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign Lord King James, solemnly and in the presence of God, combine ourselves together in a civil body politic, and by virtue thereof, do enact such just and equal laws from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the colony. Amen. April 21, 1620. Maryland. Act of toleration is established. And for the more quiet and peaceable government of this province, be it therefore enacted that no person whatever within this province shall henceforth in any way be troubled in respect of his or her religion. 1701. William Penn reads the Charter of Liberty to the people of Pennsylvania. I do hereby grant and declare no person inhabiting in this province who shall confess one almighty god, the creator, shall in any way be molested. Hey! Hey! And to the new world come not only the oppressed religious groups, but indentured servants, debtors taken from prisons in which they would have had to spend their lives. Poverty-stricken peasants driven off the lands come to America to realize new hopes, new faiths, and newly found liberty. At last, 13 colonies are founded along the Atlantic coast. Broad lands are tilled by farmers and frontiersmen who push their way westward. And in a short time, there arises a young and vigorous American merchant class, desiring above all else to be given the chance to develop the rich resources of the new world and convert these into goods the world will borrow. The 13 colonies in the early 1700s. The merchants are handed at every turn by restricting laws. The farmers and frontiersmen are prevented by law from going west. And the southern planters are crushed by burdening debts. London, England, 1763. Lord Grenville speaks before the cabinet of His Majesty, King George III. If His Majesty needs revenues, why does His Majesty, King George, deem it necessary to levy taxes on his own merchants of the mother country? Rather, is it not fitting and proper that His Majesty levy these taxes on the colonies, whose rich land His Majesty doth own, and who owe him allegiance? The colonies have been displaying an unbecoming rebellious spirit of late. And His Majesty has but to issue lits of assistance to His royal officers in America to enforce the law on the colonies. British forces under the direction of General Gage arrive in America and are quartered in the homes of the unwilling colonists. Boston, Massachusetts, 1763. Messenger of His Lordship, Governor Hutchinson of Massachusetts. Be it hereby established that whatsoever goods thou buyest, sellest, and transactest must bear upon its surface the seal of Our Majesty, King George III. Dead goods to include play cards, dice, hardwoods, woolens, hats, flops... Boston merchants call town meeting. We do hereby condemn the villainous ordinance from England, which demands taxes on our commodities of trade. No law could be more insidious than its intent. Or if our trade may be taxed, our land, the produce of our lands, and everything we possess, will sooner or later come a direct domination of England. Massachusetts Women's League. We pledge ourselves to boycott all British woolens and to work spinning and weaving with greater energy than ever, from sunrise to dawn. Maidens from Providence. Let us vow to favor no suitors who approve the stamp act. Society of Sons of Liberty. The first man that I distribute to make use of stamp paper, let him take care of house, person, and effects. Burn the stamp, we say! Burn the stamp! Stamp Act Congress, 1765. No taxation without representation. No taxation without representation. No taxation without representation. In 1766, the Stamp Act was repealed, but England holds rigidly to a right to extract money from her colonies. London, England, representative of the wealthy monopoly, the East India Company, chartered by His Majesty, comes before the House of Peers. If His Majesty and our wealthy peers would grant us permission, we could raise much revenue for the coffers of the state. We have in our possession large quantities of tea gotten from the far corners of the earth. In selling this tea directly to the people of the colonies, we will turn over much of our profits to His Majesty. The East India Company has granted monopoly rights to sell tea to the 13 colonies. Messenger of the Royal Governor of New York to the people. No American merchants can sell tea in the colonies. This right is reserved for the East India Company of England. Riots in the colonies. Farmers, blacksmiths, barbers, carpenters. Whole meeting and protest. Boston. No tea shall be landed. New York. No tea shall be landed. Philadelphia. No tea shall be landed. Boston Tea Party, 1773. 18,000 pounds worth of tea of the East India Company dumped into Boston Harbor. Tyranny strikes swiftly. The intolerable acts are passed. Boston ports are closed. Town meetings are forbidden. Legislatures are discontinued. General Gade sends troops in the dead of night to arrest American leaders. Paul Revere rouses the Minutemen. The battles Lexington and Concord and the American Revolutionary War is on. 1778. 1778. Patrick Henry before the Virginia Houses of Burgesses. The war has actually begun. Why stand we here idle? Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains or slavery? I know not what course others may take. But as for me, give me liberty. Or give me death. The Tories in America support the crown of England. The merchants, farmers, frontiersmen, artisans and planters demand freedom from restrictions. Agitation grips the country. May 23rd, 1778. Editor of the New York Gazette, a Tory paper, speaks. The American Revolution is being stirred up by a few crafty men who play upon the ignorance and passions of the mob. And these conspirators are an infernal, dark-designing group of men. Obscure, petty-fogging attorneys. Bankrupt shopkeepers. Outlawed smugglers. Wretched banditti. The refuse and dregs of mankind. 1775. Thomas Paine issues his pamphlet, Common Sense. Britain is the parent country, say some. Then the more shame upon her conduct. This new world hath been the asylum for the persecuted lovers of civil and religious liberty from every part of Europe. Everything that is right or reasonable pleads for separation. 100,000 copies of Common Sense sweep the country. July 4th, 1776. Thomas Jefferson signing the Declaration of Independence. These are self-evident truths. That all men are created equal. And endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. That among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The purpose of government is to make such rights secure. For these reasons, governments are instituted among men. Deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, the people have a right to alter or abolish it. And institute a new government in a form most likely to affect their safety and happiness. The American Revolutionary War lasts for seven years. The Ballyforge, Trenton, Saratoga. The Continental Army in desperate straits. Benedict Arnold plots to surrender West Point to the British. Will England subjugate the colonies? France hastens to send aid to the invaded country. Lafayette arrives in America. The long is the American Republic. Kosciuszko, Sturbin, DeKalb, Pulaski. International soldiers of freedom arrive to aid America. 1781. Cornwallis surrenders at Yorktown. 1783. England signs the Treaty of Paris. The American Revolutionary War is won. America is now an independent republic. And America goes back to work to reap the fruits of peace and liberty. But only a firm united nation could win the respect of the entire world. Delegates from every state except Rhode Island meet at Philadelphia. 1787. A constitution is framed. But the people, led by Thomas Jefferson and others, insist that the constitution become a real people's constitution. 1787. Thomas Jefferson speaking to the people. I wish, with all my soul, that the conventions may accept the new constitution. Because this will secure to us the good it contains, which I think great and important. But I equally wish, that they may refuse to accede to it, till a declaration of rights be annexed. By a declaration of rights, I mean freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of commerce against monopolies, trial by juries in all cases, no suspension of the habeas court. From Georgia. Complete religious freedom for all people. From Maryland. Freedom of speech. From New York. Freedom of the press. From Pennsylvania. Freedom of assembly. From Massachusetts. Freedom to petition. Freedom. Freedom. Freedom. Freedom. Freedom. James Madison introduces the Bill of Rights as the first ten amendments of the Constitution of the United States. The Bill of Rights has been an inspiration not only to the American people, but to people of all lands who suffered persecution, oppression, and tyranny. It has stood out as a beacon light for democracy and human rights. And, under the protection of this great Constitution, people from many lands came to settle in America. Italians, Germans, Swedes, Russians, Spaniards, Irish, Scotch, French, all races and religions. Our roads have been built. Our mines have yielded coal. Our buildings have soared into the skies by the labor and hands of people from all corners of the earth who came to America to found their new homes. And later, under that great president of our country, Abraham Lincoln, an amendment to this Constitution freed us, the Negro people of the South, from chattel slavery and extended to us also freedom and human rights. Though at times the forces of bigotry and persecution have raised their heads on our land, and even conquered in local areas, the Bill of Rights of our Constitution has stood as a reminder, calling the people back to the ways of freedom, liberty, and equality, which are the great democratic traditions for which America stands today. The program just heard, The Birth of Democracy, is an original script written by Miss Anne Paisner and directed by Mr. Zachary Sirwa. Copies of this script may be obtained without obligation by writing to this station. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. we're going to study the shortतiology, the class of the year, because I've explored the history of this. And I've listed here the backstory of the impact to numerous 我們ẽ Hmongi Kikanch 522650504-1000噴火も that I used that to own a string, so that the park uses the próxim,