Our last call is at Cambridge Hospital Aldershot, upon Private Lamb or Essex, of the Gloucestershire Regiments. Let him speak for all of us. Last Christmas Day I was in Korea. We were moving up to the front line from a place called Happy Valley. In April I was wounded. Then when the Gloucesters fought the battle on the Imjim River, I was captured, then escaped. For a few weeks I lived with some Korean villagers and they taught me how to live on grass. Then I was picked up by one of our patrols and afterwards the RAF flew me home to England. Ever since I've been in the Cambridge Hospital at Aldershot. And today I'm going home. The chaps that are still out in Korea won't get much of a Christmas though. And first of all, I just want to say cheerio to them. Cheerio. All the best mates and let's hope it soon packs up and you'll all get home. All right. And then there's the nurses and all the other people who look after you and get you patched up. Well, this is a good chance to say thank you to all of them. Amen. But the one person who's in most people's thoughts today is His Majesty the King. People talk about us soldiers serving our country and all that. Well, we do, I suppose. We've had a bash anyway and done our best. But His Majesty spends his whole life, every minute of it, in the service of his country. He's made himself ill doing it. It's a great thing to know He's better and that He is going to speak to us now. In the name of the people of the British Commonwealth, God save our gracious King. Long live our noble King. God save the King. God save the King. God save the King. God save the King. God save the King. As I speak to you today, I would like to wish you, wherever you may be, a happy Christmas. Though we live in hard and critical times, Christmas is and always will be a time when we can count our blessings. For the blessings of home. For the blessings of home. For the blessings of happy family gatherings. And the blessing of the hopeful message of Christmas. I myself have been called for the grace of God. For the grace of God. For the grace of God. For the grace of God. And through the grace of God. And through the grace of God. And through the faithful skill. doctors, surgeons, and nurses have I come through my illness. But I have learned once again that it is in bad times that we value most highly the support and sympathy of our friends. From my peoples in these islands and in the British Commonwealth and the Empire, as well as for many other countries, this support and sympathy has reached me and I thank you now from my heart. I trust that you yourselves realize how great your prayers and good wishes have helped me and are helping me in my recovery. It has been a great disappointment to the Queen and to myself that we have been compelled to give up for the second time the tour which we had planned for next year. We were looking forward to meeting my peoples in their own homes and we realized that they will share our regret that this cannot be. I am very glad that our daughter, Princess Elizabeth, will be able to visit these countries. And I know that their welcome there will be as warm as that which awaited us. You are most of you now sitting at home among your families, listening to me the Christmas Eve and listening to me as I speak for mine. At Christmas we feel that the old, simple things matter most. They do not change. However much the world outside may seem to do so. When we say that Christmas brings good cheer, we do not only think of material things. We think more of the feelings of friendliness and comradeship. We have one for the other. And I think that among all the blessings which we make out today, the chief one is that we are a friendly people. We do not all think alike, of course. We are such a large family of nations. We are such a large family of nations. We each have our own ideas. But we have come to learn the the differences of opinion. The differences of opinion are not the same as quality. I wonder if we realize just how precious the spirit of friendliness and kindness is. We are living in an age which is hard and cruel. And if there is anything that we can offer to the world today, perhaps it is the example of tolerance and understanding that runs like a golden thread through the great and diverse family of the British Commonwealth of Nations. I send a special message to all those who are far from their homes and families on this Christmas day. There is nothing new in this. We are a home loving, but we have never been a stay at home people. During the war, we all look forward so anxiously to the times when we should spend Christmas together at home. Together at home. Now the troubles of the world are forcing so many of you to be away from your families. The Queen and I join with all those of our people who are thinking today of the absent ones from the family circle. Some of whom may be serving in foreign lands. They may be serving in foreign lands. They may be the young men doing their national service. They may be the officers and men of my fighting services and of the merchant services. I know that on Christmas Day they will be thinking of their families at home. And you will be thinking of them. But especially, we are all thinking of our friends and our sons and brothers who are now facing hardships and dangers in Malaya and Korea. A band of brothers drawn from all parts of my dominions. Well, the Queen and I wish you all I wish you all, near and far, a happy Christmas and a prosperous and peaceful New Year. David King The Queen Haha The Queen The Queen The Queen The Queen The Queen The End The End