Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. This evening, we conclude our Friday evening emotional growth series with a lecture by Dr. Louis R. Wahlberg entitled Emotional Growth and Personality Development. Emotional Growth and Personality Development. Dr. Louis R. Wahlberg is Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the New York Medical College and Director of Training of the Postgraduate Center of Psychotherapy. He has written numerous books and has worked a good deal in psychotherapy. In fact, he spoke from this platform last year on the problems and general school of psychotherapy. I'm awfully sorry if I am saying something about the doctor that I shouldn't. It's really hypnoanalysis that the doctor is really concerned with a great deal. And I can't think, as long as I have spoiled that introduction, I might as well offer a comment of my own and state that I can't think of any man that I'd rather be hypnotized by than Dr. Wahlberg. If there's anybody around that's ever going to do a doctor, I wish you'd do it. Well, in any event, Dr. Wahlberg has gone to all the trouble of preparing an outline for you, which I hope most people here have received. If you have not received this outline, please inquire before you leave, and I will try to have them put out in the back of the hall so that you can get them before you go. I think it is a very valuable and fine thing that Dr. Wahlberg has done for us to conclude this series. Well, without any further spoiling of the introduction, I want to introduce to you Dr. Lewis Wahlberg. Dr. Wahlberg. I don't know what elements of my own emotional growth and personality development have caused me to approach this lecture with a little uncertainty. Perhaps it was because of a fear that Mr. Fairchild might put me into a trance. At any rate, I thought I might prepare an outline for you that would structure the content of what I was going to say. The photostatter who did the outline that I distributed, the outline on personality, needs, and stresses, was probably the same person who succeeded in engraving the Lord's Prayer on the top of a pinhead. The print is that fine, but I shall try to translate the material for you. And if there's anybody here who has a seeing eye dog, maybe I'll have to borrow him at the end of this lecture. The reason that I prepared the outline was that I was given the assignment of bringing together the material of the previous lecturers and integrating it for you in terms of the total adjustment of the individual. Now, this is a Herculean task because there have been so many lecturers, each talking in a different frame of reference. And furthermore, as you know, the different schools of psychology have different ideas about the processes of emotional growth. However, unless some integration is attempted, the whole lecture series will seem chaotic. Consequently, I shall tackle this task courageously, hoping that I shall not succeed merely in confusing you even more. The title of this talk, as you know, is Emotional Growth and Personality Development. The reason I chose this title was to point up the fact that personality was the key to the total adjustment of the individual. As you know, the world is peopled by a wide assortment of personalities. There is Tom Jones down the street, for instance. He's a good, solid citizen, but his friends think he is a stuffed shirt who thinks too highly of himself. His next door neighbor is Harry Brown. Harry Brown is an entirely different kind of person. He's a timid soul. He's obsequious and ingratiating. He likes people, but is kicked around by people. He hates himself for being treated like an old shoe. Across the street, we have Helen White. Helen White is a spinster with her ear tuned to the ground for gossip. Her tongue is hinged in the middle and it wags at both ends. Down the block, we have Jane White. Jane White is an individual with an entirely different personality. She's a detached person. She rarely descends from her ivory tower. It's extremely difficult to get to know her. Now, all these people have different personalities. They have different needs and different stresses. When we talk about personality, we always have to think about the psychiatrist, who sometimes classifies society as a rising mass of humanity interacting neurotically with one another. He even looks upon normality as a misnomer for a conglomerate of individuals in varied states of collapse and breakdown. What he means to say is that all people have problems. Some of the problems are big. Some of the problems are little. What we are concerned with mostly is how the problems of people affect their capacity to function in an adaptive, integrated, and a happy way with life. In attempting to evaluate personality forces, we know that there is the greatest variation in the way people react to stress. During the last war, for instance, many of the soldiers broke down when they received their induction notices. Others when they went into military training. And still others when they were exposed to the rigors of war. Each person had a breaking point. But the intensity of the disorganizing stimulus varied considerably from one person to the next. In civilian life, too, there is a wide variation in the way individuals adapt to stress. There are those who are unable to adapt to extraordinary stress. And there are others who seem to collapse with minor strains. Take, for instance, a man that we can call John Adams. John Adams just recently lost his job. He has family problems. He has a financial problem, too. But after a period in which he feels temporarily let down, John faces life with courage and with determination. He has a well-integrated personality. An example of the second type of individual we may call George Blake. Now, George Blake is pretty well established socially. He's economically well established, too. But the other day, somebody dented George Blake's car fender. And George Blake almost collapsed. The way he carried on, you'd think he had lost his last friend and his last dollar. He became so upset that he had to stay out of work for two days. Now, there are some individuals, then, who are able to handle a great deal of stress. There are others who go to pieces with such small stimuli when they dine out and when the waiter refuses to give them a second order of strawberry shortcake. Now, what makes this difference in personality? Why do we have the John Adams and why do we have the George Blakes? The answer to these questions is the story of personality. Personality is a dynamic configuration of many traits, interacting on one another, constantly changing with the growth of the individual and with his new experiences. The importance of personality is that it enables one to adjust to the business of life. An individual with a well-balanced personality, for instance, is capable of making a harmonious adjustment. One with an imbalanced personality engenders deep disturbances in his adjustments. Included in personality are such factors as physical characteristics, the health of the person, his stamina, his physical appearance, his resistance to illness. Included also are his intellect and his learning capacities, his activity patterns and his temperament, and finally a large group of strivings by which he relates himself to life and to people as we call the character structure. Now, some of the aspects of personality are heredity, for instance, the physical appearance, the body build, the activity patterns, the resistances to disease, and perhaps even to temperament. Other elements of the personality are conditioned almost totally by the reactions of the individual to life, and particularly to his early life experiences. The last group of personality traits are integrated under the title of the character structure. Now, the character structure is the interpersonal machinery by which the individual relates himself to life and to people. Through its means, the person satisfies basic biological and social needs in accordance with the mores of the culture. The character structure of the individual, to an extent, is characterially determined. The ingredients of the character are a matter of heredity. We shall, however, discuss how environment modifies and significantly modifies the hereditary aspects of the character. But I might at this point say that the character structure grows out of the experiences of the individual with life. And in the outline that I prepared here, the outline basically is an outline that indicates the lines along which the character develops. We shall come to that very shortly. I want to say just a few words about the hereditary aspects of character, that is, that aspect of the personality with which we are most concerned with here. And then I shall pass on to the environmental experiences of the individual, which I believe are the determining aspects of his characterologic adaptation. First, we know that infants vary in the constitutional makeup. If you ever go into a nursery, you will notice this, that there are some infants who are extremely active and who seem to react in a very, very vital way to all sorts of stimuli. When they're hungry, they howl their heads off. When they're wet or cold or in any sort of distress, they let you know about them. There are other infants who seem to be able to take a great deal of stress, and they manage to adjust themselves without reacting in a very violent way. When you slap your hands together, suddenly, you'll notice that perhaps a third of the infants will suddenly start, practically jump out of their cribs. The rest of the infants will lie placidly in their cribs. Now, very obviously, the nervous patterns of the babies that you see in front of you are different. And actually, we believe that the sensitivity to stimuli, the sensitivity of the, that is, the threshold of sensory acuity, the organization and structure of the autonomic and endocrine nervous systems, the activity patterns are of constitutional nature. However, again, I want to remind you that the determining thing is environment. And there are many, many studies that indicate this. There are certain animal studies, for example, that show definitely that even instinctual traits may be modified. Take, for instance, the rat-killing instinct in the cat. Now, as you know, a cat lying very quietly on the floor, noticing a mouse pass in front of him, will jump on a mouse. That is, if he's a self-respecting cat, he will. That is the rat-killing instinct. But if you take the kitten, and if you bring the kitten up in close association with mice, or with baby rats, the cat will learn to play with mice. And when he grows up, he'll even eat out of the same dishes mice or rats without hurting them. What has happened to the instinctual rat-killing instinct is that it has undergone a decisive modification. You take the song of birds. The oriole, for instance, has a particular trill. And you take the oriole, and you bring the baby oriole up in isolation, away from all other birds. And at a certain period in its maturation, the baby oriole will mature, and will develop the typical oriole trill. But if you take that same oriole, and you bring them up in close contact with sparrows, you'll find that the oriole, instead of singing like an oriole, will chirp just exactly like a sparrow. Bird breeders have taken advantage of this fact and have rear canaries in close contact with phonograph records. And they've introduced the strains of phonograph records into the trills of the canary and have induced some canaries to sing such strains as Yankee Doodle and Hail, Hail, the Gangs are here. We can cite the bacteriological experiments. There are organisms that are sensitive to penicillin and sulfa drugs. But if you expose organisms to minute doses of penicillin and sulfa drugs, the bacteria will become resistant, will build up a resistance against penicillin, and will finally be able to withstand even lethal doses of penicillin or sulfa drugs. This is one of the big problems in medicine. The organisms then will pass on these hereditary features onto the next generation. And they've noticed that as many as 20 or 30 generations of bacteria have this specific resistance against sulfa drugs and penicillin. Now you will say, what does this have to do with a human being? And of course it is dangerous to imply anything from animal experiments. We know this about human beings, that supposedly constitutional and hereditary features such as body build and physical appearance are sometimes considerably modified by the environment. For instance, the Chinese who are reared in Hawaii are much taller and sturdier than the Chinese of the same racial strain in China. The Japanese who are brought up in the United States are taller and have a different body build than the Japanese in Japan. The children of European immigrant parents are taller and have a somewhat different body build than the average European immigrant. Now, we have more direct evidence than this in the studies of identical twins who, as you know, have an identical genetic inheritance. If you ask any mother of identical twins whether there's a difference between the two twins, you'll get your answer about heredity in character structure. Insofar as appearance is concerned, insofar as temperament perhaps is concerned, you may not know the difference. You may not be able to discern an appreciable difference between the twins. But insofar as personality, insofar as character is concerned, there is a considerable difference. The Dion quintuplets, for example, each has a specific different personality, although the genetic ingredients of each one presumably is identically the same. Let us pass here on to the outline of personality needs. And again, I have to warn you about your eyes. We go on with the genetic inheritance of the individual and its modifiability in the environment. And again, the environment of the individual starts the moment after conception inasmuch as the ovum and the fetus are immersed in an environment shortly after conception. That environment can sometimes significantly modify the resulting individual. That is, if the mother suffers from some disease, like tuberculosis, for example, the infant can be damaged. Or if the mother is a confirmed alcoholic, drinks a little bit too much, or a lot too much, let us say, the organism can also be damaged. If there are distortions in the shape of the uterus, or if there are severe traumata, severe blows to the uterus during pregnancy, if there are problems of delivery, a very difficult delivery, or an instrumental delivery, this can have a damaging effect upon the individual, and the effect is an environmental one rather than a hereditary one, and it occurs immediately prior to the child's birth. Now, in the outline of personality needs and stresses, I have put down the age level, the specific needs that the individual has at the different age levels, the common stresses and sources of conflict at the different age levels, and the symptoms of collapse in adaptation. The human infant is the most helpless of all creatures. He is totally dependent upon his parents for every type of service. He is particularly dependent during the first year of life. He relies entirely upon mother instincts and upon the emotions that are engendered in the parents of mother love for his supply of physical materials and for his supply of stimulation and love. At birth, the child is an immature individual who is beset by a number of needs. These needs are largely focused around the mouth. The mouth is functionally mature at birth, unlike other parts of the individual. The individual experiences the world, so to speak, through his mouth. He is impelled by intense and urgent demands for oral satisfaction. He needs nutrition and a great deal of it. He also needs sucking pleasures. The latter is an aspect that has, up to recent years, been singularly neglected. Sucking pleasures are as much a need in the child as nutritive pleasures. Experiments have shown that where an individual is deprived of sucking pleasures, it can produce a widespread defect in his physical structure and in his emotional structure later on. The mother who inadequately suckles her child therefore does a great deal of damage to the child. But let us go back to nutrition. There are a number of conditions that affect the capacity of the child to satisfy his nutritive needs. There is interference with nutrition in the form of acute or chronic illness, gastrointestinal upsets, or allergies. Now problems of this sort can affect the individual, not only in his physical makeup, but in his total conception of the universe. During the first years of life, rather the first year of life, it is essential that the child establish an adequate security system and begin to accept reality. Where nutritive demands and pleasures are not gratified, he is apt to undergo a tremendous blow to his security system and to the acceptance of reality. Now, in sucking pleasures, he must get adequate gratification. If gratification is not supplied, the child is apt to show symptoms of disorganization, which you will see in the last column. In addition to sucking pleasures, the child needs other forms of sensory stimulation. The child needs to have his eyes active, he needs to hear auditory or hearing stimuli, he has to experience touch stimuli, and he has to experience kinesthetic or movement stimuli. Now, why does the child need these stimuli? He needs them because he has to develop certain capacities. It is as vital for the child to exercise his various functions as it is for him to eat. The child has to exercise the vital functions that he possesses in order to mature. Experiments have shown that the brain matures on the basis of perceptual stimuli that it receives through the various receptors. Through the eyes and through the ears and through the tactile stimuli and through the movement stimuli, the brain will mature. If those stimuli are not forthcoming, the individual will not show a maturation in his cerebral capacities. He will show a catastrophic reaction to lack of stimulation. Those of you who attended the lecture series here and who saw the movies of René Spitz have seen in an actual living situation what happens to children who are abandoned and deprived of stimuli. The children that Dr. Spitz showed you were those in the founding home who had received adequate amount of nutrition and some amount of care, but not a great deal. They were particularly deprived in stimuli, in sensory stimuli. Those children developed catastrophic reactions. Some of them developed stupor reactions. Many of them died. The incredible, oh, an incredible number of children died during the first year of life on the basis not of receiving adequate nutritive stimulation, but rather on the basis of not having been stimulated sufficiently in other areas. We come to the next group of needs, and that is the need for love and approval. The infant seems to have a tremendous need for love and for approval from his mother. Actually, we might conceive of the infant as still joined to the mother by an umbilical cord of love, which he does not sever in our culture until way on in his childhood, if he does then. The child needs a continuity in his experience with his mother. He needs to receive an adequate supply of love and approval, and it is on the basis of adequate gratification of his demands for love and approval that he develops his system of self-esteem. The child who does not receive adequate amount of love from his mother appears to undergo damage to his systems of self-esteem. He seems to be a destroyed and a crushed individual. The child who receives an adequate amount of love and approval and sensory gratification and nutrition is most apt to develop into a secure individual who is capable of adapting himself to the vicissitudes that he will encounter later on in his growth and his development. What are the problems that occur that make it impossible for the individual to get an adequate amount of gratification in a sensory sphere or an adequate amount of love and approval from his mother? In our culture, many women shy away from assuming a maternal role. They actually feel that the assumption of a maternal role is a blow to their own security, is rather degrading, and they will attempt to shirk the responsibilities of maternity and will shove the child onto the shoulders of a series of nurses. The child here will not get the continuity in the experience with one individual that he requires and is apt to undergo quite a serious defect in the seeds of his character. Separation from the parent, the death of the parent, or the actual rejection of the child by the parent, can also have a tremendously devastating effect upon the security system of the child. Now, the infant, apparently, and this is only a speculation because we have no real clinical evidence for this, apparently the infant has omnipotent ideas about himself. He believes that by willing, by thinking, he can obtain the materials of life. He comes into life without any conception of the universe. He is beset by a number of raucous demands and needs which aggravate him a great deal and which give rise to crying and to tantrums, and he finds that his demands are gratified. He is apt to feel, and again, this is a conjecture, he is apt to feel that his voice and his screams bring the parent running helter-skelter to his side, and he is apt to believe that the whole world operates in circles around himself. Now, it's essential for the child, in developing, to overcome these notions of omnipotence, to begin to incorporate reality into his ego framework and to realize that gratifications are not forthcoming when he wills for those gratifications. That realization comes upon him only too rapidly, and he begins to experience the world. He begins to see that he cannot control the universe. He begins to see that when he's wet and cold and hungry, gratifications are not immediately forthcoming. He protests this very, very much, but nevertheless, he has to await adequate gratification. Gradually, he realizes that it is the mother who supplies him with these wonderful bounties, and he begins to realize that the mother is the one who is responsible for bringing comfort to him. Soon, he realizes that there are certain things that bring the mother to his side faster than other things. There are certain things that cause a withdrawal of affection by the mother. There are certain things that cause a withdrawal of nutritive pleasures and sensory pleasures. And there are other things that produce an acceleration of these pleasures. The child incorporates these values within his system, and they become for him the nucleus of a compulsive set of values and attitudes that later become a framework around which his whole life operates. Most women in our culture will accept the child so long as the child is helpless, so long as the child is demanding, so long as the child is no particular threat to them. However, at the next phase of development, which is the phase between the second and third years of life, a totally different situation operates. At this particular period of life, the child begins to develop ambulation. He begins to vocalize, to express his needs in terms of language. He begins to be able to move around in the household. He becomes terribly curious about things. A book to him is something that's quite exciting that he wants to put into his mouth, and that sounds good when it tears. A vase is something that is shiny, and he likes to manipulate it and bounce it up against the wall. Everything in the house is very, very exciting to him. He likes to explore things. He likes to just maneuver himself all over space. Now, this particular form of investigative activity is a perfectly normal thing, and is associated with the beginnings of break-up in his dependency relationship with his mother. During this period of life, he establishes patterns of social control, of his bodily function, and of his hostility and resentment. He also begins to accept society. His needs are related to investigation and exploration, and also in terms of examining every aspect of his body. In the course of examining all aspects of the body, he chances across his genital region. This gives him intense gratification and pleasure. It is this area that causes a tremendous amount of concern to the parent, and because sexuality is overvalued in our culture, the parent is apt to react in a very, very disturbed way to the child's normal investigative curiosities about his own body and about his own organs. Now, the parent in our culture is brought up under certain conditions in which he feels things must be ordered and must be clean and tidy in our universe. The parent is therefore apt to react with anxiety when the child begins to bring disorder into her universe. The child in destroying things, the child in being very curious about things, the child in running around and disobeying, the child in investigating a general reason, is apt to create a tremendous amount of anxiety in the parent. And this will produce tendencies on the part of the parent to frustrate and to negate the child's normal curiosities and exploratory activities. The parent will pounce on the child. The parent will attempt to crush the child in his normal investigative curiosities. The parent will inhibit the child in his genital exploration, will create in the child a feeling that he's bad and evil if he wants to do what he wants to do. If he wants to explore, if he wants to run around, if he wants to act mad, or if he wants to tear things, or if he wants to play with the genitals, the child gets the notion that he's bad. This creates a tremendously difficult thing for the child and is one of the greatest sources of difficulty in our culture. The beginning strivings of independence and mastery are coordinated with the impulse of aggressive assertiveness in the child at this particular age of development. The child has a striving for aggressiveness, for assertiveness. And he wants to do what he wants to do. He's fired with desires to be somebody, to be a person. And in the course of this, he develops desires for mastery and for power. In our culture, dominance and mastery and power are equated with masculinity. The child, therefore, very early in his life is apt to get the notion that the people in life who amount to something are men rather than women. And if the child is a girl, she is apt to develop a tremendous amount of feeling about her being a little girl. She doesn't want to be a little girl. She wants to be a little boy. Boys are considered to be better than girls. People tell her this. In her home, even though mother wears the pants, she knows that father makes all the final decisions. She sees that little boys are preferred. She notices the little boys run around outside and they chinny up fences and they climb trees and they jump and they tear their pants and mother doesn't spank them the way she spanks little girls. She notices that little boys can do certain things that little girls can't do. She observes the urinary games of boys and she envies the boys a great deal. She wants to be just like the boys and she feels some damaging thing has been done to her own body. And she sometimes refuses to give up the fantasy and the notion that she is a little boy or that eventually she will come into her own right and become transformed into a little boy. This particular constellation of fears and ideas and wishes and fantasies also constitutes a focus of conflict for the child. The little boy similarly begins to equate power and strength and mastery in terms of genital power. And he begins to feel that he is not as virile as his father. He wants to get close to his mother. He wants to possess the mother in all aspects. He wants to incorporate the mother and be incorporated by her. And in the process of doing this, he wants to displace mother. He wants to displace father and possess mother, taking the place of father. He is therefore brought into competitive rivalry with father. He becomes terribly hostile to father and in turn is fearful of mutilation and injury at the hands of father. The little girl also desires father a great deal. The little girl wishes to identify with father and wishes father to give her the great gift of being a boy. Now this constellation again, which is known in our culture as the Oedipal Complex, the Oedipal Conflict, creates a tremendous amount of difficulty and is responsible for many neurotic tendencies later on unless it is adequately resolved, unless the child begins to accept himself as herself in accordance with his own sexual group. He begins to identify with either men or women. He begins to repudiate the parent of the opposite sex as an object for total possession. He begins to develop a good relationship with a parent of the same sex. At this particular stage of life, also, we have the matter of socialization. The child has to be trained to be a social creature. The child is a little savage. The child just wants to do what he wants to do when he wants to do it. The child wants to break things. He wants to be violent. He wants to express his hostility in a very direct way. There is also the matter of toilet training that has to be gone through at this particular stage of life. The child then undergoes a great deal of conflict, and it is essential for the parent to handle him in a very, very adrored way in order that he bring him over the conflict of this period. Now, the child must develop the ability to tolerate frustration, which is tremendously important for him later on. The stresses and the sources of conflict at this particular stage of life are too lax or too severe disciplines in habit training, especially in relationship to toilet training. Interference with independence and with mastery, which is produced by rejection or by overprotection on the part of the parent. Understandably, the mother who accepts the child on the basis of the child's helplessness is apt to reject the child when the child begins to start growing up and begins to try to do things for himself. The mother may desire to keep the child in infants and may actually attempt to restrict the child from his growth and independence tendencies. Therefore, she will overprotect him and she will actually crush him in his ego development. One of the common stresses, too, is the fall-free handling of rage and aggression. Too severe restrictions or excessive permissiveness operate here. Too great or too little emphasis by the parent on the rights of other members of the family may create problems in the child. There may be interference, as I have spoken, with investigation, with exploration, and with general manipulation. Now, what are the consequences of failure of the child to master this particular stage of life? Where his needs are frustrated, where he undergoes a tremendous amount of crushing and conflict, he is apt to show symptoms of disorganization. Those are in the form of psychonelotic reactions, in the form of anxiety, or fears, or compulsions, or psychosomatic symptoms. For instance, gastrointestinal difficulties, feeding difficulties, like anorexia, or lack of appetite, constipation, diarrhea. He may show speech disorders, stammering. He may show bladder disorders, anuresis, bedwining. He may show character disorders, that is, rage reactions of an inordinate nature, withdrawal reactions, detachment reactions, running away from things. He may show excessive dependency, and give up his rights to develop and to grow, by maintaining dependency on the parent, by clinging to the parent, by hanging on to her, and refusing to permit himself to grow, and to go on to the next stage of life. We get on to the third to the sixth age period, the ages of three and six, at which time the child establishes extrafamilial contact. He establishes control over his oedipal wishes. He is capable of relating himself in a less hostile way towards his parents, and he begins to accept more his sexual identification, either masculinity or femininity. At this particular stage, there is a tremendously keen interest in sex, in genital differences, and in birth processes. At this stage, the child becomes inordinately interested in his sexual organs, and is apt to show exploratory activity in the sexual sphere. Now, again, parents are apt to react too catastrophically to this innocuous type of thing, which, if not interfered with, is not particularly a problem. It's only because the parent overvalues this activity, or fears this activity, that he makes a problem out of it. And then by restricting the child, perhaps by tying his hands, or by spanking him, or by throwing all sorts of fears into him, he causes the child to overvalue the genital function. And it can create problems for the child the rest of his life. Now, why does the child explore himself generally? The child investigates himself all over, and he finds that the genital region is an area of great stimulation. He finds that he can begin to find pleasures through his own resources. And this particular discovery is one of the big things that breaks up the dependency path. The child begins to feel that he can get pleasures within himself through his own facilities, and does not have to depend entirely upon his parents. So that, in terms of adaptation, genital manipulation plays a role. Where the child is interfered with, he becomes terribly frustrated, becomes terribly unhappy, when he is apt to subordinate his independence wishes to a perpetuation of dependency striving. At this particular stage, that has been seen in the ages of three and six, problems occur related to the entry into nursery school and to kindergarten. The child enters into a different social horizon. There is an interference with and an interest in sexual play with other children. The difficulties that result here are in the form of causing the child to fear sexual contact, which may persist later on in life. Again, it must be emphasized that this play is quite innocuous and is no real problem if it is not handled in a disastrous way by the parent. The child grows out of this particular tendency. No great fuss is made about it. Difficulties, of course, occur where there is precocious or excessive sexual stimulation. Now, the reactions that occur when the child is inordinately frustrated and is unable to make an adaptation of this phase of life are in the form of psychoneurotic reactions, anxiety states, anxiety hysteria or phobias, conversion hysteria, compulsion neurosis, psychosomatic disorders, gastrointestinal speech, bladder, skin disorders, tics, and so on. Lack of time precludes going into all of these psychoneurotic syndromies. We may perhaps, if we have the time a little later on, mention some of the defenses that occur against anxiety as a result of failures in the individual's adaptation because of a defective character structure. Other problems that occur at this age period are character disorders, such as I had mentioned before, and also primary behavior disorders in that the child shows inordinate difficulties in his relationships with other children and the way he gets along with his parents and problems associated with school and with other children and so on. We come now to the six to ten year period, or the so-called latency period. The tasks that are to be achieved during this period are in line with acceptance of the group. At this particular period, the child establishes group identification. There is a need for intellectual growth and understanding, a need for further social contact and for organized team play. Particularly, he needs to belong to a group or to a club or to a gang. The problems that occur and the stresses that occur at this age period are related to entry into grade school. Now here, when the child goes into grade school, he suddenly undergoes a great deal of terror. He's wrested from the protecting agencies as vested in his parents and he's thrown into a new world. If he has problems of dependency, problems in leaving his mother, he is apt to precipitate these problems when he enters into school. Difficulties are apt to occur. If he has problems with authority, problems in controlling aggression, problems of hostility that have not been resolved at the earlier age periods, these problems will be projected into the school situation and will produce a great deal of difficulty in the child and his adjustment to school. There are neighborhood stresses that can produce difficulties for the child. Exposure to racial and religious prejudices can produce a great deal of difficulty for the child at this period. The reactions of collapse and adaptation are almost identical with those that I mentioned in the previous age group. There are the psychoneurotic reactions and the character disorders, that is the rage reactions and the withdrawal reactions and the aggression reactions. There are the primary behavior disorders of various types. And then there is a total disintegration of the various aspects of the personality, a condition known as juvenile schizophrenia, which is actually bordering on the psychosis. This occurs in children who have particularly been damaged during the first year of life, who have some sort of constitutional predisposition, in that the various elements of their personality are not too cohesively integrated. When we get down to the 10 to the 15 year age period, I'm driving rather rapidly so that we can't cover the whole outline here. The period of puberty, the tasks that are to be accomplished here in this particular period are related to the acceptance of social control over sexuality, the ability to integrate with other children, and to develop skills for a successful participation in the group. Now, if the child has been damaged, if his personality structure up to this point is defective, he will come into the age of puberty with two strikes against him. He will probably not be able to withstand the intense stresses that occur during puberty. If he is a rather secure individual, if he's managed to overcome the difficulties of the earlier age period, if his knees have been gratified, if he hasn't shown symptoms of collapse and adaptation, he is most apt to overcome the stresses that are associated with puberty. In puberty, there are intense sexual feelings and interests for which a social outlet is necessary. And as you know, recreational programs during this particular period are a must, especially social dancing. There is the need to practice skills and successful participation in groups. The difficulties that occur around puberty are conflict between the need for and the defiance of the parents. This particular conflict goes on right through the period of puberty and adolescence, and we'll talk about it a little bit more in the next age period. There is a conflict also at this period in relation to sexual demands and social restrictions. And many, many masturbatory conflicts occur at this particular period. Around puberty, the child's endocrine organs mature, and the child begins to experience an intense sexual need. Masturbation is the usual thing at this period. Where he has problems in genital manipulation, where he thinks he's an evil or destroyed or a terrible person for manipulating his genitals, he is apt to show a very catastrophic reaction during the puberty period. The symptoms of collapse and adaptation in puberty are identical with the previous age group consisting of psychoneurotic reactions, character disorders, primary behavior disorders, and juvenile schizophrenia. Now, in the period of adolescence, between the ages of 15 to 21, there is, at this time, the task to be achieved of acceptance of independence, a resolution of dependency. Around this period, the child needs to emancipate himself for the parents in order to assume an independent role in society. He needs to make a vocational choice. He has a growing sense of responsibility. He is a... Courtship and marriage come into the picture. The conflicts that appear and the stresses that occur are usually between dependence and independence. The individual does not want to grow up. At the same time, he wants to break away from his parents. In our culture, the dependency tendency is perpetuated because of the rather complex economic structure. The child is dependent upon his parents long beyond the period when he, on the basis of his personality, should break away from the parents. Consequently, he is apt to cling to parental strings longer than his constitutional can endure. And he will show symptoms in relationship to needing his parents too long. Normally, he gets into a battle with his parents that occurs in primitive cultures. He tells them off, he takes up life on his own, and he goes on to marry and to have his own family. But in our culture, because he's so dependent upon his parents, because he needs them since our economic structure is so complex, he cannot do this. He's fearful of demonstrating hostility towards his parents. He represses his hostility, and this can create certain difficulties for him. Furthermore, because being a mature individual involves threats to himself, he is apt to recall from taking an independent attitude toward life. You can very well see that the way he comes, the way he handles this conflict between dependence and independence will be contingent upon how he has handled his dependence and passivity in early childhood, how he has handled his activity and masculinity in later childhood. The little boy, for instance, who has been at the behest of an overweening and overprotective parent, crushed in his investigative curiosity, in his desires for independence, is apt to be quite frightened at the prospect of becoming independent and breaking away from the parent. consequently, the little boy is apt to repudiate independence, is apt to repudiate masculinity, which is equated with independence and with growth and with vigor and with assertive aggression. All this is, of course, quite neurotic, but in our culture it seems to be the norm. The little boy is apt to veer away from that and is apt to want to relate himself in a passive, dependent way upon his parent, usually the mother. This makes for a refudiation of masculinity and for passive homosexual interest. The little girl is apt also to be fearful of assuming an independent role in life. She is, on the other hand, apt to react quite disastrously to her dependent needs and to take a flight into compulsive independence, which, because it is integrated with masculinity in our culture, is apt to take the sexual form of active homosexuality. The difficulties that occur that result in symptoms of collapse and adaptation are identical to those that I have mentioned previously. When we get to adult life, we already have the character structure in actual formation, and the way the individual integrates himself in adult life will be associated with how he has handled the stresses that have occurred up to adult life. The tasks that are to be assumed in adult life are related to the acceptance of marital work and community responsibility, and a good sexual, marital, family, and work adjustment is essential, as is community participation. The conflicts that occur in adult life are related to economic, sexual, and family stresses, and hereto, the difficulties the child has in his relationships with his parents, in his identification with people of the same or opposite sex, in his attitudes towards dependence and independence, will mold how he adapts himself in a work or in a marital or in a community sphere. There is conflict in relationship to groups that may occur and conflict in social relationships. The symptoms of collapse and adaptation are the psychoneurotic reactions that we have mentioned, the character disorders, the primary behavior disorders, the schizophrenia, alcoholism, drug addiction, and manic depressive psychosis. Now, around middle age, which is an amorphous period, and middle age has been defined as that period of life when the individual realizes the mistakes that he has made and wants to make them all over again. There is a need to accept a slower life pace physically and competitively. There is a need for new interests, for hobbies, for new friends, for community activities. The stresses and sources of conflict that occur around middle age are associated with menopausal and climacteric changes, with conflicts in relation to separation from children, increased leisure time, retirement, unfulfilled ambitions, sexual declination, and cessation of childbearing. In addition to all the other difficulties, and there are many, that the individual manifests as a result of collapse and adaptation, he will also show involutional melancholia, that is in certain individuals. We come now to the last phase, which is that of old age from 65 years on. They say that old age is a period where if, if a, when a young woman asks you to come up and see her sometime, you can't take yes for an answer. However, the declination in sexual role that is assumed at this age is more fanciful than it is actual. There's a story, as you probably all know, of the man of 70 who married a woman of 20. A friend of theirs was very much perturbed at the marriage and enjoined the, enjoined the man to take himself to account, and he asked him why it was that he married a woman so young. The old man said, well, he wasn't old at all. And then the friend said, well, I think that you're going to do this young woman a great deal of harm and injustice, and I would advise that you take a border into your house. Well, a year later, a year later, he met the old man on the street, and he said, well, how are you? And he said, I'm fine. He said, how's your wife? He says, oh, she's pregnant. And he says, well, what about the border? He says, oh, she's pregnant too. without being too grandiose, old age is a period where there is a need for acceptance of physical, sexual, and memory recession. There is a need to engage in social activities, to cultivate new friends, to develop community interests and hobbies. The conflicts that occur in old age are in relation to loneliness, to the death of friends and mates, to increased leisure time, to failing work, physical, and sexual activities, to fearful anticipation of death. The difficulties that occur, that is, the symptoms of collapse and adaptation, are all the problems that have occurred up to this time, plus arteriosclerotic and senile psychosis. Now, that is a very brief and incomplete outline of personality needs and stresses, and I think it sort of summarizes the tremendous task that the individual has in developing to a point where he is able to integrate himself. To get back again to the character organization that we had been discussing, the kind of character structure, the kind of personality that the individual develops, will determine whether he makes a good or bad adaptation at each one of these phases of age level. Now, what is it that the so-called normal individual has to have in order to possess a good character structure? What equipment does he need? We can summarize this by saying that the individual with a personality structure that makes for a good adaptation, that will prevent him from collapsing, is one who is capable of developing an adequate security system. He has feelings that the world is a bountiful place and is not apt to destroy him or menace him or let him down. The individual must have the proper assertiveness and self-confidence and self-tolerance and self-assuredness. He has to be able to face stress and frustration without anxiety and without childish modes of defense. He has to face deprivation without going to pieces, without feeling that he has been hurt, without feeling that something unreasonable has been done to him. He has to face this deprivation particularly when the consequences of fulfillment of pleasure needs entail more than they're worth and compensatory pain. He furthermore has to have a healthy regard for himself as an individual. He has to face the past and he has to separate anxieties related to the past from the present. He has to realize his self-limitations and fulfill himself creatively within the bound of such limitations. He has to be able to relate himself productively and congenially with other people without undue dependencies, without aggression, without detachment. He has to be able to relate himself to authority without particularly being too hostile to authority. He has on occasion to be able to take leadership. Most importantly, it is essential for him to express certain basic social and biological needs and to be able to execute these needs. In other words, we may look upon the individual as a creature of needs. We may look upon the individual as a machine that requires fuels. Those fuels are in the form of specific needs. He has to recognize those needs. He has to execute his own resources to fulfill those needs. He has to be able to find the appropriate situations in the environment in order to propitiate those needs. He has to be able to express these needs in a culturally condoned manner and then he has to be able to enjoy these needs without fear or guilt. Now, what are these needs that we talk about? There are the physical needs first. There are the needs for food and air and water and warmth and shelter. There are organ needs such as needs for excretion, needs for sexual fulfillment. There are needs for rest, needs for relaxation. Furthermore, there are ego needs. What are the ego needs? There are needs for affection, for the giving and the receiving of love. There are needs for self-esteem, for personal worth, there are needs for creative self-fulfillment in relationship to realistic abilities and potentialities and also needs to approach an idealistic image of oneself. There are needs for the expression of aggressive assertiveness, for the development of one's individuality, for the maintenance of a proper independence, dependence, balance. And finally, there are the group needs. The individual must feel that he belongs to a group, that he is accepted by a group, that he identifies with a group, and that he fulfills group standards. Now, all of these needs are as vital to the integration of an individual as food, and he has to fulfill them in some particular way. The method through which he fulfills his needs is culturally determined. By the time his character structure is organized and becomes mature, he has inculcated within himself a set of values and a set of standards that initially have been injected in him by the injunctions and prohibitions of his parents. The parents are the agents through which the culture is transmitted. Because the child needs the parents, he has to incorporate within himself the prohibitions and the injunctions of society and culture as contained in the parent's own character structure. Where the parent himself shows a deviation from the norm, the child will integrate attitudes and will integrate ideas and values that are not consonant with a cultural norm and are apt to produce difficulties for him later on when he attempts to adjust in a certain social framework. But by and large, individuals of a certain society will develop character patterns that seem to be very much similar. Certainly, the methods by which the individual expresses his food needs, for instance, are very much similar in a certain group and a certain culture. Similarly, the methods by which he gives affection and receives affection, by which he esteems himself, the values by which he judges himself in terms of status, in terms of personal worth, are culturally nurtured. For instance, one culture may enjoin the individual to think of himself in terms of being a very highly competitive person. If he can outsmart the other fellow, then he's a pretty good individual. The Horatio Alger stories are all associated with this particular kind of attitude. and he may be a very good individual and he may give an individual status when he submits himself in a rather masochistic way. And in doing that, the individual will then gain status. Now, it's easy to understand that when the person fulfills one set of needs, he's apt to vitiate another. If, for instance, he is a highly competitive person, if the society tells him that he has to be on top, he has to be better than the other fellow, then he may not be able to integrate himself so well with the group. He may undergo a certain amount of group condemnation when people really reject him because he's too pushing. So that you have a rather difficult struggle of the various needs and the ability of the individual to maintain the balance will determine whether he is a well integrated or a poorly integrated person. Now, the needs that the individual possesses that have to be fulfilled, produce certain tensions within him. Again, if you conceive of the individual as a machine who has to have fuel, when fuel is required, it expresses itself in the individual in the form of tension. The individual feels tense. Tension is the language of the body when it experiences a particular need. Tension is associated with a disruptive chemical situation in the body that sends stimuli to the nervous system that affect the nervous system on different levels of integration. When the individual experiences a certain need, for instance, let us say either a food need or a sexual need, he becomes tense. Tension travels to the central nervous system and there it affects various levels. First, it affects the visceral levels through the hypothalamus, the subthalamus. It produces a massive stimulation of viscera and organs. Second, it affects the somatic structure, the muscular structure, the individual notices that his muscles are tense. Finally, it affects the psychic apparatus, probably through the cortical hypothalamic pathways, and he becomes cognizant of a state of unrest, consciousness of a state of unrest that is produced by tension, and joins the person to marshal all of his resources and all of his abilities in order to remove the tension state and to restore the body to a state of balance or homeostasis. Where, however, the particular need that produces tension is associated with fear or with guilt or with conflict, there is apt to be repression. The individual may not permit himself to think about the need that strives for fulfillment. For instance, where the person finds that he has a sexual need, for example, and where sexuality is associated with a great deal of fear and guilt, he may attempt to deny the existence of his tension state, to repudiate it, to repress it, to forget it, and then to try to act as if it did not exist. Similarly, with other needs as for status or for self-esteem or for aggressive assertiveness or for self-fulfillment, where these needs are very urgent and where they conflict with the individual standards, he is apt to want to repress them. However, because needs are so urgent, they are apt to be very impelling. And where the needs are associated with fear on the power of the person, with catastrophic expectation, he is apt to manifest a condition known as anxiety. Anxiety is a violent state of unbalance in the individual. The person responds with catastrophic feelings of helplessness, feelings that he's going to pieces, feelings of panic, feelings that he's going to disintegrate, and with many psychosomatic effects associated with his heart, palpitations of his heart, choking sensations in his throat, feelings that he cannot breathe, marked perspiration, tremors all over, and with a general state of collapse. Now, the experience of anxiety, which means that the individual feels threatened by his needs or threatened by some menace, always produces reactions within the person to remove this particular menacing state. The person cannot stand anxiety too long. He always has to cope with it in some way. The person works out methods of coping with his anxiety. He may work out methods through the characterologic framework. That is, he may find that by using people in certain ways, he can overcome his anxiety. He may, for instance, make himself dependent upon people, or he can explode against people, or he can run away from people. And you can find that in that way he might be able to master his anxiety, particularly where his anxiety is associated with interpersonal relationships, or where interpersonal relationships actually mobilize his particular needs. Thank you. The individual may also attempt to deal with anxiety by such devices as sedation or alcohol. He may attempt to deal with anxiety by the utilization of psychoneurotic defenses. And what are these defenses? These are the mechanisms of adaptation of a very primitive, regressive nature that are utilized in very early childhood. For instance, he can develop fears. If a certain function, a certain attitude is dangerous, then how do you deal with it? Well, by running away, by developing certain fears. Or by projecting his feelings about a certain situation onto something that resembles it, and then avoiding the object that resembles it. This is the projection, displacement, and inhibition of function that produces a condition known as anxiety hysteria, which is associated with the development of phobias, which try to take a person away from his anxiety. There are other defenses that he can develop. He may develop conversion hysteria, in which he converts his anxiety in the form of a physical symptom, or in the form of a symptom that attempts to repress or to remove from his awareness a very disturbing stimulus. For instance, if he's very much fearful of expressing aggressiveness and hostility, if he's very hostile towards his mate, if he fears that his mate is going to overwhelm him or take advantage of him, if he needs his mate so much that he can't live without her, then he's in a real spot, because he's terribly dependent upon his mate, and at the same time, he fears that she's going to destroy him. His resentment and his hostility, then, are apt to produce symptoms within him that are very disturbing to him. He may therefore attempt to run away from the situation by developing amnesia, by blotting out his identity. There are many other areas that he can utilize in a conversion way in order to solve conflict. Be that as it may, there are many, many different syndromies the individual may utilize in an attempt to handle his anxiety. The initiating difficulties are the same as a general rule, but the way the person reacts to those difficulties may be different. One person who has this particular conflict between his dependency and his hostility toward the object on whom he's dependent may develop a gastrointestinal symptom or a peptic ulcer. Another person may develop alcoholic tendencies. A third person may develop migranous attacks. There are many ways a person may deal with a conflict of this sort. Why some people choose one way and some people choose another way is probably dependent upon their character structure, their particular experiences, and the ways they have in the past successfully mediated anxiety and stress. Now, I think our talk will not particularly be complete unless I mention the fact that the material that I have discussed, mental hygiene needs of the individual, have very important pedagogic and social implications. As you know, there is a definite relationship between the sociocultural constellations to which the child is exposed and the kind of personality and the kind of person he becomes. Cultural pressures establish patterns of response, values, ideals, and goals by offering incentives and rewards for culturally approved reactions and by threatening punishment or condemnation for culturally disapproved reactions. Conformity with cultural demands results in group acceptance. Inconformity brings an elimination from participation in group life. A surviving society is one which recognizes the physical and emotional needs of its citizens and provides opportunities for them to satisfy their needs with security and dignity. Its mores and institutions are those which are consonant with the rights of the individual as well as with the group. Its modes of child training build patterns and attitudes that enable the person as an adult to fulfill a participating, democratic role in the social framework. The democratic family and the democratic school are the microcosms of the democratic society. Demands, disciplines, and incentives to which the child is exposed at home and at school must be consonant with his level of development and with his emotional needs. They must reflect the kinds of values and attitudes that exist in the culture where the child is reared in an authoritarian framework both at home and at school where he is crushed and subordinated. He will develop a fealty to pomp and power and he'll find values in subordinating himself to dictatorship harboring within himself arrogant ambitions to crush and destroy in order to make himself a dictator. He will feel contempt for democratic values and he will want to erect a social edifice in which power is the keynote that he can worship. On the other hand, the democratic home and the democratic school will create a different kind of human being, one who esteems himself in cooperative and democratic relationships with his colleagues. He will respect authority but neither worship nor be in awe of authority. he will respect himself and create foundations for personal and for groups peace and security. These are the lessons that a wise society may learn from the discipline of psychology. Thank you very much, doctor. Thank you very much, doctor. Those of you who would like to write your questions, I have plenty of paper down here or some of you might like to ask a few questions by coming down to the front of the stage here. If a person has no office of giving love or receiving love, the reason is not committed to the thing. Yeah. I think that's pretty good. Remember, these are all right. Well, thank you very much, doctor, for that very stimulating and very nice talk. No, thank you. I was under a little tension there myself. I was afraid perhaps the clock was going to beat us tonight. But if you hadn't have been giving such a wonderful talk, sir, I would have been right up here trying to interrupt you. But everybody was listening to you all the time and would have been ashamed to interrupt you. I'm afraid you couldn't stop me. Oh, I might. Doctor, if a person has no outlet for giving love or for receiving love, that is, if they do not have a family relationship or a family relationship do not permit it, what is the solution for this individual? How can a person gain a proper emotional balance, I assume, if they are single or do not have the opportunities of family relationships? This problem is one that is very, very frequently encountered in our culture. The problem is not in the outlets for giving or receiving love, but within the individual himself. Opportunities are always present where the individual wants to make those opportunities. Where there are blocks in his capacity to give or to receive love, he is apt to project those blocks onto the environment and then feel that he is being exploited, hurt, repudiated, restricted by the environment. The person who really wants to express and fulfill himself can always find adequate opportunities for so doing. Thank you. A lady was very agitated about this. Now, you may not feel it's quite germane, but the lady was very upset about the ways in which a mother can go about training a child of two when every one of the suggested methods that she knows of fails. Now what can she do? What can any of us do when they all say, well, she can yell for help, but I don't know how much good that will do her. It seems to me that what she needs is a consultation with a trained person that goes beyond the manifest type of behavior the child displays. There are many, many difficulties that occur in a relationship between a mother and a parent that is not apparent to a mother but may be apparent to an outside observer. This is because the mother lives too close to the problem. She can't see the forest for the trees. And frequently, a person who is not particularly involved emotionally in the situation can clarify for her the difficulty and give her an idea of how she can adapt herself to the situation much better than she can do it herself by reading books or by taking the advice of her friends. I'd say that the best thing she can do is to get the advice of reliable individual in either an agency or a psychiatrist or a child therapist and I'm sure she can get help in this way. Dr. Wahlberg, what can you do about fear phobia in a child of eight years? And let's not limit it to a child of eight. How about the problem of fear phobia in children? This particular child is afraid to stay alone and not stay home with father, only with mother, et cetera. There's no improvement in the child after a great deal of work. Can you mention a few words on the fear phobia in particular children? Fear is a perfectly normal emotion. It exists at all times in the individual's life. It is most prominent in early childhood where the child has not yet developed a conceptualization of the universe to a point where he feels secure in it. After all, the child cannot possibly conceive of the interpretation of the intricacies of life in adult terms. He may feel menace when there is no menace. Furthermore, as he develops, he is apt to feel emotions that he cannot handle and he may project those emotions, those fears, that he has within himself onto outside objects. For instance, if he has a fear of expressing his own resentments and aggression, where because of some relationship with a parent, he is unable to express aggression or resentment, he is apt to project that emotion of aggression or resentment onto an object that symbolically represents aggression, such as a dog or a horse or an animal. And he may fear animals or horses or dogs. Where the person fears destruction in a close relationship with a parent because of an over-dependent mother, he may project his fears in fears of close spaces. There are many reasons why a child has exaggerated fears. Mind you, fears in early childhood are perfectly normal, but the child overcomes them. When a child reaches the age of eight, he usually has overcome these perfectly normal childhood fears. And there is a reason why he has to perpetuate these fears. That reason cannot very glibly be discerned. It has to be studied. There are always singular, particular, specific reasons why a child has fears. And this can only be determined by examining the child and find out whether it is inside of himself that he fears. Thank you very much, Doctor. Now here's a question. Doctor, I notice when you speak of character, you say that it is something upon which both heredity and an environment can interact. Can you explain how such character traits as honesty, good humor, thrift, which traits are results of environmental influences, can have been modified by heredity factors? There are certain attitudes and values and goals that the individual develops that are a part of the general cultural framework. It's very difficult to conceive of honesty as a hereditary trait. Honesty is a cultural trait. And there are other values and goals that are a parcel of a particular social framework. When we come to certain ingredients of personality, such as activity and muscular patterns and sensitivity, these can conceivably be regarded as hereditary in nature. but when you come to more highly developed traits such as attitudes and goals and values, they shift so much with the life of the person. They vary so much within the cultural framework of the individual that we cannot conceive of them possibly as hereditary in nature. Thank you very much, Doctor. Here's a question that has something to do with radio. Now, of course, I want you to understand this does not have anything to do with station WNYC. Which does more harm to a child? As mentioned, a child of 10. Forbidding the child to listen to certain radio programs at certain hours or letting the child go ahead and listen to any program he wants to and avoid all of the fussing. It's a question of listening to what seems to be a harmful program or fussing about it. Which is the least people? I think everybody has that problem. Or television. What are we going to do about this menace, sir? It depends entirely upon how much of the menace actually exists. If the parent is rather reasonable with the child, if the parent does not inhibit the child too drastically, if the parent does not want to vitiate the child or rob him of opportunities of being like all the other children and listening to the adventure stories, she probably will not encounter too much difficulty with him. On the other hand, if the parent has a pretty good notion of what she wants the child to listen to and what she doesn't want the child to listen to, she may have problems with the child because interjected into that situation is the matter of parental authority. The child may then want to listen to radio programs, not because he's interested in the programs, but rather as a form of defiance of the mother. The problem is, as you can see, a very complex one and again depends upon the symbolic value to the child of the programs themselves and particularly the meaning to him of mother's attitudes towards his listening to the programs. Thank you, and also just listen to WNYC, all the programs are good, there'll be no tension, sir. Doctor, would you mind saying something about the value of hobbies, particularly music? Would you mention something about music therapy, for example, as a release? What about sports and hobbies and music releasing tension? Do you think that that is a good hobby? hobbies and any other activity are extremely important in providing the individual with means of developing himself as well as providing him with an opportunity for the release of tension. The specific hobby, the specific opportunity that the individual seeks will, of course, be dependent upon the opportunities that are available to him. All people require hobbies, and this is particularly the case, and those who will, at a later stage of life, be robbed of the opportunity of socializing with their children. As people go on in life, they find that they get more and more leisure time, particularly in middle age, and it's immensely important for them to develop hobbies in order to take up the impact of loneliness that occurs when their children leave them. furthermore, hobbies can fulfill a very important need in the person himself, in line with developing of his own specific talents and capacities, and at the same time provide forms of release of tension. Doctor, my only regret about tonight is that we do not have time to answer all of these very fine questions which I have here, but thank you very much. It's