Fellow Americans, when strong, enlightened private enterprise undertakes to participate in the Pan-American program of hemispheric solidarity, we have enlisted a most effective ally. The inauguration of the School of Pan-American Agriculture at Zamorano, Honduras, on this Columbus Day, evidences such an enlistment of private enterprise in this great program. Today, with all the world at war, it is more than ever evident that education is one of the most important, probably the most important, means for building and perpetuating a lasting peace. Throughout this hemisphere, we need more and better schools to help American youth find a way to enduring peace and more abundant lives. This new school of Pan-American Agriculture, dedicated to aid all of this hemisphere, is a fundamental step to advance education and peace. But this is an agricultural school, and as such, carries greater significance. Our hemisphere, and particularly the American tropics, is notable for its undeveloped land and resources. Unwise development, including the destruction of our forests, would lead to the same troubles that have impoverished so much of the agriculture of southern Europe, the Near East, and Asia. This, in turn, would lead to covetous eyes for neighboring resources, which, as history shows, has led to wars. This school is a bulwark against waste of resources, against covetousness, and wars. It stands for prosperity and higher standards of living. This is an agricultural school designed to respect and advance the dignity of the farm boy who works with his hands. Idle hands make poor citizens. I am happy to know that here you are stressing the value of using the hands to make many things. Every boy should not only know how to work effectively with his hands, but he should also be so efficient that he has time to read and think and enjoy the society of his neighbors. I like your idea of having all the boys spend four hours each weekday at manual work, four hours at study, and at least two hours at games and other recreation. I feel that your school is dedicated not only to technical agriculture, but also preeminently to education in good citizenship. Therefore, it is close to my heart. This school, I am told, selects boys from citizen families of no special privilege, teaches them civic loyalty and self-respect, and provides technical education to facilitate their material success. These boys who are receiving free education here at the School of Pan American Agriculture come from farms. Most of them are poor boys who could not otherwise attend school. The education conferred here will make them outstanding citizens when they return to their home communities. All are youths of proven character, intelligence, and talent for work. Enlightened youths who can and will extend the benefit of their education in better citizenship and better agricultural practices for their fellow Americans. Bringing together here students from many different American republics to form boyhood, lifelong friendships is also a contribution to goodwill among our nations in the Americas. These friendships in later years will afford channels for an interchange of viewpoints between outstanding citizens of different countries leading to peace in this hemisphere. One of the objectives of this school is to develop new crops, not previously grown in the American tropics. Such new crops will call for clearing new lands, establishing new irrigation systems, and the starting of many new types of farm operations. Such new developments will inevitably raise the living standards of tropical America and will furnish the basis both for increased industrialization in Latin America as well as purchasing power for imports from North America. Leading in the activities of this school, I find old friends of mine who are men of character, experience, and ability in the field of tropical agriculture. They are also interested in the development of the Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences at Turrialba, Costa Rica. The institute, devoted to training graduate students and fundamental research, complements the school here. The two institutes can and will work together to forward all phases of the agriculture of this hemisphere. We are fortunate to have two such centers of agricultural education so well designed to cover the entire field of agricultural education. Corn, the foremost crop of the United States, originated in America. It happens that I lived most of my life in the great corn belt of the United States and that I spent much of my time trying to breed higher-yielding strains of corn. During the past three years, the yield of corn per acre in the United States has been three times that of Central America. I know that my friends at this school can take the corn of Central America and from it evolve superior types for feeding the people. I hope that this school of Pan American Agriculture will devote study and work to the improved production, processing, and marketing of milk, soybeans, and other nutritious products so that families of moderate and low income in these countries will have the same nutritional advantages as those of higher incomes. There are many other great contributions that this school can and unquestionably will make to the Americas. My friends, may I state my heartfelt appreciation of your invitation to participate in this inauguration, which is a milestone in the development of hemispheric solidarity. To the president of this beautiful Honduras, a strong proponent of the good neighbor policy, may I express my thanks for his cordial hospitality. And to my good friend Samuel Zamuri, who has had the vision and devotion to conceive and found this school of Pan American Agriculture, congratulations, and may God speed your work. Thank you.
