The great citizen of Brooklyn will act as chairman and the next voice you'll hear will be of Major Nam. Your Honor the Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, this is the delegation of French merchants. Your Honor, we have as our guest today a delegation of the leading retail merchants of France, our very staunch ally in times of war, and our lasting friend in times of peace. It was shortly after VJ Day last year that some of us carried a message of goodwill to the merchants of France from the merchants of America. When we arrived in Paris, these merchants, headed by Monsieur Lecour-Gaillet, who are here today, welcomed us with open arms. We then extended to them a cordial invitation to visit our shores, and in the words of General Pershing in 1918, Lafayette, they are here. Now, none of us who remember the First World War can ever forget that it was indomitable France that saved the world from destruction when the French army threw back the German hordes at Verdun with the immortal words, They shall not pass. And no one who has seen what France has suffered during World War II, as some of us have seen, can ever forget the final debt that we owe to France, a debt that we started to incur when we blindly disregarded the lessons of World War I and rejected France's desperate and realistic plea for collective security against Nazi Germany. Now, the merchants who are our guests today bring us something far more, if you please, than just a gesture of goodwill from the French retailers to American retailers. They bring us a reminder that the world has grown very small. Modern transportation and communication and weapons, well, they've just changed miles into inches. And what happens in France today must have its repercussions in America tomorrow. The welfare of France is firmly linked with the welfare of our country and the rest of the whole civilized world. These merchants also bring us a reminder that the ideals we cherish most, the principles upon which our democracy was founded, were inspired more by France than by any other country, and by Voltaire, I guess, more than by any other man. And these merchants bring us a reminder that France, for many centuries, has been the focal point of culture, of self-expression, and of fashion. Yes, we owe a lot to France, and may I suggest a few ways in which we may repay that debt. First, we can make America invincibly strong in our national defense until it is assured that the United Nations can protect us all. And then we can make America invincibly strong in our defense against those forces and ideologies that would destroy us from within. And then we can make democracy and free economy really work in America. That is the only sure antidote for collectivism and controlled economy throughout the world. And then we can develop a program for economic unity with all of those countries which, like France, are fighting for the cause to which we are dedicated. The dignity and worth of the individual as opposed to the all-powerful state. And then we can emphasize the fact that economic problems are at least as important as any of the social or military problems that confront all nations. And that international trade should be promoted through the elimination of artificial trade barriers. And last but not least, the retailers of America and the retailers of France can, by a practical display of friendship, understanding, and cooperation, set a fine example for our men in government to follow. And now I take great pleasure in introducing Monsieur Lazar, who is the Assistant Consul General of the French Republic, who will introduce to his honor the mayor, the visiting delegation of French retail merchants. Monsieur Lazar. Your honor. It is for me a great pleasure to introduce to you today the French delegation of retail merchants, who have come to this country to renew ties, which had been severed because of the world conflict. This delegation is headed by Monsieur Jacques Lacour-Gaillet, a well-known writer, a member of the Academy of Political and Moral Sciences of the Institut de France. He is also the Vice President of the National Council of Commerce in our country. Thanks to his diligent efforts, he has been able to gather in this delegation a most representative selection of the merchants interested in what is known here as the department stores. With him are the NAMS, the Gimbels, the Macy's, the Altman's of France. It is gratifying indeed at a time when experts all over the world are laboring to establish sound principles of international trade, to see some concrete evidence of the most earnest desire of people in business throughout the world, to develop better human relations by having an opportunity to meet and discuss the world. The New York department stores are well known as experts in the world as experts in the way in which they solve their problems of supply and distribution. Looking through your window, I can see the tower of the Woolworth Building, which concretizes so magnificently this now famous formula of retail sales known as the Five and Tens. This idea has also been developed in France. And I am glad to say that some of the men who were able to carry it out most successfully in my country are here today with this delegation. But if it is true that New York department stores can be considered as the vanguard in the business, it is equally true that for a long period of time you have been impregnated with the theories and the know-hows of our stores in the old country. Those stores have had to face in the past few years problems that on the whole they have been able to solve in a very efficient way. Their experience, therefore, will be of interest to the executives of the New York concerns. And I am sure that the National Retail Dry Good Association, under whose auspices this delegation was brought to this country, has planned the most elaborate program so that the ideas of the New World and those of the old can be freely exchanged here for the benefit of all. Thank you, Monsieur Consul General. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have great pleasure and a very distinct honor to introduce to you, from our own Brooklyn, the very great mayor of the city of New York, Mayor O'Dwock. Thank you, Mr. Vogue. Major Nam, Mr. Vogue, Mr. Consul General Chancel, Mr. Lacour-Gaillet, ladies and gentlemen. I'm extremely happy to welcome this delegation to New York City. I know that through the cooperation of the National Retail Dry Goods Association and the French Chamber of Commerce, your visit will be most interesting and fruitful. The long, bitter years of war and enemy occupation have interrupted such welcome visits as you have resumed here today. You know that we in this country have a special affection for the Republic of France and its citizens, united as we have been in a common cause, and devoted as we shall always be to equality, justice, fraternity. Your visit, ladies and gentlemen, your visit here today heralds the new era of peace and readjustment. It also signifies the resumption of the great and mutually beneficial interchange of peacetime commerce between our two nations. My congratulations to each and every one who has aided to make this visit possible. As mayor of the city of New York, I bid you a cordial welcome, confident that your stay among us will further strengthen the friendly ties that bind the United States to France. Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer. Thank you very much. I'm sure that the applause that you have just heard must have warmed your hearts just as much as it has ours. Now the French government speaks to us through its ambassador and its consul general. But French business speaks to us through its chamber of commerce. We have a very great French chamber of commerce here, and we have the president of that chamber with us today. And I take great pleasure in calling upon Monsieur Jean Raveau, president of the French chamber of commerce. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Council, friends of the French delegations, it is indeed a great pleasure for the French Chamber of Commerce of the United States to join with the National Retail Dry Goods Association in welcoming this French delegation of retail merchants to New York. Mr. Mayor, we have here the outstanding representatives of the French retail trade. The men who are responsible for operating the beautiful department stores which are the pride of the great city of Paris. And the men who represent the management of chain stores throughout the country. The retail distribution system in France is very similar to that in America. And French retail merchants, like their American colleagues, are also devoted to the service of the public and to the betterment of the standard of living of the people. I know that my countrymen and their American friends of the retail trade are sincerely happy to know each other. These friendly associations, I am sure, will create a better understanding between the merchants of our two countries. And this kind of understanding is one of the indispensable links of our international trade. Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the French Chamber of Commerce of the United States, I want to thank you for your cordial reception and for the interest that this great city of New York always shows in all Franco-American activities in America. Your Honor, I have the great pleasure to present to you Mr. Lacour-Gaillet, Chairman of the French delegation of the French retail merchants here with us today. Your Honor, my countrymen and myself feel greatly honored by your most courteous reception, and I beg to tell you our deepest gratitude. Our thanks go also to the French consul, Mr. Claude Lazard, and to our friends, Major Ben Nam, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the National Retail Dry Goods Association, and Mr. Jean Raveau, President of the French Chamber of Commerce of the United States, for their kind words. I present the representatives of the French department stores. They are true friends of the United States, not only by instinct, as most of the Frenchmen, but also by conviction. If they admire your country, it is for its technical power, which prove its value during the war and after peace was restored. They are eager in their own field to study your technical methods and, if possible, to imitate them. I would live in my lifetime. This is a fells showing, since the old Frenchman and Mr. marked Englishman are slightly concerned that the Englishman marching is travel directors at 37 and 30 and没有 zar Per jamais traves the tourism parks and never verific among the riches of the people who do notve job coach of labor.