Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, can we expect relief from tax headaches? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the wisdom of cutting taxes now and changes in the tax law and its administration. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Wallace M. Jensen, partner with Touche, Nevin, Bailey, and Smart of Detroit, and chairman of the Subcommittee on Current Tax Legislation of the American Institute of Accountants. Edward H. McDermott, partner with McDermott, Will, and Emory of Chicago, and former counsel of the Joint Committee of Congress on Internal Revenue Taxation. And Willard H. Pedrick, professor of law at the School of Law, Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, a popular method of relieving tax headaches, presumptively at least, would be to cut taxes. What do you think of the wisdom, and I might add, the prospects of such relief, Jensen? Everyone would like to see taxes cut, and I am no exception. However, it is hard to say whether any one specific tax should be reduced or eliminated without looking at the whole tax and budget picture. For that reason, the American Institute of Accountants has for many years recommended that Congress should set up a nonpartisan tax commission, comparable in some ways to the Hoover Commission, which would overhaul our entire tax structure from top to bottom. Well, now, Jensen, while the Institute of Accountants is in the process of setting up this commission and conducting the study, what would you think of the wisdom of slashing taxes a bit right now, in anticipation of what your men might propose? Well, the accountant is trained to get the facts first and then decide what to do. The only official facts in front of us at the moment is the Truman budget, which indicates that, based on anticipated expenditures, the revenue at present rates is required. I'm inclined to think we should wait for the revised budget and then decide how much we can reduce both the expenses and tax revenues. What's your view of this, Petrie? Well, McBurney, I think you've loaded the subject against us. You talk about taxpayer headaches. What do you mean to suggest that we don't have taxpayer headaches, McBurney? Well, I'm willing to concede that taxpayers are concerned. It calls to mind that story about the lady that was looking through the mink farm, and when she got through, the attendant asked her if she had any questions, and she said, well, how often do they take the fur off those animals? To which he said, well, lady, we just do it once a year because it makes them so nervous. Well, now, it may be that taxpayers are nervous, but my point of view is that taxes are simply the way we pay the cost of running the government. It's just a way of paying our bills, and I don't think you get headaches from paying bills. I think you get headaches from not paying bills. Everything that I read in the press from Secretary of Defense Wilson, Secretary of State Dulles, and President Eisenhower's statements indicate to me that government is going to continue to cost quite a lot of money in a rather unhappy and uncertain world, and I think if we want to be relatively happy, we better pay our taxes, and I don't really believe that we're suffering from a very acute headache. Uh, McDermott, how do you feel about this? Well, it would appear that my two colleagues liked the way Canada did it. Canada balanced its budget to such effect that it was able to reduce taxes for individuals, uh, some 11 percent, small corporations about 10 percent, I understand, and larger corporations about 6 percent, and certain other taxes. Uh, in approaching the subject, I think that one of the first things we should do is to ask ourselves whether taxes today are really high. Are they high? Well, we can make various types of comparisons. Taxes today can be compared with the taxes of the war years. Uh, on that basis, say 1944 and 1945, that we were taxing at a level of about 40 billions of dollars. Today, about 70 billion, which is a very high figure. That would invite, of course, consideration of some reduction. Well, isn't it true, though, uh, McDermott, that in those war years, that our national income was, uh, very much lower than it now is, and furthermore, we were running at a, at a very large deficit, so that, uh, really that was, uh, what we might think of as unsound financing, and we surely don't want to go in for that now. I think, uh, from the standpoint of such, uh, things as national income, I'm not qualified to discuss them, though I do, uh, have in front of me a chart that indicates that, with regard to national income, net national product, and gross national product, the burden of taxes in 51 was somewhat higher than it was in 45. Uh, I do agree that, uh, during the war, there was a much larger deficit, uh, than there is today. The order of the deficit was much larger. Expenditures at the peak were larger. They were about a hundred billion dollars in 1945. It was against something less than 80 today in the Cold War. Well, now, McDermott, if taxes are high, and I take it that's, uh, your conclusion, they're probably higher than they've ever been, absolutely or relatively, is that correct? I think that's a fair statement. Then, uh, uh, what is your attitude toward, uh, cutting them now? Well, the second thing I think we ought to consider, together with, uh, the data we've just mentioned, is the relationship of today's level of taxes with today's level of expenditures. Though taxes are high, expenditures are even higher, due primarily to the expenditures for defense purposes and other related purposes. Uh, as an example, for the fiscal year 1953 ending this June, uh, taxes are estimated at something approximating 69 billion and expenditure about 75 billion. And, uh, uh, the discussion, uh, in the press would indicate that it's a general opinion that level of expenditures may not come down too soon. Uh, under those circumstances, uh, it raises considerable doubt whether we should try to cut taxes, uh, and thus merely increase the amount of the deficit we already have. My own view would be to follow the principles that Canada acted on and the principles that I understand the president, uh, has under consideration to attempt first to reduce or control these expenditures, and if we can do that then come right along with a very welcome tax reduction. Well now, you, you've already indicated an attitude in the matter, but I, I do wish to ask you a, a specific question, if I may, about this, uh, read bill, a proposal to cut taxes 11 percent effective in July. This is, uh, superficially, uh, attractive at least to a good many, uh, taxpayers. Yes, I think it is, uh, superficially attractive. We'd all like to save on tax money if we can. I think there again there's some background that we need to have in order to get the real import of the read bill. Uh, there is, uh, on, uh, the books already a provision under the terms of which the excess profits tax automatically expires unless renewed on June 30th of this year. Also, the 1951 income tax increases that, uh, were made, uh, are, uh, destined by their own terms to expire December 3153. Now, there's the question, of course, if we permit the excess profits tax to terminate on June 30th, whether we shouldn't accelerate by six months the termination date on those individual increases and bring them along at the same time. Well, my own view is that if the excess profits tax were permitted to expire June 30th, uh, the general feeling of the people would be such that probably, together with that relief to corporations, some relief to individuals would have to be given. Well, that makes some sense, doesn't it? I think it makes sense. Very good sense. Uh, my feeling is that it would be preferable, although this certainly is not a popular thing, to, uh, replace the revenues lost by the excess profits tax by some adjustment of defense tax or otherwise on corporations and give no tax relief until we're able to control the expenditure. If you go along with that, Jensen? Well, it's true that the excess profits tax, uh, expiring June 30th is probably tied in politically with, uh, individual tax cuts. We shouldn't overlook the fact, however, that excess profits tax was imposed in December 1950, at the same time that wage and price controls were imposed, and no individual tax rates were increased at that moment. It was merely a political method of controlling corporate profits. Now, uh, the ex- expiring date on the excess profits tax seems to, as originally planned, uh, seems to be tied in with individual tax cuts politically. The excess profits tax, though, is unsound. It, uh, encourages waste and extravagance. It's extremely complicated, and I think we ought to get rid of it as soon as we can. I certainly agree to that characterization. It's an unsound tax. I'd like to get in, uh, this discussion, gentlemen. It seemed to me that when you started out that you were really in my camp as sound money, uh, relatively high tax, uh, advocates, and now what you seem to be saying sounds as though you may be- belong to the cheap money school and be willing to cut taxes before we reduce our expenditures. Now, my own point of view on the Reed bill, which I think is not very different from- from yours, actually, is that Congressman Reed is just expounding that well-known political principle that, uh, you never lose votes by, at least, uh, publicly speaking in favor of tax reduction. President Eisenhower has indicated that he's opposed to it. Senator Taft has indicated that he's opposed to tax reduction now. Senator Taft has indicated that he's opposed to tax reduction in the tax reduction in the tax reduction of tax reduction in the tax reduction in the tax reduction in the tax reduction. I think it would be most unfortunate if it did. Well, what do you propose then, Pedrick? Would you- would you retain the excess profits tax? Well, I- I do go along with Mr. Jensen when he says that he thinks it's a bad tax. I- I think it is bad myself, but I think if we let the excess profits tax die, then if we're going to have sound finance, we better recapture that lost, uh, two or three billion dollars, and that means probably loading it on to the regular corporate tax. That's about my position. You mean increasing the regular corporate tax rate. Isn't it possible that, uh, with the excess profits tax, meaning that, uh, each dollar spent by a company in excess profits tax only cost them 18 cents out of the dollar, that maybe the savings due to, uh, elimination of waste and extravagance would make up some of the loss of revenue, uh, as a result of the- Well, when you begin to talk to an accountant about where the figures will lead you, I get a little uneasy. I'll just say that I'll go along with whatever- whatever President Eisenhower and his experts have to say on that subject. I- I- agree with that. They've come in, uh, to power, and they have promised to make a real frontal attack on, uh, spending and make a real effort to reduce taxes. I'm all for giving them a chance and not crowding them to reduce taxes before they know what they can do on spending. I favor the Canadian plan. Well, what would you think of the- some of these proposals that are floating around, uh, uh, uh, Pedrick to limit taxation to 25 percent of income by a constitutional amendment? Well, when you say floating around, I think that's a good term. As a matter of fact, uh, that, uh, proposal to limit the top tax rate to 25 percent has been kicking around for, uh, probably 10 years or more, uh, and some very respectable associations and organizations have, uh, come out for it. But it seems to me that if you recognize that the real beneficiaries of a top limit of 25 percent would be, uh, corporations and a very few, relatively, uh, a few individuals with large incomes, uh, adopting any such scheme would mean that if we have to continue to spend what we now spend in order to meet the threat of the Cold War, that, uh, you'd be loading a larger share of the tax burden on the backs of the smaller taxpayers. And I just don't believe that, uh, they're going to be very enthusiastic about paying even more than they're now paying. Seems to me there's another aspect of it, too. And, uh, I'm speaking particularly with reference to the two bills, the House Resolution 323 and the Senate Resolution 108, which were introduced last fall. And, uh, that's this. It seems to me that a good many of the people who favor, uh, this particular limit do so in the hope in which all of us share that to put a ceiling on taxes will in some manner curtail federal expenditure. But it also seems to me that if the lessons of the almost unbroken series of deficits for over 20 years teach us anything, they are that expenditure in matters vitally concerning the nation and its interests are not controlled by the amount of tax revenues that are available. I agree that it's definitely unsound to tie the hands of Congress by limiting, uh, taxation to 25 percent of income. Is it necessarily true that it would reduce taxes? Because we don't know what, uh, income would be defined as. In other words, the present income tax is applied to net income. If you applied a 25 percent limit to gross income, you would produce, uh, uh, entirely different results in many cases. We might end up paying more. That's right. Well, now, you, you gentlemen seem to be taking the position that what we ought to try to do is to make some cuts in, uh, appropriations and spending before trying to, uh, uh, reduce taxes. Is that your position? Is that a fair interpretation? I think so. It seems to me that that's, uh, what the president wants to do. That's what he's told people he would try to do, and I'm for giving him a chance to do just that. Now, in spite of what you said earlier, I, I want to, I want to bring the issue out squarely. Uh, don't you think we might, uh, succeed in forcing some cuts in expenditures by cutting taxes? That is, as an individual, if my, uh, uh, salary goes down, why, uh, I'm forced to cut expenditures whether I like it or not. Are you still talking about this 25 percent limit? Cut them anyway. Uh, pass the rule bill. Cut the revenue and, and, uh, force some of these savings. Yes, I feel that 20 years experience show us that that won't work, that revenues do not control expenditures in this government. It may be a good theory, but I don't see that it works. I think it doesn't work. As a matter of fact, as applied to the 25 percent limit, I have some fear that it might have just the reverse result. That Congress might feel its hands were so tied that in view of the urgent national needs for expenditure of one sort or another, it would feel there's no chance of, of balancing a budget after the enactment of such a limit at all, and they're relieved from responsibility for even trying to do it. You say, McBurney, that, uh, you can, uh, readily see that if your own income went down, you'd have to, uh, curtail expenditures, and I suggest that that's true because you know that if you don't, something pretty un, unpleasant and unfortunate would happen to you, but I think the, the experience, as McDermott has pointed out for the last 20 years has been that nothing terribly unpleasant happens when you, uh, operate at a great deficit, and what happens is, uh, inflation, and while that's unpleasant, it doesn't seem to be unpleasant, uh, for politicians. It's true that an individual is forced to reduce his expenses if his income is reduced. On the other hand, uh, government, like an individual, may have required expenditures which cannot be eliminated, and it's unsound business policy to reduce your revenues below the level of your required expenditures. I think another comment that might be made in that connection is that I'm not sure we always realize, uh, what the impact of an expenditure is with regard to the other side of the ledger. One way to do it is to meet it from taxes, but if you don't meet the total of expenditures from taxes, they go in the public debt. If we're ever going to do anything about the public debt, that's simply taxes passed on to the next generation. It may get to a place where we'll say, well, we aren't going to do anything about the debt at all. Just let it get as large as it can. Then comes inflation, which is the worst form of taxation of all, inequitable, and hurts the common man more than the others. The present administration seems to be committed to balance the budget, and that means undoubtedly substantial cuts in expenditures. I think we ought to give them time to work it out instead of rushing in to cut taxes first. We shouldn't overlook the fact that they inherited a lot of outstanding commitments and authorizations from prior congresses. Well now, the question that cries for attention in this discussion, it seems to me, is this. Is it realistic to hope for substantial cuts in expenditures? Well, that perhaps involves questions as to which we need more experience and skill than certainly I have. But again, we have a political party that has come into office asserting that it can be done. Just come in. I'm for giving them the chance, and I believe that they have the intention of trying to do it. I am for waiting to see what the results of efforts being made right now in that connection are, and then judging according to the results produced, what we should do to the tax structure. Well, this question as to whether we can hope for substantial cuts in expenditures requires a little defining as to what we mean by this word substantial. Now, to me, the only real hope for substantial tax reduction and, and accordingly tax, rather expenditure, is this matter of the, of the Cold War and the cost of fighting a war and preparing for another one. If that can be eliminated, if we can cut down on our armament expenditures, why sure, then the cost of defense will go down and our expenditures will go down and so our taxes can go down. But what about cutting out several billion dollars in waste? Well, uh, even the Hoover Commission talked in terms of saving three or four billion, and that would still leave us in the red as things now stand. And on the other side, you see beef farmers beginning to, uh, to ask for federal assistance. We, we see that they're unwilling to cut funds for school construction. We know that our highway system is in bad shape. I think the pressures for expenditure ought not to be overrated. And for that reason, I think that, uh, the level of government expenditure apart from war-related expenditure will continue to run at a relatively high rate. Of course, Pedrick, in a way, plays into, into my hands here. There is this constant pressure to increase expenditures. You gentlemen tell me it, it helps not at all to, to cut the, uh, the revenue. They won't pay any attention to that. So it looks like our tax headaches will go on for some time to come. Well, now, McBurney, you call them a headache or not? Yes, I, I'm not going to re-argue that question, but, uh, the fact is that with these heavy expenditures, apart from the arm program, we have a country that is a pretty enjoyable place to live. We have a high level of consumption. We have an enjoyable living standard, and at the same time, we're paying heavy taxes. Now, if you want to go back to the tax bill of the 30s, why then go all the way, and go back to the day when very few people could afford to operate automobiles and had, uh, less than one chicken in every pot. Well, I would have to reject any inference, and I don't believe you intended to create one, Pedrick, that taxes create prosperity. I rather doubt the effectiveness of that. But I do agree that, uh, when we have a need that has commended itself to duly elected representatives of all of us in the House and in the Senate after debate, what better way is there of determining, uh, what we want to spend money for? And second, if we're going to spend that money, I believe in trying to raise it by taxes. That, uh, Congress has the authority and is the only one that can appropriate funds. Uh, the budget is really just an estimate by the administration as to what is required. That's right. So that, uh, if Congress, uh, should reduce taxes first, that, uh, would seem to go along with the philosophy of the Reed bill, that, uh, they can be trusted only to spend what they have to spend. And history hasn't quite, uh, justified that. But is there anyone in our, our, our federal government who really has a sufficient grasp, McDermott, uh, McDermott, an understanding of this, this, uh, budget to, to affect real savings? In Congress, that I think is one of the, uh, one of the, uh, opportunities that we have for improving our government. The method of appropriating, the congressional procedures for appropriating funds are very old. They were suitable in a simpler time. But today, the matter of appropriations involves work that no one chairman of a committee, nor all the members of the committee, can possibly keep up with. We need to modernize that procedure so that these appropriation committees will know a great deal more about what they're asked to work on. They're faced with an impossible job, as I see it, under these old antiquated procedures. And in other respects, as regards new programs, our congressional procedures need to be modernized. Mr. Well, I think that if you expect Congress to carry the ball on, uh, reducing expenditures, that you're unduly optimistic. Uh, I think that, uh, individual congressmen are for economy in general and for expenditures in particular. Now, for the last 20 years, it's been commonplace, and I think proper, to look, uh, to the administration as the real, uh, controlling agency as far as, uh, federal expenditure level, uh, is concerned. And I think we ought to continue to look in that direction. And I think that, uh, President Eisenhower and his, uh, budget, uh, director have, uh, gone at the job in a way that really is quite promising. Well, now, if I may, if I may, uh, sum up what I take to be your, your conclusions here about this matter of cutting taxes, uh, Jensen and McDermott, uh, appear to hope that there will be a possibility for some, tax cuts in, uh, in, uh, January or, or reasonably soon. And I would, I would assume substantial cuts, enough so we'd, uh, recognize that our tax bill was a little lower anyway. Perhaps even as early as October, but I doubt if this, if it can be done as early as July. And, uh, my friend Pedrick over here takes a fairly dim view even of that. Well, I can't believe that if you have a headache now that anything that's going to happen next January is going to change the state of your mind. Well, I may be one of the reasons for the difference, uh, whatever it is between us on the scope of, uh, reduction is I'm a little more optimistic. If a frontal attack is made on the waste that's going on both in the, in the, in all the branches of, uh, governmental activity, I'm a little more hopeful maybe than Pedrick is that we can get results. I think it needs a sustained frontal attack on it. Well, now in your opening statement, uh, Jensen, you suggested the, the possibility of a, a general overhauling of our tax structure in the interest of, greater simplicity and, and greater equity. That's another approach to this general subject. Can we expect relief from tax headaches? I think we might find relief in greater simplicity and, uh, and greater, uh, equity. You're speaking now about the average man or about the corporation? I'm, I'm, I'm talking about the average fellow. The, I'm talking too about the, the corporation. You're not going to try to make Mr. Jensen say that he's against simplicity and equity, surely? No, not at all. I understood him to say that he was for it and that he, he entertained the hope that something might be done to achieve it. We accountants are on the record as, uh, advocating that, uh, a complete overhaul of our tax laws. We think that the present, uh, internal revenue code is a rather complicated hodgepodge and recently, uh, Congressman Reed, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, seemed to agree with us in, uh, statement that he made in January that, uh, the, uh, there was a need for revising the entire tax structure in order to build anew along simpler and sounder lines. Even what's so far as to say that the, uh, there was necessary to remove the debris of conflicting, unsound, and inequitable laws of decisions and rulings, which make our tax system the monstrosity it is today. Now, what do you say to that, Peter? Well, I just wonder if Mr. Jensen is going to speak as strongly as, uh, Congressman Reed does. A matter of fact, uh, uh, everybody's for equity and simplicity, but, uh, this internal revenue code that we now have is the product of, uh, many years of experience. Its, uh, complications very largely are the product of, uh, this search for equity. Every time a, uh, a group feels that they're being unfairly treated, you get a new section in the law designed to take care of them. And, uh, I think we ought to recognize that we've got a, a relatively good code and, uh, good administration. Now, there's room for improvement and I'm for it, but when these special groups come in with their proposals for new sections, let's take a careful look because sometimes they're serving their own interests rather than the interest of equity and simplicity. I think we might make one or two other points right in the same connection to the application of the income tax to the ordinary man with his, uh, sources of income such as wages and salaries, maybe a little bond interest or rent or a dividend on a few shares of stock that he owns, are handled, I think, quite well under our present system and that's tremendously important. These complications that we talk about, and some of them are terrific, occur in the case of the large businesses in which they have, uh, a bewildering variety of products and problems, all of which have their effect on taxes. And another thing, it's caused by high rates. Now, we should do what we can to simplify it, but I don't entertain any belief that we can materially do so. It's true that most of the complications affect the businessman and, uh, result in merely shifting income or deductions from one year to another. However, it must be complicated for the average wage earner, otherwise we wouldn't see such long lines of people standing at the collectors, uh, former collectors, now the director's offices, getting help in preparing their returns. We have lots of new taxpayers who are coming in to pay for the first time. Would it help any to improve the administration of the tax law, McDermott? Well, I think a good deal could be done along that line and, uh, it's, uh, perhaps the administrative parallel of improving the legislative procedures, uh, as to the enactment of those laws. In both, uh, in both respects, some careful study can do a good deal. We need, perhaps, a little more impartial administration in certain respects, although I must say this and want to, that broadly speaking, the Bureau of Internal Revenue is a fine organization of able people. I'm very, very sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Can we expect relief from tax headaches? We want to thank our guests for today, Wallace M. Jensen, partner, Touche, Niven, Bailey and Smart, and chairman of the subcommittee on current tax legislation of the American Institute of Accountants. Edward H. McDermott, partner McDermott, Will and Emory, and former counsel to the Congressional Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation. And Willard H. Pedrick, professor of law in the School of Law of Northwestern University. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask, are our schools adequately housed? Our guests will be Richard M. Bennett, with Lobel, Schlossman, and Bennett, and former chairman of the Department of Agriculture of Yale University, Department of Architecture of Yale University. Thomas J. Higgins, director of building surveys with the Chicago Board of Education. And William Claude Rivas, professor emeritus of education at the University of Chicago and lecturer at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion. Are our schools adequately housed? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jack Fuller. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.