Instead of the discussion by the Northwestern Reviewing Stand, usually heard at this time, Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, today presents a transcribed program of Christmas music. Your moderator of the Reviewing Stand series, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech at Northwestern University, will present today's program. Mr. McBurney. On this Christmas Sunday, the Reviewing Stand brings you Christmas greetings and Christmas music. It is my privilege first to introduce Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, President of Northwestern University. President Miller. On this Christmas morning, I bring greetings from Northwestern University to Reviewing Stand listeners in all parts of the land. The program which you will hear today is a departure from customary patterns, as befits this special holiday morning. During the 14 years in which the Reviewing Stand has been presented on the air, it has brought discussions of all kinds of controversial questions which concern us today. Problems of government, economics, foreign affairs, and social and personal problems. Today we offer you not controversy, but the Christmas message of joy and goodwill, expressed in the universal language of music. Christmas is being celebrated today in many different parts of the world. This holiday and what it means is a part of the most precious and abiding heritage of Western civilization. It has inspired some of our most heartwarming literature, our greatest art, our most beautiful music. But it has special meaning for those of us who live in a democratic society. For democracy is not the expression of one man, but of millions of men, all individual and different. Where it exists at all, it does so because men have, to some extent at least, practiced the Christian spirit of tolerance, of compromise, of mutual kindness and understanding. The peace the world longs for will come only when the true Christmas message is understood, when goodwill toward men truly lives in the hearts of us all. Then only will problems and controversies which divide mankind be resolved. We in America have particular reason to celebrate this Christmas with thankful hearts, for Providence has treated us kindly. So once again, I extend to you heartiest Christmas greetings from Northwestern University. Thank you, President Miller. And now, Christmas music by the Women's Glee Club, the Men's Glee Club, and the a cappella choir of Northwestern University, all under the direction of George Howerton of the School of Music, with incidental solos by John Lennon, Conan Castle, and Stephanie Rasevich. The program closes with Gates and Doors by Peter Christian Lutkin, former dean of the School of Music and founder of the a cappella choir. The program closes with Gates and Doors by Peter Christian Lutkin, public principal kirch. The program озcoin resistor will met since cardinac bill, and as武 Bunun channel to better command the S Performing Department of Justice. The program closes at Fort São Student那麼 descubrologers, the interested, P Voice Church will be 가능한민 sometimes work for the event of Northrend производстве, and in a province of the Customers, of course, including the president company剛才 is founded, or where there will be Other than a company at a company that will conduct therefore in the Battle of theiland administration in 1896. The program is currently the type of Fair of T마th isso break skill arts, había in ministry using around 2 pər deze. that will??? of the Alma которую socкоїKman school pressures, or whether there will be遍'd making started across more пиш-noons byуш-続ize this women's way that Alan stone active mort.ulate short The Lord, Lord, my King, my God, God, Lord, must be thy sail. My power, when thou wilt not eat, But come down thy own secret stair, And thou mayest answer all my needs. In every night of all, As December's frosty king went his way unwilling, While the fragrant hope of spring, Every heart was filling, Then within a garden fair, Grew a blossom wondrous rare, From a rose-tree fine, from a tree divine, From a rose, from a tree, from a rose-tree tender, Rich in virgin splendor. The Lord, Lord, may not be thy name, But come down thy own secret stair, And thou mayest answer all my needs. The Lord, may not be thy name, And thou mayest answer all my needs. The Lord, may not be thy name, Guided by the wondrous ray, Came three wise men holy, Where the prince of heaven lay in our manger lowly, Bringing him with joy and thought, Frankincense and myrrh and gold, To the holy child, to the mother mild, To the child undefiled in the arms of Mary, Blessed Virgin Mary. Pray today with thunder, Love and exotation, When the Savior came to earth, Bringing man's salvation, For the heart of the glory of the earth, To the love of the kingdom, And the light of the world, And the light of the world, And the light of the world, Through the devotion. Vacuum Dubestiao GlorieatiBeating Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.