This is Bill Leonard to introduce the 37th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State, and it operates entirely by air, and it can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Our program this week brings you the voices of people from Albany and Syracuse, Niagara Falls, Rochester, New York City, and many other places throughout the state. They tell you the story of what Mr. and Mrs. John Citizen have done, what they are doing now, and what they must do for some time to come in the vital task of preparing for survival. To tell the story from a reporter's point of view, here is radio newsman Lockwood Doty, and the question is, a vital question for every citizen, what would you do if an atomic bomb fell? We put the same question to a group of people in one of New York State's largest cities, a city that conceivably could be the victim of an atomic attack. Here are the answers. The first time it probably dropped. I think it probably stopped in my track. I don't know. I don't know. I'd cover my eyes and run for shelter. I'd drop to the ground and take cover. Well, if I were on the street, I think the first thing I would do would be to crouch down quickly against the building and cover my eyes and my arms, and if there were anything that I could get behind or under, I would do that. Well, I'd probably lay down. As you heard, very few of those persons knew the correct answer, which is, duck into a doorway if there's one close, otherwise drop on your face in the gutter or beside a building. Cover all exposed parts of the skin. If your hometown was hit by an atom bomb tomorrow, and you were one of those who didn't know what to do, by tomorrow night, the chances are you'd be only a statistic. Several weeks ago, when a series of gas explosions wrecked 31 homes in Brighton, a suburb of Rochester, a man in the disaster area kept on mowing his lawn. Homes on either side of his were burning, and across the street another was going up in smoke. But this man continued to push his lawnmower, and when he had finished cutting the grass, he brought out a pair of clippers to trim the heads. There's nothing I can do, he told a reporter. I'm not very handy. Best thing I can do is cut grass. Well, this gentleman was brave, no question about that, but if those gas explosions had been atomic explosions, his bravery wouldn't have helped him. Too many of us have the idea that if an air raid should come, the best thing we could do would be to continue cutting grass, go right on doing what we were doing before the enemy plane showed up. We shrug and say, there's nothing we can do about it anyway. If it's going to get us, it's going to get us. That might be true, probably would be, if you were directly under the bomb at ground zero, or within a half mile of the blast. But beyond that, your chances of survival are good, and they are up to you. The New York State Civil Defense Commission has prepared an exhibit which will tour the state. It was opened last month at the State Fair in Syracuse, and we asked Milton O'Connell, Deputy Director of the State Civil Defense Commission, for a rundown on the exhibit's purpose. We feel that we have been able to dramatically, in a pictorial way, bring home the story of the devastation caused by an atomic bomb to the people who see it. People are very busy these days. They have too many things to do, and the subject of an atomic attack is not too pleasant to them. They don't like to think about it. We, therefore, are using this means, and this exhibit will go throughout the state of New York, from city to city, so that thousands more may see exactly what the results of atomic attack are, and may do something either within their own homes, or where they work, or in organized civil defense groups, to save their lives if, as, and when an attack should take place. After all, civil defense is common sense. Civil defense, and your activity, and your part in it, is nothing less than insurance for your personal survival. Personal survival. During the past 12 years, those two words have taken on a significance never before known. Europeans know exactly what they mean. They remember the Nazis, and now the communists. Englishmen learned all about those two words in 1940, when the German Luftwaffe appeared over British cities. The Japanese learned their meaning two fatal days in August 1945. The Koreans know about personal survival now. We may someday learn the meaning of those two words the way others have, but if we learn it by heart now, the first-hand lesson won't be so terrible. As Governor Dewey said, I do hope that more of our people realize that one way to avoid war is to be strong enough so we won't be attacked, and the biggest job that the citizens of our state can do is to see that we're strong at home, and that means doing everybody his share in preparing his community to defend itself and take care of any damage that might occur. We asked Norman Fitz of the Federal Civil Defense Administration how he thought the New York State CD exhibit would bring home to us all the question we all must learn. It shows very well to the average viewer what has to be done in this country to be prepared for an attack that might be made on us might very well be made on us at any minute. Anyone coming into this exhibit will see a very impressive colored photograph of New York City as it would look after an atomic bombing attack. The smoke rising from the battery and rising all the way up through Manhattan gives a very clear idea of what could happen and what might happen unless we prepare for it. Civil defense means getting ready for that sort of attack. I hope that everyone who is listening to me will keep this in mind and do his part to protect himself and his family and friends by getting in touch with the civil defense director in his own locality and finding out how he can help to prepare against attack upon this country of ours. Most of the cities of New York State have done something to get ready for a day if it should come. The small cities as well as the large are very conscious at the official level of the desperate need for getting ready. To name but one of the small cities, Lockport, the pages of the Lockport Union Sun and Journal in almost every issue carries some news of what the Lockport Civil Defense Council and the people are doing for the day they hope will never come. We asked civil defense officials of several New York cities what they are doing. Dent Lackey of Niagara Falls told us how his area is accomplishing the vital job of recruiting CD workers. It's been our observation that the interest in civil defense tends to go up and down with the international situation. We worked on recruitment and organization and training until finally we have now approximately 10,000 people in Niagara Falls organized in civil defense. Niagara Falls is a city of about 95,000 and so that represents roughly one out of every ten in that city being in civil defense now. However, we find that with the present Korean talks truce talks that interest in civil defense has gone down again and special efforts are going to have to be made to recruit more for civil defense. We hope for peace and security but we prepare for the worst. Next, Colonel Harvey Smith Civil Defense Director for the Syracuse area. We are not fully facing the facts about atomic survival until we are trained. We can use thousands of volunteers for civil defense in Onondaga County, Syracuse, and the state of New York and I'd like to say to the people who may listen to this, are you going to wait till it's too late, till the bomb explodes, before you give us an assist? The city of Rochester has had the most recent experience with explosions, the tragedy in Brighton that we mentioned earlier in this broadcast, and Harry Barham of the Rochester Civil Defense Organization told us what his city has done in rolling up its sleeves to get ready for A-Day. One of the major problems we had was recruiting as has happened in many other cities and we found success in putting forth a recruiting drive during the month of June. More than 5,000 volunteers indicated their interest in the various categories of civil defense and are now being urged to register formally in the city firehouses. Although we did not reach our goal of approximately 15,000 additional volunteers required to fill our ranks, under the circumstances we are pleased with the results. Then we asked James Saponera, Utica's civil defense director, to tell us what his city is doing. Our quota set by the state is approximately 10,000 and to date we have approximately 4,500 volunteers, almost 50%, which I don't think under circumstances that that is a very bad figure or situation so far as Utica is concerned. What about defense plans in the state's capital? Here is Colonel Alfred H. Jacobson, Albany's civil defense director. Albany County, including the three cities and 10 towns, has a consolidated office of civil defense. This office treats with the enrollment, assignment, and organization and planning of all civil defense measures in Albany County. The target area, of course, is Albany, as has been designated by the military forces. The other areas are adjacent to target areas and non-target areas, each having an individual mission. The missions assigned for non-target, of course, is mutual aid, whereas the target area is designated, mission designation is self-protection. And the biggest civil defense job of all is in the biggest city of them all. Here is James Costigan, assistant director of the New York City Civil Defense Organization. While we have somewhere in the neighborhood of approximately 250,000 people enrolled in civil defense in New York, that is not enough for our needs. We have a population of 8 million people, and we set a goal of 1 million to enroll in civil defense. Our training has progressed satisfactorily, and of the 250,000 who are now enrolled, we have trained approximately 135,000 to 140,000. The necessity of adequate preparation and training against the possibility of air raids is best known by someone who has been through air raids. British comedian Tessie O'Shea remembers a night during the last war. Well, this is certainly something I've been wanting to tell everybody, this being unprepared. I can tell you about a little incident that happened to myself. I was playing at the theater in Birmingham in England, and we had these awful planes and bombs come over, and I had never experienced it before, and suddenly the sky is just lit up with thousands of lights and flames, and I was at a house of a friend of mine, and at the back garden there was six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and sendry bombs dropped. These big flames, everybody's screaming, put them out, because if they come around again, they're going to see these lights, and the whole lot's going to go up. So I, not knowing, I just grabbed the first bucket of water I could find, and I threw it over this bomb. Well, of course, that was the most stupid thing I could have done, because it was an oil bomb, and when an oil bomb has water thrown over it, well, it just blazes right up to the sky and gives the target for everything to be seen around from these other bombs. So what I'm trying to tell you is that, you see, I was unprepared at that time. I should have known that I should have had sand or earth, dirt, anything to throw over it, but not water. Unfortunately, I started a big fire, which was a shocking thing, all because I was unprepared, and I'm really telling you, I mean, after that I went and I learned all there was about civil defense to help any way I possibly could. That's all I can tell you. I mean, it's just a little incident, but it could have led to thousands of lives being lost. But what is the answer, the final answer, to this getting ready? Ray Wiley, public information officer for the Syracuse Area Civil Defense Organization, told us. Remember, it can happen in your state, it may happen in your city. We pray to God that it doesn't, but if it does, our slogan is, some preparation is better than no preparation, and the more we have, the more lives that will be saved. As we say here at the commission, if all our work only saves one child, even if it's yet unborn, we have done something for the people of New York State. Thank you, Mr. Wiley, and thanks to the rest of you who have appeared on this broadcast. Remember to keep your eyes open for that New York State Civil Defense exhibit, it's coming to your area. This is Lockwood Doty, also reminding you that the Civil Defense Commission's plan for survival is your plan for survival. Thank you, Lockwood Doty, for your interesting report on civil defense in New York State. You may find out when the New York State Civil Defense Commission's plan for survival exhibit will be in your community by calling or writing your local office of civil defense. Make it a point to see it when it comes to your town. Next week, plan for survival will present Skitch Henderson and Faye Emerson, two outstanding figures of the entertainment world to bring you more of the colorful, dramatic, and continuing story of civil defense. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense, and this is the Civil Defense Radio Network. втор głata is becoming a Mary John. you