We present the UN album, a program of news, views and interviews edited and compiled by United Nations Radio. In this edition you'll hear from a Londoner now working at Lake Success whose job is to keep member countries informed of the activities of the United Nations. There's a special message from Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt on the first anniversary of the General Assembly's adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. General Assembly President Carlos P. Romulo says a few words as his term of office draws to a close. And we want to tell you the story of a very special painting which is to be hung in the new headquarters building now going up in Manhattan. And here's Lars Stanley to introduce the UN album. I was having lunch in the huge UN cafeteria the other day where thousands of people of different nationalities meet for their midday meal. When I finally found a place at a table it turned out that my next door neighbour was a fellow Englishman. So we started to chat. And the conversation led to our respective jobs. After telling him what I did, laying special emphasis of course on the album, I asked him about his work. Well, he said, my job is fascinating because it's like looking through a window onto the whole world. And so there and then I asked my lunchtime companion, Mr. Val Stafridi, director of external services of the UN's Department of Public Information, to come along with me to the studio and record a few words for the album. Here's what he said. Well, our job here in the Department of Public Information is to give the whole world a chance to find out what the UN is and what it's doing. As you'll realise, we can't do this from just one place. So this Department of the UN is spread all over the world. It consists of us here at headquarters and of 15 information centres. Next year we hope to have 18. These centres are scattered around the world and it's my job to run them. Every day sitting at my desk here at Lake Success, my mind travels round the world. Well, just this morning for instance, I got a batch of newspaper clippings from our centre in Sydney, Australia. A request for documents on labour problems from the Warsaw Centre. A question on a depository library in Syria from Cairo. A report on the United Nations Day from our Moscow office. Oh, and a question on the United Nations flag from Mexico. And of course, quite a lot of other papers. You know, working here at headquarters, we're under tremendous pressure to supply information here in the United States. I'm glad to say the people of this country have an insatiable thirst for information about us. So it's a great temptation to all of us to meet this pressure, to concentrate on the United States. Well, this stream of correspondence coming in from the centres helps us to keep our sense of proportion. It keeps our minds stretched out around the world. So we remember that in everything we do, the people all over the world have an interest, and have a right to know what's happening. Most of our centres look after a region of more than one country. We choose a good centre of communications, and if possible, a group of countries that have similar interests. We give our centres a lot of freedom to develop each differently according to the needs of the region. For instance, our Paris office, and Mexico too, have been particularly active in the education field. Teaching about United Nations in schools, universities and colleges flourishes in both these regions. Now the London office finds great interest in our specialised work among specialised groups, doctors, engineers, that sort of thing. Moscow has a demand for our more solid background material, and particularly from learned societies. None of our centres, of course, can go direct to the mass of individual citizens. That job would be too enormous even to contemplate. So we work with the people who spread the information we give them. The press, radio news commentators, citizens' organisations, and we give them the information to pass on. They're what I call the opinion makers. So the first job of all our centres is to convince these people of the importance of the United Nations and what it's doing, and get them to spread the information about us. Well, this job of mine, running our centres, is frankly fascinating. It's like looking through a window onto the whole world. And what is the United Nations if it isn't a representation of the whole world? And those words were recorded for your album by Mr. Val Stavridi, Director of External Services of the United Nations Department of Public Information. In the next record that I've chosen for you, you'll hear from someone whose voice is familiar, I should imagine, to anyone who owns a radio set. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. It was largely through Mrs. Roosevelt's efforts that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights came to be adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December the 10th, 1948. A year later, Mrs. Roosevelt broadcast this message to the peoples of the world. The Declaration was a voicing of aspirations and a setting of standards for the whole world. And I think it has had great moral value already in some of the new constitutions being written, it is mentioned. And in our own country, of the United States, in some of the decisions made in the courts, there is reference made to the declaration, universal declaration of human rights. And I think as the years go by, we will, all of us, realize that hard as it is to write documents which are recognized as being for the world and not for any one particular country, it is worth doing because gradually it will be one of the ways in which we understand each other better and can work better together. Because we do have a mutual understanding of what we mean by human rights and individual freedoms. And that is one of the basis on which we may hope to build an atmosphere in the world in which peace can grow. So that this Universal Declaration and its understanding throughout the world is really one step towards the building of a peaceful world. As Mrs. Roosevelt was broadcasting her message to the peoples of the world on the first anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Human Rights, General Assembly President Carlos P. Romulo had some comments to make on the work of the 1949 Assembly as it drew to a close. The General Assembly has often been called the town meeting of the world. It is an accurate description in the sense that the General Assembly affords an opportunity for every nation to express its views even if they should be the minority voice. Freedom of expression is vital to the democratic process. Only the dictatorships, the police states, silence the dissenters. As long as the United Nations remains a democratic organization, it will protect and encourage the free expression of opinion because it is only through free and open discussion that the will of the peoples of the world can be manifested and made to prevail. Of course, freedom of expression like any other right is liable to be abused. The United Nations is aware of this danger and has taken steps to improve its rules of procedure in order to minimize the excessive indulgence of some delegations in repetitious, time-consuming arguments without curtailing the right to a fair hearing on every issue that comes before the United Nations. Well, those were the views that General Assembly President Carlos P. Romulo expressed as his term of office drew to a close. And now for our last record in the album. Some of you may remember that a few weeks ago we told you about an art exhibition. An exhibition of nearly 200 paintings by 51 artists from 19 countries. These paintings, which were viewed by the thousands of visitors as they walked up and down the great entrance hall here at Lake Success, were all the works of members of the UN Secretariat and delegations. We, of United Nations Radio, were very proud when we learned that the first prize in this exhibition had been awarded to Jeff Sparks, one of our American colleagues in UN Radio. Radio reporter Oscar Rose asked Mr. Sparks to tell you the story of his winning picture. Well, Jeff, and we're going to keep this really informal and not call you Mr. Sparks, because after all you are a member of the United Nations Radio Division and we know you so well. Jeff, I wonder if you'd explain to our audience what kind of a picture you have. Well, this is a picture of a little Chinese girl about 12 or 13 years of age. I call her the farmer's daughter because she actually was. I painted it in China, in the southwest part of China. Found her in the wilds, as it were, and asked her to pose for me. She didn't know what it was all about, but she started. Then she got afraid and ran away because... How'd you get her back? Well, that's the story to come, but the reason that she ran away was that in that neck of the woods, the Chinese were very superstitious and believed if you took a picture of them, their soul would go into the picture. And finally, after searching for her for hours and hours, I found her hiding. And then I brought her back and was able to finish the picture. I see. Actually, the picture was made under very unusual circumstances. I had very few materials, and the model problem, and the time element, because I was racing against time. We had a war on our hands. As a matter of fact, you were with the Red Cross at the time, weren't you, Jeff? Well, I was program director for the Red Cross, and I was with General Stilwell's headquarters. And I used to broadcast from Chongqing to American networks here three times a week. Well, now, Jeff, you were telling me some interesting things before we went on the air. As you know only too well, the money that was contributed for some of the winning pictures in the exhibition, which will go to lucky individuals, will go to UNICEF, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. Oh, yes. Now, I mean, I think that ties up very beautifully, doesn't it, with the picture of this little Chinese girl since UNICEF is giving so much aid to both the communists and the nationalists in China on the basis of need. Yes, it seems almost a deliberate planning of the situation. And it's quite accidental that this child, when she was posing, seemed to be very hungry every couple of hours of work. And I got some food for her, thinking she'd eat it right there. Instead, she took the food and put it in her belt, a wide belt that she wore, obviously to bring home to her family, who were poor and hungry. And she didn't even think of herself. And thinking of that little incident makes me think of that situation on a worldwide basis. And the fact that UNICEF, UN's International Children's Emergency Fund, is concerned with millions of children like her in Asia and Europe, all over the world. And in this case, I had a personal contact with it, and I've never forgotten it. I think it's a very beautiful and very sweet and intimate kind of a story. So if this little girl believed that her soul would go into the picture, I hope she would also realize that the soul of the UN goes into the project. And Jeff, I think we may just add one more note. If this little Chinese girl should ever come to the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in New York City, the building that is now going up, she is going to find your picture in a leading spot in the lounge of the new building. And if any of you ever make the trip to our new permanent headquarters in Manhattan, I hope you'll remember to look at the picture of the little Chinese girl. Because it is a winning picture in every sense. Well, I see it's time to sign off once again. So this is Lyle Stanley saying goodbye until next time. You've been listening to the UN Album, a program of news, views and interviews edited and compiled by United Nations Radio in the studios of our headquarters at Lake Success, New York.