Good afternoon New Yorkers. Once again it is my privilege to talk to you at this public concert in our municipal broadcasting system, American Music Festival. And to relay to you the greetings of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. When I spoke to you last year on the first day of the 7th American Musical Festival, I said that WNYC's annual spotlighting of music by Americans was a magnificent expression of the cultural heritage of this democracy. It is especially fitting that the official station of the City of New York should so honor the contributions of Americans of every racial extraction. For here in New York, perhaps more so than in any city of the world, we have been helped by the many contributions of people from every corner of the universe. That this city should have been chosen for the permanent site of the United Nations is in itself an indication that here in New York City, the spiritual climate is conducive to achievement of work for the public welfare. New York has been built by the hearts and the hands and the minds of many men and women who gave their very best to a dream of freedom and fulfillment. That this city should become the political as well as the cultural center of the world was inevitable. That New York City's own broadcasting system should reflect our city's importance in the universal pattern was equally inevitable. We New Yorkers look forward annually to the 11-day festival of music by Americans, an event unsurpassed in radio. Again this year, the municipal broadcasting system has scheduled literally hundreds of special broadcasts of music by Americans. To all of us who love democracy and music, this event on WNYC is a supreme expression of our faith in the unlimited potential of a free people, where equal opportunity exists for the child of penniless immigrants, as well as for the child of the well-to-do parent. The music we shall hear during the eighth American musical festival will reflect the contributions of Americans of every economic strategy, every shade of opinion, every racial extraction, and every religious conviction. Their joint contributions make American music. Likewise, the artists who appear on these broadcasts are truly Americans, adding to our common cultural heritage. During the period between the anniversary of the birthday of Abraham Lincoln until the anniversary of the birthday of George Washington, our municipal broadcasting system turns the radio spotlight on American music. Once again, the three-fold purpose of this gala festival is to review the whole realm of music of our country, provide hearings for new compositions and artists, and present established artists and programs stressing American music. Many of those appearing on the eighth American musical festival broadcasts are from the very top ranks of the great American music. Many are unfamiliar. But we know from past experience that many of the great names in American music were quite unfamiliar to many of us when they were first listed for WNYC's festival broadcasts. Many of those now widely acclaimed were once as relatively unknown as many of the artists and composers participating in this festival. Just as the municipal broadcasting system provided them with their first public hearing on the road to recognition, so will this year's eighth American musical festival on WNYC provide the springboard for many a talented newcomer to the musical scene. This afternoon's concert happily illustrates the overall theme of the American music festival of the municipal broadcasting system. All of the artists and composers have made their contribution to the music of America. We welcome their contribution and honor them as Americans. To all those who give of their time and talent to make the eighth American music festival the memorable listening experience it will be for all of us, I have the honor to express greetings and the thanks of the mayor of the city of New York as well as my own. New York City. Well, the strike of 2,400 Buffalo teachers was carried to the New York State Capitol at Albany today. Two members of the Buffalo Teachers Federation, which called the walkout, were reported en route to Albany to discuss the grave situation with state education authorities. The men, Ferdinand E. Camprath, chairman of the Federation's legislative committee, and William M. Pritchard, are prepared to talk with any official willing to discuss the strike and its issues. The walkout, which has shut the doors of 17 high and 61 elementary schools, reached into the scholastic sports field today and resulted in postponement of all public school athletic activities. A seven game high school basketball program scheduled for today was called off. Meanwhile, hopes of an early settlement of the strike faded. Raymond J. Ast, Federation president, declared that no word has been received from city or state officials and that the teachers are determined to fight to a finish for higher wages. Here in New York City, both the AFL Teachers Guild and the CIO Teachers Union are collecting funds to support the strike of Buffalo school teachers. In addition, the AFL group has made public a telegram from Federation president William Green to Thomas Dewey. The wire says practically everyone is looking to this state to take the lead in establishing a financial program to assure competent teachers in the schools. Green also expresses the hope that everything possible will be done to promote legislation assuring permanent increase in teachers' salaries. Republican Councilman Edward Rager will introduce a resolution today in the City Council calling for a referendum on the Tencent subway fare. Rager says the state legislature should pass legislation enabling the people of New York City to vote on the question of an increased fare. Fire Commissioner Frank Quayle has taken his first step towards streamlining the fire department in New York City. Some 31 old timers who are 70 years old or more will be retired by July 1st. There are 19 officials and 12 firemen on the pending retirement list. Taxi drivers in New York City are asking for increased fares because of higher expenses and a slackening off of business. The drivers say they have had the same fare since 1931 and now the costs of operating are catching up with them. A presidential citation of commendation is being awarded to the Selective Service Unit in the New York City Welfare Department's Division of Veterans Assistance. Welfare Commissioner Edward H. Radigan announced today. Major Chandler Cobb, Director of Selective Service in the City, will make the award in the Welfare Department offices on Wednesday, February 26th. The Selective Service Unit is being given the award for the assistance it extended to local Selective Service Boards in establishing the relative merits of deferment requests and dependency discharges. During the period November 20th, 1940 to January 31st, 1947, the unit received 36,028 requests from local Selective Service Boards from all over the country for an investigation of deferment and dependency discharge applications. Fifteen trained field workers operated full-time on this project under James J. Rafter, Director of the Division of Veterans Assistance. The New York Convention and Visitors Bureau reports that hotel rooms are easy to get over weekends because of the drop in visiting servicemen. However, the Bureau warns that hotels are still full up during the early part of the week. Close to 1,000 young men and women marched four abreast this morning to the State Capitol. They were parading in support of higher teachers' pay and demands for more housing and low rent. They peacefully infiltrated Senate and Assembly chambers and other offices. Their reception was not like that of the rent marchers last week. Most of them arrived by special train from New York City a little after 11 o'clock. The demonstration is sponsored by the New York Youth Council. And the demonstration leader, James Moss, said his group was supporting the Buffalo Teachers' Strike. He added that he understood other delegations were already in Albany from Buffalo, Rochester, and other upstate cities. Newsmen guess the age of the marchers is ranging from 18 to 30. And they say the young women seem pretty typical of the bobby suckers. They tramped in bright scarves and stadium boots up the steep State Street Hull. And they carried posters that said things like, Mr. Dewey, keep the lid on rent. We want to get married. Well, the State Administration is speeding action on the $400 million soldier bonus bill. Today, the legislators will take up methods of meeting payments ranging from $50 to $250 for the State's 1,600,000 XGIs. And the program has been outlined by Governor Dewey. It calls for enactment of emergency taxes to raise $45 million annually for the next 10 years, the time limit in which the Governor wants to retire soldier bonus bonds. The Governor's program includes a series of taxes on liquor, gasoline, cigarettes, income, utilities, and gives the legislators the choice. Now, here's the program. The cigarette tax would raise $17 million. The gasoline tax would bring $20 million. The increase in income taxes would net $24 million. The liquor tax hike would yield $14 million. And the utility tax would return $11 million. The legislators have their choice of any or as many as is needed to meet the bonus payments. The bonus bill, it will be recalled, already has passed two legislatures and goes before the people in the fall. Enactment of retirement methods now would save the State considerable sums of money, the Governor argues. He also is said to feel certain that the people will pass the bonus amendment. However, Democratic members of the legislature have objected strenuously. They point out that under the emergency tax program, the veterans would be paying their own bonus. Democratic Senate leader Elmer F. Quinn has accused the administration to attempting to scuttle the bonus through the tax program. And Democrats lost in their efforts to gain more funds for low-rent housing and slum clearance last night, or rather early this morning. In a session that went well into the early morning hours, the GOP beat a Democratic proposal for $300 million for slum clearance and low-rent housing. After two and a half hours debate on the proposal, the GOP voted 47 to 96 to refuse to discharge the measure from committee. The legislature has under consideration a proposal to investigate the state parole system. The proposal is an outgrowth of the Charles Lucky Luciano case. Luciano was released from prison after serving only a fraction of his term. Assemblyman Owen McGivern of New York City introduced the inquiry resolution and proposed a $25,000 fund to finance the investigation. His measure specifically calls for an investigation of the board and its handling of the Luciano case. McGivern describes the racketeer's release as premature and adds, quote, There was a great air of mystery surrounding his parole, end of quotes. The proposal would set up a commission to make a year's study of the case. The Assembly has before it a bill permitting a return to the old system of double automobile license plates. The Senate unanimously approved the measure last night. It would repeal the emergency provision under which the State Motor Vehicle Bureau has been issuing a single license plate annually. Another motor vehicle bill would grant free auto license plates to World War II amputees, or cars from the federal government. This bill has passed the Assembly. The Senate has approved a bill permitting cities to adopt on-the-job training programs leading to municipal civil service positions for veterans. The measure was introduced by Senator Peter J. Delessandro, Ward of Velt, Democrat and Congressional Medal of Honor winner. The State Legislature has been asked to decide whether Staten Island should continue as a borough of New York City, or become an independent city. Republican Assemblyman Edmund Rattigan of the Borough of Richmond introduced such a resolution Monday night. It would provide for a ten-member joint legislative committee to investigate the matter and report by February 1, 1948. Rattigan asks an appropriation of $50,000 for the investigation. New York State's labor force has shrunk from a high of $7,225,000 on VJ Day to $6,925,000 in November of 1946. However, Labor Department officials say the drop can be attributed to retirement of women and older workers during the war years. Teenagers and veterans also have returned to schoolrooms. The department says that post-war employment gains were noted in trades, construction, transportation, communications and utilities.