We bring you now a special broadcast by the Mayor of New York City, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletere. In 15 minutes at the conclusion of this special broadcast, the recorded masterwork hour will resume. You're tuned to WNYC, the voice of New York City. WNB. Ladies and gentlemen, His Honor, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletere. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of New York, I want to thank the sponsors of the preceding program for relinquishing this valuable time in the public interest. We are in a period of great trial and tribulation in our city, where great hardship is imposed upon millions of our citizens, as a result of an unnecessary strike on the eight private bus lines. The business of our city is adversely affected. Hundreds of thousands of our citizens are undergoing inconvenience and hardship, while 8,500 God-fearing fine men with families and obligations are involved in a strike which means that as each day passes, they are losing more and more income. I have been subjected to demagoguery, to abuse, and to vilification. However, I for one have complete faith in the intelligence and ability of the people of the city of New York to know the truth when they hear it, to understand it, and to back their elected officials when they are acting properly in the public interest. I will not engage in any battle for headlines, nor in personal abuse or vituperation. Neither will I lose sight of the one thing we all know is paramount, and that is the welfare of all the people of the city of New York. Let us review this picture again. Some know it, and some don't. Basically, I have explained to you that it would be an easy thing simply to say, increase the fare to 15 cents, pass the load on to the writing public, and let them worry about it. This I do not propose to do at all. I have told you that we intend to stand on the proposition that there shall be no increase in the 10th Cent fare, no matter what pressures are put on, and I can tell you that plenty of pressure is exerted every day. In this determination, the Board of Estimate is entirely in agreement with me, and therefore, I say to you that anything we may do to alleviate this situation will have and must have as its basic proposition the retention of the 10th Cent fare. Understand this, too, on the question of the fare. The retention of the basic 10th Cent fare is not simply a matter of saving the writers an additional expense. It happens also to be a matter of good business. Studies which have been made available to us of the fare structure and revenues of bus companies throughout the state and the nation indicate that increases of fare to 15 cents, yes, even up to 23 cents, are by no means a solution of the financial problems of the bus companies. The employees of the eight private bus lines are asking for a 40-hour week. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the members of the Board of Estimate, this is a proper aspiration for them. The problem of financing that 40-hour week arises, and the question of the basis upon which such a week could and should be granted also arises. This is an expensive matter, even if granted on a reasonable and fair basis, a basis consistent with the rates which are paid in similar occupations in the city and throughout the country. We have no illusions that the companies are able to finance such a change without assistance. And the Board of Estimate has been examining for months the financial affairs of the various companies to determine just how much help is needed from the city of New York to enable each company to put into effect the 40-hour week. We have those figures. We know what the companies can afford to contribute, what the city can and will contribute, and we know too that with cooperation from the Union, we know too that a 40-hour week is definitely in the cards and can and should be achieved. As a matter of fact, in its examination of the financial affairs of the companies, the Board, through its Transit Advisory Commission, has been given much valuable assistance by the State Public Service Commission. Ever since it commenced its work some three months ago, I am very grateful for this cooperation by the State Public Service Commission, and I want to publicly acknowledge their help in enabling the city of New York to get a true and undistorted picture of the financial status of the private bus companies. The position of every member of the Board of Estimate should be made clear in justice to each one of them. In a statement issued by the Board, it said, Every member of every member of this Board believes in the 40-hour week for bus companies, and for bus employees, rather, working for the city, and for those in private industry. It has consistently manifested its interest in this goal. On Wednesday last, and before the strike started, the Board again said, The city has indicated its willingness to make concessions, and so should everyone else. And everyone can make concessions. The bus companies are making a good profit, even if all of it does not appear as such on their books. And the union is asking for more than could possibly be granted by any operator, public or private. This situation, therefore, needs good faith, good will, cooperation, reason, and horse sense, in order that a sound settlement be consummated. As of this moment, the Mediation Committee, acting for me and for the Board of Estimate, is ready to sit down with all parties, at any minute of the day or night, to wrestle with their problems until they are solved. The city of New York is indeed fortunate to have at its disposal such outstanding citizens, who are willing to give of their time, energy, and ability, as a public service in this emergency. The companies have indicated their willingness to mediate. The union has refused on what I believe are specious and evasive grounds. I believe that this position on the part of the union is indefensible. However, I feel that it is up to me, as mayor of the city of New York, to present to you, the bus operators, and the members of the TWU, a plan which I think should cut this gorgian knot. It is because of my knowledge of the situation, with which I have lived for weeks, yes, for months, that I am about to make this concrete proposal. And I'd like to read it to you, so that there'll be no mistake about what the mayor proposes. I hereby propose that this strike be settled immediately on the following basis. One, that the men be given the basic 40-hour week. Two, that they receive wage increases as follows. 20 cents more per hour on all lines where they now receive $1.66 an hour. As a result, they will receive $1.86 an hour, which is the rate paid on the city lines. On the Fifth Avenue and New York City omnibus lines, where their rate is now $1.73 and a half an hour, that they receive an increase to $1.92 an hour, which would be the highest rate in the country for this job. This will maintain and reestablish the historic differential between the rates paid by the Fifth Avenue and New York City omnibus lines and the other lines. Three, that these terms become effective on March 1, 1953, since it will take several months to work out the necessary details involved in putting into effect the basic 40-hour week. Four, that the men be paid a monthly bonus of $0.10 an hour for each hour work during the preceding months until March 1, 1953, when the basic 40-hour week will become effective on the terms I have heretofore stated. Five, that the companies be given prompt financial relief by the city. Six, that the city's mediation committee be constituted as a group to aid the parties to iron out such disputes and difficulties as may arise in connection with working out the details of the 40-hour week. Six, that the city, seven, that the city, supported by the companies and the union, seek further relief from the state of New York by way of tax remission. First, that the entire press passes UNOM. tool is attached to the 60-hour. Watch this, that the commission affected by those people. The projects include loud and crowded back a lot in order that we are yawing them. Can you give us a真in? Alice Schroeder She pointedly, teleark the offer and may not have a chance before native the state of the science. So let me express this privilege. The dimin ceux of the blood pressure, too. Hear this things out. Ladies and gentlemen, this, I believe, is a very sound program. be given the serious consideration to which it is entitled. On Tuesday night last, I told you citizens of the City of New York that this was your fight, a fight against an effort to impose upon you an unjustified and unwarranted 15-cent fair. I thought that when the Board of Estimate unanimously advised the people of the City of New York that they would not grant an increase of the 10-cent basic fair, that that would serve to close the door, and that bargaining in good faith between the parties would resume or fair arbitration would take place. This, as I have said before, has not happened. I demand that the parties using the plan that I have advocated meet immediately, that this unjustifiable strike be terminated, and that the men return to their jobs on Monday morning. You've heard a special address on the bus strike by the mayor of New York City, the Honorable Vincent R. Infeletere. This talk will be rebroadcast by your city station tonight at 945. Stay tuned to WNYC for the latest information on the transit situation, which will be broadcast as developments occur. You're tuned to WNYC, New York City's own station.