Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. In the past three years, Britain, under a Labour government, has become what is called a welfare state. But what is a welfare state? What changes are being made in British life? Most Americans know the British Labour government has drastically cut large fortunes and large estates by taxation. But only 70 Englishmen had annual incomes this year that would put them in the millionaire class. But what are the effects of the British welfare state on the middle class, on labour, on education, on work efficiency? Taking part in today's Roundtable on the British welfare state, what is it? are Mark Abrams, English economist and director of the Social Research Limited, Edward Schill, social scientist at the London School of Economics and the University of Chicago, and Alan Simpson, historian of the University of Chicago. Mr. Simpson. I want to talk about the British welfare state. I happen to be an Englishman who left Britain four years ago, so I have my own personal interest in what is happening there. But all of us in this country are, I think, interested in that experiment. We'd like to look at it, to examine some of its implications, to help our readers to form their own opinion about what it means, whether it's desirable, and how far it's desirable. But there is one question I think that we might take up first. There's a very general impression in this country that America is subsidising the British welfare state. Now, Abrams, what's your reaction to this point of view? Well, I'd admit immediately that America is subsidising Britain. There's no question of that. But I think she'd be doing that, or contemplating it anyway, irrespective of the sort of state you had in Britain. Whether it was capitalist or socialist, Britain would be in need of help from the states and from the outside world. Do you agree with that, Charles? I certainly think so. The situation of Britain, which causes America to supply it with financial aid, is one which has nothing to do with the welfare state. The situation was brought about by the recent war and the loss of British overseas investments and markets. It is somewhat affected by the relatively low state of British economic efficiency, which is an inheritance from the past, when Britain was not a welfare state. It should also be borne in mind that Britain is not a socialist state at present, in the sense that the whole economy is socialistic. Only about 30% at the outside of the British economy is socialistic, and the rest is capitalistic, large-scale and small-scale. Well, then, the truth about this question, which I began by asking, would seem to be this, that as a result of her post-war situation, Britain is in fact dependent upon American aid. But the kind of experiment that's going on in Britain today, and which we call the welfare state, is an experiment which predates this post-war situation, and which would conceivably have happened, whether there had been a post-war situation or not. What we have to try to do, though this is extraordinarily difficult, when we're talking about the welfare state in Britain, is to set aside such problems as the unbalance in world payments, the imminent bankruptcy of Britain, and try to remember that not everything that is happening in Britain today is a consequence of this experiment. But here we're talking about an experiment without even defining it. Abrams, how would you define the welfare state? Well, I like to define not a welfare state, but the British welfare state. I think what the British welfare state is setting out to do is two things. First of all, it's setting out to wipe out gross inequalities of income and wealth. And the second thing it's setting out to do is to provide everybody in the community with a basic minimum of income, irrespective of their economic value. I think you've got to round off that definition by adding an account of the ways in which they are carrying out their purposes. They're doing it along two main lines. First of all, by using the weapon of taxation to reduce inequalities of income, and secondly, by introducing a whole range of social security schemes so as to guarantee everyone a minimum income under any contingencies, under any circumstances. Well, this is one definition. I'd like to read you another one. It's one which I saw on a paper the other day. British socialism, it reads, in plain English, is nothing more or less than political management of the lives, the total lives of the people. Schils, how does this impress you? It doesn't impress me at all. It seems to be a definition of the police state, the type of state which aims at regulation by political agencies of every aspect of life, which aims to impose uniformity of opinion and behavior, to eliminate opposition and criticism in public life. Now, the British welfare state certainly is not that type of state, and there is no reason for believing that a welfare state is necessarily going to lead to a police state. Well, how would you defend this statement of your Schils? I suppose there are many people who would say that it's either a police state, pure and simple, or if it's not a police state, it's a combination ambulance and squad car. Now, you insist that it's neither of these things, that it's something different. Would you agree substantially with Abrams' definition? I would accept his definition. I would say that there are squad cars in England for arresting criminals, and the definition of criminality is very little different from what it is in this country. There are also ambulances, more ambulances under the welfare state than there are in the old regime. But there are many other things in England, and a large area of freedom, particularly in the political sphere. Well, having ventured on a provisional definition, let's look at some of its implications, some of the things which appear to be happening there. Let us first of all look at labour, shall we? And let us ask ourselves, what is happening to the traditional role of the trade union in British life? The trade union in the past seemed to exist for an obstructive purpose, in the sense that it was always against the boss, and it behaved quite naturally and properly in that spirit. But now, of course, we have nationalised undertakings. The boss in these undertakings is the state. The British Socialist has endeavoured to persuade the worker in such undertakings that the boss has changed, that in a certain sense, he is the boss. Now, what do you make of all this, April? Well, I think you can't stress too much the historical job of the trade unions. Take a man like Bevan. Bevan is now one of the older statements of the British welfare state. But he's known to the rank and file of the union movement as the Dockers' KC, the man who won sixpence for them in one strike, the man who won shilling for them in another strike, the man who kept them safe through a lockout in another year. That's the historical, the traditional role of the unions. And as you say, that's now changed. They've got to think of themselves now not as someone who's again the employers, but someone who very often are taking part in management, someone who are responsible for the backbone, for the health of the government. And it's very difficult to adjust from the again attitude to the attitude of participation in management. Now, I would say that the leadership of the trade union movement in England has adjusted to that position fairly quickly. Don't you think, Sir Schell's? Yes, I certainly think that they have. They might not understand as clearly and as fully as some of the members of the government and some of the leading economists in the country just why it is necessary, but they are loyally giving their support to the government and attempting to promote among their members a willingness to accept new types of machinery, accept reorganization of industry, and many other changes which trade union leaders had not been at all interested in in the past or to which they had been opposed. The difficulty for the trade union leaders in England comes from the persistence of the old attitudes from the pre-welfare state among the rank and file. As you have noticed in reading the newspapers, most of the strikes in England are what we call wildcat strikes. That is, strikes which are in opposition to the decisions of the leaders. And the leaders are naturally concerned and worried about keeping their members loyal. And sometimes if the leaders don't come out as strongly as they want to in favor of what we regard as sensible economic policies, it's not because of their unwillingness to do so or their belief that these are wrong economic policies, but because they face necessity, which every organizational leader faces, of keeping the loyalty of their rank and file and their fear of losing the support of their rank and file to some small distant minority. Well, this is obviously a very real problem. On the whole, is it your impression that they are succeeding in producing this conversion of mind, conversion of outlook in the rank and file of the labor movement? Gradually, I think that they are succeeding. That the top leadership has, on the whole, been won over. Bit by bit, they're moving down in the pyramid of power within the trades unions, and one finds a bit more opposition as one descends. More opposition in local trade union circles than in national trade union circles. And within the rank and file, too, I would say, to the best of their lights and abilities, and the majority of them, there is really a strong will to support the policies of their leaders. But there's also a considerable amount of dissatisfaction. England is suffering from shortages and from inconveniences, and therefore people feel dissatisfied and rather restless. And sometimes the very small minority in the trades union just are up some trouble, and that does worry the leaders. You talk there about people feeling dissatisfied. I suppose most of us in the country have the impression that there is another dissatisfied class in Britain today, or that if there isn't, there ought to be, and that this class is the middle class. Now, obviously, this welfare state has very important and far-reaching implications so far as the middle class is concerned and the position which it has traditionally occupied in English life as the source of political energy and leadership and cultural achievement. Just precisely, what has happened to this middle class in the course of the last four years? Well, economically, of course, it's taken a pretty bad beating. You can turn up the figures quite easily and express it in terms of income, and you'll find that the income of the middle classes in England have fallen 15, 20%. That's quite a lot for a short period like that. But what I think is more important in the national sense, what's more important than this loss of income that the middle class has suffered, is that they've lost their position in the leadership of the nation. You know that during the 19th century, beginning of the 20th century, it was the middle classes which threw up the leaders of industry, the leaders of literature, of art, of music, of social engineering. It was from that class that you've got these socially dedicated young men and women coming forward to give themselves altruistically to the service of the state. Well, that, I think, has dried up, and I think it's dried up inevitably in a welfare state. Maybe a good thing, maybe a bad thing. Certainly the middle classes think it's a very bad thing. And... Well, let's see, first of all, if Schultz agrees with this statement. Do you agree that this has been happening and that these qualities are drying up? Well, I think that the institutions in which the activities were carried on are drying up. One of the great activities of the British middle classes, almost since the 17th century, has been the organization of voluntary associations for carrying out various services for the population. Now, it's the nature of the welfare state that these services are carried on now by governmental institutions, which means that the leaders of these associations, who are primarily middle-class persons, just don't have anything to do anymore. Now, they don't have anything to do as leaders of voluntary associations. That is one way in which the activities have dried up. But also, the sources of middle-class leadership seem to be drying up because of the change in the standard of living and mode of life of the middle classes. The reduction in income, the much greater difficulty of getting domestic service, which means that the mothers of families have to remain at home rather than carry on voluntary or public activities or cultural activities, makes a very great difference in the atmosphere of the family in which children are brought up. But I think that the drying up of the old middle-class source is going to affect the leadership of Britain. Well, I'd agree with you there's a sort of drying up of the old middle class. But don't you think there's a burgeoning of a new middle class? I mean, if you look at the figures at the universities, you'll find that instead of having 50,000 university students as we had before the war, we now have 80,000 to 90,000. Don't you think there is going to be this new middle class created almost by the welfare state? Yes. Certainly, a middle class of experts and specialists is going to be created. And as experts and specialists, they will probably be quite as good as those of the older generation. But in order to lead a great society like the British society, requires what we might call statesmanship and leadership capacities. And I don't think that the present middle class boys and girls in the universities have those qualities to the same extent that their elders had. I don't mean from the elders in their own families, but the elders now in the civil service and in the best ranks of the journalistic profession, church, and so on. Charles, what do you attribute this to then? Do you attribute it to the pace of the change? Would you say, for example, that numbers are swamping quality? I don't mean from the elders in their own families, but the elders now in the civil service and in the best ranks of the journalistic profession, church, and so on. Charles, what do you attribute this to then? Do you attribute it to the pace of the change? Would you say, for example, that numbers are swamping quality and that even if there was a determination to preserve all that was valuable in the old tradition, that the mere size of this enterprise entails necessarily a certain amount of dilution of those qualities that you're talking about? No, not necessarily. I think that those qualities can be bred by certain institutions, by certain kinds of families, by certain kinds of universities. But when the universities become very large and become more impersonal than the older universities have been, it becomes more difficult to train anybody but experts or specialists. The widely rounded person, the person with a feeling for new problems and imagination for conceiving of original solutions to difficult problems is not so easily bred by an educational machine which is designed for preparing a person for a single niche in a hierarchy or in a bureaucracy. And I think that the British universities, which certainly are expanding, exactly as Abrams has said, are now preparing people primarily for filling niches for the solution of foreseeable problems rather than for the perception of problems which haven't been hitherto foreseen according to the prevailing rules and for envisaging new kinds of solutions to them. I think that the new type of leadership, intellectual leadership which is being prepared in England is somewhat more narrow, somewhat less capable of having the open mind which is necessary for the highest quality political leadership. Well, Schultz evidently believes that here at least there has been a certain loss which has not yet perhaps been adequately compensated for. It is felt in this country and it is felt of course in certain circles in Britain that another kind of loss is entailed in this process. Namely, the loss of political freedom. What do you think of this view, Abrams? Well, it would be very difficult to get anyone, I think, living in England to agree with you there. You look at the opposition, it's as lively as it ever has been. It's as lively as any normal parliamentary opposition is. Anyone is free to say and do and think just whatever they like provided they keep within the normal laws of libel and treason. In fact, I'd go beyond that. I'd say that by handing over these new powers to the state you've brought about a resuscitation of interest in political liberty and in political activity. People now begin to realise that the state is important, that the party you vote for is important, it can do things, it can alter things, that what they do as ordinary voters is important. You get small evidences of this. Any of the by-elections that have been held in the past three or four years has nearly always turned out a poll of at least 75% of all the voters. They do think that what they're doing by going and putting their cross on a bit of paper is important. Well, when I said, Abrams, that there were misgivings in England, I didn't, of course, mean that anyone supposed that the traditional democratic freedoms in England had been immediately imperiled. What I meant was there were misgivings of the kind which arises when you see someone set his first foot on what you think is a slippery slope. Now, this is certainly a point of view which is held in certain circles in England. They would say there is no present loss, but undoubtedly there will be future loss. What do you think, Schultz? Well, if the slope is slippery, the British seem to me to be pretty well equipped with good galoshes. I don't think they're going to slip down that slope. As Abrams has said, there is no sign of diminution of political freedom in England, either in the organization and the relations of political parties or in the press. Most of the press, it so happens, is opposed to the government and is criticizing it quite vigorously. There has recently been a royal commission on the press which has not censured the press for its criticism of the government. Far from it, has reaffirmed its quality in that particular respect. As far as the mass of the population is concerned, they are not only alert to participate in politics to an extent which is perhaps greater than that in any other country in the world. Certainly, the British public is as politically interested now as it ever was and its level of interest is very high. But they are also concerned about maintaining the system of political liberties. People are concerned about the liberties of their opponents. they are opposed to suppressing their opponents. The mass of the Labour Party is in principle and in practice as much devoted to the liberty of the opposition and would look at as much dissatisfaction on infringements on the liberty of the opposition as it would on infringements of its own liberties. I think that in that respect England is quite unique in the world in the sense that the principle of liberty and not just one's own liberty as regards something quite sacred. Well, of course, I remember myself the vitality of that tradition and I'd be the last person in the world to underrate it. But there are one or two specific risks I'd like to hear your views about. Democracy works so long as the ordinary individual, the person who is not an expert, who is simply a citizen of the community, is in a position to influence the conduct of government. It's a system in which the community through a press and through a representative system is in a position to bring to bear the general wisdom of the community on the specialized problems of government. But now here with this progressive enlargement of the responsibility of government and with the progressive technicality of the subject matter of legislation and politics, is it any longer possible to suppose that the ordinary person, the general person, who has nothing to contribute except his own common sense and judgment, can continue to influence policy? Because if he can't, we must recognize that it's idle to talk any longer about democracy. Well, that's all you ever expect, surely, from the ordinary voter in any sort of democracy. That is, that he shall bring to bear on the problems that are put up to him, not the background of an expert, but ordinary common sense, such as you would get from any normally enlightened man. You don't expect him to be an expert. I think there's one other aspect about democracy that you've overlooked, and that is, it's essentially government by consent. And I would say that that is a doctrine which is very much alive in the minds both of the British government, of the British opposition, and of the British people. It's amazing how strong there is this feeling that you vote a government in and it's got a mandate, and it doesn't go beyond that mandate. If it wants to go beyond it, then it's got to go back to the people. And that you find happening all the time in England today. Well, you obviously have the impression, Abrams, that this experiment is founded upon consent, and not just the consent of acquiescence, the consent of apathy, but the lively consent of people who are freely determining to be governed in this kind of way. Do you agree, Schultz? Yes, indeed. I think that it is difficult to have a fully effective democracy where the decisions about which the mass of the population has to make are so complicated as they are in a welfare state. but the difficulty is not leading to apathy in England. People are very much concerned with how the various measures taken by the government affect them, and they make their judgments on how these things do affect them. As long as they continue to do that, they are in a position to pass some judgment on the measures which their representatives have taken, and that type of democracy certainly is flourishing in Britain. Well, let's take up the last question which we'll have time for, and what is by all odds, I suppose, the most important one. Granted that this might be desirable, granted that we might approve of the ends of this kind of state, let us ask, is it practical? Will it work? Will it solve the necessary problems of production? Can we rely upon its efficiency? This, I suppose, is the aspect of the welfare state about which the average American is most skeptical. What do you think? Well, I'd certainly agree that if the welfare state is to prove itself, it's got to be efficient, and efficient in the narrow economic sense. Now, when the leaders of the British welfare state approach the economic problem, I think they have in mind two main things. First of all, the full employment of all the resources of the community. if you've lived through a generation where one, two, three million people were constantly unemployed, where whole coal mining valleys were shut down, where half the shipyards in the country were shut down, then the first thing you set out for is full employment. And they've certainly got that. I think that there are some other elements in efficiency, though. It isn't just a matter of having everybody at the machine in a factory or in a coal mine or on a farm. It's also a question as to what the people do when they're there. Yes, that's perfectly true. And also, you've got to have them at the right mines and at the right workshops. And that, of course, brings us up against one of the big economic problems of the British welfare state right now. they've sort of frozen the mobility of labour. I think productivity in Britain would almost certainly go up if you could shift workers around, if you could take some people out of coal mining and some people out of distribution, put them in agriculture, put them in engineering and so on. You'd get a more efficient use of your labour force. But what the government is finding is that with the new security of the welfare state, it's practically impossible to get workers to move away from their old job, to move away from their old village and go somewhere else where there'll be strangers and retrain. And so far, all the government's done about it is to use exhortation, advertisements in the papers every day pointing out to people that they ought to move. And do you think exhortation is going to solve the problem? Well, I'm rather sceptical. I think we've come up here against one of the fundamental difficulties of the welfare state, where people have a high degree of security, a very desirable kind of security. efficiency, they are not so likely to feel eager to change their location as long as they like the job, which they have in their place of residence. And that is likely to interfere with the efficiency of the economy as a whole. Now, there are other factors in efficiency, in addition to having everyone fully employed and even having the optimal allocation. Well, of course, the managerial qualities, as well as the productive efficiency of the working class. I think that's a very sensitive point in the British economy. British management, as far as we know, is not so awfully efficient. And it's problematic under the present conditions whether the necessary incentives are being provided for managers to be as efficient as they might otherwise be. Abrams, you've probably had closer experience than I've had with this. Do you want to comment on that? Well, the management of British efficiency, again, is something that has to be put in a perspective. It's got a long tradition of being not terribly efficient in the interwar years. It's now run up against very high taxation. Some of them call it crippling taxation. They should say they're pretty cautious and pretty frustrated and dispirited. And it's something which, again, has to be overcome if the welfare state is going to deliver the goods. Well, at least we seem to have agreed upon one thing, and that is that the biggest risk entailed in this experiment is the risk of a stifling of efficiency, an inadequate arrangement of incentives from the point of view of producing the maximum productive effort. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on the British welfare state, What is it? We're Mark Abrams, British economist and director of Social Research Limited, Edward Schill, social scientist at the London School of Economics and the University of Chicago, and Alan Simpson, historian of the University of Chicago. Printed pamphlets of today's discussion are available to you for ten cents in coin. The roundtable pamphlet includes the full text of today's discussion and supplementary material on education, labor, and economic efficiency in Britain. For your copy of this valuable pamphlet, send ten cents in coin with your order to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. And may we remind you that for three dollars, you may subscribe to the pamphlet for a full year and receive 52 weekly issues. A roundtable home study course in world politics has been especially prepared by experts in international relations to explain some of the basic problems in world politics. Students enrolling in this roundtable home study course have the opportunity to win a set of the new 1949 printing of the Encyclopedia Britannica, awarded each month to the student most successfully completing this course. Write today to your local station or to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the leaflet describing how you may participate in the roundtable home study course on world politics. Next week, the roundtable discusses the origin of the solar system. Today's roundtable originated in station WMAQ Chicago and was presented by transcription. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.