Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how high can taxes go? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the controversial questions, is there a limit beyond which taxes cannot safely go? And, if more taxes must be levied, to what sources should we turn? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Louis Shearer, Professor of Economics and Director of Tax Research at Indiana University. I might add that Mr. Shearer was formerly Director of Tax Research with the United States Treasury. We also present John S. Meck, President of the Scott Radio Laboratories in Chicago, and Kenyonine Poole, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. Now as you men know, Colin Clark, a well-known economist, has concluded that inflation results when taxes exceed 25% of the national income. Now, do you agree with that analysis, Shearer? Is it possible to set any arbitrary figure beyond which taxes cannot go? I do not agree that it is possible to set an arbitrary figure beyond which taxes cannot go. If the public is convinced that there is need for more taxes, and if the public is also convinced that the best way to distribute the real burden of the defense effort is by levying more taxes rather than by borrowing, and with consequent more inflation than would result from the higher taxes, then I believe the taxes can continue to go up and up, up to the point where the public feels that additional taxes would prejudice the production and would distribute the burden less equitably than the alternative of borrowing and more inflation. I would not set any specific figure as to where that would take place. I would like to say also that I consider the findings of Mr. Clark completely irrelevant to the current debate as to what our fiscal policy should be and how much additional taxes should be levied to finance the defense effort. I do not know whether it was Mr. Clark's intention to convey to the American public the idea that additional taxes would be so much more inflationary than alternative ways of defencing the, financing the defense effort. But the impression has gotten abroad because he republished and popularized a 1945 article which came out with this conclusion that beyond 25% inflation must result. But I think everybody will agree that in the current circumstances less taxes will result in more inflation than more taxes. And I am not at all certain that Mr. Clark would take issue with me on this point. But if he would take issue with me then we just disagree. Moreover, I would like to add this, that as a scientific finding I find Mr. Clark's analysis highly questionable. He gives us a volume of statistics drawn from different countries and different periods and a page of logic which I do not find acceptable. In the battle for and against inflation he has cast the bondholders as favoring deflationary forces and the business people as favoring inflationary forces. In this drama some important actors are not cast for important roles. Thus labor and the consumers seem to be idle spectators. And I maintain that in the case of labor they are not merely pushing for inflationary wage increases but they are also considering their position as consumers. And I find the whole logical support for the statistical finding completely unconvincing. Do you find it similarly unconvincing Poole? Well I certainly agree with Mr. Scheer. I would like to say the following. That you can have 100% of national income taken by the government in the form of taxes without any pressure for inflation whatsoever. This is what you would get in a completely socialized state where the government hires everybody, is the businessman, and people buy from the government the very products they have produced while working for the government. Therefore I obviously couldn't agree that 25% is the maximum. On the other hand it is true that if you start with 25% rather than with 100% and try to work up as of course we are trying to do in view of our rising expenditures. Then there will be pressures to inflation to the extent that there is any deficit spending either by government or by business or by both. In other words if there is any creation of new money by either the government or business or both as there is now. So then it is possible for labor, for businessmen, for farmers to make the case that they need higher incomes in order to match the rising price level. Now I submit that this is the result of the deficit spending. And if as a result of rising taxes people want greater take home pay and because of the deficit spending they are able to get it, then you can make the point that the taxes are inflationary. But it isn't the taxes that are inflationary, it is the deficit spending. And if you actually could finance the upswing with no deficit spending whatsoever either by government or by business, the taxes would not be inflationary but would have the reverse effect. They would prevent inflation. It is a matter of practical politics whether this can be done however. How do you see this, Mick? Well, we seem to have covered a great deal of ground here beside the fundamental issue of whether taxation to exceed 25% of the national income would result in inflation. I don't think there is any basic argument. The national income, the percentage of it absorbed by taxes has been increasing each year. And the last tax law raised at approximately 3% to where we are going to take 28% of the national income. Now the president has asked that a further tax law be introduced which would raise some $10 billion more. And increase the tax burden to 32% of our national income. Now that ultimately leads on step by step to Mr. Poole's conclusion that at 100% of the salary and wages that you and I receive, would ultimately go for government services and that would be socialization where we bought a bar of soap and a stick of chewing gum and an automobile from the government. The question is how far can we go from the 25% that Professor Clark referred to past the 28% that we now have past the 32% that the future tax law would carry before we're on a toboggan. Down we go and we end up at 100%. You're afraid we're on that toboggan I take it. Well, why experiment further? Since 1947 our national income has gone up 20% and our federal taxes have gone up 75%. It's dangerous. We are talking about a realm in which we have no experience but this portion of the curve which we've already climbed has given us positive results of inflation. And we're saying that if we pour more kerosene on the fire we'll put the fire out. To my non-technical logic it is hard to accept that. Well now the question before the nation is what is the most efficient way of financing the defense effort? Getting the transfer of resources from production of civilian to production of defense goods and to get stability in the economy. It doesn't do simply to say that we do not want more taxes. If we don't have more taxes we're going to have to have more borrowing and more inflation. Now I would like to say that in my opinion if we do not have more taxes we will have a less equitable and a less acceptable way of distributing the burden of the defense effort than if we do have more taxes. And I would like to say further that this is not only a question of equity it's a question of efficiency of production. If we were to permit more rather than less inflation because of the faulty choice in the methods of financing the defense effort. We would get certain dislocations in production and we would get less production than with a more equitable distribution of the real burden of the defense effort. So I would like to say that we do not have very much of a choice here of simply leaving taxes alone and doing nothing else. If we want the most efficient way of financing the defense effort. One that will add the least aggregate burden and one which will most fairly distribute the burden over the whole population. And then I think the alternative is to have higher taxes. There's no way out of it. Now there's been one assumption that's been running through the discussion here. That is we increase taxes beyond a certain point we move in the direction of a socialized state. Do you accept that pool? There's no doubt that if you start with taxes taking 10% of national income as they did 15 or 20 years ago. Move up to a position where they take 25% as they did recently. 28 as they will soon. 35 and 40 as they do in Britain and Germany. That you are moving in the direction of greater state control over the economic life of the nation. It is true however that you cannot in my opinion at any rate look at the percentage and say this is a greater percentage than last year therefore we're closer to socialism. I think if the figure were 80% there'd be no doubt in my mind we're far closer to it than we are at present. There'd be plenty of room for anybody to be alarmed who feared going in that direction. I don't feel however that the type of increase in spending that we've had in recent years due to the Cold War and so forth is the type that necessarily leads towards socialism. It may be it will drop back even if it doesn't drop back if the public is continually jealous to maintain individual rights. Then the mere percentage of national income taken in taxes isn't the only measure and I don't think you could assume that because it has increased we're nearer to socialism. I would compare your approach to that with exposing one small child to the measles because it's so easy to get over the measles. You say that the measure of tax dollar or percentage of our income is not a measure of socialization. Well you mean to say that if we increase our tax bill by ten billion dollars we don't spend ten billion dollars more for the on the part of the government and that ten billion dollars more of our society and its output isn't part of the social work done by the government. Don't you know that our non-defense expenditures today are at the highest point in history despite the greatest employment and peace time we've ever had? Mr. Meck, my answer would be that I feel I've covered that point in what I said particularly when I pointed out that the increase in spending is due to very largely in fact mostly to the Cold War which is a thing on which the whole country is unanimous. That is we must defend ourselves. No one supposes that the percentage of national income taken by the government won't increase when you're in that position. But to my mind that is only slightly relevant to the question of going towards socialism. We're simply trying to defend ourselves. We know that we go toward greater central planning during a war whether it is cold or hot and we have been in a Cold War. I'd like to jump in here. I think we have not only one safety valve but a couple of safety valves which will prevent undue socialization of America. The first is that we're politically more mature than one would gather from listening to political orators. And the second is that we have great confidence in the efficacy of the free enterprise system. We know what it can do in the way of producing, out producing any other kind of a system and we're not going to throw away the blessings of that system too easily. Now I think we're getting all confused when we start to discuss the dangers of the socialized state in the context of how we should defense, finance the defense effort. The additional expenditures that and the very large additional expenditures that we now have to finance are altogether outside the area of debate as to whether America is socializing at exactly a desirable rate or too fast or too slowly. We have to increase our expenditures and our taxes in order to do the job. I am very confident because of these two safety valves that I mentioned that even if we have a long emergency period after it is over that we will make the right decisions on what rate to proceed with additional government expenditures for regular purposes. And if we should make the decision to freeze or to greatly retard the ex-emergency government expenditures. Then the fact that our economy is growing at a very rapid rate of upwards of $10 billion a year will soon restore the relative role of government to the rest of the economy. Instead of clarifying issues, we are confusing, I think, the American public when we discuss the very huge additional expenditures for defense in the context of at what rate should we enlarge government programs for ex-emergency purposes. Well, I quite agree with you on that, and that's perhaps unfortunate. The specific thing which the nation faces at the present time is the possibility or the need, as you choose to call it, of a $10 billion additional tax bill to be passed sometime to cover the year 1952. The point that I would like to make is there is no question as to the need of balancing income of the government with its expenditures as a means of controlling inflation. But the exact amount of money which the government would like to raise in additional taxes and with all the ills which we believe would cause is about equal to the savings that Senator Byrd and the Hoover Commission's recommendations added together would give us. In other words, to reduce the non-defense expenditures during this period and let's say to freeze this socialization or additional government services to people for the duration in the same manner which we've frozen many other services or gains for private individuals till we get the complication of fighting a war and socializing a nation unwrapped around each other. I would like to agree thoroughly with Mr. Meck on the point with respect to savings. I personally feel that not sufficient attention has been given to pruning the budget, and I believe a great deal could be done that way. I'd like to point out, however, that, and this would be all to the good, of course, that if this were done and we did get six or seven billion dollars out of the budget, this I'm afraid doesn't necessarily mean that we won't have to raise tax rates, perhaps as much as we would have had to do at any rate. I think this gives the government more scope for expanded programs aimed at our defense, in the direction of our defense, and I would approve that 100%. But I would like to point out that it probably would not actually get rid of this question of the effect, if there is an effect, of taxes on inflation. Because I believe it would result in greater and probably desirable government spending, but would leave us still with the very issue that we're debating here. Well, to be a little bit, to put this thing into an analogy, you'd recommend that Northwestern's football team not play its game next Saturday because they might lose the game. On the contrary, I favored, you'll recall, I favored your position entirely, but pointed out you'd still have the problem, which is at the top of our discussion today, namely the effect of taxes on inflation. In other words, what I'm saying is, as a political fact, I believe that we would be able to increase our national spending as a result of this in other and more desirable directions, but you would still have the tax problem. Well, I would like to say that I wholly agree with all of the people in and out of Congress who have been trying to reduce expenditures, both in the defense and in the non-defense areas of the type which represent inefficient expenditures of government. Funds. But the hard fact is that it takes more than reorganization bills and blueprints, new reorganization charts to affect these economies. We need in government more ability, more capacity. There's a scarcity of able executives and able people to run the government's business, just as there is a scarcity of ability in the business world. We're now an emergency, and that scarcity has been accentuated. Now, we'd be unrealistic, I think, completely unrealistic if we expected too much in the emergency period in the shape of very large amounts of savings on account of the improvement in the efficiency of government. It's not only a question of getting new faces in government, turning out the rascals that are doing the bad job now and getting others in. If you get other rascals, you're no better off. You've got to get more ability, and that capacity, that additional capacity is a very scarce item, and it's especially scarce at emergency. Well, doctor, I'm a little confused, but it would seem to me the way to economize in the government wouldn't be to get some more people in, but just to turn the rascals out. I think the initial step in this is a clear mandate, so to speak, from the people that they just want a little less government and more opportunity to do an honest day's work. Well, of course, I would agree that those that are rascals should be turned out, but what I'm fighting against is replacing them with other rascals. I think what we need to replace them with is people of greater ability and greater integrity and greater everything else, and that is a very scarce item. I'd like to point out, however, that Mr. Mick's position, I think, was that you shouldn't replace them with anybody, good, bad, or indifferent. I couldn't go along with that in view of the fact that under a democratic system, it is the public that decides how much government wants, and the place where it decides is at the polls. I gather that the decisions they've made have given them what they've got. I think if the people will make their decision at the polls and turn out enough people from the government, they'll get a pretty fair percentage of rascals. QED. Well, now, let me ask you this question, Mr. Mick. It seems to me to be crucial, at least. If these savings that you're talking about were made, that is, if we were to put government spending on a rigorous austerity basis, would you effect enough savings to put us in a position where we wouldn't have to increase taxes? Is that what you're saying in substance? I wouldn't like to make that assertion, because I have a feeling that the costs of the defense program are being given to us in the form of a small pill at a time. I don't believe anybody knows what the final cost is, but no matter how high the total cost of the defense program goes, there certainly is well worthwhile to pick up between $5 and $10 billion a year of savings in non-defense governmental expenditure that good, sensible men like Senator Byrd and the Hoover Commission have agreed can be removed. Regardless of what the total bill is, let's save that because that will be between 5% and 10% of potential elimination. In other words, your dollar would be worth a dollar instead of 90 cents if that was eliminated. Well, I think there's no disagreement here whatsoever on the desirability of making the cut in spending where it can be made. Well, I would like to say that whatever that saving might be from the elimination of inefficient expenditures, both in defense and non-defense areas, that the Revenue Act of 1951 is completely inadequate and that we will need at least $15 billion more of taxes. And I hope that the President will recommend at least $15 billion more of taxes in his turn of the year messages. Because after the Revenue Act of 1951, revenue is accounted, we're probably going to have an ordinary budget deficit of some $7 billion and a cash deficit running to $3 to $4 billion. Now, a government deficit in a period when there are strong inflationary pressures in the rest of the economy and in a period where the outlook is for a step up in defense expenditures from the beginning of the fiscal year 52, from about $35 billion to an annual rate of $65 billion, or in other words, a step up at a rate of $30 billion additional. We can look into the fiscal year 1953 with a current prospect of a huge deficit by comparison with fiscal year 1952. And even 1952 is going to run a substantial deficit. Therefore, I think that there is no question about the need of a substantial amount of additional taxes to be enacted as early as possible after the turn of the year, irrespective of whether we get $3, $4 or some such billions of expenditures. Now, here's a man, here's a man, Mick, who thinks that we face a need for substantially greater taxes than is now represented in this Revenue Act of 1951, who hopes that we can affect some savings in government, is not too sanguine about it. Where does that leave you, sir? Well, we're a little bit off the question of whether increasing taxes over 25% will result in inflation. And I would draw the conclusion that if we are going to have to add another $15 billion to our tax bill, which will run our taxes up between 35% and 40% of the national income, we are very close to socialism. We might as well go all the way over the hump, take the 100%, and all of us quit worrying about balancing our individual budgets at home. Let the government take the whole worry on their shoulders. Well, how would you accomplish this in order to avoid the disastrous results that Mr. Mick prophesies? Well, I think we have a very difficult problem here of how to raise a very large amount of additional revenue without seriously retarding the growth of production. Now, it's an unfortunate fact that when taxes are already high, every additional layer of taxes must be more regressive or less equitable than the preceding layer. By more regressive, you mean you get now to a little power? More of the taxes must come from the lower income groups. Now, it's also true that the more regressive the taxes, the more effective they are against inflation. So the dilemma is how do you levy regressive taxes to fight inflation and at the same time get the public to be satisfied that this is a fair way of doing the job? Now, my specific answer would be that we must levy regressive taxes to fight inflation and make the taxes equitable nonetheless by making them refundable at retirement or the old age of the taxpayers. Specifically, I would like to see about a 5% special payroll tax levied now and integrated with the Social Security benefits and returned at the same time as Social Security benefits are returned. I think there's no doubt that if you do have to, and I believe you will, have to raise the taxes on the lower middle income group and the lower income group, that you've got to give them something to live for after the crisis is over. And I agree with Mr. Scheer's suggestion that some of this money be put in the form of Social Security or that sort of thing, savings bonds in return at the end of the crisis. You're asking our congressmen and senators to vote for sin. Let's cut the tax bill. You think the tax bill can be cut? It has to be. They can't vote for that kind of thing on these lower income people and stand for election. It's never been done in the history of society. That depends on how aware the people are made of the crisis problem. I'm sorry to interrupt, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How High Can Taxes Go? We want to thank our guests today, John S. Mack, President of Scott Radio Laboratories in Chicago, Kenny Neapool, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University, and Louis Scheer, Professor of Economics and Director of Tax Research at the University of Indiana. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand discusses the role of the arts in therapy. Seated around the table with us will be Vernon Clark, a clinical psychologist, George Cohen, instructor in art at Northwestern University, Miss Marion Chase, a dance therapist from St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington, and Julian Pathman, Chief Clinical Psychologist at the Downey Veterans Hospital. These guests will tell us how music, dancing, drama, painting, and other arts are being used to treat patients in our great modern hospitals. We hope you will join us for a discussion of the role of the arts in therapy. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. acred//