By transcription, your city station invites you to enter the magic land of music. Hi there, Mr. Music. Oh, hello, Nancy. Oh, what have you got in all those boxes you're carrying? You certainly look loaded down. Oh, these are all my new camp clothes. Oh. Oh, they're heavy. School's out next Friday. Next Saturday, I'm off to camp for the summer. Oh, I'm so excited, I just can't wait to go. Are you going to camp, too? Oh, no, no, Nancy. On my vacation, I'm going to travel all over the world and listen to music that's being born. Well, then when we meet again, you'll have a whole lot of new things to tell me. Mm-hmm. And I can tell you about my summer at camp. Wonderful, Nancy. Oh, Mr. Music, I've been meaning to ask you a question for weeks and weeks now, but I always seem to forget. What is the question, Nancy? Is the music playing now? Oh, is this what you mean? Yes, it's so pretty. What's the name of it? The Empress of the Pagodas. Part of Maurice Ravel's Mother Goose Suite. Mother Goose Suite? Like the Mother Goose story? Yes, parts of the music were taken from Mother Goose tales. The Mother Goose Suite contains some of my favorite music. Does it tell little stories? Mm-hmm. Five different ones. Maurice Ravel wrote the music for two special little friends who were lazy sometimes when it came to practicing the piano. Who were these special friends? Oh, two young girls close to your age, Nancy. Jean and Mimi Kotebski. Ravel would visit with the girls and sit for hours telling them all different kinds of fairy tales. But when the time came for Jean and Mimi to practice their piano exercises, Mimi usually looked for an excuse to get out of practicing. Jean was a little better, but it was still no easy task for their mother to get the girls seated at the piano. She just didn't know what to do. It was then Maurice Ravel composed special four-handed music which Jean and Mimi could practice together. Being able to practice with someone else makes it more fun. The time goes faster, too. But why did he name the music The Mother Goose Suite? Ravel took five of the children's favorite fairy tales. Sleeping Beauty, Hop on My Thumb, Empress of the Pagodas, Beauty and the Beast, and the Fairy Garden. Then he fitted them to delightful music. And he called the whole thing The Mother Goose Suite? Mm-hmm, that's how the suite was named. One day you could walk into the Kotebski home and find the two girls practicing Hop on My Thumb, and the next day the Fairy Garden and... Can we listen to one of the stories now? Well, all right, Nancy. Now, shut your eyes and take my hand, and we'll walk through the fairy garden. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Oh, it's like a magic garden. Mr. Music, I want to hear another one of the stories. Oh, which one, Nancy? Take your choice. There are five. What's Beauty and the Beast like? Well, once upon a time, there was a very unhappy prince who had been turned into an ugly monster by strange magic. One day he met a beautiful young princess. One day he met a beautiful young princess. When the princess saw the beast, she was terribly frightened by it. But the beast wouldn't harm the lovely princess. But the beast wouldn't harm the lovely princess because he had fallen in love with her. As they started to talk, the princess realized that although the beast was very ugly, he had a good and kind heart. And the longer they talked, the less ugly the monster seemed. Finally, the sweet princess told the beast that she had seen men far uglier than he. As she said this, the beast suddenly disappeared. And in his place, the princess saw the most handsome prince. It was by the gentleness and kindness of the princess that the magic spell holding the prince had been broken. Well, you know what comes next in the fairy tale, Nancy. Oh, yes. And they lived happily ever after. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Oh, I just love music with stories. I could listen to them forever and ever. Maurice Ravel must have been a wonderful man. Anyone who can write such pretty music must be. Yes, he was, Nancy. And Ravel came from the wonderful and fascinating Basque country. A little later on, you'll see how his home and countryside can be heard in his music. Basque country. I don't think I've ever heard of that place before. Where is it? At the extreme southwestern tip of France. Oh, I wish I had a map to show. Well, why not? Now, if you look at this map, Nancy, you'll find the Atlantic Ocean on the western side and to the south, the Pyrenees Mountains, which lead to Spain. The country of the Basques is a romantic spot. One filled with a strange legend and history. Strange legend? Yes. Some people say the Basques are descendants of the mythical Atlanteans. Who are they? According to legend, thousands and thousands of years before history was first recorded, there was a continent named Atlantis that vanished. No trace of it has ever been found. And the Basque people are from the missing continent? So it is said. The Basques have a language and customs all their own. And it was in this Basque country, the town, Sibour, that saw the birth of Maurice Ravel on March 7, 1875. An exciting birthplace for a man who was to write exciting music. Did Ravel spend all of his life there? No, Nancy. Although his home was always very close to his heart, Ravel spent the greatest part of his life in Paris. He never forgot Sibour, and the little town never forgot him. To prove this, in 1930, Sibour honoured its famous native son by renaming the street on which he was born. Today, the street is known as Key Maurice Ravel. On this same day in 1930, great artists travelled south to Sibour to play Ravel's music. Here's something, Andine, or The Waves, which was performed on this festive day. Krak Tusk, only since the title was played A veto the double-circle shot for each other. You only always wait for the note. Favell's music has such pretty titles. Yes. Why, his pieces aren't just called Concerto No. 1 or Symphony No. 2. I want to hear the music almost as soon as I hear the name of it. Soon. Makes me wonder if the music is really going to sound like the title. And does it? Oh, sometimes it's not quite what I expect, but I like what I hear every time. Mr. Music, when did Favell start composing? Before he was 20 years old, Nancy. Favell started his piano lessons when he was 7 and at 14 entered the Conservatory of Music in Paris. When he was 20, Favell's first piece of music was published. But the public performances of his works didn't go over too well. His Pavan was the first Favell work really to be applauded. See what I mean? There it is again. The title Pavan. What a strange name. Does it mean anything? Oh, yes. Pavan is an ancient court dance. It originated in the 16th century in Spain, or Italy. I haven't made up my mind which. The Pavan was danced on grand feast days and at weddings of young ladies of high estate. It's a slow dance and lasts just long enough for the dancers to circle the ballroom floor three times. So, of course, this way man will notstill when he was들 was thermicana after the jet of 5 stars. Let's take a look on my mind and I can dwell next to dangerous earthquakes on the engineers, who Araberzus' hall who I have experienced when he began to answer a gift with 27 students at least 15 years I didn't understand say they've spent Thank you. I see you like Ravel's music as much as his titles. Titles like Pavan give you a hint as to what the music is about. But sometimes composers use interesting names to stir up your curiosity. Oh, sort of like teasing him. After fashion, Nancy. But not all of Ravel's titles are mysterious sounding. His ballet music simply tells you the name of the ballet. Did Ravel write music for ballets too? Oh, yes, yes. In 1909, the Russian ballet, with all its grandeur and dazzling splendor, came to Paris. Ravel visited the ballet and breathlessly watched the great ballerinas twirl and float across the stage to exciting music. And so in 1910, when he was asked to write music for the ballet Daphnis and Chloe, he was very happy and proud. Ravel prepared this music most carefully. All the time the music was being created, he thought of the vivid costumes and the magnificent staging of the ballet. Oh, ballets are so beautiful to watch with everyone on their tippy toes. On the night of June 18, 1912, when the curtain rose on Daphnis and Chloe, the world's most famous ballet dancer, Nijinsky, was dancing the starring role. This is the music Nijinsky danced to. The music Nijinsky danced to. The music Nijinsky danced to. The music Nijinsky danced to. The End Oh, I like each piece of music better than the last. I can't seem to make up my mind which I like best. I'm awfully glad he was able to spend his life composing. So am I, Nancy. But at one point in his life, Ravel laid aside his pen to take up arms for his country. In August 1914, World War I began. And Ravel knew his country was in danger. So he went to fight in her defense. He joined the army? Mm-hmm. Seems strange to think of a composer as a soldier. Did Ravel start composing again when he came back? No, not immediately. The war had made him very unhappy. And for a time he felt he would compose no more. But he did, didn't he? Oh, yes, yes. When you have a musical genius like Ravel's, you can't keep it bottled up for long. Earlier, I told you we'd hear some of Ravel's Basque country background in his music. Oh, I remember. In his bolero, we hear the combination of Spanish and French melody. Ravel loves Spanish rhythms. In addition to his compositions, Ravel made a tremendous contribution to orchestration. We can hear it now. What do you mean? Well, Ravel thought of the orchestra as though it was a complicated and fascinating piece of machinery. He studied all the sections and liked to take them apart. In the same way that you would a mechanical toy nature. He really learned what made an orchestra tick. Because he knew it so well, he was able to create effects like this. In the same way, during the same day, There's a button earlier on...ести! Not for long-term gonna get him his outfit do not get cut off. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've heard the Bolero lots of times. Yes, it's been played by symphony orchestras everywhere. And jazz bands, too. On January 4th, 1928, Maurice Ravel arrived to New York for a concert tour. He was here? How long did he stay? A little more than three months. Ravel had never visited this country before, and he was completely bewildered by New York. Why? He was puzzled by the giant skyscrapers, the shopping crowds, the traffic, subways, and all that goes to make New York the busiest city in the world. No other countries, not even other cities in this country, have the tall buildings we have here, you know. Oh, I never thought of that. You take them for granted because you've seen them all your life. But it's quite a surprise to arrive and look up at buildings almost as tall as mountains. Did Ravel like it here? And did the people like his concert? He liked New York. And the concert-going public liked him, too. On January 12th, Ravel made his first official appearance in the United States. And now, let's listen to Laval's, Ravel's closing number for his first American concert. At the top of the score of Laval's, you can read the following description of the music. The scene slowly becomes illuminated. The light of chandeliers bursts forth. We're in an imperial court, about 1855. The end of the score of Laval's, The end of the score of Laval's, At the end of his tour, Ravel returned to France, where he continued to work. In 1937, Ravel was sick. And on the morning of December 28th, 1937, he passed quietly away. No one can ever forget a man who wrote such wonderful music. That's right, Nancy. Gosh, Mr. Music, I guess I won't be seeing you for a while. Oh, the summer passes quickly. And all that time, I'll be saving up new stories for you. But how will I know where to find you again? Why, that's easy. Just listen for this. And when you hear this melody, just walk through the door, and you'll be back again in the magic land of music. I'll be listening. Goodbye, Mr. Music. See you soon. Goodbye, Nancy. Have a happy summer. Your city station has presented transcribed The Magic Land of Music. Grant Gordon was heard as Mr. Music, Greta Coleman as Nancy. The program was originated, written and directed by Annette Backner and Marie Gordon. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Magic Land of Music.