Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago roundtable. Today, the University of Chicago has the honor of bringing you an unusual program of poetry by T.S. Eliot, read and discussed by Mr. T.S. Eliot. To introduce Mr. Eliot, we now present Mr. Morten Dowan Zabo, Professor of English of the University of Chicago. Mr. Zabo. For the past six weeks, the University of Chicago, under the auspices of its Committee on Social Thought and its Alexander White professorship, has had the honor to have as its guest Mr. T.S. Eliot. Mr. Eliot requires no introduction to the radio audience of this roundtable. For 35 years, since the appearance of his first notable poem, The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock, in 1915, he has been preeminent among the poets, critics, and moral intelligences of our time. His poem of 1922, The Waste Land, has probably exerted a greater influence on the thought and art of modern verse than any other poem of the age. Other works, Garantian, The Sweeney Poems, The Hollow Men, Ash Wednesday, and more recently, The Four Quartets, have stamped the contemporary imagination and conscience with an indelible impression, an ineffaceable accent and imagery. His critical essays have been a continuous schooling and challenge in literary and moral thought to their readers. Books of inquiry, like The Idea of a Christian Society and Notes Towards the Definition of Culture, have proposed some of the most serious questions and defined some of the most pressing issues that concern modern society. His plays in verse, The Rock, Murder in the Cathedral, The Family Reunion, and The Cocktail Party, have done more to restore poetry to the modern theater than any work of their kind since Yeats and the Irish dramatists began their labors half a century ago. It is a privilege for the University of Chicago Round Table to devote its half hour today to a reading of his poems by T. S. Eliot. Poet, critic, dramatist, member of England's Order of Merit, recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature, eminent both as an American and as a European, and one of the most distinguished artists of the 20th century. Mr. Eliot. I think this is the first time I have ever read any of my own poems over the radio, for either an American or an English audience, that I have done so once or twice for overseas services. In making a choice for today, I have aimed first to select something representative of each of my main periods, and second, to choose complete poems rather than parts of longer poems. I have made one exception. People always expect from me at least a part of the wasteland, so I shall give you the last two sections. I shall start with four preludes, which are almost the earliest of my published verse, now over forty years old. While they are probably not those of my early poems which showed the most promise, I think they are still the most satisfactory to myself. The winter evening settles down with smell of stakes in passageways, six o'clock, the burnt out ends of smoky days. And now a gusty shower wraps the grimy scraps of withered leaves about your feet, and newspapers from vacant lots. The showers beat on broken blinds and chimney pots, and at the corner of the street a lonely cab horse steams and stamps, and then the lighting of the lamps. The morning comes to consciousness, the faint stale smells of beer from the sawdust trampled street with all its muddy feet that press to early coffee stands. With the other masquerades that time resumes, one thinks of all the hands that are raising dingy shades in a thousand furnished rooms. You tossed the blanket from the bed, you lay upon your back and waited, you dozed and watched the night revealing the thousand sordid images of which your soul was constituted. They flickered against the ceiling. And when all the world came back and the light crept up between the shutters and you heard the sparrows in the gutters, you had such a vision of the street as the street hardly understands. Sitting along the bed's edge where you curled the papers from your hair, or clasp the yellow soles of feet in the palms of both soiled hands. His soul stretched tight across the skies that fade behind a city block, or trampled by insistent feet at four and five and six o'clock, and short square fingers stuffing pipes, and evening newspapers and eyes assured of certain certainties, the conscience of a blackened street impatient to assume the world. I am moved by fancies that are curled around these images and cling, the notion of some infinitely gentle, infinitely suffering thing. Wipe your hand across your mouth and laugh. The worlds revolve like ancient women, gathering fuel in vacant lots. There is one other of my early poems, written a year or two later, which was the most popular in its time, I suppose because it seemed to people more like poetry than my other work, but there may still be some who have a liking for it. That is La Figlia che piange. Stand on the highest pavement of the stair, lean on a garden urn, weave, weave the sunlight in your hair, clasp your flowers to you with a pain surprise, fling them to the ground and turn with a fugitive resentment in your eyes, but weave, weave the sunlight in your hair. So I would have had him leave, so I would have had her stand and grieve, so he would have left, as the soul leaves the body torn and bruised, as the mind deserts the body it has used, I should find some way incomparably light and deaf, some way we both should understand, simple and faithless as a smile and shake of the hand. She turned away, but with the autumn weather compelled my imagination many days, many days and many hours, her hair over her arms and her arms full of flowers, and I wonder how they should have been together, I should have lost a gesture and a pose. Sometimes these cogitations still amaze the troubled midnight, and the noons repose. Now I shall go straight on, do the fourth and fifth section of the Wasteland, and I don't think there is anything nowadays to say about that, except that like some other poems, many readers find it easier to read to themselves after they've heard it read aloud. Death by Water By the Gal Bewegus A fortnight dead forgot the cry of gulls and the deep sea swell and the profit and loss. A current under sea picked his bones in whispers. As he rose and fell, he passed the stages of his age and youth, entering the whirlpool. Gentile or Jew, oh, you who turn the wheel and look to windward, said, consider Phlebas, who was once handsome and tall as you. What the thunder said. After the torchlight red on sweaty faces, after the frosty silence in the gardens, after the agony in stony places, the shouting and the crying, prison and palace and reverberation of thunder of spring over distant mountains. He who was living is now dead. We who were living are now dying with a little patience. Here is no water but only rock, rock and no water, and the sandy road, the road winding above among the mountains, which are mountains of rock without water. If there were water we should stop and drink amongst the rock, one cannot stop or think. Sweat is dry and feet are in the sand. If there were only water amongst the rock, dead mountain mouth of curious teeth that cannot spit. Here one can neither stand nor lie nor sit. There is not even silence in the mountains, but dry, sterile thunder without rain. There is not even solitude in the mountains, but red, sullen faces sneer and snarl from doors of mud-cracked houses. If there were water and no rock, if there were rock and also water and water, a spring, a pool among the rock, if there were the sound of water only, not the cicada and dry grass singing, but sound of water over a rock, where the hermit thrush sings in the pine trees. Drip, drop, drip, drop, drop, drop, drop, drop, but there is no water. Who is the third who walks always beside you? When I count, there are only you and I together, but when I look ahead, up the white road, there is always another one walking beside you, gliding, wrapped in a brown mantle, hooded. I do not know whether a man or a woman, but who is that on the other side of you? What is that sound? High in the air, murmur of maternal lamentation. Who are those hooded hordes swarming over endless plains, stumbling in cracked earth, ringed by the flat horizon only? What is the city over the mountains? Cracks and reforms and bursts in the violet air, falling towers, Jerusalem, Athens, Alexandria, Vienna, London, unreal. A woman drew her long black hair out tight and fiddled whisper music on those strings. And bats with baby faces in the violet light whistled and beat their wings and crawled head downward down a blackened wall and upside down in air were towers, tolling reminiscent bells that kept the hours and voices singing out of empty cisterns and exhausted wells. In this decayed hole among the mountains, in the faint moonlight, the grass is singing over the tumbled graves about the chapel. There is the empty chapel, only the wind's home. It has no windows and the door swings. Dry bones can harm no one. Only a cock stood on the roof tree, co-co-re-co, co-co-re-co, in a flash of lightning. Then a damp gust bringing rain. Ganga was sunken. And the limp leaves waited for rain while the black clouds gathered far distant over him event. The jungle crouched, humped in silence. Then spoke the thunder. Da. Data. What have we given, my friend? Blood shaking my heart, the awful daring of a moment's surrender which an age of prudence can never retract. By this and this only, we have existed which is not to be found in our obituaries or in memories draped by the beneficent spider or under seals broken by the lean solicitor in our empty rooms. Da. Diettham. I have heard the key. Turn in the door once and turn once only. We think of the key, each in his prison. Thinking of the key, each confirms a prison. Only at nightfall, ethereal rumors revive for a moment the broken Coriolanus. Da. Damyata. The boat responded gaily to the hand expert with sail and oar. The sea was calm. Your heart would have responded gaily when invited, beating obedient to controlling hands. I sat upon the shore, fishing with the arid plain behind me. Shall I at least set my lands in order? London Bridge is falling down, falling down, falling down. Why says frozen el foco, kelia fina. One of your muti caledone. Oh, swallow, swallow. Le prince d'Aquitaine a la tour a bully. These fragments I have shored against my ruins. Why then, I'll hit you. Your animo's mad again. Da. Da. Da. Da. Da. Da. Da. Damyata. Shanti. Shanti. Shanti. That is the longest piece I shall read. I shall now take one of my aerial poems. Aerial Poems was the title of a series of poems which included many other poets as well as myself. These were all new poems which were published during four or five successive years as a kind of Christmas card. Nobody else seemed to want the title afterward, so I kept it for myself simply to designate the four of my poems which appeared in this way. The journey of the magi is obviously a subject suitable for the Christmas season. A cold coming we had of it just the worst time of the year for a journey and such a long journey the ways deep and the weather sharp the very dead of winter and the camels galled, sore-footed, refractory lying down in the melting snow. There were times we regretted the summer palaces on slopes, the terraces and the silken girls bringing sherbet. Then the camel men cursing and grumbling and running away and wanting their liquor and women and the night fires going out and the lack of shelters and the cities hostile and the towns unfriendly and the villages dirty and charging high prices. A hard time we had of it. At the end we preferred to travel all night sleeping in snatches with the voices singing in our ears saying that this was all folly. Then at dawn we came down to a temperate valley wet below the snow line smelling of vegetation with a running stream and a water mill beating the darkness and three trees on the low sky and an old white horse galloped away in the meadow. Then we came to a tavern with vine leaves over the lintel six hands at an open door dicing for pieces of silver and feet kicking the empty wineskins. But there was no information and so we continued and arrived at evening not a moment too soon finding the place. It was you may say satisfactory. All this was a long time ago. I remember and I would do it again but set down this set down this where we led all that way for birth or death. There was a birth certainly we had evidence and no doubt. I had seen birth and death but had thought they were different. This birth was hard and bitter agony for us like death our death. We returned to our places these kingdoms but no longer at ease here in the old dispensation with an alien people clutching their gods. I should be glad of another death. Triumphal March originally appeared in this series too but I took it out of the series because I meant it to be the first of a sequence in the life of a character who appears in the first part as young Cyril. It's rather difficult to read. I ought always to go into training for several weeks before attempting it. And anyway what I want to read you is the second section which is called Difficulties of a Statesman. A subject of interest to everybody. Cry What shall I cry? All flesh is grass comprehending the companions of the Bath the knights of the British Empire the cavaliers oh cavaliers of the Legion of Honor the order of the Black Eagle first and second class and the order of the rising sun. Cry cry what shall I cry? The first thing to do is to form the committees the consultative councils the standing committees select committees and subcommittees one secretary will do for several committees. What shall I cry? Arthur Edward Cyril Parker is appointed telephone operator at a salary of £1.10 a week rising by annual increments of five shillings to £2.10 a week with a bonus of 30 shillings at Christmas and one week's leave a year. A committee has been appointed to nominate commission of engineers to consider the water supply. A commission is appointed for public works chiefly the question of rebuilding the fortifications. A commission is appointed to confer with a Walsian commission about perpetual peace. The Fletchers and Chavelin makers and Smiths have appointed a joint committee to protest against the reduction of orders. Meanwhile the guards shake dice on the marches and the frogs oh Mantua and croak in the marshes. Fireflies flare against the faint sheet lightning. What shall I cry? Mother Mother here is a row of family portraits dingy busts all looking remarkably Roman remarkably like each other lit up successively by the flare of a sweaty torch bearer yawning. Oh hidden under the hidden under the where the dove's foot rested and locked for a moment a still moment repose of noon set under the upper branches of noon's widest tree. Under the breast feather stirred by the small wind afternoon there the succulent spreads its wings there the clematis droops over the lintel. Oh Mother not among these busts all correctly inscribed. I a tired head among these heads necks strong to bear them noses strong to break the wind Mother may we not be sometime almost now together if the mactations immolations oblations impetrations are now observed may we not be oh hidden hidden in the stillness of noon in the silent croaking night come with the sweep of the little bat's wing with the small flare of the firefly or lightning bug rising and falling crowned with dust the small creatures the small creatures chirp thinly through the dust through the night oh mother what shall I cry we demand a committee a representative committee a committee of investigation resign resign resign and that was as far as I got with that poem now before I come to the last poem I want to read I'll give you these short landscapes as being something in a lighter vein New Hampshire children's voices in the orchard between the blossom and the fruit time golden head crimson head between the green tip and the root black wing brown wing hover over twenty years and the spring is over today grieves tomorrow grieves cover me over light in leaves golden head black wing cling swing spring sing swing up into the apple tree Virginia red river red river slow slow flow heat is silence snow will is still as a river still will heat move only through the mockingbird heard once still hills wait gates wait purple trees white trees wait wait delay decay living living never moving ever moving iron thoughts came with me and go with me red river river river ask in wales do not suddenly break the branch or hope to find the white heart behind the white well glance aside not for lance do not spell old enchantments let them sleep gently dip but not too deep lift your eyes where the roads dip and where the roads rise seek only there where the grey light meets the green air the hermit's chapel the pilgrim's prayer ranach by Glencoe in the Scottish Highlands here the crow starves here the patient stag breeds for the rifle between the soft moor and the soft sky scarcely room to leap or saw substance crumbles in the thin air moon cold or moon hot the road winds in listlessness of ancient war languor of broken steel clamor of confused wrong apt in silence memory is strong beyond the bone pride snapped shadow of pride is long in the long pass no concurrence of bone and finally cape anne in massachusetts oh quick quick quick quick hear the song sparrow swamp sparrow fox sparrow vespa sparrow at dawn and dusk follow the dance of the gold finch at noon leave to chance the black burnian warbler the shy one hail with shrill whistle the note of the quail the bob white dodging by bay bush follow the feet of the walker the water thrush follow the flight of the dancing arrow the purple martin greet in silence the bull bat all are delectable sweet sweet sweet but resign this land at the end resign it to its true owner the tough one the seagull the palaver is finished and now to end with I want to take a bit out of the four quartets there is not time to read you a whole quartet and the only section of any one which is at all self contained is the fourth or lyrical movement so I choose the fourth section out of little gidding as the one I think the best the dove descending breaks the air with flame of incandescent terror of which the tongues declare the one discharged from sin and error the only hope or else despair lies in the choice of pyre or pyre to be redeemed from fire by fire who who then devised the torment love love is the unfamiliar name behind the hands that wove the intolerable shirt of flame which human power cannot remove we only live only suspire consumed by either fire or fire fire I hope this election I've made for this half hour is a suitable introduction for readers who don't know my poems but I'm afraid that many of those who do know them will be saying that there's some other poem they'd rather have heard well as it's impossible to take a census of listeners beforehand and impossible to suit everybody anyway the best I could do was to follow my own inclinations so I hope I'm not too far out from what you would have liked me to read to you thank you Mr. Elliot you've been listening to a special University of Chicago round table program presenting the distinguished poet Mr. T.S. Elliot was introduced by Mr. Morton Dowen Zabel professor of English of the University of Chicago we would appreciate having your comments on today's round table program be sure to write to the University of Chicago round table Chicago 37 Illinois giving us your comment next week the round table will present a discussion of crisis with communist China be sure to listen may we invite you to join the new round table home study courses in human rights world politics and economics in the modern world these courses are open to all and the last two of them are college credit courses you may enroll and begin at any time write the University of Chicago round table for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register today's program originated from Chicago the round table is directed by George E Probst and is a spring intense awesome Yin time for games pe escapes and ecitos peabji buds sj big saying his water is amazing relax for the come to can see click it