From the New York Hospital on East 68th Street, the City Station brings you this transcribed broadcast of the special fourth anniversary Thanksgiving party. Given under the auspices of the hospital, the Greater New York Hospital Association, the New York City Departments of Health and Hospitals, the Hospital Council of Greater New York, and the United States Public Health Service. The occasion for the party is the fourth anniversary of the establishment by the City's Departments of Health and Hospitals of the Premature Transport Service and their efforts to care for prematurely born infants. Guests with their parents at this party today are 30 alumni of Premature Infant Incubators, now strong, active four-year-olds. Speaking at the party will be Dr. Leona Baumgartner, Assistant Health Commissioner of New York in charge of the Maternity and Newborn Division and a member of the staff of the New York Hospital. Dr. I. Herbert Sheffer, Acting Director, Bureau of Medical and Hospital Services of the New York City Department of Hospitals. Dr. Anthony J.J. Rourke, Executive Director of the Hospital Council of Greater New York. And finally, Dr. Henry N. Pratt, Director of the New York Hospital and President of the Greater New York Hospital Association. To open the program, here now is Dr. Pratt. Dr. The President, Director of the New York Hospital Association and the other groups and agencies that are sponsoring this little get-together. I want to welcome you, not only on behalf of the New York Hospital, but the Greater New York Hospital Association, the City Departments of Health and Hospitals, the Children's Bureau of the United States Public Health Service and the Hospital Council of Greater New York. I want to welcome particularly our distinguished guests here this morning, whom we're so glad to have, and the parents of our premature infants born four years ago, and particularly in absentia, I want to welcome the little ones in the next room. I hope they will be kept properly under control during these rather brief proceedings. This is really a Thanksgiving party. Four years ago, in November, the City Departments of Health and Hospitals undertook a very forward-looking program, a premature transfer program, and that is the reason for our celebration today. And I say that this is truly a Thanksgiving party because had these little youngsters who were in the next room been born a few years ago, the chances are that many of them would not be here today. So we can give thanks if they are here. Actually, about one baby in 40 born in New York City is a premature infant. And prematurity is the largest cause of death in the early postnatal period. I have just two figures. I don't want to bother you with a lot of them, but I think they're very revealing. And these figures pertain only to this institution here. But in 1935, 18% of the premature infants who were born spontaneously died. That is approximately one in five. In 1950, only 15 years later, the percentage was 5.1 or approximately one in 20. That is an amazing record. And even so, a premature infant has only approximately one-fifth the chance of survival that the full-term infant has. I might say also that the care of the infant, premature infant, is really in the hands of our most expert team, consisting at first, of course, of the obstetrician, the pediatrician, the nurse, the social, medical social service worker, and the public health nurse. Because we follow our infants for some years after they have graduated. They come back for frequent reunions. I'll tell you of this just to indicate to you briefly the complexity of the program that is necessary in order that the life of these infants may be saved and that the death rate of premature infants may constantly keep going downward. Now we're fortunate today in having with us people who are very familiar with the program. And I'm particularly glad to be able to introduce to you the Assistant Commissioner of Health Health of New York in charge of Maternity and Newborn Division. She also incidentally is a member of our attending staff at the New York Hospital. And she is largely instrumental in initiating the premature transfer program, which we are celebrating today. And she will talk to you about its establishment. I'm happy to introduce Dr. Leona Baumgartner. Thank you, Dr. Pratt and all good friends of premature babies. I think most of you are here to celebrate in part of fourth anniversary, the anniversary of this inauguration for the city of New York in the premature transport service. I trust you realize that the children that are having fun across the way are among the passengers that first rode about four years ago in that remodeled ambulance. But some of us that are here are celebrating another anniversary. And it's that one really that I'd like to talk about a little bit because it's a 14th anniversary, too. It was in March of 1938 that the first committee on prematurity in the city of New York was organized to help plan for better care for premature babies in this city. And they worked for several years and envisaged and helped plan all the services that we have in our city today. You have to know that there are approximately 150,000 to 160,000 babies now that are born every year in the 98 hospitals that have maternity services. And about 8%, as Dr. Pratt has said, are born before their time. And most of these are going to get excellent care in the hospitals where they were born. But some of them, as you parents know so well, are going to need extra care. But of the babies that are born out in our hospitals, they are going to get good care there. And that means a series of things. It means that the hospitals are all equipped with incubators to receive the prematurely born baby in the delivery room. And their staffs have been alerted to the necessity for special care for these babies. And as I said, most of them and many of them are going to get the care they need out there. But some, and these are usually the littlest and the weakest, are going to need the special help in centers, like the very excellent one in this hospital. And there's some excellent ones in other hospitals too. Now, I think we ought to point out that it's not desirable, and certainly not necessary, for every hospital to have a premature center. That would be wasteful. What is important is that we have a plan in a city like this, which uses all of our facilities and specialists wisely, and that we have a plan that is slowly but surely filling in the gaps that will bring to all prematures the best that modern medicine can give. So, I want to talk a little bit about some of the various phases of this plan. There are, for example, groups of consultants, obstetricians, pediatricians, and nurses, under the direction of Dr. Taffer, who's here with us today, from the Department of Health, who survey the facilities and care given babies in all hospitals in the city. Then there are hospital associations, and Dr. Knortons and some other gentlemen that you're going to hear from shortly are here from those hospital associations, and give special attention to providing good facilities. And then finally, there's our premature transport service. The city, too, is being covered by a whole web of premature centers that will finally be able to take care of all of the city's needs. As Dr. Pratt told you, in 1948, when we began, the centers could take care of only 30 babies at a time, and today there are enough beds and centers to take care of 203. Then next, the city helps pay hospitals for the care of these babies when parents are unable to meet the cost of care themselves. Now, this adds up to a really wonderful program for the care of the prematurely born. And our job, as citizens and professionals, is to see that this program is carried to completion, and that it's maintained in the same high quality standard of care that is now available. It is true that we need to add premature centers in Brooklyn and in Staten Island, and certainly we must always keep alert to be sure that none of these services break down. Of course, finally, we have to learn enough someday to be able to prevent premature birth, and so to be allowed, as Dr. Pratt has already said, the baby to be born at term when his chances for survival are so very much better. We know that good care for the expectant mother from the first moment that she believes she is pregnant can help. And we know, too, that many, many New York City mothers are not receiving this care. Some, according to recent studies we've done in the health department, are actually receiving no or no care until the last possible moment, that is when labor starts in. But we know, too, that much more research is necessary to uncover the reasons why babies are born prematurely. Now, when the research is completed and its results are applied, and remember it sometimes takes a long time to apply these results that come out of research laboratories, it's even conceivable that premature babies will be a rarity. That, too, will be a day of rejoicing, it seems to me. But today, I think that we can be extremely happy that in New York City, because of the cooperation of all concerned in this citywide plan, it has been a cooperative plan between city departments, voluntary hospitals and agencies, and federal and state agencies, whereby the prematurely born infant now has a very real chance for life, and as we can see across the hall, a very real chance for happiness, too. Thank you very much, Dr. Baumgartner. I think you are extremely modest. Dr. Baumgartner is really the spark-punk in the program. I'm now glad to introduce to you a representative from the Department of Hospitals, the Acting Director of the Bureau of Medical and Hospital Services of New York City, Dr. I. Herbert Sheffield. I'm very pleased to be here this morning, particularly pleased to see some of the excellent results of the program that has been in operation these four years. I'm particularly proud, too, of the part that the Department of Hospitals has played in this program. And, uh, however, I do want to first pay tribute to the inspiration for the program that came from Dr. Baumgartner and others in the Department of Health and in the medical community of the City of Laure. Our part in the transport service would appear at first glance to be a mechanical one. Actually, there's more heart than mechanics involved in it. It's a program very dear to our hearts. Dr. Baumgartner has mentioned the original ambulance. It really was a very rickety thing, a converted ambulance which served its purpose but was hardly suited for the transport of delicate newborn premature infants. However, for the past year, we have had the advantage of a new ambulance with a specially designed dual compartment which can transport two premature infants at a time in the event of twin births or even in the event of pickup of two premature infants at the same time. Dr. Baumgartner has mentioned the original design. That, too, was an original design and perhaps it falls a little short of our present concept of an ideal transportation vehicle for this purpose. And we're thinking again in terms of an additional ambulance and perhaps one which will embody ideas which we have gained from experience because there was no precedent for this and we had to gain experience by trial and error. Dr. Baumgartner has mentioned the original inventors and it might remain and we think that we could do better in the future. Dr. Baumgartner has shown topical retrieve information by the widespread transplant but in other states did not pop up. Dr. Baumgartner is indeed the extended form for April 26th in northern наверное for prior years, and it turns out to southbound nurses and moremaker and more rare persons. Dr. Baumgartner has touched on topical Dr. Baumgartner has taken within the temporary treatment process at that rate of lessening cylinder to the 大 Britton primary stage 8. Dr. Baumgartner has also cut detailed approach at the time, which is great. Dr. Baumgartner has attempted integrated ultrasound on a Darwinistoga preventionруж Dr. summation jaw triangle and aップ Rider让 left the tire nowки chief dokten Mises employment efforts to the Title supplant treatment can control as ανrav hypothesis a beautiful example of democracy in action. We have here a program designed for the benefit of infants, of all financial status, regardless of financial status of the parents. And it's a program in which voluntary hospitals and governmental hospitals, municipal hospitals, are both playing a major role. There's another element of government, there are two elements in government, in fact, which have a very deep and participating interest in this program. It hasn't been mentioned as yet, I believe, but as it concerns our five premature centers, we have had the benefit of federal funds in part for the construction of these five premature centers. This money was provided under the Hilberton law, and the subvention was approximately one-third of the total cost of the construction and equipment of these five premature centers which exist in our institutions. So you see it cuts across all lines, voluntary and governmental, both at the state and federal level. the state enters the program in the form of a subvention to the overall program for premature infants in hospitals, wherever they may be in this state. We like to think, too, that our interest in this program is going to be an increasing one, and it will be. We are developing programs for training of personnel for the care of premature infants in all of our hospitals. One of the great problems that we've had to confront has been the shortage of professional nursing personnel. That is a handicap that confronts all hospitals in all areas at this time, but we're feeling it particularly in the care of the premature infant. We are developing programs for the training of ancillary nursing personnel, practical nurses and attendants who can be specially trained in the care of the premature infant. We hope to meet the shortage of professional personnel required in this program in this fashion. I'm very happy to be present here this morning. I'm happy to tell you of the part that the Department of Hospitals is playing in the program, and I want to assure you of our very real and continuing interest in this program and in its promotion, as it may be needed for the community for the future. Thank you very much, Dr. Scheffer. I think what both Dr. Baumgartner and Dr. Scheffer have said will give you some intimation of the cooperation that's going on between the city departments and the voluntary hospitals of the city, and it's all for the benefit of the general public. I'm now glad to present to you a recent past president of the American Hospital Association who has come to New York within the past year as Executive Director of the Hospital Council of Greater New York. He will speak on the importance of planning premature centers. You will recall that the Hospital Council of Greater New York has concerned itself to a considerable extent with the overall community planning for hospital facilities for the city. And so, Dr. Rourke, who has had experience on the Pacific coast with precisely the type of thing that we are celebrating today, Dr. Anthony J.J. Rourke. Thank you very much, Dr. Pratt. It's indeed a pleasure to come, both personally and representing the Hospital Council of Greater New York, to participate with the other organizations in celebrating this fourth anniversary for the wonderful youngsters across the hall. The previous speakers have given you a very good description of the problem, and I am prone frequently to enjoy or revel in the fact of scientific accomplishments. But today, as I looked at those little children across the way, I began to realize that there must be great joy in the hearts of their parents. I am one of those folks who is not fortunate in having a large family, but we do have one boy. And he's now in the eighth grade and playing on the football team this year. And each Friday, since the first of September, he's told me about the odds on the game to be played the following day. And the odds are always ten to one against his team. And of course, Saturday noon, he comes home, and under those great odds, they still won. And as he describes the other team, I can just visualize his playing against eleven gullivers. But the point I'm trying to get across is that the objective of this whole program is to have a normal, loving child in the family, and I know what it means to each and every one of you. I think the whole problem of prematurity can be summed up in the words, too little and too early. You remember the expression during the war, too little and too late. But our problem has been arriving in this world a little ahead of schedule. Now, when we think of the great interest in the scientific fields and the amount of money spent in trying to find cures for many diseases, and I do not in any way want to depreciate the efforts or the money spent in those fields, in epilepsy, in cancer, and in heart disease, one begins to realize that here in the premature infant, we have a perfectly normal individual. And that it's all we need to do is to give that child as nearly as we can the same conditions he would have had had he not been born so early in order to recover a good, healthy citizen. And the work that's been done here in New York City is a great credit to the cooperative action of the Department of Health, the Department of Hospitals, the Greater New York Hospital Association, and the Federal Assistance which has come through the Hill-Burkey Program. Now, in planning premature facilities, the modern thinking is to try to accumulate in so far as possible the number of infants cared for. Every hospital that I know of is capable of taking care of a premature infant. But when you are able to group them together in centers, you're able to develop specialized nursing care, specialized medical care, specialized equipment. And for that reason, the thinking throughout the country is that not every hospital needs a premature center, but there should be adequate centers in every city so that the babies can be brought together to get the very best in training and service and so forth. And it was because of that that Dr. Baumgardner and her co-workers developed your transportation system so that the baby could be moved to these centers with great care, without in any way injuring them. Now, how would you plan the center physically if you were planning it? You would try to do exactly those things which would bring to that baby the same protection that the baby would have had, had he waited to be born according to the timetable. That means that we must supply heat, we must supply the oxygen that the mother supplies the baby through her lungs and through the bloodstream. We must be sure that the baby has the protection against infection. We must be sure that the baby has nutrition, that we must supplement the nutrition that the mother was able to supply through her bloodstream to the baby. And we attempt to do all those things in the newborn nursery. And we try to keep it just as barrier from the public and from sources of infection and from other doctors and nurses not concerned as we can. And if we can keep it as clear of infection and bacteria as possible until the child is developed through the full nine-month period or close to it, then we are assured of success in bringing the child through this critical period. I cannot sit down without paying tribute to the nursing profession. In my opinion and many of my pediatric friends are willing to concede that the great success in our premature program is due to the nursing care that goes into these children. While the doctor may outline the program and draw the prescription, we cannot of course be at the bedside or at the incubator side 24 hours a day. But we do have nurses with our babies and there is no patient in any of our hospitals that requires more care in a 24 hour period than a premature infant. And I would not like to have this session closed without my saying for the people who are sitting up here at the head table that we feel a great contribution that made it possible for those little children to be romping around in the other room is due largely to the wonderful, interested, loving care that our nursing profession is giving. May I congratulate you parents who are here today and hope that you may have many more years of happiness with these little cards. Thank you. In conclusion, it seems to me that the key for this morning's celebration is one of thankfulness and a delight that it should be a thanksgiving time. A word of warning, we must continue to go forward, make progress in these fields, medical care, and it can only be done through a continued voluntary cooperation between the nonprofit charitable institutions and organizations of the country and governmental agencies. I think this morning you've seen a very fine example of that type of cooperation and I hope we can continue it and do better and better in the years to come so that another year we can be thankful for still more little ones in the next world.