This is Mel Galliart inviting you to listen to The Farmer and the Marketplace. Recognize that sound? No, this is not a quiz program, and the man who would recognize that sound has long ago found his resting place in some quiet country churchyard. That sound to him meant many things. We'll tell you about it. It is after the grain harvest in the early 1840s. A team of horses is hauling a wagon load of grain along a muddy country road in one of our Midwestern states. The farmer in the driver's seat is not too happy about this trip to the nearest town to sell this load of grain because he faces a very discouraging prospect. He's made this trip many times before seeking a market for his produce. Too often he found he would have to sacrifice his grain because all the other farmers in the territory were trying to make a sale at the same time and flooding the local market. Other times he was unable to find a buyer and had to take his grain back home to the farm. On the other hand, in the village the townspeople had suffered many times during the year because not enough farmers came to town to sell them grain. As you can see, the practice of trading in the early years of the last century was a hazardous business for everyone concerned. Then the year of 1848 arrived, and a new era dawned in the grain belt. It saw the ratification of the Treaty of Peace with our southern neighbor Mexico, the entrance of the state of Wisconsin into the Union, and the discovery of gold in far-off California. To the rapidly growing settlement of Chicago, 1848 meant many advancements for the American farmer as well as the village and city dweller. The first stockyards were built in Chicago, and the Illinois and Michigan Canal was opened. On November 20th, the first locomotive, the Pioneer, arrived by sailing vessel and was immediately pressed into service to haul the first wheat by rail into Chicago. The sad plight of that farmer traveling down the muddy road looking for a buyer for his grain was rapidly drawing to a close. Because in that same year, two Chicagoans, Thomas Richmond, a grain elevator operator, and W.L. Whitney, a grain broker, discussed the possibility of establishing a board of trade with other local businessmen. Out of these discussions came the invitation to other interested merchants to meet on the 13th of March, and a lucky 13th that was too, because a resolution was passed by the group to the effect that the rapidly developing trade in Chicago called for an immediate organization to be known as the Chicago Board of Trade. The establishment of such a public marketplace by this group of far-sighted men changed the primitive marketing methods and proved to be one of the most important factors in building the great agricultural empire of the Midwest. Gone was the uncertainty of finding a buyer. Now the farmer could till his land and plant his crops with the full assurance of having a market. This was the first step that led our nation to become the greatest food empire in the world. Had this encouragement of the free and everyday market for the farmer not been fostered by these grain men back in 1848, now a century later we would not have the supply of food necessary to feed the starving millions of the rest of the globe. The Chicago Board of Trade has kept faith with the farmers and the consumers of America by supplying a central marketplace in the center of the nation where both buyers and sellers have an established common ground for doing business. The second century of service to the nation and the world has begun and it is especially significant that the freedom of trade has been kept alive in the only remaining nation of free men in the entire world. The sound of tired horses on muddy roads carrying grain to a market that the farmer prayed might be there and the market is over. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Mel Galliard speaking. We are speaking to you from a country grain elevator located somewhere in the grain belt of these United States. It's harvest time and that sound familiar around these parts this time of year is wheat from the nearby fields being loaded into railroad cars for delivery to the cash grain market at the Chicago Board of Trade. This is the beginning of a trip which will end with the appearance of this wheat on your dining table in the form of a loaf of bread, a bowl of your favorite breakfast cereal, or any of the numerous food products made from grain that make up our daily diet. Not long ago you would have seen this wheat growing in the fields being brought to the peak of perfection by nature, assisted by the farmer who with his years of experience in raising wheat to guide him knew just the right moment to harvest this crop. He went about his job knowing full well that he had a buyer near him who would pay cash for his wheat, the country grain elevator operator. I want you to meet two men who are responsible for supplying America and the world with the most vital ingredient of life, grain. Joe Ford, farmer, and Jim Blake, country grain elevator operator. Ford is speaking. Well, that's it. The car's loaded, Jim. Now I can breathe easy. I always feel better when the crop's out of the field and on his way to market. Yeah, you had a good crop this year, Joe. One of the best I've seen. After looking it over the way you do, I'd say you certainly should know what you're talking about. Just a minute, Joe. Probably that's your cargo call. Oh. Here, this is Blake. How are you, Al? Good. What's number one hard red winter wheat worth today? Got some. I'll say I have. Joe Ford's crop is right up there. I can guarantee it. Yeah. Here's the car number. Milwaukee, one, two, six, four, five, two. All loaded. Waiting for the engine now. Yeah, it should be in Chicago in the morning. You can offer it right away. That's calling your shots, Jim. Here's the engine. That's real service. Yep. Wheat's on his way to the cash grain market, and Al Jackson is already offering it for sale on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. You know, if it wasn't for that railroad and the telephone and your grain elevator a few miles from my farm, I'd have to make that long trip to Chicago myself and try to sell my grain. I know. That's the way it used to be, and now it's different. You raise it, you bring it to me for testing, weighing, storing, and shipping. I turn it over to Al Jackson, my representative at the Chicago Board of Trade. And it's his job to receive, handle, and sell the shipment. Is that right, Jim? Yeah. On the Chicago Board of Trade, Al will be able to meet on the trading floor the men who buy for the large terminal elevators, the processors and exporters personally. And your wheat will be sold to the highest bidder. Well, what happens when that grain arrives in Chicago tomorrow morning? Well, samplers will be on hand to open that car and take samples for testing. Well, who gets the samples? One is taken to the state grain inspection office, and the other to the Board of Trade sampling department, where similar thorough tests and analysis are made. The wheat sample will be checked for moisture content, weight per bushel, damaged kernels, foreign material, odor, and so forth. Oh. Huh? One half of the state inspection department sample will be sent to my man, Al Jackson, on the trading floor. And he will use it to sell your wheat in the morning. So the actual grain from that sample is sold on the cash grain market at the Chicago Board of Trade. Yeah. Yeah. Some of that grain that just left here will be on the floor at tomorrow's opening. Full steam ahead for the grain express. Next stop, Chicago. One step nearer your dining table. Mel Galliart speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliart inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Clear the track for the grain express. Next stop, Chicago. This trip began on a railroad siding near a country grain elevator somewhere in the grain belt. And will soon end in the marketplace of the nation, Chicago. One step nearer your dining table. Because this grain is headed for the Chicago Board of Trade to be sold on the cash grain market. While this carload of wheat is speeding across country, Al Jackson, representative of the country grain elevator operator, is already offering it for sale on the trading floor. Kennedy, I got something you'll be interested in. A carload of number one hard red winter wheat. Okay. Let's see it. You'll have to wait. It's on the way to Chicago now, and Jim Blake at the country elevator tells me it's right up there. Well, I can use it if the price is right. Stop by with a sample as soon as you get it. No time is wasted in finding a buyer. There is always a market for wheat that meets the quality standards set by the government. It's 7 o'clock in the morning, and the grain-loaded cars have arrived at their destination, the Chicago Railroad Terminal. Hey, Tom, this car's on our list. Milwaukee 12-6452. Uh-huh. Well, might as well start here. Now, let me show you how to break that seal with a crowbar. There, you see? This is your first day on the job, so I'll show you how to do this sampling, Tom. Okay. Here, climb up here. Oh, there's not much room, is there? No. Two feet between the grain and the top of the car. We're lucky. It doesn't always happen this way. Now, you use this 5-foot hollow brass tube with the slots on the side to get the grain for testing? Yeah. Yeah, we call it a trier. Now, you insert this trier in the corner of the car with the 10 slots closed. Now, you turn this knob to open the slots like this, and the grain drops in. Now, you turn the knob to keep the grain in. You pull out the trier, and turn the knob and spread the sample on this canvas. Well, this weed looks pretty much alive. Well, it shows it's good to the bottom, but that's only the first sample, or probe, as we call them. Now, we take five of them, two in each end of this car and one in the center, and then we compare them. If they're uniform, we send back one sample. If there's a difference, we send back two or more samples. When the samplers have completed their work, their sample or samples are rushed back to the Illinois State Grain Inspection Office, and another sampler from the Chicago Board of Trade takes over and follows the same procedure, sending his sample or samples back to the Board of Trade sampling department, where further tests and analysis are made. One half of the inspection department's sample goes to Al Jackson on the trading floor, and a sample from the Board of Trade is sent along to the floor for comparison. This Board of Trade sample is used as a double check and called a resample. Al Jackson is taking the two samples of wheat over to Kennedy. Well, here's the car of number one hard red winter wheat I mentioned, Kennedy. What can you pay? Well, nice looking car. Let's see the resample. Yeah, checks for the state. How about one cent over September? Right now, it's $2.35 a bushel. Mm-hmm. Well, I'll be back in a minute. I'll phone the shipper. Kennedy, the buyer for one of the largest food processors in the country, is always interested in quality grain. Al Jackson, his phone call completed, is returning to accept or refuse Kennedy's bid. We can sell you this car on your bid of one cent over September. Order the car out to our mill in South Chicago. Here's your confirmation slip. Right. I'll do it now. You have witnessed a transaction on the cash grain market at the Chicago Board of Trade that will bring this wheat to your corner grocery store as a package of your favorite breakfast cereal. The wheat ordered to a quality mill is on the last lap of the journey that started in a field of waving wheat in the grain-growing empire of our country and will end on the tip of your spoon one of these mornings. The trip from field to table completed. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to The Farmer and the Marketplace. Make way for the Grain Express. There's grain aboard to supply the needs of America and the world. Destination Chicago, the marketplace of the nation. Getting grain to market is a big job and is shared by all the various means of transportation. Trucks. Lake steamers. Tugs, towing barges. By rail, truck, lake steamer and barge, grain pours into Chicago, the grain marketplace of the world. Tell me, what happens to all this grain when it finally arrives in Chicago? Well, that's quite a story. You see, to meet the high standards of quality set by our government, this grain must pass through a series of thorough tests made by two different and separate testing laboratories. The State of Illinois Grain Inspection Department, acting under the authority of the United States Department of Agriculture, and the Chicago Board of Trade Grain Sampling Department. These tests are made before the grain is ever offered for sale on the trading floor. What are the reasons for these tests? They're for your protection. They assure the millers and food processors who transform this grain into flour and food products for your use, the quality grain offered. Where and how do they get this grain for testing? Authorized samplers from both the State Grain Inspection Office and the Board of Trade are on duty at rail and truck terminals, as well as at large elevators to secure samples by the use of a trier. A trier? Yes. The trier, used by State of Illinois inspectors, is a five-foot hollow brass tube within a tube, with ten slots on the side. The tube on the inside contains ten compartments for the grain samples. Before inserting the trier in a load of grain, this knob is turned to close the slots. When the trier is inserted in the corner of a boxcar of grain, this knob is turned again to open the slots. The triers move slightly, and the grain kernels fall into the ten compartments. The knob is turned, the slots are closed with the samples inside. The trier is pulled out with samples of ten separate levels of that load of grain. These are turned out on a piece of canvas. If the grain is uniform at all levels, one sample is sent by messenger to the State Grain Inspection Laboratory. If there's a marked difference, two or more samples are sent for comparison. Well, is the Board of Trade test the same? Yes, except the trier is different. The Board of Trade trier is a five-foot hollow steel tube with a wooden plunger. The trier is inserted in the grain. The plunger is pulled out, and the samples fall into seven slots. If the grain is uniform at these seven levels, one sample is sent to the Board of Trade sampling department. And if there's any doubt, two or more samples are sent. Is the same procedure followed at the docks? No, a different method is used here. The grain is transferred from the hold of the ship or the barge to a bin in the elevator by means of a conveyor belt with a series of buckets attached. As it flows into the receiving bin, samples are taken by drawing a bucket called a pelican across the stream of grain. What does a pelican look like? Well, a pelican is an oblong bucket about six inches deep, 18 inches long, with a two-inch wide opening at the top, and an eight to ten-foot handle attached. How many samples are taken by this pelican? Usually two to every thousand bushels loaded or unloaded. These samples are also sent to the State Grain Inspection and to the Board of Trade sampling departments. Are both the State and Board of Trade samples sent to the trading floor? Yes, the State sample can then be rechecked with the Board of Trade sample, thus protecting you and assuring you the quality of the finished products that reach your dining table. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Today I was talking to a grain grower, Mr. Frank Lowell, in the visitor's gallery of the Chicago Board of Trade. We were watching the trading take place on the floor below when Mr. Lowell put this question to me. Say, how much grain goes through this exchange in the year, Mr. Galliard? Well, Mr. Lowell, about 400 million bushels. And the immense job of weighing and handling this large amount of grain is carried out by one department, the Weighing Department. Ah, being a grain grower, I know that the Chicago Board of Trade Weights guarantees me that the grain I ship to the Chicago market won't receive extra handling before it's weighed. Yes, and in addition to that important item, Deputy Weighman, on duty at all of the unloading points in the Chicago switching area, see that each car is thoroughly swept and cleaned and that every precaution is taken to assure you that no grain is wasted. Well, what are the other jobs of the weighing department? Well, let's start at the beginning. This department was organized to serve both buyers and sellers of grain, grain products and seed, by furnishing correct weights and weighing conditions and to settle any disputes that might arise. Ha, ha, ha. That's a pretty big order. How do they go about this? Well, it takes a well-trained staff to do this job, a staff consisting of a weighmaster in charge of all the deputy weighmen, supervisors, scale inspectors, and clerks. Well, where is all this work done? The deputy weighmen are stationed at the various elevators and the transfer points under the direction of the supervisors who are constantly making the rounds of the elevators and the other locations where weighing is in progress. Well, weighing and handling 400 million bushels of grain, that takes a lot of people, doesn't it? It certainly does. From one to six men of the department are at each unloading point, depending upon the size of the operation. The service of this weighing department of the Chicago Board of Trade extends to about 50 elevators and industries in the Chicago switching area, with unloading facilities ranging from as low as two carloads a day to as much as 300 carloads a day. To give you some idea of the scope of this work, Mr. Lowell, as many as 2,220 cars have been handled in this area alone in one single day. Man, oh man. Well, how are the scales checked in all these elevators? Well, the careful tests of all scales are made at regular intervals, and these tests are checked with a master set of weights belonging to the United States Bureau of Standards, which are guaranteed by our government to be accurate. To further assure both the buyer and the seller of the precise weight, the deputy weighman first records the results of an inspection of the car itself, then he examines the scale and the equipment used in transferring the grain from the car to the scale, and sees to it that the weighing of the grain is made without delay. Oh, I see. Well, say, you mentioned these 50 locations where this check-in is done. Are they all elevators? No, I mentioned elevators and industries. Actually, the number includes all public and private grain elevators, transfer and malt houses, railroad transfer yards, flour and feed mills, and some large wholesale feed stores. All of the, well, all of the major grain handling points. Do they keep full reports on all these transactions? Yes. The history of each single car unloaded or loaded in this Chicago switching area is on file in the weighmaster's office of the Chicago Board of Trade here, and they're kept there for future reference. Ah, really. To sum it all up, the activities of the weighing department are based on the best practical methods developed over many years of operation in handling hundreds of millions of bushels of grain that pass through Chicago, the marketplace of the nation. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Few people realize how closely each shipment of grain arriving in the Chicago market is tested by the sampling department of the Chicago Board of Trade before it is ever offered for sale on the trading floor. Young Andy Rogers, a 4-H Club member from one of our grain-producing states, is here today to see exactly how this grain is tested by the sampling department. Well, here we are, Andy, in room 1122, the Chicago Board of Trade sampling department, where all the testing is done. Mel, you said that all the grain that comes to Chicago is tested right here? Yes, Andy. All the grain that comes to Chicago, whether it arrives by boxcar, by truck, by lake steamer, or by barge, passes through four separate tests right here before it's ever offered for sale on the cash grain market. You saw that downstairs on the trading floor. Well, just what are the four tests that the grain has to go through before it can be offered for sale, Mel? Well, one at a time, Andy. The first test is for moisture content. And that machine over there at the end of the room is used for that. The exact amount of moisture in the grain is measured by that machine. Well, what's the importance of this amount of moisture in grain? Well, the best grain should be, among other things, low in moisture content. And as a result, that grain will have a higher test weight per bushel. For instance, take this wheat. Mm-hmm. This paper sack containing the sample is marked 11% moisture. That paper sack right next to it is marked 15% moisture. The 11% moisture wheat will run 60 pounds test weight per bushel, while this wheat containing 15% moisture will scale down to only 55 or 56 pounds test weight per bushel. What's that man doing over there, Mel? Just sniffing at a handful of wheat. He's giving that wheat the second test. We call it the odor test, Andy. But just what can the smell of grain prove? Well, it can prove several things. The presence of musty odors, oil, chemical, fertilizer, weevil, or smut odors, and wild onion bubblets can also be detected by smell. You know, Andy, that grain is very susceptible to odors. It absorbs them just like a sponge. That fellow over there, he's just weighing the grain. Yeah, he's doing more than that. He's determining another of the important grading factors we've been talking about, test weight per bushel. Well, who sets the standards for all this testing that the men are doing? The United States Department of Agriculture, acting under the Grain Standards Act, sets all of these standards. Now, here is the fourth and the last test. It's called the foreign material and the damage count test. You got me. What does that mean? Well, the grain in this case is being tested for foreign material and damaged kernels. Some of this foreign material is referred to as dockage. Now, this might include weed seeds, weed stems, straw, chaff, sand, or dirt. In fact, any foreign material other than grain that can be removed by the use of appropriate sieves or cleaning devices. Does this affect the grade of the grain, this sand and stuff? It certainly does. Because only a certain amount of dockage, according to the grade of grain, is allowed. The more dockage, the lower the grade of grain. And then the results of these four tests are all marked on this paper sack containing the sample. That's right, Andy. The moisture content is here. The odor test, the test weight per bushel, and the amount of dockage and foreign material are all clearly marked on this paper bag containing the tested sample. Now, this paper bag with this sample is sent directly to the cash grain market on the trading floor, so that the buyer and the seller can actually see the grain that they are trading in, and they both have all the facts concerning the grade, the condition, and the quality right down there on that paper sack in black and white. This is just one of the services offered to the farmers, the millers, the food processors, and the traders by the Chicago Board of Trade. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Has it ever occurred to you that grain at harvest time has a long way to go before it can appear as a loaf of bread, a breakfast cereal, or a cake on your dining table, as a can of paint to brighten the kitchen, or a plastic toy for baby? Grain as it goes to market is a raw material. Unlike apples, strawberries, or potatoes, grain does not find its way to your table in its original form. It must go through the hands of a processor, who transforms this raw material into the article that you need. This presented a problem. I'll say it did. A food processor or miller has to keep his plant running all year round. If he had to buy all the grain he needs at a harvest time, he'd really have a bigger problem. But this problem of year round supply has been solved, hasn't it? Yes. Yes, it has been solved. Thanks to the storage space available in our large terminal elevators. Right here in the Chicago Board of Trade switching area, there are 34 elevators with a total combined storage capacity of 46 million bushels. Well, you should know. You see, Mr. Larkin here is the manager of one of the elevators in the Chicago Board of Trade switching area. I'd like to say right here, Mr. Galliott, that the storage of grain is only one of the jobs done by terminal elevators. Well, for a more complete picture, Mr. Larkin, let's take a look at your elevator at close range. We are speaking to you now from one of Chicago's largest terminal elevators. We're here to get the facts on this all-important grain operation. Mr. Larkin, the manager of this elevator, is right here beside me to answer our questions. Mr. Larkin, we know that storage of grain is your biggest job, but what are the other functions of this elevator of yours? Mr. Galliott, modern terminal elevators like this one are fully equipped with the machinery to dry, to clean, and to separate grain, as well as to recondition it, if necessary. You say you have the facilities right here to dry and to clean grain? Yes. When the quality of grain for storage is questionable, steam or hot air is used to get and keep it in condition. Other times, a shipment of grain must be cleaned and separated before it is put on the market. Reconditioning grain, then, is another one of your chores, Mr. Larkin. In some instances, we are called upon to recondition grain, which millers or processors consider not suitable in its original condition. At other times, by cleaning and separating off-grade grain, we are also able to offer the farmer a market which otherwise he wouldn't be able to take advantage of. Well, do elevators like yours here buy and sell grain, too? Oh, yes. We compete with each other on the Chicago Board of Trade like any other firms or individuals trading in grain, for all grain offered. We even bid for grain that is out of condition, because we know that with our modern equipment, we will be able to put this grain in a marketable condition. This ensures the farmer a year-round market for all his grain. Well, getting back to your storage bins, you are able, then, to store the surplus grain from bumper crops to supply the millers and the processors at any time that they're ready to buy it. Am I right on that? Oh, yes. And, in addition, reserves from bumper crops are stored to offset the short crop years and also to have available grain to meet the heavy export demands made on us. Thank you, Mr. Larkin, for these facts and the various services offered to both the buyers and the sellers of grain of the Chicago Board of Trade by the terminal elevators. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to The Farmer and the Marketplace. The scene, Main Street, USA. Hey, Bob Martin, wait a minute. Well, Joe Weber, you're quite a stranger. Won't be any longer, Bob. Just bought the old Parker Farm. Yeah? Heading over to your grain elevator. Still in the insurance business, Joe? No, no, turned it over to my oldest boy. Gonna do my own farming. You know, I've been listening to market quotations on the radio for years, and they always mention grain futures. Now, what are they? Grain futures? Well, in grain, there are two methods of doing business. One is buying and selling grain for immediate delivery. That's called the cash market. The other one is buying and selling grain for delivery at some future date. That's your grain futures market. I can see the cash market. That's like buying or selling anything. But the futures, how can you trade in grain that's still in the field? Joe, you don't actually trade in that grain in the field. The futures market allows the traders to buy or sell that grain for future delivery at a specified futures price and at a specified futures date. That means the buyer knows what he's going to have to pay for the grain when he gets it, no matter how much prices may fluctuate in the meantime. That sounds like a pretty good thing. There are several other advantages, too. The most important is that it offers the opportunity of hedging. Now, wait a minute. Let me put it this way. You sell insurance. Well, hedging is a grain term meaning price insurance. It works like any other kind of insurance. When a man wants to insure his home against fire or his car against accident, he comes to you for one of your policies, pays you the premium, and knows that, come what may, his property is protected. Sure, you're right there, Bob. Well, people in the grain trades have a business property that needs protection. They're purchases of grain. Protection against changing prices, price fluctuations. They do this by hedging. When a grain elevator operator, for instance, hedges, he sells as much grain in the futures market as he buys in the cash market for immediate delivery. Or if he sells in the cash market first, then he hedges by buying the same amount of grain in the futures market. What's the reason for that? Prices in the futures market and prices in the cash market usually move up or down at about the same rate. So, if our grain elevator operator loses on his cash transaction, he gains on his futures trade. Get it? Yes. Well, that's what we mean by price insurance. And that's where the speculator comes into the picture. How does he fit in? He is the risk taker, just as your insurance company is a risk taker. All together, speculators make up an insurance company whose function is the same as your insurance company. Remember this, too. A speculator doesn't always make money. He sustains losses at times. If he comes out ahead and makes a profit, he's like an independent businessman. He stays in business. If he sustains too many losses, he gets out of it. Well, that's understandable. It's also understandable that farmers benefit from the futures market, Joe. You get higher prices for your grain because a country grain elevator man like me who buys your grain can hedge, can use this price insurance. You also have a constant market. I can see that. Grains are seasonal. And a whole year's supply could become available all at once at harvest time. But the demand goes on all year long. A futures market takes the impact of these large marketings and carries the grain through the balance of the year. Because industry and storage people can hedge or price insure their holdings, they can afford to buy large amounts at harvest time and carry them over. However, this means that you don't have to find an individual buyer for your grain. You look to the public marketplace, the grain exchange, or the demand that gives you a year-round market where there's always a buyer whenever you are ready to sell. Well, thanks, Bob. Your information to a future grain grower. Glad you'll be around, Joe. We'll be doing business together before you know it. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer in the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to The Farmer and the Marketplace. I've been reading a lot lately about the grain market, and there seems to be a lot of discussion about what is speculation and what is gambling. What is the difference? Does anyone know? Pardon me, lady. You want to know the difference between a speculator and a gambler? We've got the answer for you. Listen. It sure looks like it's going to rain tomorrow. What do you mean, rain? I'll bet you $10 it won't rain tomorrow. So he lost the bet. That man was dealing in a risk which he himself created on the spot. That's gambling. When you deal in a risk which already exists, that is speculation. Let me explain. Listen. Honey, you know, I think I'll buy that new suit today instead of next week. John, let's buy a dozen steaks now and put them in the freezer. We'll start early planting tomorrow, son. These people are speculators. You're a speculator, too, whether you know it or not. Every single one of us speculates whenever we buy a new suit or an extra pair of shoes, groceries for the future, a real estate lot, or when we plant an acre of corn. Understand the difference now? You see, the man who bet on the weather created his own risk and stood to win or lose the $10 on his turn of luck, while the speculator assumes an economic risk based on factors already established. The man who's going to buy the suit may figure that prices might go up or that he has found a certain suit which might not be available at a later date. You know, Mr. Announcer, I've been listening to this, and you make me feel that I'm a speculator, too, when I put steaks in my freezer. Well, you are. You are speculating on price changes and on availability at the meat market in the future. Now, the farmer, he's the greatest speculator of them all. He is planting seed and taking chances on elements over which he has no control. The weather, too much heat, too much rain, an insect plague, any or all of these might prove disasterous to his crop. He is speculating on nature. But it takes all kinds of speculators to make up this world of ours, those pilgrims who landed on Plymouth Rock in 1620, speculated on finding a better place to live. Later, the pioneers, forging ahead over trackless mountains and treacherous streams, risk their lives speculating on settling and civilizing a wilderness. Listen, darling, there's that DC-6 bound for London. The Wright brothers speculated when they stake their lives and their reputations to prove that man could fly. The development of all of our modern inventions, count them off on your fingers, telegraph, telephone, automobile, radio, and television, would have remained in the inventor's laboratories if it had not been for the willingness of speculators to invest their money in these new and then untried ideas. Speculation today is more vitally necessary than ever. How about the speculator in grain? The speculator in grain has at his command reliable information on which to base his assumption of risk. The speculator in grain, risk taker is a more accurate term for him, has available data on non-productivity of soils, proven grain yield records, the history of the Weather Bureau to determine weather cycles, valuable government crop reports, the advice of county agricultural agents and other agricultural experts, and can readily obtain information on export trade, whether government or privately sponsored. The risk taker is acquainted with daily market conditions and, like the farmer, has the added protection of a free marketplace, like the Chicago Board of Trade, where prices are influenced only by supply and demand. No such protection is offered to the gambler. Therein lies the difference between gambling and speculation. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Today, the Chicago Board of Trade is one of the few remaining grain exchanges still operating. Once, such free markets flourished in all large countries. Fixed prices have eliminated them and may also have eliminated a good quantity of grain. Free markets are essential to liberty. It is a fallacy to pretend that free markets can be abolished and liberty still preserved. We have witnessed in Europe people surrendering their freedom to regimentation and dictatorship. They were persuaded by one method or another that it was better to have security provided by the state than to have full rights of self-determination. Those people have discovered that a regimented government provided neither freedom nor security. You have just heard remarks from an address by Richard F. Ullman, president of the Chicago Board of Trade. The occasion was a meeting of the Western Grain and Feed Dealers Association. As is Mr. Ullman's custom, he will now answer questions from the floor. Thank you. Now, are there any questions on your mind? Yes. Look, Mr. Ullman, why doesn't the Board of Trade limit the profits that these speculators can make on our grain? Well, there are two reasons. In the first place, the Board of Trade does not fix prices nor limit profits. In the second place, the speculators run the risk for you. And naturally, they deserve some profit for the risks they take. And remember, they also sustain losses. Some people in very high places have suggested that steps be taken to curb speculators, believing that that would eliminate the cause of high grain prices. But the speculators perform a very useful and vital function on the grain market. They buy and sell grain for future delivery. They are ready to buy and sell at any time. Because they exist, the farmer can always find a buyer for his produce when he is ready to sell. By providing for a year-round market for the farmer, it is easy to see that price fluctuations are kept to a minimum. Well, suppose there were no speculators. If there were no speculators or risk-takers, for that is what they really are, the farmer might not be able to find buyers when he is ready to sell. When he finally did sell his grain, the prices might be so low as to make it unprofitable for him to sell. And equally important, the users of grain might not be able to find a supply when they are ready to buy. There could be no futures market then without the speculators, is that right? Without the speculator or risk-taker, there could be no permanent market where the producer can sell and the consumer buy at any time and in any quantity. Eliminate the speculator and you eliminate this market. And the risk now assumed by the risk-taker would be borne by the farmer, by the country elevator operator, by the flour miller. The speculator bridges the gap. He is a necessity. Gentlemen, I've thoroughly enjoyed this opportunity to answer your questions and would like to invite you to see the Board of Trade in action the next time you come to Chicago. If there is any information concerning any phase of grain marketing that you want, drop us a line at the Chicago Board of Trade and we will be glad to send it along to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Richard F. Allman, President of the Chicago Board of Trade, has concluded his remarks before a meeting of the Western Grain and Feed Dealers Association. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer in the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to The Farmer and the Marketplace. Mrs. Welty, imagine seeing you here. Why, Dorothy Hanson, I thought you were on your honeymoon. What on earth are you doing in the visitor's gallery of the Chicago Board of Trade? Oh, I am on my honeymoon. Joe's buying a tractor, but he promised to meet me here. We've heard so much about the Board of Trade and 4-H club work, and since we grow grain too, we thought we should see how our crops are marketed. But, Mrs. Welty, what brings you away from the farm? Well, Mr. Welty had some business in Chicago, and I thought I'd tag along. Our son and his wife are looking after the place. Have you heard the program in the visitor's room yet? Yes, we just came out, and now all that hubbub down on the trading floor makes some sense to me. Well, I'm afraid it doesn't to me. Just what is going on? Well, as I understand it, those men down there are buying and selling grain, either for delivery now or at some future date. But they're making their trade as individuals or as representatives of companies or farmers. Well, for goodness sakes, then. What is the Board of Trade? Well, those men and other businessmen and farmers are members of the Chicago Board of Trade. But the Board of Trade itself is a non-profit association that will provide the place to trade and governs the trading by rules and regulations that protect contracts. It does not buy or sell any grain, and it doesn't fix the prices. Oh. Well, then who does fix the prices? Well, here comes that young woman who gave the talk. She can explain it better than I can. Miss, I just heard your talk, and I'm trying to explain some things to Mrs. Hanson. Could you tell us who fixes the prices? Supply and demand do, and the men you see down there represent supply and demand. There are men down there who represent farmers who produce grain. They are the source of supply. Then there are representatives of millers, food processors, and exporters who use grain in carrying on their business. They represent demand. The Board of Trade is where these two meet. Miss, I wish you'd tell us a little more about how the grain marketing system makes it possible to buy and sell grain all during the year instead of just at harvest time. Well, I don't have to tell you that grains are just as seasonal as strawberries or cantaloupe. The whole year's supply of grain is harvested within just a few months. Yet food processors, stock feeders, millers, and other grain users need grain every month in the year. It wouldn't be possible for industry and storage people to buy up all the grain at harvest time at a fair price and hold it for use or resale later if it weren't for a system we call the futures market. Now, the futures market allows traders to buy or sell grain for future delivery at a specified futures price. That is, the buyer knows what he's going to have to pay for the grain when he gets it, no matter how much prices fluctuate in the meantime. Another way in which the grain industries protect themselves is by what we call hedging. When a miller has more actual wheat on hand than he needs to make the flour for which he already has orders, he sells an amount equal to that surplus in the futures market. Or if he sells flour before he has the wheat with which to make it, then he hedges by buying the same amount of grain in the futures market. This operation serves as price insurance. But that sounds as if they couldn't make any money on their trading. You're right. In hedging, they don't. Their profits come from the normal operation of their business. For instance, the farmer's profit is the difference between cost of his labor, seed and fertilizer, and the price he gets for his grain. The miller gets his profit in the difference between the cost of grain, labor, overhead, and so forth, and the price for which he sells flour, and so on down the line. And incidentally, all of this benefits you. You see, if it weren't for hedging, your own elevator man would have to charge you a much larger commission or storage rate to build up a reserve against price changes, and his price to you for your grain would have to be lower. Oh, thank you so much, Miss. We certainly had a very interesting visit here at the Chicago Board of Trade. I'm so glad you did. And I hope you'll tell your friends back home to stop by and see us. Trading begins at 9.30 in the morning and ends at 1.15 every weekday and at 12 on Saturday. We present the story of the market every 45 minutes during trading hours in our little theater. And we'll be glad to see any of your friends when they come to Chicago. Thank you very much. Bye. Mel Galliard speaking. Your announcer will tell you when the farmer and the marketplace will next be heard. This is Mel Galliard inviting you to listen to the farmer and the marketplace. Grain, being one of the oldest and most necessary of all commodities, has at some time or other been subject to every known method of buying and selling. In our earliest recorded history, the raising of grain was strictly a family affair. Only enough grain was grown to take care of the needs of the family or tribe. As cities grew in the ancient world, it became a problem to raise enough grain to make it available to all. Then it became a question of marketing, of getting the grain grower and the grain buyer together. Today, the Chicago Board of Trade supplies a central meeting place where the buyers of grain from the four corners of the globe can meet the farmers of America, thus providing the most efficient, low-cost system of marketing that human experience and ingenuity have yet devised. For contrast, let's roll back the years, a hundred or so of them, back to the 1840s, and let a grain grower of those days tell us about his problem. Had a good harvest this year, one of the best I ever had, but I couldn't sell my grain. Take it to market? Sure, I took it to market. I loaded up the ox cart and drove it to the five millers within a few days' distance, but they already had all the grain they could use. You see, all the farmers hereabouts had a good harvest, and the market is flooded. But I guess it'll always be that way. It's too bad that we couldn't have told that farmer that it would not always be that way, that his grandsons wouldn't have the same trouble selling their grain. But let's go back to the 1840s in another part of our country that same year. The crops were bad, and the miller was the man faced with the difficulty of getting enough grain to keep his mill going. He gives us the other side of the story. This has been the worst harvest I've ever seen. I've hitched up my horse and traveled every country road for counties round trying to buy grain. I had to pay 75 cents a bushel for what I could find. There'll be no profit for me this year. Wonder if next year will be any better. I know it's hard to say. There you have it, the farmer with the bumper crop who couldn't sell his grain, and the miller in another part of the land who scoured the county in his horse and buggy and paid 75 cents a bushel because there was a crop failure. That was in the 1840s, before the establishment of the Chicago Board of Trade. Now let's take a look at the grandsons of these two men. This farmer's had a good crop, and he's mighty pleased with the fruits of his labor. I had the best wheat crop I ever had. Sold it at Chicago Board of Trade top quotation to Joe Hill over at the local elevator. Things sure have changed since Grandpa's time. He used to tell me when I was a kid about a big harvest he had. Said he couldn't find buyers for his grain. Oh, it looks like this year my mill will show a profit. Just bought some of the finest wheat you've ever seen on the trading floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. Came from the other side of the United States. In the old days, that grain would never have come to this market. Come to think of it, there wasn't a marketplace like the Chicago Board of Trade in those days. Yes, times have changed. It all started in 1848, when the Chicago Board of Trade was organized. Today, the grain marketing system needed to meet all conditions is complete. A marketplace is available and a system of marketing is an effect which permits grain to take the shortest possible route from farmer producer to consumer with a minimum risk of speculation. Absorbs any amount of grain from a carload to a ship's cargo at the same price per bushel and without any major dollar and cents disturbances. Absorbs an entire crop with no sacrifice in price on the part of the farmer. Registers a constant value according to world supply and demand and by accurate weights, grades, and regulations, the Chicago Board of Trade safeguards the interests of the farmer producer, the miller, the processor, and the consumer. Mel Galliart speaking. You have been listening to The Farmer and the Marketplace. The Farmer
