From the steps of City Hall, WNYC is bringing you the proceedings at the official reception for Captain Henrik Carlson. Among our speakers are Mayor Vincent R. Impelletari, Grover Whelan, Admiral Badger, and of course, Captain Henrik Kurt Carlson. In the course of the ceremonies, Mayor Impelletari will present Captain Carlson with the city's Medal of Honor. There's a big battery of press photographers, reporters, newsreel cameramen and the like lining up here, an honor guard. Of course, the Danish flag is flying in full force, and there are a number of honor guards walking past City Hall now, parading, we should say. You can hear the bands in the background, I'm sure. Let's see if we can pick up the music. We might mention at this point that the podium from which Captain Carlson will speak has been arranged as a replica of the Flying Enterprise. In white and orange letters, it says Flying Enterprise, New York. Of course, the American flag is displayed from the front of the ship as well. The Department of Sanitation band is standing by to appear on the program, and they will be playing the national anthem for the actual opening of the proceedings. The invocation will be given by Dr. Raymond S. Hall, who is director of the Seaman's Church Institute. Vice Admiral Oscar C. Badger, commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier Atlantic Reserve Fleet, will speak. Then, of course, the honorable Mayor, Vincent R. Impeletere, will officiate at the presentation of the official scroll, awarding of the Medal of Honor of the City of New York to Captain Carlson, who will then respond. Then selections will be offered by the Police Department Glee Club, and there will be a review of the Guard of Honor escort. Grover A. Whelan will be presiding. There seems to be a lull right now. I imagine that Captain Carlson is being held in abeyance while the various honor guards parade past our microphones here. Men representing the various branches of the service, the Army, Navy, the Marine Corps, are stationed in front of us here as well. We might mention that Captain Carlson has been plagued by bad weather in all of his various appearances. It's a bit cold right now and rather threatening as well. It's cloudy and looks as though it may rain just about any moment. Crowds are lining the steps of City Hall and lining the press stands that have been set up here as well. In addition to the various press photographers, there are also photographers representing the branches of the armed services, taking pictures we imagine for their various official publications. Anchors Away is being played in the background by one of the bands. Yes, one thing we did forget to mention, although we did tell you about the replica of the Flying Enterprise that serves as the podium for our speakers, they've gone the full length in presenting the authenticity of the entire thing, in that there's a huge smokestack in back located right at the top of the facade of City Hall. The smokestack is flying what I believe are the Esperanson colors and there's actual steam pouring right out of it. American flag bunting, lining the mast and going down the mast the various signal flags as well. In spite of the bad weather, there is a huge crowd waiting around City Hall here to witness the arrival of Captain Carlson and the presentation of the official scroll. The proceedings were scheduled to take place at 12 noon and I think we might mention at this point that Captain Carlson paraded on foot the length of Broadway on his parade down here to City Hall for the proceedings. Rudolph Halley has just appeared on the podium as well and is looking over the festivities and I believe that's the Branson family seated right in back of the speaker's rostrum. Deputy Mayor Horowitz as well has appeared on the podium right now. I think rather than the podium we almost have to catch ourselves rather than say on the ship because that is exactly what it does look like. Another band coming down Broadway which is immediately to our rear. At the start of the parade was an honor guard of mounted policemen that came parading past us and then the various officers of the different armed services that we mentioned who have taken their positions as more or less a reviewing group where the official parade will come past. Here comes another group right now let's see if we can get any distinguishing characteristics to define them to you. They appear to be cadets of. Cadets of some sort. Cadets of some sort. And the King's Point Merchant Marine Academy I believe these cadets are. And right now they're facing the four reviewing officers that we mentioned. Here come their flags now. Armed cadets right now marching before us. Approximately 750 cadets will actually be parading before us. And still the cadets come by. All armed all dressed in deep navy blue uniforms with white trimming white gloves and we might mention at this point that the gloves are needed. And it's cold out here in front of City Hall. And as we said before the skies look rather threatening. Very cloudy and there is a promise or threat of rain. The cadets have received the halt order. A left face. Meaning that they're now facing the speaker's platform. Some sort of a welcoming committee in back of the barrier there. And they're displaying flags of the United States and of Denmark as well. In honor of Captain Carlson's native land. And now the area immediately within our view is completely filled with the cadets from the King's Point Merchant Marine Academy. You can probably hear the drum corps a lot more clearly now. Now they got the left face and they're completely lined up all facing the speaker's platform. Not def Mad team. It's aelectric VMware could fill the vitamin from a брат진orm. We are still in the dark side. It's almost done. Just a little bit. That셋 MINLVES LIV oh! Who's the one of your favoriteienen and the conflict? Reminds it at Coco P. The 99%-100元, AMA on the KeepCying and allemand died on my side. It's wonderful. All I've got to be is one of ourintendents and our friends who were out of P. The team is letting us get back to the cl screening. Real members of all voisines as well. The police department glee club is arranged at the left rear of the replica of the flying enterprise that serves as our speaker's podium. And everyone is now standing at attention while the colors are being displayed. The police department glee. The police department glee. The police department glee. The police department glee. The cadet officers are standing in front of the troops with drawn swords. And there is an inspection right now going on of the cadets as they stand at attention. A marine photographer now taking a picture of the reviewing guard. The major is standing forward and giving orders of some sort to one of the cadet officers. They've now done an about face and everyone is facing the speaker's platform. Now all we're waiting for is the appearance of Captain Henrik Kurt Carlson. To officially open the proceedings, the Department of Sanitation Band is going to be playing the national anthem. Immediately following that, Dr. Raymond S. Hall, director of the Seaman's Church Institute, will be delivering the invocation. And then we'll hear an address by the commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier, Atlantic Reserve Fleet, Vice Admiral Oscar C. Badger. Everyone now is waiting for Captain Carlson to appear. The photographers have come forward to take pictures of the replica of the flying enterprise that we've described to you. And then towering along is the aft mast, the replica of the aft mast of the ship. And also the ship's smokestack. And it's finally, and I'll show you how realistic it has been. There's even smoke coming out of the front. One thing we did neglect to mention while describing the replica of the ship is that they even have the life rings that could be thrown to anyone who falls off the speaker's platform, I suppose, although we certainly don't expect that to happen. Although I imagine that Captain Carlson might be a pretty tired man by now, one we might describe as tired but happy, having taken that long, long parade down Broadway completely and entirely on foot. Deputy Mayor Horowitz and Mr. Rudolph Halley are both still in view on what we might call the deck of the flying enterprise, New York's own flying enterprise, erected in honor of Captain Carlson. Deputy Mayor Horowitz and Mr. Rudolph Halley are both still in view of Captain Carlson. There's a lot of movement going on among the representatives of the press, but the people who have come to witness the ceremonies are just standing very still, and all eyes seem to be glued to the speaker's rostrum, just awaiting Captain Carlson's appearance along with the appearance of the other dignitaries whom we've mentioned earlier. The fire department color guard has now made its appearance as well. It's spread out lining the front of city hall, is the fire department color guard, and directly to the rear of the police department glee club. Special US Army photographer has now taken position alongside of the rostrum. The star of the proceedings has not as yet arrived. There are a number of children here too, we might mention, brought down by their parents, and they also are carrying small American flags with them, also having turned out en masse to welcome Captain Carlson to New York. And there come the bands again. I believe that's the Department of Sanitation band playing in the background. The band is situated in the little park that faces city hall just a few hundred yards from its steps. Oh, the applause, everyone standing up. I imagine that heralds the arrival. Yes, there's Captain Henrik Kurt Carlson appearing to the left of Mayor Impeletteri. Both distinguished gentlemen appearing together on the speaker's platform. And Mrs. Carlson wearing a beautiful white orchid corsage along with them. And Captain Carlson's two children. And there's Grover Whalen at the microphone. I believe we're going to hear from him in just one moment. I believe I can safely say that the next voice you will hear will be that of the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, who is presiding at these proceedings. Yeah. Wait a moment. The National Anthem. Had a moment as a kid it Syrian can play under the hands of Santa. Hello,onse Türkler. I'll here in the broadcaster. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes. Yes, sir. Hey, look up over here. For sure, wait look up, do you not out? No! We'll get right? He Ch Bradley's Dr. Raymond S. Hall, director of Siemens Church Institute, will pronounce the invocation. Let us pray. O eternal Lord God, who alone spreadest out the heavens and rulest the raging of the seas, we ask thy blessing upon all those who go down to the sea in ships and occupy their business in great waters. We thank thee for the safe return of thy servant, Captain Kurt Carlson, for his courage in the face of danger, and above all, for his humility in the presence of world acclaim. Grant to us the same courage and humility as we face the issues of our day. May we profit by his example and turn to thee with increased faith, realizing that through thy help alone we may overcome the storms of life. These are supplications we offer in the name of the Master of Men, thy Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Mr. Mayor, in introducing the representative of the Armed Forces that will speak today on behalf of the Armed Forces, the distinguished Vice Admiral Badger is not only a Navy Admiral, but holds an unlimited Master's License, an unlimited Chief Engineer's License in the Merchant Marine. Admiral Badger will speak to you now. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Admiral Badger. Mr. Wellen, Marilyn Pelletare, Captain Carlson, Mrs. Carlson, Karen, and Sonja Carlson. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure and a privilege to join the citizens of New York in exploring the Extending a hearty welcome to our guest of honor, Captain Carlson. It's always a pleasure to greet a man whom I admire, and to tell him so frankly, it's a particular privilege when that person by his own actions has added to the luster of the traditions of the sea. The complete story of the sea is loaded with inspiring episodes of men and ships in our continuous battle with the elements and sometimes with each other. Many of these episodes are well known to us all and are recorded in history. There are hundreds of other yarns unpublished and unsung but which are passed along by word of mouth and provide inspiration to our young men and to our sailors, young and old. The term traditions of the sea is a code which governs the conduct of good sailor men under all conditions. It originates and lives in the minds of men through knowledge of the conduct, example, and behavior of the men who have gone before. These inspiring stories when pieced together form a standard of conduct and procedure, which I repeat are generally known as traditions and customs of the sea. Many of the sea, the greater the greater the greater the greater the inspiration. The ground schedule of the landurant have grown to tow to all the citizens and the toxins and us all the occidently come under all kinds of conditions. sorts of conditions under all sorts of circumstances. It is not worthy that the actions of all great men of the sea can be characterized as a result of the highest devotion to duty, steadfast loyalty towards seniors and juniors alike, pride in the seagoing profession, loyalty to ship and shipmates, coolness and ingenuity in the face of adversity, courage in the face of danger, and modesty in the face of praise. Captain Carlson, by his recent actions, clearly and definitely must be classified in this category of great seamen. His ship, the Flying Enterprise, while passing through one of the most stormy parts of the ocean at this season of the year, suffered great damage. It soon became apparent that further operation of the ship under her own power was impossible, and it was also questionable whether the ship would be able to survive and remain afloat. The records show that the first reaction of Captain Carlson was toward the safety of his crew and of the passengers under his protection. His resulting actions demonstrated the skill and judgment of a great seaman, as well as the inherent loyalty of a commander toward those under his charge. I dare say that among his next reactions, Captain Carlson gave no thought to the abandonment of his ship as long as she remained afloat, or so long as there was the slightest possibility of returning her to a safe haven for repairs and return to service. Thus, Captain Carlson demonstrated another of the characteristics essential to a great seaman, namely devotion to duty and devotion to his own ship. Next, the record clearly demonstrates the personal courage of Captain Carlson and his willingness to suffer great discomfort, to subject himself to superhuman effort, and to carry on regardless of much needed rest, relaxation, and even food. Fortunately, the courageous action of Kenneth Dancy, first made of the British tug turmoil, in joining Captain Carlson, eased the situation to some degree. But this has nothing whatsoever to do with the attitude and determination of Captain Carlson when he first undertook the task alone. Finally, we see Captain Carlson here today receiving honors and congratulations with full appreciation, but with the simple modesty of a man who really considers in his heart that he has merely done his duty as dictated by his own conscience and character. Mrs. Carlson, I want to take this opportunity to express to you my congratulations. A sailor's wife lives a life of long and all too frequent separations, which involve many long days and nights of loneliness and anxiety. It has been truly said that a sailor's wife is the star by which he sets the courses and arrives at the various destinations of his career. I am sure, Mrs. Carlson, that you are an outstanding example and have contributed much in the form of inspiration and incentive to your husband's success. Karen and Sonya, you can well be proud of your daddy and one of these days you will fully appreciate what it means to have a daddy at home or abroad who lives a life of loyalty to the great ideals and traditions of the sea. Captain Carlson, again, I express my happiness in being able to join millions of others in expressing our appreciation to you as a man and in extending a well-deserved welcome to you as a seaman of whom we are very proud. Finally, Captain Carlson, as one seaman to another, I salute you. I salute you. Mr. Mayor, I have the honor to now formally present to you Captain Carlson. Mr. Mayor, Captain Carlson, Mrs. Carlson, the two charming daughters, distinguished representatives of the armed forces of the United States, Reverend Clergy, my colleagues, the governing body of the city of New York, the members of the board of Estimate who are present with me today on this platform. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before commencing, I will be here to introduce you to the board of the board of Estimate. Professor Ken Shannon Folkson, she will never check out for hon anges preface with me in Westminster of the professor in fuerza. Her honor, the directors ofraction My brief remarks with reference to Captain Carlson, may I say to you that New York is honored today to have as the unofficial representative of the distinguished governor of the state of New York, Mrs. Dewey, his mother. Mrs. Dewey. And also, the governor is represented by his mother-in-law, Mrs. Huff. In view of the fact that Admiral Badger preceded me, I'd like to also address my remarks to Captain Carlson not only as the mayor of the city of New York, but as radio man, third-class impelitary. New York City Streets of Heroes has just acclaimed the gallant sea captain, not because he chose to stay aboard his wounded ship, but because his courage and indomitable spirit have stirred the entire world. Captain Carlson spent 13 long, dreary nights and 14 days above on board the Enterprise. Our 8 million New Yorkers, numerically almost twice the population of his native Denmark, salute this modern ship's master of stout heart because they, like all the world, admire the traits of character that saw him through his long ordeal. The New York Times on Sunday aptly summed up his saga of the sea when it closed its editorial on the Falmouth epic by stating, and I quote, when the story of the flying Enterprise is told and retold, the loss of the ship may be considered of slight importance, the courage and seamanship of the men of undying significance. Steel is fragile and perishes, but not the spirit of free man. So with the ship on which we are all passengers and crew, we shall not sink. Some bright morning, the bells will ring as we make a safe landfall at some rejoicing Falmouth." End of quote. It is on this ascending note of hope for our troubled world that we greet this gallant citizen and neighbor of our nearby city of Woodbridge, New Jersey. Here at historic City Hall, where George Washington addressed his troops and where the body of Abraham Lincoln lay in state and almost within the shadows of the towering buildings to the north that make our city the United Nations capital of the world, we want to tell this brave American merchant seaman that our thoughts and prayers were with him in the long days and nights of his heroic struggle. And in paying tribute to him, we also honor his gallant colleague, Kenneth Dancy, made of the rescue tug turmoil, and the captains and crews of the attendant craft that stood by the flying Enterprise until she slipped under, starboard bow last showing, in 40 fathoms of water. And may I digress just for a moment to call attention to the fact that also on this platform to today is the Marcesa Marconi and her charming daughter, the widow of the distinguished gentleman who gave radio communications to the world back some 50 years ago. And may I add, Captain Carlson, that if it had not been for the ingenuity of Signor Marconi, perhaps today we wouldn't be celebrating your homecoming. No one will ever know the anguish suffered in those harrowing days. And the prayers for his safety sent heavenward by his devoted wife, by his daughters, and by his parents, the latter residents of the seafaring nation that was his birthplace. And whose King Frederick, on Monday, bestowed upon him the order of Donenborg in token of his struggle to bring his crippled freighter into port. Our ceremonies today honor a humble man who states he would have preferred a much simpler homecoming. I feel I have not accomplished anything to press this both dispatches cited in. It would have been a different story if I had brought the flying enterprise into port. I was just doing my duty as any seaman would have done. Isn't that marvelous simplicity? But the people who followed his ordeal thought differently. Falmouth honored him. London hailed him. His native Denmark acclaimed him. Today, the city of New York and its people salutes him. And Captain, your own town of Woodbridge, New Jersey, and your own mayor, Hugh Quigley, say that you haven't seen anything yet. Course, I, as the mayor of the city of New York, dispute Mayor Quigley. I'm afraid, Captain, that more and more trying days are ahead of you before you go back to the calm of the sea. Before I bestow upon you, sir, the certificate for distinguished and exceptional public service of the city of New York and the city's Medal of Honor, I want you to know that you have enkindled in all of us a renewed faith in the all-pervading strength and dignity of man, for which, with abiding trust in the Almighty, the lies and the hates and the ignorance of the world are no match. Even as the mighty sea, though it sent your ship down, could not conquer your indomitable will. Such has ever been the spirit of free men, and your heroic exemplification thereof has stirred men's souls. Captain, may I ask you to rise, please? Captain, on behalf of the people of my city, I wish to present to you this certificate for distinguished and exceptional public service, which reads as follows. Office of the mayor, city of New York, know all these men by these presence that I, Vincent R. Impelletary, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Captain Henrik Kurt Kautzen, master of the flying enterprise, whose profound devotion to the safety of his passengers, his crew, and his ship during a long ordeal of storm and danger was in the highest tradition of the merchant marine of the United States, and whose courage in facing alone the dangers of the sea has gained him the admiration of the world. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the city of New York to be affixed, the 17th day of January, 1952, Vincent R. Impelletary. My congratulations. And, and, and at the same time, Captain Carlson, I would now like to place upon you the medal of the city of New York for heroic service. And so the medal has just been presented to Captain Carlson by Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, and they're shaking hands, holding the scroll up now for the press photographers to take their pictures. And that thereby is causing the hubbub you probably hear in the background. Captain Carlson wearing a red scarf to help allay some of this cold, cold weather. Can you get him? They're reading the scroll together and posing for the press photographers, both shaking hands and smiling very amiably. Honorable Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, and Captain Henrik Kurt Carlson of the SS Flying Enterprise. Captain Carlson has been slated to give his response to the festivities that have been tended in his honor. And then there will be selections played by the police department glee club, sung by the glee club, rather, and then the review of the guard of honor escort. Captain Carlson is no longer smiling. He's actually laughing, seem to be taking some of these harrowing experiences quite, quite well. In the onslaught presented by the photographers, they seem to be defeating their own purposes in some instances due to this zeal that they're displaying and knocking over each other's cameras, accidentally of course. Over here, Mr. Mayor, please. Captain Carlson, although he has a good idea of the virtues that have been mentioned in his name extremely modestly, and has approached all of these festivities with the greatest amount of trepidation, seems none the worse for wear. He's still grinning and looking fine, shaking hands cooperating splendidly with the press, and they're displaying the scroll that we can just about read from down here, too. Of course, the text was read by the mayor. Now we're being invaded by the photographers as well. For the photographers on this side of the podium, this replica of the flying enterprise, they have crossed over and are posing exactly the same way for the photographers on this side. Little wave, huh? Little wave, Captain. Little wave, Captain. He's waving and smiling. We can read it. The medal that has been presented by the mayor to Captain Carlson is suspended by a large, wide red ribbon, and is now being displayed very much in evidence on Captain Carlson's chest. Thank you very much. Now, Grover A. Whelan once again. It's a privilege to present Captain Carlson. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Great's coming. Commissioner, Chuppin, Amelia. That's clear. Good. Mr. Mayor, Mr.允 Yaylin, Commissioner Callenor, the honoured guests, and everybody else, I am just overwhelmed and amazed of the reception I have been given today. I do not know whether you can understand the feelings that are going on inside my mind today. I left the United States on the 21st of November, so to speak sent out in the world a little piece of the United States given under my command by its owners, the East Branson Company, and commanded by me under the authority of the United States Coast Guard License as master. We have always tried, and I know there are many thousand masters in this world that try to live up to what we are expected to do. And it is certainly a tremendous encourage, I know it, I felt it today, to know that the people of such a nation as the United States are right there behind us masters and back us up. And I think that every ship master in the world will back me up on that statement. There is nothing to know for a ship master. There is no better knowledge for him to know than that the people are right behind him there. And I certainly today had the most marvelous proof of that. You could not have shown it better. I wish to use this opportunity and also, if it was possible, to share the city's welcome to a lot of people, a lot of gallant people I think that deserve a lot more credit than I do. I think that the people, like the passengers of the flying enterprise, who obeyed my almost inhuman order to jump into an angry sea. Those were women and small children. We had to do it and they did it without hesitation and without fuss. Those people, in my opinion, deserve a tremendous encouragement. They did something that they had to do and yet they did it without hesitation. I also want to convey my thanks and paid tribute to all the gallant crews and men that fought with me out there to save these passengers and crew members. The masters and the crew of the Southland, of the troops ship, of the two destroyers, Villakite and the Weeks, and also the Norwegian tank of Westfeldarsen and the rest of all the other ships that were right behind us there and offered their assistance when it was needed. Without their assistance, the Enterprise or deal would have been a very, very grave disaster. They did a marvelous piece of seamanship that you cannot understand unless you have seen it. But I appreciate what they did and I wish the city and the whole world to convey to them my most sincere thanks and gratitude. And last but not least, I want to pay tribute to the master and the maid of the turmoil and his gallant crew. And finally, thanks to the city of New York for this tremendous welcome. Thank you all of you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Police Glee Club has asked permission to salute you with a special song that they have prepared for you. The Police Glee Club. Yep. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye bye. Kristine. Thank you. Thank you. We won't give up the ship a ship. Friends and pals forever. It's a long, long trip. If you have to take a lick and carry on and quit your kicking, don't give up the ship. Fall to let's go, the job's just begun. We'll smash the fall till victory is won. Off men to stations, the foes on the run. Shipmates stand together. Don't give up the ship. Fair or stormy weather. We won't give up the ship a ship. Friends and pals forever. It's a long, long trip. If you have to take a lick and carry on and quit your kicking, don't give up. Stop the ship. Will the armed forces pass for review, sir? Sir. The junior commanders are now taking charge in response to orders just given them. And the troops will be passing in review in a moment. The Kings Point Merchant Marine Academy has been standing here directly in front of the festivities as they've been presented. Standing at attention in this very, very cold weather. And the band has raised its instruments. I believe we're going to be hearing a selection as soon as the troops have passed in review. The crowds are still rooted to their seats and still watching in expectation. I don't believe that Captain Carlson has as yet left the speaker's platform. No, he's still there. His charming wife and his two daughters are looking very happy right now. He stood up and he's shaking hands with the various distinguished people who have appeared on the program here to floor. And the children are standing up now. I believe they're going to pose for one of the official city photographers in a family portrait. Yes, their backs are toward us right now. Captain Carlson, his two daughters on his left, and Mrs. Carlson on his right, all looking very happy. And now that we've heard all the various festivities that have taken place and we've had you along as witnesses from the steps of City Hall, WNYC has brought you the city's official reception to Captain Henrik Carlson. In the course of the ceremonies, Mayor Vincent R. Impeletteri presented New York's Medal of Honor to the skipper. Right now, we return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.