From City Hall Plaza, your city station presents the opening ceremonies of Civil Defense Week. On hand to participate in the ceremonies are the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York, Herbert O'Brien, Director of the New York City Civil Defense Organization, and many federal and state civil defense officials. Here now is our Chairman, Mr. O'Brien. Thank you. Thank you. The pump is on display before you are part of that consignment. Each pump is fully equipped with the tools spread out for your inspection, including holes, nozzles, crowbars, various types of extinguishers, hooks, axes, and other items necessary for efficient firefighting. Mayor of the Inputtower, I respectfully ask that you accept these pumpers and equipment in the name of the people of the City of New York. Director O'Brien, General Huebner, Commissioner Groove-Matt, Grover Whalen, Ladies and Gentlemen, I heartily accept for the people of the City of New York and for their protection this very necessary firefighting equipment. In the event that the peace of our city should be disrupted by a treacherous enemy act, disastrous fires undoubtedly would be a serious problem. Even with this new equipment and with automatic aid from our support areas, we would of necessity have to call upon the State Civil Defense Commission to furnish men and equipment from other counties and perhaps other states. Acquiring this new equipment, therefore, is an important forward step in our civil defense protection, and we are grateful to the Federal Civil Defense Commission for its help in acquiring it. These new pumpers were purchased on a fund-matching basis, whereas and whereby New York City Civil Defense and the Federal Civil Defense Administration share the cost equally. They will be used at present for training the members of the Auxiliary Fire Corps and will respond to multiple alarms of fire where auxiliary firemen will receive additional training. This brings us to a point of vital importance. The successful operation of every emergency division of our civil defense organization depends essentially on manpower. May I ask every man and woman in New York City who has not already joined some branch of civil defense to do so now. You may enroll at the Office of Recruiting and Public Information, 500 Park Avenue, or at any of its borough offices. You may also enroll at police stations, firehouses, hospitals, and many local recruiting stations. Please enroll now. The New York State Civil Defense Commission, acting under the provisions of the State Defense Emergency Act, has ordered New York City to conduct a three-day civil defense training exercise December 11th, December 12th, and December 13th of this week. The first two days will concern civil defense forces only. On Saturday morning, December 13th, about 8.30 a.m., New York City's 579 air raid warning sirens will sound the red or alert signal. When this signal is sounded, we expect everyone in New York City to participate by seeking shelter and remaining sheltered until the white or all-clear signal is sounded 15 minutes later. Pedestrians will be ushered by auxiliary police, regular police, and air wardens into shelter areas away from windows. It is very important to make sure that you keep away from windows. Do not linger to see what is going on. Get away from windows. private cars and buses will pull to the curb and drivers and passengers will seek shelter. It is also important that residents of apartment houses and persons in commercial, industrial, and business buildings participate by going to the designated shelter area within their building and remaining there until the all-clear signal is sounded. These tests or trial runs may save your life at some future date. In conjunction with these state-ordered training exercises, I will now read the official proclamation designating this as Civil Defense Week in New York City. proclamation. Whereas the New York State Civil Defense Commission, under the direction of General C.R. Hubner and acting under the provisions of the New York State Defense Emergency Act, has ordered New York City to conduct a three-day civil defense training exercise December 11, 12, and 13, 1952, and whereas the state-ordered civil defense training exercise is to include the general public on Saturday morning, December 13, 1952, and whereas the full cooperation of everyone in New York City is expected, particularly by seeking shelter when the air raid warning sirens sound, the prescribed red alert, and remaining sheltered until the all-clear signal is sounded. Now, therefore, I, Vincent R. Impelitary, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim the week of December 8, 1952, as New York City Civil Defense Week, and assure the New York State Civil Defense Commission and the New York City Civil Defense Forces of our people's wholehearted support for this vital undertaking. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed. Signed, Vincent R. Impelitary, Mayor. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, at this time, I'd respectfully request that you officially turn this apparatus over to Commissioner Grumet of the New York City Fire Department. Director O'Brien, as I drove into the plaza this morning, I was very greatly impressed by this wonderful demonstration of what New York City, in conjunction with the State of New York, in conjunction with the Federal Authorities, are doing to assure the people of the City of New York of adequate protection in the event of necessity some date in the future. We hope it never happens. So to augment the forces of our own splendid Fire Department of the City of New York, I am happy and pleased to turn over this equipment to the very able Commissioner of that Department, Honorable Jacob Grumet. Now here is the Fire Commissioner of the City of New York, Jacob Grumet. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, in behalf of the Fire Department of the City of New York, I accept this necessary equipment, equipment which is so essential to civil defense. May I re-echo what the Mayor has already said and urge all those who possibly can to volunteer for this very important service. May I express the hope that this equipment will be limited in its use to training purposes. But in the event of attack, we want to be ready and the Fire Department is doing all in its power to be ready in the event of an enemy attack. So again, I urge all of you to volunteer immediately for this service. I thank you. Now the photographers are taking pictures of the various civil defense officials, and we believe that concludes the ceremony here, the ceremony kicking off Civil Defense Week. We might remind you of an item that we've come across, the chairman of the New York City Broadcasters Committee for Civil Defense has said that all New York City radio stations will take part in the air raid test, which is being held next Saturday, December 13th. Thomas Phelan, the chairman, says Seymour Siegel of WNYC, who is CD Coordinator of Communications, will supervise the program, which will originate in the city's CD Control Center. At the present time, the officials are inspecting the Civil Defense fire trucks, which are here. There are about 15 of them, and handsome vehicles they are, too. So that concludes these ceremonies. From City Hall Plaza in front of City Hall, WNYC has brought you the official opening ceremonies of Civil Defense Week. Among our speakers today were the Honorable Vincent R. Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York, Herbert O'Brien, Director of the City Civil Defense Organization, and as guests, there were various federal and state civil defense officials. This has been a special public service broadcast of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.