Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to the dedication of the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory at Buffalo, New York. This magnificent laboratory, which currently employs 645 people, of whom many are outstanding scientists and engineers, was given to Cornell University on January 1st, 1946, by the Curtis Wright Corporation Airplane Division. The laboratory was built and equipped as an aeronautical research center less than four years ago. No expense was spared to provide it with the most modern equipment and apparatus available for scientific studies and experimentation in all phases of aeronautical science. The location of the laboratory, just across Genesee Street from the Buffalo Municipal Airport, is particularly fortunate in that it provides excellent opportunity for carrying out actual flight experiments. Typical of the equipment of the laboratory is the wind tunnel, which is capable of providing air velocities up to 740 miles an hour, or very close to the velocity of sound. The tunnel is 12 feet in diameter at the throat, a back which permits the testing of large-scale models. In addition, the tunnel can be operated at pressures varying from one-quarter that of the atmosphere to four times atmospheric pressure. As a part of Cornell University, the laboratory is devoted to carrying on a broad and comprehensive research program in all phases of aviation, and to providing an unparalleled opportunity for the advanced professional training of students in the Cornell University Graduate School of Illinois. An outstanding feature of the accession of this tremendous research enterprise by Cornell University is the fact that, in addition to the gift of the laboratory itself by the Kurdish-Wright Corporation, the University has received generous contributions from seven aircraft manufacturers to provide working capital for consecutive operations. These companies are the aviation corporations, the Bell Aircraft Corporation, Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corporation, Drummond Aircraft Engineering Corporation, Ranger Aircraft Engine Corporation, Republic Aviation Corporation, and United Aircraft Corporation. The deep interest of all of the sponsoring companies, as exemplified by the outstanding financial support they have given the laboratory, indicates clearly the importance that responsible executives of these companies attach to fundamental research as a vital factor in the maintenance of the continued predominance of American aviation. The great interest of the opportunity for the dedication of the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, we are indeed honored to have the president of the Kurdish-Wright Corporation here to unveil the bronze-bron, bronze flag which will commemorate the gift. It is with gratitude on behalf of the university and with deep personal pleasure that I introduce Richard Guy W. Vaughn, president of the Kurdish-Wright Corporation. Mr. Vaughn. the faculty Corporation is a National Project of the Bron Virus Department of coraz 마음ical поэтому Exchange School is a National Project of網 And von真的愛 engpad. and General. Curtis Wright has always felt the very vital need in this industry, particularly for research and development. And as many times wanted to erect facilities that carry on that work. It was not until 1940, late in the year, when foreign orders were coming in in sufficient volume on a basis that would justify such a piece of equipment as it may consider it serious. Crowns are then loaded for this laboratory on July 10, 1941, the laboratory would have approved the expenditures necessary to construct it. If history repeated in itself, after World War II, as it did in World War I, the laboratory would be too much for any individual property to support. And after the war was that the indication that history would repeat itself. So if we believed that a university that could carry on the activities and divide the facilities and the use of the facilities with all of the industry, would be a very desirable move on our part. So we naturally looked for the university that we felt could carry on these activities to the best advantage of industry. And that is how we happened to approach President Day at Cornell, and we found him very the best for us, and for the industry, I might say, in a receptive form of mine. He was willing to assume the responsibility. I was very happy yesterday to pick up a person in the lab and find that after the first five months of operation of this laboratory, it is on a self-supporting basis. And I think that confirms our impression of the ability of Cornell University, Cornell University, to operate a laboratory, and not have it in the red. I think that's a feat for industry, and certainly measures the ability of Cornell. I have one of the glad to be here, not to present a laboratory, but to commemorate the presentation from Curtis Wright to Cornell University. I do so in the form of this the form of this small plant here. I present to Mr. Day, President Day, and Cornell University, with a great deal of enthusiasm and best wishes for continued success. Thank you very much, Mr. Vaughan. It is now my very great privilege to introduce President Edmund E. Day, who will speak about the objectives for the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, which the University hopes to achieve. Not today. Dr. Adams, President Vaughan, Chairman Babcock, distinguished representatives of the War and Navy Department, and friends from the official services, the industry, and the university. Thank you, sir. The occasion which brings us together, today, gives every promise of being a highly significant one. It symbolizes a unique partnership into which Cornell University has entered with the aviation industry. of this partnership are of great importance, both to the growing giant of aviation and to our concept of the role of the university in a modern industrial society. It was on January 1st of this very year that the Curtis Wright Corporation formally transferred its plane division research laboratory to Cornell University, and the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory thus became a reality. We as a university cannot adequately express our gratitude for this far-reaching and productive move on the part of the Curtis Wright Corporation. It is my opinion that the unrestricted gift of the United States of this magnificent establishment to an educational institution was one of the most remarkable actions in the history of industrial enterprise in this country. And I can assure President Barnes and the company that we are profoundly grateful to have been the beneficiaries of this remarkable action. And I can assure President Barnes and the company that we are profoundly grateful to have been the beneficiaries of this remarkable action. Seven other operating companies have generously contributed to the laboratory's working capital funds. With this assurance of the continued operation of the laboratory, we can now look forward to a long and truthful association between the aviation industry and the university. With high and confident hopes for meeting the challenges implied in man's conquest of the air. In the brief span of its existence, and it is sometimes hard to remember that the laboratory is only four years old, the plant which we dedicate today has made outstanding contributions to the national enterprise. It built a critical need during the tense days of the war, when its potent resources were thrown entirely into the fight for free. While war has always served as a great stimulant in the development of new technologies, and the solution of difficult problems of research and production. It is toward the role which the laboratory will play and the development of the national enterprise. that we now gladly turn our attention. Many of the phenomenal advances made in time of war are based on certain principles which will prove of untold value in the researches that lie ahead in the days of peace. Here at this laboratory was built the first Ram Jet missile, that compact and tremendously efficient type, popularly known as the flying stove fire. Here too was developed a system of communication with an airplane or missile in flight, which makes it possible to transmit instantly and automatically complicated information to a receiving station on the ground. The helicopter rotor governor, a new process for welding aluminum alloy, and a number of other developments have emerged from this laboratory to serve the aviation industry. The work goes on as the scientists in the laboratory combine their skills and their training with the excellent facilities provided here for tackling all sorts of aviation problems. Basic studies of airfoils designed for supersonic speed are currently in progress, and I understand that we shall have an opportunity to see some of this work in progress as we make our tour through the laboratory a little later on. It is my confident expectation that as soon as the large 12 foot wind tunnel is in operation, a great deal of valuable new information on high speed aircraft will in due course be forthcoming. Clearly enough, this remarkable laboratory is fulfilling a high mission in the advancement of our knowledge and in its service to aviation. This is a very special added significance in relation to the graduate school of aeronautical engineering at Cornell University. In the training of young men whose careers will subsequently take them into the work of the great aircraft companies and into research in related fields. Here they will participate in fundamental research which will offer a challenge and an inspiration. Here they will have an opportunity to witness the exacting standards of initiative and research which industry upholds and which the laboratory so splendidly exemplifies in all phases of its operation. This business of bringing these potential leaders in aviation's future into early and intimate contact with research is of primary importance. And I am confident that our graduate students in aeronautical engineering will justify to the associated companies the responsibility which these companies have entrusted to Cornell University. This program originated in Buffalo, New York. This program 1997 has brought in keyF vorne in energy-based SendOTHs