The Midday Symphony has been curtailed in order that we may bring you the following special program transcribed earlier. From 110th Street and 8th Avenue, your city station brings you the ceremonies attending the dedication of the Frederick Douglass Circle. Mr. Douglass, famous abolitionist, orator, and journalist, is to be honored by Borough President Robert F. Wagner, Jr., Councilman Earl Brown, and many other municipal, state, and federal representatives. To introduce the principal speakers, we will hear Mr. Glester Hines, Chairman of the People's Civic and Welfare Association, under whose sponsorship these ceremonies are held. Ladies and gentlemen, we are assembled today to dedicate the circle in honor of Frederick Douglass. Although born in slavery, he was able to lift himself up to become a renowned orator, journalist, abolitionist, United States Marshal, United States Recorder of Deeds, and Minister to ATI. His accomplishment, my dear friends, is an example of all Americans, and a great inspiration and a symbol of the youth to emulate throughout the world. I could say much more, but I must be brief because we have many speakers. In passing, I must embrace the opportunity to thank the officers and members of the People's Civic and Welfare Association and the Arrangement Committee for the splendid work they have done in making this event the great success it is. I also must thank the participating units, the Army, the Navy, the Coast Guard, and all the other units, the fire department, sanitation, and many other units. We aren't having any exceptions. All the units goes to make this affair the success it is. At this period, my friend, it gives me great pleasure to introduce the first speaker, Bishop R.C. Lawson, who will speak to us for a couple of minutes. Mr. Chairman, in honor of Jess, on this momentous occasion, it's indeed a pleasure to be a member of the community called Harlem. So many things have been done to give Harlem a black eye, but this washes the face of Harlem and puts a smile upon it. It is something to think of that when a man gives his life for his people and for the service of humanity, though long dead, he still speaks and commands the ages to honor and respect him. This was the case of Frederick Douglass. One time a king was desirous of honoring one who had did a great service, even saving his life, and thus a dear service to his country. He asked one of his counselors what would be the thing, what should be done to the man whom the king desired to honor. The foolish politician thought it was him himself that the king had desired to honor. He said, put him upon a horse and let him have the king's robe. Let him ride through the streets and let a cry go before him. Let the people acclaim what he did. And the king said, do that to his rival politician, one named Mordecai, a Jew, whom he desired to destroy and get his position. In this sense, however, it's not a matter of a rivalry between politicians, but rather the nation. The city of New York, the community of Harlem, desired to honor Frederick Douglass. And in so doing, they had this momentous occasion arranged and parade. And this circle, where everyone that comes to New York, more or less, will have to come by here. Influence to one of the greatest and finest parks in all the world. Frederick Douglass' name is emblazoned. And wrote, as it were, with a pin of iron in the rock. This circle, known hereafter as Frederick Douglass' circle, will bring to mind the work of heroism, the work of sacrifice. His life, his character, and his name to the succeeding generations and to the visitors from throughout the world. They'll know there lived the man who New York and who America desired to honor was unselfish service, Frederick Douglass. Thank you. Thank you. I'd just like to say a word and then I'll be through. I think it's very, very appropriate that here at one of the crossroads of our great city, we are dedicating a circle to the name of Frederick Douglass. With the light of freedom being dimmed in so many parts of the world, it will be a daily reminder, not only to the people of this community, but to all the people who pass here, that the spirit of Frederick Douglass is still alive in the land. Thank you very much, Commissioner Casas. At this juncture, we will call upon Commissioner Elmer Cardiff to speak for two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, my friends and neighbors, I only want to say this to you. It so happens that this is a particularly great moment for me because I was born in the city of Rochester, New York, where the first monument ever erected to Frederick Douglass was erected. And I want to say this to you because you have other people on the program, that nothing will do more to give this community a place, the place in the sun it deserves, than this fact that here, as it has been said, the crossroads of the world, you of this community have seen fit to mark a spot where all the world might know and see and understand that you believe in liberty and human freedom and human dignity and that you will not rest until it comes to every man. Thank you, Commissioner Carter. Now, my friends, we have a gentleman who has just taken office quite recently and somehow or the other he promised the People's Civic and Welfare Association that he would be their publicity man. However, somehow he has never gotten around it. But God has provided that somewhere or the other he also has helped the Association to become our publicity man. We speak of no other than Mr. Earl Brown, Councilman Earl Brown. The councilman, at the request of the borough president, has introduced the local law to make this section and this circle Frederick Douglass Circle. Councilman Earl Brown. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest acts of my life, an act of which I am indeed most proud, was to have introduced the bill in the city council to change the name of this square to Frederick Douglass Circle. I will remember, as a boy, what great effect down in Virginia, where really one reads how great the General Lee was instead of General Grant or Frederick Douglass, how wonderful it was to have read about the grand life of a man like Frederick Douglass. And as I have grown older, I have realized the true greatness of this great American. And I want to state that Frederick Douglass was a great American. He gave to us a heritage which has made all people in America better off. He was a believer in democracy. He was an implacable foe of bigotry and prejudice. He fought for you. He fought for me. He fought always against racial discrimination and segregation. He still is symbolically our leader. slavery. And I must say that Douglass and others like him in all races, in all groups, as a matter of fact, in America, are our leaders today as well as then. Some may come to us and tell us today that they will lead us to a utopia which in fact is not utopia but a kind of slavery. if Douglass were living today, I am positive that he would be in the forefront among us telling us not to follow this venal, this hypocritical scheme and plot against democracy and civilization. but he would join with us in fighting to better ourselves and sooner or later in our own native land to attain what we must have and what we will have a complete full democracy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Brown. We appreciate your support in making this section Frederick Douglass circle. We have with us our honorary chairman, Mr. George S. Schuyler of the Pittsburgh Courier. Mr. Schuyler. Thank you very much, Mr. Hines. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be here this afternoon and have some little part in this dedication of this circle. I have been looking at this circle for years, won't go into how many, and it always seemed to me that there ought to be somewhere in Harlem some memorial to the great people of the Negro group. Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, Frederick Douglass, many others ought to be remembered in some tangible way so that those who walk by may see and that their attention be invited to the fact that someone of great eminence in the world is being remembered here and perhaps that will arouse their curiosity to find out something about this man, what he stood for, and how he fought at a time when it meant more than merely standing on a platform and talking. Here was a man who had a price on his head. Here was a man who, unable to get sufficient help here, went to England and there he raised his voice in eloquence and stirred the imagination and the sympathies of the people of Europe and then he came back here and with his pen and with his speech he helped to arouse this nation as no one else did to the viciousness of slavery and to the determination that it must be abolished and so I think it's entirely fitting that here in this state which marked so much of his activities that he should be remembered in the greatest city in this state in this country and in the world. Thank you. Thank you, Honorary Chairman Schuyler. We'll have Mr. James Allen, State President of the NACP, to say a word for a minute and a half. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just ten days ago I was in the country of England where I heard people there talking about the memorable work of Frederick Douglass when he went there to raise his voice against slavery here in America. Some years ago I had the chance of standing under his monument in Rochester and speaking to a group of citizens there about the virtues of this great American citizen. It seems to me that this is an unfinished task that we have started here today. It is commemorable, certainly, in the annals of the history of New York that we have always attempted to give honor to those who have made accomplishments in our history. But it seems to me that to finish this task will be for the citizens of this city and this state and this nation to erect a towering monument out here to the memory of Douglass so that his memory will never be forgotten by generations yet unborn. Thank you very much, Mr. Allen. Now, my friends, the next speaker is the son of a distinguished father that has placed most of the progressive labor legislation on the statute books that is beneficial to all Americans. I speak of no other than the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Jr., Borough President of Manhattan, whose cooperation has made it possible for us to name this circle in honor of our great Frederick Douglass. Borough President Wagner. Mr. Hines, reverend members of the clergy, distinguished guests, a proud family, descendants of Frederick Douglass and friends. first of all, I am indeed grateful for the opportunity to participate with this great community in our borough in dedicating the Frederick Douglass circle. This is a historic moment for the people of New York. In dedicating this area to the memory of Frederick Douglass, we are paying tribute to a valiant fighter for human dignity and freedom. we must, on this occasion, dedicate ourselves once again to a vigorous defense of the principles for which Frederick Douglass fought so firmly and steadfastly. In this period of crisis in which we live, it is vital that we become more aggressive in the forward movement designed to strengthen our democratic faith and practices. This century has witnessed a series of continuing attacks upon our way of life and men have sacrificed their lives in all corners of the globe in defense of our principles. Today, more than five years since the end of the war, that basic struggle continues. We have not yet succeeded in constructing a firm foundation for world peace and international security. On the contrary, our people are now once again engaged in a struggle and defense of human rights. The people of our nation and the people of the world are deeply concerned about the Korean War, atomic energy, and the hydrogen bomb. This war is basically a struggle for men's minds and hearts. But democracy will not emerge victorious from this struggle by pious statements about democracy's virtues. We can make democracy a living reality only by practical and tangible achievements which affect our people in their daily lives. In this period of international tension, we cannot overlook the threat to our democratic faith and principles arising from continued prejudice and discrimination within our own borders. In terms of economic security, we cannot afford the indulgence of discrimination. Our wealth is the product of our people and our natural resources. To the extent that we prevent any individual because of his race or color from making his maximum contribution to our society, to that extent have we wasted and depleted our national strength. nor can we hope to keep alive the democratic spark among diverse peoples throughout the world when intolerance and discrimination prevail in the world's greatest democracy. This is not a matter only of economic justice, but more significantly of economic survival. Certainly it is clear that until we succeed in putting our own economic house in order, it will be difficult to sell democracy abroad. These are matters with which our people are desperately concerned. Our people need good housing. We must work constantly towards an expanded economy to provide further opportunities for an increasing population. Our people are concerned about our schools and our educational facilities. Every effort must be made to guarantee to all our people the rights which are set forth in our Constitution. The career of Frederick Douglass represents the American dream in its finest tradition. Rising from slavery to a position of leadership in American life, Frederick Douglass' activities activities and works have brought light into many dark corners in our society. As an advisor to Lincoln, he brought wisdom and dignity to the principles for which he contended. In the half century that has passed since he died, we have made a great deal of progress in bringing to all American people a full measure of democratic living. We have moved a long way forward towards eliminating Jim Crow from the national scene. Many states have adopted Fair Employment Practices acts. A great deal has been accomplished towards eliminating segregation in housing and towards outlawing restrictive covenants. Yet we know that a great deal remains to be done. Frederick Douglass' legacy to us is both a challenge and a goal. The challenge is to carry forward the humanitarian work he started against such overwhelming odds. The goal is the eradication from this country every last vestige of discrimination, poverty, and prejudice. Together with the aid of men of goodwill throughout our nation, we can meet this challenge with vision and with confidence, secure in the knowledge that we are advancing the word of our Lord. With his own accomplishments to inspire us, we know that we can achieve the goal of a free America in a free world. We did, because some of the newspapers had to go to press early, already unveil the mark on the other side of this great square, but now it's my privilege to pronounce this square, Frederick Douglass Square, for everybody to look with pride. Thank you. Thank you, Borough President Wagner. The People's Civic and Welfare Association is proud to sponsor this program in perpetuating the name of Frederick Douglass as a living monument for the part he has played in shaping the American democracy. Thank you. You have been listening to the official dedication of Frederick Douglass Circle at 110th Street and 8th Avenue. The principal speakers in these ceremonies were Robert F. Wagner, Jr., President of the Borough of Manhattan, and Councilman Earl Brown, as well as many other municipal, state, and federal representatives. They were introduced by Glester Hines, Chairman of the People's Civic and Welfare Association, the sponsoring organization. This broadcast was transcribed earlier for presentation at this time and is a public service feature of the municipal broadcasting system.
