First, I would like to tell you, Mr. Lee, of my deep appreciation for this invitation which has brought me here. I'm very glad to have had the opportunity to come to your headquarters before I proceed on this new and difficult assignment. Naturally, I'm grateful for the confidence that my Commander-in-Chief, President Truman, has shown in giving me this assignment to the Far East Command. I'm exceedingly proud that I will have under my command so many fighting men of the United Nations, many nationalities. It will bring back to me the experience that I had in the Italian campaign where there were 16 different nationalities involved. And although we had our problems, just as they have them in Korea, difficulties of languages and customs and different beliefs in God, every single one of those countries knuckled down, forgot their nationalistic ambitions, and devoted themselves to fighting on the team to destroy the mad dogs of Nazism that were running loose in Italy and in Europe at that time. And I'd like to compare that to the situation now where so many of these nationalities are fighting together unselfishly to stop aggressive communism. Now, I'm going to do everything in my power, Mr. Lee, to carry out the continue, the efforts of the United Nations and my government to bring about an honorable armistice followed by an honorable peace. I want to pay tribute to Matt Ridgeway and Van Fleet, my dear friends with whom I've been associated with for many years. General Ridgeway and I started our military careers 39 years ago at the same day at West Point. And we've been at all the Army schools together. And we've fought together. And I'll try my best to carry on in the magnificent tradition that he has carried on in Korea. And as far as Van Fleet is concerned, he's a contemporary of mine dating back to West Point days. And I know his wonderful qualities of character and leadership and his belief in God. And my job is to give guidance and support to Van Fleet. And I assure you that's exactly what I will do. And I'd like to say one other word about the young American soldiers that I will find under my command. For it's been my job here in the United States to train these fellows. And I know what a grand cross-section of American youth they are. I know that they have been trained thoroughly. And I've had letters from the commanders there telling me of the fine job they're doing, taking their place alongside of the fighting men of other nationalities. And I will impress upon them with the new role of independence that has come to Japan, the necessity of these lads being American ambassadors of goodwill to Japan. And lastly, I want to say to you, Mr. Lee, that I will pray to God that I may carry on this difficult assignment in a manner which will be satisfactory to the United Nations and to my government. And now if there are any questions after that little preamble, I'll try to answer them. General, do you go out, sir, with optimistic expectations of the truce? Well, I would, I think that's a rather difficult question to answer. I have followed it very carefully. I have been briefed until the information is running out of my ears. But before I make any predictions of optimism or pessimism, I prefer to get over there and see on the ground the situation and discuss it with General Ridgway and his subordinates. Again, I hope and pray that we can bring about a decent, just, and honorable armistice. Do you honestly believe that this mad, aggressive communism can be stopped in Korea? Well, I think it can. I think it has been stopped to date. And I hope that we can continue to stop it. I think it's absolutely essential that that be the case in order to prevent the spread of further war. You're getting me used to Korea. I've had so many shots taken at me that I don't feel it anymore. Did I answer your question? Well, I probably can't. Sorry. I'm sorry. I have a question. I have one question about your organization. Are all the United Nations troops a part of the Eighth Army? Well, I believe they are. There, I'm- There is a possibility of organizing a second field army. I would say there is no, I see no necessity for that at all, under the present condition. I believe they are all under Van Fleet's command. There may be some little elements that are not. I know there are air units and other units, and whether they're all right under the Eighth Army, I'm not prepared to stay. The great overwhelming bulk of them are. General, is the date of your departure set? It has not been announced. It will be announced shortly, and it is imminent. General Clark, we at the United Nations Headquarters are very happy, glad and satisfied that you had time to come and see us before you are leaving the United States for Korea. We know that your task will be a difficult one. But we have only one wish, and that's that you must be able to do the same as your predecessors, to stop aggression so that the lesson once can be given to the world that aggression doesn't pay. And we wish you, your family, and all you soldiers the best, and I am quite sure that the United Nations will be proud of you and your Army. Thank you, General Clark. Chairman Weiss, General Clark, President of the United Nations Headquarters Thank you very much.