from their tão Holland side Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our program, 1950, Midpoint in the Twentieth Century, with a discussion of geographical illiteracy as a clue to world misunderstanding. Unfortunately, and I say this advisedly, the speaker this evening is the chairman of the Cooper Union Forum, Johnson E. Fairchild. Thank you very much, my friends. At this moment, I can't think of a single good word to say for myself because I feel somewhat like that professor who went to sleep and was having a very bad dream, that he was giving a lecture. He was dreaming about this lecture he was giving. All of a sudden, he woke up and he found he was giving it. You know, it's been said that the lecture platform ages a person rapidly. I thought this only applied to the speakers. But having been here now for about two years, I can tell you that it applies definitely to chairman. Because what happens is this. The speaker says his piece, he says what he has to say, and then he leaves. The chairman comes back night after night after night. And if it's been a good lecture, and everybody's happened to like the gentleman or the lady who had been speaking here, I hear something like this. Oh, just for example, may I pick one? Well, that man, Raymond Walsh or Overstreet. Oh, he was wonderful. He was a wonderful speaker. But if it so happens that the speaker was not so popular, or perhaps his point of view didn't go over so very well, then the chairman hears something like this. Say, what's the matter with you? What did you have that fellow down here for? He's not good. You're a fine chairman. So I have learned that if the speaker is good, it is the speaker's credit. If the speaker is poor, it is the chairman's fault. You know, in building these programs, we spend three to four months in just working up and studying and attempting to organize these forum programs. I should also confess that there is quite a bit of dreaming going on when these programs are made, attempting to project into the future to see what academic types of subjects should be offered in the future years. And after that has gone on for a little while, then the library staff comes into play and they work a good bit on the programs. And then after that, the public relations division goes to work. Eventually, we pull in the business staff and the business office has quite a bit to do with the forum program. And then, of course, the house staff and almost all of the people who work here in Cooper Union. Well, comes the night of the forum opening, the chairman worries about the weather. I have a friend who says I'm the only man he knows that expects the sun to be shining at 8.15 every night in the wintertime. But after worrying about the weather, then I worry about the speaker. Will he come? Will he come on time? Will the speaker have a stuffed head or will he have a stuffed shirt? How should he be introduced? And how will the question period be? And how will he answer the questions? And then after a lot of other minor worries, such as are the radio people working? The engineer is always working. WNYC radio engineer has never failed us. But sometimes you do worry about that. Yes, I think he deserves a little clap. I took the bow for you, sir. And then comes that night. And I have found out that the longest minutes of the world outside of the Air Corps minutes that I have spent are those minutes that you spend right here on this platform worrying. Maybe some of you recall the opening night here at Cooper Union two years ago when our distinguished speaker came down the aisle 20 minutes late, rolled over the edge of the platform here, and I could just barely gasp. And here is the speaker of the evening. Things like that age a person considerably. And here is the speaker. Thank you. Listen carefully. And there is a speaker. Right? Well, seriously. I believe that the world is ready for a revolution. The revolution is not a political one. And it is not the industrial revolution. But it is a revolution in which people make an effort to understand one another and make an effort to get along with one another. As far as I can see, our scientific endeavors up to the present time have not drawn us very close together. So we're going to have to count on a human revolution where human beings actually make effort to come together and understand one another. And I feel that one of the major facets of this type of revolution would be a re-examination of our geographical literacy. I have a feeling that one of the reasons for this misunderstanding that seems to exist between people today is a lack of knowledge about the environmental conditions which they face and a lack of knowledge about the globe and the world as a whole. After all, Shakespeare said, all the world's a stage and all the men and women are merely players. And now, thanks to the increase in scientific knowledge, thanks to the increase in rapidity of speed of communications, we are no longer able to stay on this platform and play. We must study the people that are only an hour or two hours away from us, judged by jet propulsion and by rocket-propelled ships. Now, once upon a time, geographers were important people. Geography was a very important subject at one time. And these geographers were people who thought there might be something beyond the Aegean Sea, something way beyond the Mediterranean and the Arabian Ocean and the Persian Gulf. They were madmen that dreamed that the world might be round. And after the roundness of the world was dramatically rediscovered by Columbus, we went into a great period of exploration and exploitation. And during that period of time, these geographers were important. They were court ministers. They were admirals. They were mapmakers. They were explorers. Yes, pirates, if you will. They were privateers. But they were the people that opened up the continents of the world. And they led the exploration and exploitation of continents. Well, what's happened to these geographers? Well, after some of, should we say, the more important areas were opened up, you see, the direction of these people had been practical. And after the continents had been opened up and their practical usefulness began to drop off a little bit, then the geographers were retired to institutions of higher learning, of course. Ivory Tower type of institution. And there they redefined their science and their subject and occasionally made dashes to the poles or to climb mountains and to discover the sources of rivers and little-known jungle sections. But they didn't take a very great part in the development of the world for a long time. And in the lower schools and in the lower grades, what happened? Well, I'm afraid most of you know what happened there. Let us say that the new teacher, somebody that could be moved around quite easily in the school, the substitute teacher, was given the geography class to hold down. Nobody wanted to do it. And sometimes if there was a class short in the school, the music teacher or maybe the German teacher during one of the wars when Germany was unpopular, they couldn't fill out their schedule with their own subject. Well, they hold down the geography class. And they whiled away the time memorizing capitals and boundary lines. And I suspect that most of the students forgot all the geography they ever knew by the time they got into high school or perhaps partway through it. And at the present time, geography is on, I should say, a slight increase in this country. There are today about 1,000 professional geographers in the United States. That's round numbers. About 1,000 professional geographers in this country. And some states of the United States only have one or two of these geographers in them. And, of course, in the lower school situation, I've already mentioned. Now, from all of this morass of indifference has come widespread geographical illiteracy, which is affecting the thinking and the activities of people in all walks of life today. Oh, of course there are some good geography teachers. I'm not trying to say that there aren't any good geography teachers. But just the same, some rather weird ideas come out of these geography classrooms. Some of the rather standard and classical geographical boners. Oh, may I quote one of them or two of them to you. I think Kipling has made one of the famous ones in his Geography of Burma, Mandalay Division, in which he was completely wrong with his famous song. And then a lot of people have the idea that all the people in Holland skate like mad all winter long. I think a lady, and a very fine one, I believe, I think her name was Mary Mapes Dodge, started that idea with, was it silver skates, Hans Brinker and the silver skates. Yes, I think that sort of started that idea. And, you know, one idea a lot of school children seem to have at certain times of their life, and that is that all rivers run to the south. The Hudson River runs south. The Mississippi River runs southward. Well, after all, when they go to class, they're shown a map, and the teacher says, Now this is a correct representation of the earth or of this state or this region. The map is hung up, and usually north is placed near the ceiling. South is placed, of course, opposite near the floor. And so if the teacher knows what she's talking about, and that it is a representation of the region, and if water does flow downhill, well, then anybody can see that all rivers flow southward. Yes, it's one of those things. We still, some people still believe that the poles are the coldest part of the world. No, they're not the coldest sections of the world at all. I think some people's hearts may be a little colder today, but that's not a geographical factor. Actually, one of the coldest places in the world is a place, near a place called Verkoyansk, which is one of the cold poles of the world, and that is in the interior of northeastern Siberia. Another very cold place, which is sometimes colder than the North Pole, is Eagle, Alaska, up in the Yukon Valley, in the eastern section of the country. Conversely, the equator is not the hottest spot in the world either. There is such a thing as a heat equator, and the heat equator runs far north of the true or the mathematical equator, and it runs across through the Sahara Desert, across the Red Sea, Arabia, India, Tar Desert section. So that the equatorial areas may be a little cool. The poles may not be the coldest spot in the world. And you know, some people reason geographical factors out this way. They say, let me see. Nevada is an interior state. Los Angeles is on the coast. That means that Los Angeles must be west of Nevada. Actually, Los Angeles is east of the western boundary of Nevada because of a slight change in the coastline of the Pacific coast. And so that Los Angeles is east of the western side of Nevada. Yes, but these are not serious things. We could go on like this with these little geographical boners. Of slightly more import is the common concept that warm temperatures make for colored skins. Now, just think of the Eskimos, who are very dark-skinned people. Think of the Indians of central and interior Alaska, and you'll realize that people living in cold areas also have very dark-colored skins. Well, then it must be the intensity of the sun's ray. There must be something else. No, on the high mountain areas, the ultraviolet ray, the percentage of ultraviolet in the sun's ray, is much greater on the mountains than it is on the plains. So according to that theory, we should have all colored people living in elevations. It doesn't happen that way at all. And what about temperature? It can't be temperature either, can it? No, because in some of the very warm sections of the world, you have some people with blonde hair living. And one other thing I should have mentioned about that skin color was that some of the darkest colored people in the world, some of the pygmies of the central Congo area, live in a twilight where they hardly ever see the sunshine, and they are not adapted to stand the sun, and they are very unhappy in bright sunshine. We'll probably stand the sun better than they do. And you know, some people have actually said that what is sometimes known as the Semitic nose, the Semitic nose is caused by people living in a desert area and breathing the dusty air so long that it changed their nose. Yes, people have said things like that. Well, if that's so, a lot of us should have trunks for noses. Because actually one of the most difficult things about living in sub-arctic areas is the fact that it's difficult to breathe. I say difficult to breathe because the temperature outside, 50 or 60 degrees below zero. So if you only have a several inch passage between the outside air and your lung tissue, you can understand that it has to be heated up a great deal. So when you see dog teams going like mad through the snow, and when you see people exercising at great length in very cold areas, just remember those people couldn't be very cold or the movie couldn't have been made in a very cold section. There's something called an arctic lethargy that sets in. And the people conserve their heat, and they tend to huddle, and they have a tendency almost, the human beings almost have a tendency to hibernate. They don't, of course, but they do sleep unusually long hours. And when you're in a very cold section, you usually try to keep your mouth closed as much as possible and breathe very slowly and quietly so that you don't get too much very cold air into your very, into contact with the very delicate lung tissues. Well, there are lots of things like this, but we could go on. One of the strange things is that in this northern section that I have been speaking about, one of the worst things to get along with are the mosquitoes. And in the very far north, in the subarctic sections of Alaska and the Yukon Basin, in Siberia, as well as in the Hudson Bay section, the mosquitoes are just fantastic in their numbers. There are just thousands and millions of them. One time I worked on a Yukon Riverboat, and we pushed barges downstream and then turned north on the Koyukuk. And when the boat got stuck, which it did quite regularly, it was our duty to take a line ashore and to then put all hands around the cap stand and walk the boat off the obstruction, whatever it was. So one of these times when I was leaning on a cap stand, I had plenty of time to count 250 mosquitoes on one arm. So when somebody talks to you about the great joy of summertime in the north, always remember the insect problem. Well, I haven't been talking very much now about important geographical errors. But one of the worst, and I think one of the most general forms of geographical illiteracy might be called the egocentric errors of interpretation. The egocentric errors of interpretation. One of the most common errors of this type is that there is a separate continent of Europe. I ask you for a moment to consider that there is no separate continent called Europe. What we call this, what should we call this area, the continent of Europe? Well, I believe that it is a peninsula of Asia. And I think if sometime you would consider a map of Asia, call it Eurasia if you would like to, I think that you will understand that it is actually a great peninsula. Just glance sometime at Arabia. Well, that's a peninsula of Asia. We all accept that, no doubt about it. India, a tremendous peninsula of Asia. Yes, everybody accepts India as part of Asia. And India is cut off from the rest of the continent by a tremendous range of mountains, a fantastically large range of Himalayas. And then there's that other peninsula, somewhat smaller but still quite important, the Malay Peninsula, the southeastern peninsula of Asia. Now look at Europe again. Having glanced at this major land of Asia, I think that you can understand a little better the concept of the peninsula of Asia. The Ural Mountains, what about them? They're a boundary line, aren't they? Isn't Europe divided up here by the Ural Mountains? Well, the Ural Mountains are not much of a boundary during an air age, and they haven't been much of a boundary during the preceding periods of history either. Down in the south, they're only about 3,000 feet in elevation, 2,500 feet. The passes are rather low, and they have a very gentle gradient. And to the south of the Ural's, there is a very broad and very large grassland region, the Kyrgyz Steps, that almost anybody could walk through or ride through and across. And this great pass, this great grassland pass, leads right into the heart of Russia and on across into the Danube Valley, northern Poland, and the plains of North Germany and Europe. So that the Ural Mountains are a very poor thing to divide a continent on, to make a continental boundary line out of. Well, how did this idea of the continent of Europe actually develop? Well, to the peoples of the Aegean lands, Esau was the place where the sun rose, and Arab, where it set. And during the early part of our human history, the people of the Near East, the civilized peoples, were very happy to draw a boundary line that isolated those European barbarians and later on in history, the European peoples were very happy to draw an ego line which separated them from what they considered to be the barbarians of Central Asia. And so we have the ego line, the continent of Europe, formed in the minds of mankind without very good geographical foundation at all. The entire history of mankind has been influenced, if not controlled, by the great landmass of Asia. I suspect some of the first developments of mankind and the origins of man were in Asia. And I know some of the important inventions of all time have taken place there. Our important religions, Judaism, Christianity, Muhammadism, Buddhism, Shintoism, Brahmism, and Hindus, worship, Hindu worship, yes, have all come out of Asia. By far the largest number of people live there. And some of the greatest events of the 20th century are now taking place behind the Ural Mountains and in Indonesia, in India, in China, and some people would like also to add in Israel and very possibly a form of spiritual development is taking place there also. Yes, a great deal is happening in Asia and still most of the population of the United States and I think a large part of our governmental people still are concerned with the small states of the peninsula of Europe. Now, throughout history, the people of Asia have influenced the known world. A large part of history might be written directly as a commentary upon the changes brought about by a succession of people such as the Huns, the Bulgars, the Magyars, the Khazars, the Cumans, the Mongols. peoples that came out of the Turanian section in the steppe lands of Asia and raided and affected and influenced almost all the other sections of the civilized world. The Angles and the Saxons were forced over to the British Isles by the raids of these peoples. The Franks, the Goths, the Romans were forced to stand together in the battlefield of Chalons and meet the peoples from the east and so we had the formation of modern France and probably, very probably, the Crusades were caused by the actions of the Seljukian peoples of that, who came from Central Asia and settled in the Anatolian plateau of Turkey. and the actions of these people, these Seljukian Turks as their cause, both the religious and economic actions, caused the Crusades to be started and probably that can be used as a starting point for the development of modern history. Asia has been overrun many times by peoples from the grasslands and the steppes and deserts of Central Asia. It should be no surprise to us that with the physical and moral weakening of the west, there is a resurgence of power from the east. I think that that is one of the most important things which we should remember, that with the weakening of the west, physically and morally, there is no reason why we should not expect a resurgence of power from the peoples of the east. It has been done again and again and time after time during our past histories. Well, one of the common ego problems of geography is also that of comparative size. I am a graduate of the American University of Beirut and in that very fine school I met some very highly trained and very well educated people. They were very smart in many ways and they spoke excellent English too, incidentally. But there was one little factor which always seemed to creep into the conversation. around something like this. Oh, you're from New York. That's wonderful. You must know my brother who works in the bank in Brooklyn. Or, oh yes, you're from the United States. Well, fine. One of my relatives lives next to the Congregational Church in Ohio. Very intelligent people saying these things. But they're coming from one of the very small sections of the world and their concept of size, their comparative size problem was something which they had great difficulty in grasping. And another gentleman said, oh, it's wonderful. You're going to New York. I'll see you next year because I'm going to the United States too. And I said, oh, that's fine. Good. And he said, yes, the United States or Brazil. Of course, you can't tell just how far he was going with that. That might not have been so much of a geographical error. You probably realize, all people here, I'm sure, realize that Canada is larger than the United States. A lot of people do not realize that Brazil is just about the same size as the United States is. As far as the USSR is concerned, 8,476,000 square miles. We have 3,620,000 square miles. In previous years, Russia, should I call it Russia or the USSR? Let's call it Russia. In previous years, Russia was a tremendous and tremendous country that could not be controlled very well by any one family or group of people. It was so big, and means of communication were so small that it was extremely difficult to wheel the Russians into a tremendous and compact and hard-striking force. But today, modern communications, airlines, mobile armies, different concepts of tactics, and it is very easy to take this tremendous landmass and make it into one of the greatest striking forces and powers the world has ever seen. during the times when the sea power was of most importance in the world and when great navies ruled the seas and controlled the strategy of the world, Russia couldn't do very much. She has a tremendous coastline, but that great northern coastline of hers is icebound, all for the exception of that one part of Murmansk up on the Kola Peninsula up there, sometimes known as the Merman Coast after the early Normans who sailed up to that section. Up on the Merman Coast, one little port is kept open thanks to a branch of the warm Gulf Stream, the West Wind Drift, going up and keeping that one section open. It's not open all the time, but most of the time. The Pacific coast of Russia is about the same way, icebound or fogbound for a large part of the year. Yes, it's open for a short length of time, two or three months, but it is not much of a coastline economically or from a naval point of view. The only warm water port they had, well, you all know that, of course, was through the Black Sea, the Black Sea and the Bosporus and the Sea of Mamora and the Dardanelles and the Dardanelles, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea out by way of the Suez Canal or Gibraltar. Well, I can understand how they weren't too happy about that arrangement at various times. And then there was the Baltic Sea coast, the Leningrad coast, and that's very small and also bracketed by Germany and also bracketed in the North Sea and off the coast by the British Isles. So that during the age and period of history when sea power was important and exploration and conquest and economic importance depended upon ships and Russia did not rally very well. But today, when it depends on mobile striking power and force of a land army or on air power, then Russia has a tremendous and a marvelous position in which she controls some of the largest segments of the area around the Arctic region. She controls a section the short way across the poles, that is, the short way around the world is across the top of it, of course. And so I suspect, I suspect, and this is just a suspicion on my part, that it would not matter what type of government we had in the area called the USSR today. It would not matter what form of government that there would be a power in that area based on the geographical background and resources of that tremendous region of the world. It is very common practice for us to worry only about a political idea or ideal. Do you suppose that if we had the same form of government in Bekuana land that we would be as worried about it as we are today? No, I think it is a combination of geographical factors and the location of the area of the USSR, which we have forgotten about, and that we must pay some attention to the actual strength of the region and not worry so much about the name of the government or the form of the government. Do you think for any minute that a man like Peter the Great, I assume, I'm not a historian, but I understand he was both intelligent, tough, hard to get along with, and a very rugged individualist. Now, do you suppose that he was any easier man to deal with than Stalin is today? I don't know, but I suspect that the two of them, of the two of them, probably Peter was harder to get along with than Stalin. Now, that's just my personal guess. It may have been the other way around, but I think that there is certainly some little item to think about in that little phrase there. So, we seem to have forgotten that it's the age-old conflict between the peoples of the heartland of Eurasia versus the peoples who live on the fringe of Asia. It's been going on for centuries and for centuries. And, another one of our geographic forms of illiteracy is that we have progressed so far in scientific ways that we do not have to bother with our natural environment. well, that's a myth. That is a myth for those of us who live in a region of stimulating climate with a relatively large amount of natural resources per unit of population. Consider the population distribution of the world a little bit. You can do it in your own mind. Think of where people live. Eastern United States, yes. The western fringe of the United States, yes. the fringe of the Pacific Coast, surely China, the great rivers of China, peninsula of India, yes, Indonesia. Then the rest of the population concentrations are mere dots. Cities. Buenos Aires. I mean, you can pick out the city. They're dots of concentration. In other words, most of the people of the world live in some very small areas, in a very small part of the world. And one of the great problems today is the population pressure, the population distribution. It is not so much that we do not have enough land to live in. We have plenty of land on this world of ours, but the problem is how can it be utilized so more and more people do not have to live on less and less in this world? I'll just mention one type of sparsely populated region. Just cut it down to one type. And that is a vast belt, almost uninhabited, that extends from the Atlantic coast of Africa all the way east across North Africa through the Sahara, across Arabia, into, across Iraq, into Iran, on through the Kyrgyz steps, and on across the great basins of Central Asia, almost to the Pacific coast. Of course, some people live there. Yes, there is a scattered group of people there, but do you suppose that their standard of living and their type of environment is like ours? Ladies and gentlemen, those are one, that is just one more phase of geographical illiteracy. and the effect of climate and the effect of vegetation on the peoples of the whole world from just a very small section of this dry area. And I'm speaking now of the Levant coast and the Holy Land. The effect of the climate and vegetation of the Holy Land has been tremendous. Just consider the fact that the people who lived there depended on their flocks, they went after water holes and grass, and they wandered in search of this, and their whole economy and their whole idea of life and their whole cultural background was geared to this type of existence in the semi-arid regions and arid sections of the world. They had no great valuable possessions that wouldn't walk. Everything had to be mobile. They had to be able to move constantly. And the best fighting families, the best fighting Semitic families started up loose tribal organizations. And if they could hold a waterhole, then other groups had to come in and join with them. And from these people came the three great religions that we know very well in this section. From these nomadic peoples came Judaism, Mohammedanism, and Christianity. And they're wandering out in the limitless desert and under the almost constant uniform blue sky with their single purpose in mind and their many hours of contemplation and leisure time. And they developed the idea of monotheism. One control. One God came from these, the concept of one God came from the peoples that inhabited this dry section. The great books of the religions are filled with references to the dry parts of the world. Just for example, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, and he leadeth me beside the still waters. Written for the ears of desert people, written by desert people. The weary desert wanderer when he came into an oasis with fruit trees and with a large number of flowers, he thought that was paradise. To him, hell was the place out in the desert where you burned to death. And just by some coincidence, up in the northern sections of the world, the Eskimo peoples came up with the idea that hell was very cold because the worst thing that could happen to you was to freeze to death. Anybody knows that. And they were quite delighted when some people tried to tell them that they could be bad and still be warm for the rest of their lives. That gave a rather difficult concept for them to absorb. The longer people stayed in these desert sections, probably the more fanatic they became. The more they practiced their religions, some other dietary laws and the cultural laws came from these people who lived there and became quite fanatical about it. And the people who lived in the city, well, they developed other things to do. They didn't have to live their religion so much, and so most of the city dwellers generally drifted away a little bit, at least, in the practicing of their religions. So I think that it is extremely important that we consider the state of geographical literacy. Here in the United States, we do not pay attention to our available resources. We mine our soil, we slash our timber. In some mysterious way, great cities like New York go dry overnight. That's a geopolitical problem, I understand, that New York City has suddenly become a dry region. and we also limit our crop production. We limit our crop production, we store food. I understand that we have fantastic amounts of dried milk, dried all sorts of things, corn, we have potatoes to throw away. How do you suppose the people of India, where a million people starve every year, regard that information? production. Well, we don't like it right here. So we could stand, and I'm sure that in the big cities we could stand a lot of this farm produce, the lowering of the prices of food and distribution of some of this product. Well, just think how the people from the semi-arid regions of the world think when it gradually gets down to them that we are wasting food, throwing it away, keeping up the price purposely. You can imagine the bonds of friendship that we have been making, with people under those circumstances. Yes. And here in the United States, we have a great deal to learn about geography and sectionalism. Geographical sectionalism is rampant here, just between New Yorkers, upper New York State and lower New York State. Conflict, political conflict between them. Our environment, our natural and geographic environment, has more or less determined the various great belts of the United States. Wheat belt, cotton belt, corn belt, cattle belt, fruit belt. Well, you study these sometimes, I don't know. But all of these great belts have a certain geographic background that influences them. The elected representatives of the people who live in one of these economic geographical belts must do everything within his or her power to represent the people of that area if they wish to get elected again. And so local ideas are what is best for the wheat farmer, what is best for the cattle man, never mind what is best for supplying food for the world or the United States. Let's worry about what's best for our local section. Geographical background of sectionalism and politics right in our own country here. We have just witnessed the birth of quite a few countries in the last little while. And of these countries that have just been formed, I might just comment that Israel and Pakistan lack area and have too much aridity. India has a considerable area but has too large a population. Indonesia has a fine population, a great sum of resources, but seems to have a great deal of trouble getting the privilege and permission to run her own country herself. And I have an idea that in the future the big five nations of the world will be India, China, Indonesia, USSR, and the USA, a complete regrouping of the so-called powers of the world. This is, of course, understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we reach a period in history when it will be possible to have a regrouping of powers and peoples. But I suspect that we must add India, Indonesia, and China to the future great powers of the world. And in the last point in geographical illiteracy that I would like to make, is that many people consider geographical factors as a static thing. They change. Geographical factors change constantly. For example, the location of a place remains the same, surely, but its position in time or history or civilization changes. Fairbanks, Alaska, used to be as about as removed a place from world wars and strife as any city that you could get to. If we have a third war, and I'm optimist enough, I must think that we will not have one, but if we have a third war, then Fairbanks, Alaska is going to be one of the key American bases because it controls our northern routes over the poles. Now, Fairbanks hasn't changed in location, but the relationship of that location to a period of time and history has changed. We can go on and mention other places such as have had the same thing happen to them. Malta, little island in the Mediterranean, one time almost controlled the Mediterranean, then declined, went downhill in importance, although its location was the same, its resources were the same, and then all of a sudden Malta jumped into importance, terrific importance of Malta for a very short period of time. It became an air base and then became one of the world's most bombed islands. For a very short period of time, Malta was of great importance. Iwo Jima, Iwo Jima's location didn't change, it had always been there, but for a moment in history, its moment in history, Iwo Jima was probably one of the key points and key islands in perhaps the history of the world. One small, relatively insignificant little place. Yes, with regard to a location of a point in time, it had changed, and it will keep on changing and changing. If you consider geographical location or geographical factors as static, then our thinking is being very, very severely hampered. Take the case of oceans. We all think of oceans, big, saltwater fishing barriers, roots of commerce, everything fine about saltwater bodies. When you think of oceans, do you think that there's a great difference between them? Large oceans, small oceans, enclosed oceans are completely that is landlocked ocean bodies, long straight coastlines, very much invented coastlines, cold oceans, hot oceans, they all differ. They all differ, and each ocean is different, and so people have different concepts of what an ocean is in different parts of the world. But today, oceans are not as important as they used to be, except as a source supply of atmospheric water. We must consider today that we live at the bottom of an ocean of air. We used to live on the edge, the shore, the coastline of a saltwater ocean. That was important to us in many ways. today that saltwater body is losing its importance, and we must think of ourselves as living at the bottom of an ocean of air over which and through which vehicles or planes or weapons of military or commercial activities will take place. We must shift in our thought of what the air means to us. There's a squabble that the Army and the Navy are having. The great desperation the Navy seems to be in to fight to maintain its position and hold its place in the Washington sun is somewhat caused by this, because when the day comes when the ocean of commerce is above us, and the ocean of the old period of naval history will be something for the history books to study. And yet the position and the size of that ocean has not changed. It is the concept and the point in history and the historical and cultural development that has changed then. And with this change that I've just been talking about comes a change in time and space relationships. A great change in time and space relationships. A little while ago we would travel at something like, that is 200 or so years ago, we traveled at an average speed of roughly five miles an hour. Today I believe it is possible to accept a thousand miles an hour as a future average. That's half that today. So that means that we are going to be 200 times nearer our friends and 200 times closer to our enemies. So that we can no longer afford not to study them. We can no longer afford to be geographically illiterate as we could in days gone by. Our neighbors are so close in time that we must study them. I hope we can obey the command to love thy neighbor. But if we can't obey that command and if we don't care to love our neighbor, we should at least study them and we should at least study our neighbors very, very carefully and learn to understand them. The future of the world may well depend on a human understanding revolution. And one of the phases of this might well be a re-examination of our geographical literacy, a studying of the environment of the world and the world's peoples so that we might develop an environment of peace on earth and goodwill to all men. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very happy if you would write me some questions. And I have something that I want to state that's a little unusual this evening. I have five questions to ask you. I would like, if some of you could possibly stay, to give me the benefit of your opinion on four or five points which may affect some of the forum operations in the future. So if you could write me four or five, six, eight, nine questions, I will attempt to answer those, and then I will give you these five ideas or questions which I have to ask you. Thank you. Now that's just a question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, ladies and gentlemen, I already have more questions here than I could possibly answer both in time and in content. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think that, of course, is one of the very crucial points that we face. I can say that I think geography has been mis-taught because of being a geography teacher, I can say that. that. I have an idea that there should be basic courses, of course, in geography. And I've had, you know, you may be interested to know, long talks with Houston Peterson on this. And Dr. Houston Peterson suggests, as maybe some of you already know, that he would like to have a core subject of geography. And then he would eventually like to get into the problems of psychology and philosophy and build up the associated sciences from that. There has been some thought and some talk about making geography a core, a basis on which the social sciences are taught. Personally, I think that any form of integration that we can get will be for the good. In general, I think we need a much greater integration of subject material. And if it is a history teacher that can teach geographical concepts in a history class, that's wonderful. I don't want you to think I'm against anybody else than a geographer teaching, by no means. And if we can teach some historical factors in our geography classes, I think that is fine, too. What I would, the ideal that I would ask for personally, if I had my druthers, as some people say, I would have a basic core of geography coursework, and I would have an attempt made to overlap the social sciences with and tie them into the development of geography. I have rather high hopes that geography and other social science topics, as far as that goes, might get some kind of real aid and boost from radio and television. I don't think that the present time we have managed to master the problem of educational radio or television. It's too bad. It's a tremendous thing. The possibility of sitting in a classroom and watching something take place, a type of country, a meeting, a congress in session or something, the possibilities are there. I have high hopes that radio and television will be of tremendous importance in the near future. But up to the present time, it remains for a few stations like WNYC and a few other stations of that type to even have any interest in radio education and so forth. So... What is the Davidoff Plan? Hmm. I didn't mention it this evening. I should have. Uh, the Davidoff Plan is at least... Well, I'll tell you what I know about the rumor about the Davidoff Plan. That is that a man named... A Russian engineer and a Russian scientist named Davidoff is attempting the peaceful and productive utilization of atomic power. To change a river divide, the Ab River and I believe its great tributary, the Irkish River, he wants to build a tremendous dam which will eventually back up a huge sea of water, make a great inland sea. He has to raise the level 300 feet, so it must be over 300 feet in depth, this great inland sea, which would occupy a part of central Siberia. And then, because of this change in water level, the water would drain to the south instead of into the north. Now, one of the tragedies of the Russian river system is that they all, most of them, flow northward. And they flow into uneconomic, uh, regions, and they have not been of great use to them. And the Volga flows into a landlocked sea, uh, so that it also is no great outlet. And so this would be an effort to create an inland sea, change the drainage to the south, and thus irrigate some very, uh, very fertile and very fine areas that are now practically desert region in the Caspian, uh, section. It is a very, uh, tremendous plan. And I would say that it was a very brave, uh, uh, brave thinking, that is. I believe it's a six-year plan. And certainly if they can do it, it will be one of the most tremendous, uh, efforts or ways that, uh, our natural environment has, uh, really been changed. You see, if they make a big ocean there, it's going to affect the climate. And if they affect the climate enough moisture in the atmosphere, why then, they are going to be able to have a little more rainfall and a little more humidity. And they're going to grow a little bit more. And so it's going to change the whole character of that interior region. Uh, it's something, a type of thing we might possibly be thinking out. Uh, we might be thinking out for the, uh, very dry sections of our southern areas. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if we ever get to a point where we can harness the energy of the sun, let's think, and all the desert economy is going to blossom. And these, uh, murky, cloudy, uh, areas of the northeast of New England and cloudy sections in England, we're just going to be without the cheap form of power, that's all, if they ever learn to harness that. I have so many questions here. Uh, uh, do you think the adoption of an international language, uh, like, uh, Esperanto, uh, will facilitate our, uh, mutual understanding and friendship among the nations? You ask me if I think so? Yes. As a poor, as, as a very poor linguist myself, I, uh, am well aware of the difficulty of doing, uh, anything in that direction. But do you think I, do I think it would be a fine thing if we could have it, and, uh, all of us speak one language? Yes. If any of you, I don't know if you, any of you have had this experience, but I have sat in college in Syria, in the Near East, and I have been very much aware of the handicaps of language and the great difficulties of communication. Oh, we have so much trouble communicating, just, uh, the two of us. We may want to say something, tell each other, we have the same ideas, but we approach it differently. That's a problem of communication. And then just think of the difficulty when we can't understand the language even. We have enough trouble when we understand each other. Uh, in leaving out the European countries of world powers of the future, do you mean to imply that recovery will fail? What will Europe's position be in the future? Well, uh, what I was speaking of, of course, and I think you realize, was a long distance point of view. And I wasn't, uh, insinuating that, uh, our recovery plans of the immediate present are bound to fail. But I have an idea that over the long run, over the long period of time, that, uh, it will not matter so terribly much whether we have, uh, uh, European recovery plans or not. I really have a feeling that we are coming into a period of history in the future when, uh, Asia will certainly be on the ascendancy. And, uh, I think that, uh, if we wish to study something, that is why I stressed Asia. If we wish to study something that's going to be, uh, great help, uh, for the United States of the future, I think that we should start right now and do everything we could to understand the peoples of Asia and their problems and attempt to make friends with them before we've made such bitter enemies that it's going to be too bad in the future. Thank you. Thank you. What about Israel? Uh, it's in a very dry belt. Are you pessimistic about the future of Israel? Well, I did mention, I, I guess, that the Near Eastern countries are certainly, and, uh, Israel was short of area, and I did say I thought it had, uh, too much arid region. I think that, uh, that's probably a fair statement. I'm not pessimistic about, uh, Israel, no. I think that it has one of the greatest natural resources that any country that can have, and that's hardworking, intelligent, hardlaboring people. And I think that, uh, with that start, with that start and, uh, with great perseverance, they can probably make and develop a fine country. But anybody who thinks that they have iron mines and coal mines and a great deal of oil and resources to waste and all the water to waste, uh, they are the people that are mistaken. In other words, it's not going to be easy. Uh, it's going to be difficult. They are lacking in many of the great resources that are needed that would make their lot a great deal easier. Uh, I understand that they're developing one of their first great, uh, steel rolling mills at the present time, that they're starting work and putting it up. They have to import their iron, import most of their coking, coal, all of it. Uh, those things are difficulties. But I think that they will be overcome. So if I sound too pessimistic about the semi-arid regions of the world, including Israel, uh, it is only that it is, uh, pessimism based on, uh, uh, lack of immediate natural resources. I think they will have a very fine country, but it will be done the hard way. It just will not be done, uh, the easy way with mining the resources as so many people in so many parts of the world have been able to do. We've been able to mine our resources, you know. We're still doing it, wasting them, mining them, throwing away. Not conservatively. Well, uh, thank you. What about the future of Africa in an air rage? Uh, Africa is still a forgotten continent. I might say that one year, a couple years ago, the Cooper Union Forum was granted a medal for service. I believe it was Houston Peterson's time, uh, for service, uh, to, uh, Negro peoples in Africa by having a whole series on Africa. And so that's one reason I have not, uh, gone into it, because several years ago we've had quite a long and big series on Africa here. I think, uh, we all know Africa is the one continent left to exploit. People are working like mad to get into Africa right now. Airfields are being put in. I mean, I've heard strategic rumors about Africa as going to be the, the fighting zone when, uh, if Europe is conceded. I mean, you know how some people talk, their military, uh, high chairs, whatever they're sitting in. Now we'll concede Europe. And we will fight from across the Mediterranean from the air bases in Africa. And, uh, there are, I understand, a large number of great chains of air bases going in there. Yes, uh, the future of the interior of Africa will, just like the interior of Siberia, go ahead, uh, very rapidly. Because, uh, once we have mastered the problems of communication that hampered both Siberia, Central Russia, and Africa, once that is mastered, well then, uh, the limitations are taken away from it. And I'm going to surprise, I'm going to surprise you now, because I've scribbled down a couple questions here of my own in this lot. And I'll ask you five questions. I'd like to know the answers to them. You don't, now don't all give them to me all at once. Um, I, uh,