This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Mr. Vyshynski, speaking before the United Nations General Assembly on September 20th, said, The reduction of armaments is part of the task of strengthening peace. It meets the interests of the peoples of the world. It would ease the heavy economic burden, which is growing all the time. The burden of the growing expenditures in the mad armaments race. That's what I want to talk about. Once again, the National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, is bringing you transcribed Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations, in another thought-provoking discussion of the vital issues confronting the UN. Well, I have as my guest on our program today, Mr. Frank Nash, who is the American representative of the United Nations Commission for Conventional Armaments. He has been on the program before. He is now associated with the American delegation to the United Nations. In between times, from his heavy United Nations responsibilities, I believe, Frank, you're practicing law in Washington and teaching law at Georgetown University. But now, if I'm right, almost every delegate to the General Assembly would accept Mr. Vyshynski's statement about the importance of reducing the arm's burden. And yet, there are very fundamental differences of opinion as to how this is to be brought about. And I'm delighted that you, who are playing such a strong part in this whole question, could again be the guest on this program. I think President Truman suggested that the two commissions, one on atomic energy and one on conventional armaments, might be merged. If that's so, that would put you out of a job, wouldn't it? What do you think of the idea? Well, on the idea of putting me out of a job... I didn't mean that. What do you think of the idea of merging the two commissions? Well, on the idea of putting me out of a job, that wouldn't be the world's greatest tragedy, but on the President's suggestion about possibly setting up a single commission to take the place of the two present commissions, I think the fundamental consideration underlying that suggestion was something like this. From the very beginning, it's been recognized that the problem of disarmament cannot be dealt with piecemeal, that such a proposal as the Stockholm proposal is fundamentally fallacious. It doesn't do any good to outlaw any particular weapon. The problem is a unit, and it's got to be dealt with on an overall basis. But remember that the atomic weapon five years ago was a unique thing, something new, and its problems were novel problems, and it was conceived to be the better way of going after the problem in the beginning to set up a commission that could explore the technical aspects of the atomic bomb and atomic energy and make more headway than if that problem were thrown in with the problem of reduction and regulation of the so-called conventional armaments, the tanks and planes and guns and submarines and so on. Well, let me interrupt Mr. Nash to ask. Somewhere in the back of my mind, it strikes me that our positions were quite opposite. Hasn't there been a complete shift in position between the Soviet and the American position? Well, I'd like to answer that this way, Clark, if I may. The Soviet representatives have been contending for four or five years that this artificial splitting up of the disarmament problem between two commissions was intended only to delay and frustrate and so on. But if it had been a matter of throwing everything into one commission at the outset, it would have been a hodgepodge. You have to take first steps first. And if there had been a single commission set up in the beginning, I am sure that the only way they could have gotten ahead with their work would have been to have resolved themselves into two subcommissions, one for atomic and the other for non-atomic armaments, so that these procedural arguments have been not of fundamental importance. And what has been of fundamental importance is the fact that some really constructive progress has been accomplished in the last four or five years by the two commissions in doing the necessary preliminary spade work and so on. In fact, if I could just add one more comment there... It's interesting to hear you say that because most people have the impression that both of those commissions have been complete failures. Well, that's because they haven't come up with a disarmament in action. Now, what the president said must not be lost sight of, that if we had the greatest cooperation in the world, this problem is an exceedingly complicated and technical one, and just the merest beginnings take a lot of time. In the Atomic Energy Commission, they did get to formulate a concrete plan. And as you know, that was adopted by, as I recall, 46 of the member nations, but it wasn't acceptable to the Soviet Union. In my commission, we've done, if I may say so, quite useful work, particularly in this last year, when we worked out that very important problem, at least made a beginning on it, of whether you could develop a system of safeguards to bring about what Mr. Truman referred to as a foolproof plan of disarmament. So there has been some good work done. I'm glad that's very important that we get that point across. Now, will the merging of these two commissions accomplish some important results? Well, I am mindful of the fact that before I answer that question, that I really haven't answered your question of whether this is a concession or coming around to the Soviet point of view. In a sense, it is. And we're happy to do it if it will clear the decks of all these procedural arguments that they've been making much of, and let us get down to brass tacks, get down to fundamentals and the substance of the thing. If it will accomplish that much, it will do some good. But it mustn't be looked at as being an end in itself. A procedural step such as setting up a single disarmament commission is not going to bring about disarmament. The only thing that will bring about disarmament is an agreement between the parties possessed of substantial military resources. We think that the setting up of a commission will help clear the way to get down to a discussion and a negotiation of the fundamental points of difference. And the important thing is that it will bring into clear focus what those differences are, what the issues really are that are dividing us, and let the public understand them, and let the public know what are the reasons for the different positions. That is the thing that we hope this suggestion may accomplish if it is adopted by the General Assembly. Now, I take it you have some hope that it will be adopted by the General Assembly, and can I ask, are you proposing to introduce a resolution to bring the President's suggestion to concrete form before the Assembly? Well, the President laid it before the Assembly as a suggestion for the Assembly's consideration. And we're anxious to see what the other member nations think about it. Essentially, the problem is one of timing, whether or not this is the appropriate time to do it. It's something that has to be done sooner or later, as we said in the Fourth General Assembly. We have our own views about the appropriateness of the present time. We'd like to get the views of the other member nations. At a time, we will have our own ideas to bring forward, but right now we'd like to listen to the ideas of the other folks. Well, I'm delighted. May I say in closing, Frank, that you are the representative of our government that is taking the initiative in this discussion. I believe that the people feel that to talk about disarmament is the fourth stone in the arch of a complete United Nations program which our government has offered to this Assembly, and we will follow your debates with great interest and support. Thank you very much, Clark. Well, the two biggest pieces of news from the General Assembly this past week were the extension for three years of the term of Trig-Villie as Secretary General of the United Nations and the passage of the resolution entitled United Action for Peace. This resolution contains the major proposals which Secretary Acheson made to the Assembly so that the Assembly could take swift action in case of a threatened aggression and the Security Council be blocked with a veto. On Wednesday, November 1st, the General Assembly extended Trig-Villie's term as Secretary General for three years. There were 46 votes in favor, five against, and eight abstentions. The five negative votes, of course, were those of the Soviet bloc. The eight abstentions were the Arab states, China, and Australia. The representative of Iraq, in attempting to explain his vote after the vote was taken, said that he could not support the extension of Mr. Lee's term because Mr. Lee had not been as zealous in opposing what the Arab representative said was recent Israeli aggression in the Arab states as he was in opposing North Korean aggression in Korea. He was interrupted by the President as being out of order. Few took this statement seriously, but it only goes to show that if a Secretary General fulfills his duty vigorously, as he sees it over a period of time, he cannot help but make some people mad some of the time. The Australian abstention was the only surprising one. The Australian delegates said that he did not wish to see Mr. Lee punished for his courageous position against North Korean aggression and personally favored Mr. Lee, but doubted the legality of the step taken. You will recall the legal issues involved. The Charter stated that the General Assembly shall elect the Secretary General upon recommendation of the Security Council. Nine members of the Security Council favored Mr. Lee's re-election, but the Soviet Union cast a veto. After a number of private sessions of the Security Council, the matter was reported to the General Assembly. This body took the position that although it did not have authority to re-elect Mr. Lee to another term without the recommendation of the Security Council, he did have the authority to extend his term for which he was unanimously recommended by the Security Council in 1946. Most of us, I think, will be very gratified indeed that this courageous leader will continue as Secretary General for three years more. Mr. Lee upset himself during the debate that appeared at the afternoon session and made a most able, courageous, and dignified speech. The President of the General Assembly, inhaling the passage of the resolution entitled, United Action for Peace, said it was the most important step that this Assembly took and probably that any other Assembly has taken. The various sections of the resolution were voted upon, some receiving more votes than others, but roughly speaking, I think we can say that it passed with 52 votes in favor to only five against. The resolution embodied the major recommendations of Secretary Acheson's proposals and was introduced by seven powers. The debate moved with surprising swiftness. Indeed, of all the debates moved so well, we might be able to adjourn on its target date of December 1st, although I think I said a few weeks ago that it probably would be Christmas time. Now, just to review briefly the resolution, it provides that although the primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security rests with the Security Council, the General Assembly can act if the Security Council be blocked with a veto. It provides that the General Assembly may meet within 24 hours instead of 14 days if there is a threat to the peace and the Security Council is blocked by veto. It proposes that there be a peace observation commission composed of 14 states. Its duty would be to observe and report on any troubled area. Think how important it was that such a commission was on the 38th parallel to report instantly the aggression in North Korea. But above everything else, it provides that there shall be a great international police force that each nation is to earmark within its own military forces certain military supplies and manpower which can be used by the General Assembly or the Security Council in case there is a threat to international peace and security. Indeed, I think we could safely say that in this great step to strengthen the power of the General Assembly and to create what may become virtually an international police force. The United Nations has grown up and is the result of the experience of Korea is now in a stronger position to resist aggression. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger and our thanks also to Mr. Nash. The National Broadcasting Company in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air has brought you another transcribed broadcast in its series The UN Is My Beat with Clark M. Eichelberger Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time Mr. Eichelberger calls to our attention the events and problems of the United Nations and whenever possible he brings before our microphone the men and women who are making history in the world today. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN Is My Beat if you'd like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations write to The UN Is My Beat the National Broadcasting Company Radio City, New York. This is NBC The National Broadcasting Company