The program 2000 plus originally scheduled for this time has been cancelled so that Mutual might bring you a special program which follows immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, you are about to hear Secretary of State Dean Acheson. Mr. Acheson was originally scheduled to speak over Mutual from Cleveland tonight in an address before the first biennial assembly of the National Council of Churches of Christ in America. However, the tense international situation has kept him in Washington. Secretary Acheson. I regret that I have not been able to come to Cleveland tonight to meet with the National Council of Churches as I had hoped to do. And that therefore I must speak from my office in Washington. The events of the last few days, as I know you will understand, have raised innumerable questions which require almost hourly standing. The events of the United States are not ready, consultation and decision. At such a time, it has seemed to me, that my own wishes must yield and that my place is here. This coming together of many great sources of spiritual strength in our American community is an event of great historic importance. If ever a time imposed a test, not alone of strength, but of character upon our people, this is that time. All the resources at our command of wisdom, of conscience, of character, the finest traditions of our people, our deepest wells of faith, must guide us in fulfilling the responsibility which is placed upon our country at this hour. The great increase in the power and effectiveness of the Christian communions, which are now uniting to form the National Council of Churches, will encourage millions of people throughout the entire world. The remarks which I had planned to make this evening were prepared several days ago. I had planned to discuss with you some of the basic problems, some of the underlying issues which concern us in our relationships with the world. I know from the long record of intelligent and responsible participation, which your organizations have had in foreign policy matters, that you have given thought to all of these matters. I had not planned to discuss day-to-day developments tonight. But now a situation has arisen which holds grave danger for the peace of the world. I must speak about the meaning of what has occurred in Korea, before discussing some of the broader questions which I wish to raise with you this evening. An act of brazen aggression has taken place in Korea, the second such act within five months. The harsh significance of this act, and its complete disregard of any kind of moral standard, can best be understood when we look at it against the background of what the United Nations has been trying to do in Korea. First of all, the United Nations itself represents a commitment. A commitment on the part of the nations of the world, that they will stand together in support of an international order based on justice, and dedicated to the peaceful settlements of disputes. The very first article of the very first chapter of the Charter of the United Nations, says that one of the primary purposes of the organization is to say, to suppress acts of aggression. That is why when the armed forces of North Korea, without any pretence of legality, attacked the Republic of Korea on the 25th day of June, that the overwhelming majority of the members of the United Nations supported immediate and effective action, by force, to put down this act of aggression. For the first time in history, a world organization had rallied to put down by force of arm, a crime committed against the international community. The only exception, the only exception to the unity of this action in support of the Charter, was the Soviet Union and its satellites. In defiance of the 53 nations, who upheld the authority of the United Nations, the Soviet Union sought to impede the action in Korea. It sought to give aid and comfort to the aggressors, to give material support to the aggression, and to break up by obstruction the work of the United Nations. Despite this defiant behavior, the tremendous experiment, on behalf of international law and morality, went forward. Across vast distances and from distant lands, men of many nations came together under the flag of the United Nations, to push back the invaders. They came to fight for a principle. Many of them have given their lives for this principle, that men someday might be free from the scourge of war. After many discouraging weeks, the forces of the United Nations, under the command of General MacArthur, made their way up the peninsula of Korea, driving the aggressors before them. They were approaching the successful conclusion of their mission, which was to enable the United Nations to carry out what had been its purpose from the very beginning, to help the people of Korea establish their own, their own free and independent government. Plans were moving forward in the general assembly of the United Nations, for the reconstruction of the country. And the nations which had contributed forces to this heroic effort, were looking forward to the return of those forces to their homes, upon the completion of their great mission. Then came the second shocking act of aggression. This is not merely another phase of the Korean campaign. This is a fresh and unprovoked aggressive act, even more immoral than the first one. Before the attack in June, the Communist authorities in China had aided in building up the forces of the North Koreans. This was done by turning over Korean soldiers, who had been in the Chinese Communist armies, and by turning over munitions and supplies. The Chinese also moved some of their own armies from South China into Manchuria. And after the North Korean attack had started, more material and fresh soldiers came across the Manchurian border in greater and greater numbers. And after the Korean defeat, the cloak of pretense became even thinner. Chinese military formations were moved into Korea under the guise of volunteers. Now no possible shred of doubt could have existed in the minds of the Chinese Communist authorities about the intentions of the forces of the United Nations. Repeatedly, and from the very beginning of this action, it had been made clear that the sole mission of the United Nations forces was to repel the aggressors and restore the people of Korea to their independence. On behalf of the United States, President Truman declared that it is the intention of this country to localize the conflict and to withdraw its forces from Korea as soon as possible. In the Security Council, this government was one of the sponsors of a proposed resolution, which affirmed that the policy of the United Nations was to hold the Chinese frontier with Korea inviolate. And the legitimate Chinese and Korean interests in the frontier zone would be protected. But at the very moment when representatives of these Chinese Communist authorities appeared at the headquarters of the United Nations, claiming the right to speak before this world organization in the name of the Chinese people, at that very moment, the cloak of pretense has been set. The cloak of pretense has been thrown off altogether. In great force. The armies of the Chinese Communist have streamed across the Manchurian border, engaging the forces of the United Nations in a new encounter. Against these new, these fresh, these large forces, our United Nations troops are fighting bravely. But the conditions are difficult. Terrain and weather, long lines of supply, and the wear of an arduous campaign have been met with heroic fortitude. We have had dark days before in Korea. When the first wave of aggression, with the advantage of initiative which the aggressor always has, had driven us back to the bridgehead at Pusan. And when the outlook was not bright, the United Nations showed no weakness of spirit or of determination because it was fighting for a principle. And I am confident now that the United Nations will not be found lacking in firmness of spirit or determination in responding to this new aggression. The United Nations cannot be intimidated by this new challenge to its authority into shaking off its responsibilities to the Korean people. Now this new act of aggression has created a new crisis, a new situation of unparalleled danger. For if the Chinese Communist authorities continue to impose upon their people this warring against the United Nations, they will vastly increase the danger to the whole fabric of world peace. And among the tragedies of this reckless course would be that it would spring from no interest of China and from no interest of the Chinese people. If these same authorities, these same Communist authorities in China have any real concern for the well-being of their people or for the regard of other nations, they now have an opportunity to show it. This is their hour of decision. They stand before the bar of the judgment of mankind. The world will watch their actions in Korea and in Lake Success. Will they represent their own interests? Will they be the dupes of others? Or will they be the dupes of others? If they defy the United Nations and mock the Charter, then no lies, no bluster, and no veto will conceal from the peoples of the world the evil of their actions. These are questions which affect all the members of the United Nations. The United States has no special interests, no interest different from those of the majority of the United Nations. From the very beginning of this Korean crisis, the United States has sought complete solidarity with the majority of the members of the United Nations. Now the questions raised by these acts of aggression in Korea go far beyond the borders of that small peninsula. They have to be viewed as a part of a world picture. To be fully understood, they have to be seen as part of the worldwide operations of the international communist movement. The increasing boldness of the international communist movement and its willingness to use overt aggression and to accept the deliberate risk of war make it increasingly urgent for all American citizens everywhere to face squarely the danger that confronts us. And to give vigorous and to give united support to the measures which we must take to meet the danger. Those who control the Soviet Union and the international communist movement have made clear their fundamental design. That fundamental design is to hold and to solidify their power over the people and territories within their reach, however ruthless the means necessary. The danger to the rest of the world created by this design arises out of the belief made amply clear in Bolshevist political writings. That the holding of power by the rulers of the Soviet Union requires the complete subversion or the forcible destruction of countries now free of their control. Now the hostility of Soviet intentions taken alone would not produce so grave a threat. But the combination of these intentions and the Soviet military power taken together creates very grave danger to the survival of free nations and free institutions. A danger which must not be underestimated. All governments which are now free and all responsible citizens of free societies must face with a sense of urgency the capabilities for conquest and destruction in the hands of the rulers of the Soviet Union. The problem we have been called upon to solve therefore is this. What course of action will enable us to maintain our freedom and bring about a peaceful resolution of the world crisis? Or if despite our best efforts aggression does take place will provide a basis for defeating it. Now our essential purpose is as it has always been throughout our history to preserve our free institutions so that freedom and justice may survive and may continue to flourish. We wish to do this peacefully because peace is the climate in which our free institutions flourish. But we have shown in our history that we hold these values so dear that if we must we will fight for them. The course of action we have chosen is to join with our allies in building the strength of the free world as a bulwark against Soviet aggression. The purpose of this strength is not aggression. It's the exact opposite. It's to deter aggression. This involves building military strength. But it requires no less the buttressing of all the other forms of power. Economic, political, social, moral. And the utmost resolution and unity among the free nations of the world. Over a period of time the rulers of the Soviet Union confronted by a strong and confident free world may be obliged to abandon their expansionist aims. To build the strength of the free world is a hard course. It involves great effort and much sacrifice. Both by our people and by all the people of the free world. It offers no promise of relief from these burdens in the near future. It makes no guarantee of peace. But it is rooted in the principles by which we live. And it offers the best and the most realistic approach to the problem of peace and to the preservation of freedom. The main elements of the strategy by which we are seeking to carry out this course of action. What we like to call the strategy of freedom. Are now well established as a national policy. They have emerged as practical responses to the problems we have encountered. And they have found general support throughout the nation. Tonight I want to bring these elements together and develop their interrelationships. Because it is essential that the whole pattern and single purpose of our actions should be clear to us. Now there are six main elements in the strategy of freedom. The first is the development of an international order for the preservation of peace and freedom under the United Nations. The charter of the United Nations expresses the universal aspirations of mankind. And the organization itself is a symbol of these aspirations. But the United Nations is much more than a symbol. It is a means. A means through which we take practical day by day steps toward the building of a stable international community. And I stress that word community. As an organization in which most of the nations participate, the United Nations can also help to bring about the accommodations of interest. And the adjustment of differences which are essential to peace in a world of change. And the second element in the strategy of freedom is the development of regional grouping within the framework of the United Nations. In order to ensure their collective security, free nations are engaged in cooperative defense measures. Not possible on a universal basis at the present time. The keystone, the keystone of this defense system of the free world is being built in the North Atlantic community. And among the nations of the Western Hemisphere. A whole network of cooperative institutions is being developed among the free nations of the North Atlantic and of Western Europe. In this hemisphere, the accomplishments of the Organization of American States have been remarkable. Support of these organizations is fundamental to our policy. The third element of our strategy of freedom is the rapid building up of military strength at home and among our allies. I stress the word rapid because the period of greatest danger is directly before us. And defense must not only be strong enough, it must come soon enough. There is only one test of whether our defense preparations are adequate. And that is to measure them against a sober calculation of the danger which confronts us. So measured, so measured, the defense efforts of the United States and of the other free nations are inadequate. A greatly increased scale and tempo of effort is required on the part of all of the nations to enable them to overcome this inadequacy at the earliest possible moment. Now the fourth element in our strategy of freedom is economic cooperation. And this has a dual character. It contributes powerfully to the building of our defense against external attack. It is also an instrument for helping to build healthy societies in which the vitality and promise of freedom find practical expression in comparison with the decadence and despair of communist tyranny. With our technical assistance, the resolve of the free peoples of Latin America, of Asia, of Africa, and the Middle East, to better the conditions of their lives is becoming a powerful drive against the age-old banes of poverty and disease and the political instability which often accompanies them. Men everywhere have awakened to the opportunities for progress which modern science and technology have opened to them. We can help them to help themselves. And it is to our interest to do so. The fifth element in our strategy of freedom is the readiness at all times to negotiate just settlements of international disputes and to find just accommodations of conflicting interests. Our experience has shown us that the Soviet rulers cannot be expected to accept fair and equal negotiations so long as they feel capable of imposing their own terms and exacting their own price. Their concept of negotiation is that it should record the facts of power rather than the requirements of justice. We shall not seek to use our power in that way. But as the free world develops strength, the Soviet rulers may find it advantageous to adjust differences equitably rather than to seek to impose their own demands. The free nations must always be prepared to enter into genuine negotiations and even to take the initiative in efforts to bring about honest negotiations. Because our earnest desire is peace, we shall remain constantly receptive to genuine negotiation. With the confidence that comes from strength, with the humility that comes from our devotion to Christian principles, we shall be endlessly patient in working for peace. And we shall at the same time be endlessly alert to defend the basis of our national life. The sixth element in our strategy of freedom is a firm adherence to all actions in all our actions at home and abroad to the moral values which give meaning to our lives. We're a young country, an enthusiastic people, and despite our great interest in material progress, we're an idealistic nation. The principles to which our common life is dedicated are powerful forces for good in the world. The affirmative values of our society have been deeply inspiring to those who have seen and felt their great creative force. But we don't always present our best side to the world. In our enthusiasm and in our drive, we often do not take care to make ourselves understood. And we expect others to recognize us for what we are. Now we have launched a greatly expanded information program to bring knowledge of ourselves to other peoples. A program which the President has called a campaign of truth. It is our purpose to carry to all parts of the world the facts about what is happening in the United States and what is happening in the world. Because it's a fundamental part of our democratic faith that people, if they're informed of the truth, will make sound judgments. What is even more important than what we say to the world is how we conduct ourselves at home and abroad. The force of example and action is the factor which finally determines what our influence is to be. If we are to be worthy of the leadership that derives from our power, we must be sure that we are true to the values and principles upon which our society is founded. It is the example of democracy at work, vigorous and healthy, respectful of its first principles, growing in freedom and justice and opportunity, that can inspire ourselves and others to meet the task ahead with hope and with confidence. Without this, which depends on every one of us, on the everyday conduct of every citizen, the strategy of freedom would become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. These are the elements of our national foreign policy, of the strategy of freedom. This is the course by which we seek to avoid war and secure peace. No one can guarantee that war will not come. The present crisis is extremely serious. Whether reason will prevail is only partly for us to decide. We must hope and strive for the best while we prepare for the worst. This is a responsibility, not just of a few public officials, not just of the Congress of the United States, but of the whole American people. The qualities we must demonstrate, steadiness, moderation, restraint, constancy of purpose and flexibility in action, imagination, wisdom, maturity. These qualities are possible for us as a nation only if the American people participate as individuals in striving to make our society worthy of the hopes that free men everywhere have placed in it. A deep understanding of the forces we are dealing with and the role we must play must be acquired by each one of us. Every single individual has a share in this responsibility. The six elements of our strategy of freedom constitute a national policy, not a party policy. They have emerged from a long process of discussion and consideration as the practical requirements of a policy adequate to the problems which confront us. They are rooted in our traditions. They find general support throughout our nation. Now it's proper and it's right that there should be differences of opinion among us about the execution of this policy. And about questions of emphasis and of priority, of application of administration. No one has a monopoly of wisdom. And the vigor and the vitality of a democratic society derives from free discussion and debate. And the consent, and the consent which flows from understanding. But however vigorous our debates may be, it should be made clear to all that our country is united in its determination to hew to the strategy of freedom, which is our national policy. The nation's peril is our challenge. The unitedsis will of the people must be our answer. You've heard Secretary of State Dean Acheson in a special broadcast from Washington. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.