What is charity? Love thy neighbor, walk up and say, how be you? Gee, but it's good to see a pal, how's tricks? What's new? Yes, that's the Bing. He's warming up for a half hour of fun, music and surprises. And later on, he's going to ask you a very important question. This is Harry Von Zell speaking to you from Hollywood. It is my great pleasure to introduce a special transcribed program for the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. In this half hour dedicated to mirth, melody and Christian benevolence, you'll hear Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, Fred Allen, Ann Blythe, Joan Leslie, Ruth Hussey and Jimmy Durante. We take you now to Bing Crosby's ranch near Elko, Nevada. The Archdiocese of New York When I'm up to my neck, being down in the mouth, there's a place I can play. So to lose my hankering, I pull my anchoring and head that away. Deedle-eye, deedle-o, hear the fiddle and bow And swing your cares away Down in Copper Canyon People are mighty gay Look at her, look at him, look at Sally and Slim Why they're so glad they came And in Copper Canyon I'm sure I'm feeling the same I'm gonna dance with a girly romance With a girly the one in the prettiest gown Have a wing ding, have a time It's that kind of town Deedle-eye, deedle-o, keep a tapping your toe And give a yip-yah-hoo Cause in Copper Canyon There ain't nothing else to do Gonna dance with the fellas Romance with the fellas Whirl in a birdiest gown Doodle-oo, have a wing ding, have a time It's that kind of town Deedle-eye, deedle-o, keep a tapping your toe And give a yip-yah-hoo Cause in Copper Canyon There ain't nothing else to do But have a hoe down Let the cider go down Poop and holler Never gonna slow down Gals in Gingham But you're gonna bring them Bring them, ging them If you wanna swing them Down in Copper Canyon There ain't nothing else Don't want nothing else Ain't got nothing else To do Down in Copper Canyon Down in Copper Canyon Yes, sir Yes None other than the old cowhand Of Rancho Bingo himself Bing is in the living room Of the ranch house Hello? Yes Yes, Bing Crosby A collect call? Well, if it's hope, I'll go 60-40 Oh, it's Gary Oh, yeah, I'll take it, operator I don't know for how long, but I'll take it Hey, how are you, son? How's mother? Lindsay? Phillip? Dennis? Fine You tell your mother I'll be back at Pebble Beach right after the roundup What's on your mind? Your schoolwork? Hmm, you're writing a theme, huh? On what? What? Charity Oh, well, Gary, that's something that I might not be able to answer right off the bat I'll tell you what I'll do I'm having a little party out here this afternoon And I'll ask each person that question What is charity? And then I'll call you back later And give you the pearls of wisdom From all these masterminds of show business Is that okay? All right, then Will you be in this evening? Going to a movie, huh? What picture? The great lover Now wait Wait Wait a minute, wait a minute No son of mine can spend money on that kind of nonsense Hello? Hello? That young scalawaggy faded his papillot Now just for that, I won't take him to Pittsburgh for the World Series Why do you laugh? Oh, me, no rest today Probably another $100,000 pitcher I'm from New York City May I have a drink of water, sir? Well, flap me, chaps It's Fred Allen Don't tell me the Crosbys are overflowing into Nevada It's Fred not like Jimson weed Yes, sir, it's the old merchant of Moo How are you, Bing? Fred, I'm a picture of hell Say, from where I'm standing, it's a bee picture Come on right in, Fred Bring your bags with you Well, thank you, Bing I'm not going to stay long enough to bring in my suitcases Who said anything about suitcases? Sit down, Fred Can I get you anything? Well, not now, Bing, thanks But when I get back to New York Send me a care package of water I'll help you out, Fred I'll be glad If you'll help me You see, my boy Gary just sent me an SOS He has to write a theme And in the theme, he has to have a good definition of charity Fred, what is charity? Well, Bing, I would say that charity is the most gracious form of giving It is Christian giving in humility and love You have to wrap a bit of your heart around the gift to make it true charity That's a good point I'll mention that to Gary As a New Yorker, you know I'm familiar with the work of the New York Catholic Charities A great organization that cared for nearly half a million people last year Yet gave each of them the individual sympathy and compassion That you and I would give them if we were doing it in person All that was made possible by the generous Christian people of your city That's right, Bing They gave what they could Some gave pennies, some gave thousands And I'd like to give a special pat on the back to the show people of New York The entertainers They have entertained at benefits and in hospitals And in addition to their time, they've given money I'm speaking of New York because I know the grand work they've done there But the same thing is true, of course, in cities all over the United States Oh, certainly Wherever there's need, there's a Catholic charity organization to give sympathetic aid and comfort That's right, Bing And behind each of these organizations, you'll find thousands of sincere, devout persons Who give in the true spirit of charity Well, thanks very much, Fred, for all those thoughts I'll sum them up and I'll send them on to Gary Well, I wish you'd do that, Bing Well, I'd better be moseying along Where are you going? I want to make Salt Lake before midnight Oh, now, Fred, stick around a while I'm having a gang out this afternoon We're going to brand a few calves They'll be here any minute Well, I'd like to stay, Bing But I've got to get rolling, old man They may lift the water restrictions in New York soon And say, I want to be there when the swallows come back to old Manhattan Now, how to get back to the racing form Let's see, there's a little thing going today at Jamaica Ought to be about two for the good one Oh, the doorbell again Must say, the world lost a beautiful butler when Whiteman made me a crooner Well, strike up the van, Mr. Music Fancy Pants is here I'm afraid it's Bob Holt Come on in, Bob Throw your bags over there in the corner Oh, sounds, there goes my buttermilk See, Bing Is today the day of your party? Well, you got the invitation, didn't you? Yeah, but do you have to humor your sponsor that much? Send your messages by smoke signals? Bob, you never can tell about sponsors these days They're here today and TV tomorrow Bing, you have nothing to fear from television Why, right now I'm working up a television show for you and Judy Garland Oh, is that so? What'll you call it? Paunch and Judy Sit down, Bob I'll bring you a glass of larynginus or something Just lay down Thank you, Bing I've always wanted to have a voice like yours Say, we'd better work up something to do at the party They'll ask us to sing something, you know What, suppose they don't ask us? Don't be silly If they don't ask us, I'll ask us Now, what do we do? Well, how about, uh You know, Bob? Mm-hmm I know that charm and manners count But I like what you do Put it there, pal Put it there No matter what my lawyer says I've always liked you, too Put it there, pal Put it there The day you bought that baseball team It started quite a fuss They loved me so in Cleveland That what else could they discuss? But now I hear the Indians Want to give you back to us You'd call a foul ball fair Put it there Oh, by the way, that Pittsburgh team Eight team I hope it makes a go Put it there, pal Slip me some skin, huh? Drop that back in the bowl I'd more than gladly let them teach it That's me, that's me No, it's me That's me Put it there, pal Put it there Don't croon into the umpires here And hope to win a game I found a line I'm proud to be a pirate And the pennant is my aim The way you make your dough At least you live up to the name Your loyalty is so rare Put it there My colleague My crony My cohort My friend My second sacker My third base coach Chums to the end Like meat and potatoes You better lay off potatoes Boy, what a blend Don't put it in the paper Don't put it on the air I'll finish Don't put it on the shelf You got any pens of green with you? Put it there Put it there Say, that was pretty good, Bing Do you ever think about taking up singing for a career? Many times Instead of golf? Many times Especially after watching you play Say, Bob, now that you're here This boy of mine, Gary Is a part of his schoolwork He's got to write a theme About charity And I promised him A good definition of charity Could you help us out? What is charity, Bob? Well, Bing, that's a question That looks easy Until you try to answer it To me, charity is more than money Even though it may involve The giving of money Charity is the reflection Of God's love in your heart That makes you want to Share your blessings With those who are less fortunate And to do it in a way That will help them most I think I see what you mean, Bob For instance, a fellow stops you On the street and he says Can you spare a guy a quarter For something to eat? Well, you give him the two bits But that's not charity No, because most likely You did it to get rid of him That's not the spirit of charity And besides that Your quarter may not have Helped him at all May have proved to him That it's easier to mooch Than to work Exactly So to me, the best form of charity Is given to a specialized organization Such as New York Catholic Charities That'll assure you of wise Understanding and administration The kind of charity That'll help those who need it Both materially and spiritually Thanks, thanks, Bob That's very good I'll explain all that to Gary With the help we're giving him He ought to be able to write Quite a theme Ah, that must be some of the girls Girls? Mm-hmm You mean girls? Yeah Is my necktie on straight? How do you line it up With your neck or your nose? Just tell me how it's riding On my Adam's apple, that's all Go to side saddle I see No, no, now, Bob Put away your fountain pen Let's see who it is first, will you? Hello, Bing Hello, Annie It's Ann Blythe, folks Ann, you remember a zany character Named Hope, huh? Oh, you mean the one who plays Left pocketbook for the Cleveland Indians Yes, one of the head squads Yes, move over, Crosby Hello, Ann Oh, hello, Bob Say, Ann, where's the rest of your crowd? Oh, she's parking the car Over there by the corn crib The corn crib, yeah That's where Crosby stacks All his old scripts Bing, will our coats be safe in the car? Oh, absolutely, Ann My ranch hands are as honest And as trustworthy as Bob Hope Ruth, be sure and lock the car I did, Ann Well, what do you know? Ruth Hussey Well, well, Ruth Yeah, hi, Bob Are you one of the ranch hands? No, Ruth, I'm well fed Very good choice of adjectives, too But come on in, girls, huh? Are we on time, Bob? Has the party started yet? Yeah, it started 11 minutes ago Oh, when did you get here? 11 minutes ago Sit down, girls What'll you have? Oh, I'm starving Is the cook in the kitchen? Oh, you bet, Ruth Pick you anything you want Oh, I'll have a cream cheese And jelly sandwich on rye Cream cheese And jelly sandwich What could be worse than that, Ann? Oh, I guess I'll have a peanut butter sandwich On white With chopped olives and mayonnaise Oh, and put a little whipped cream on it Now you know what could be worse Girls, the freezing compartment of Bing's refrigerator Is stuffed full of $20 bills Why does he keep the bills in his refrigerator? Well, you can swing a deal quicker When you have cold cash Hey Pretty quick Wasn't that jazzy the way I thought about it? Say, why don't you run out now And get the sandwiches? I want to talk to the girls Oh, no, you're the host You get the sandwiches Let me talk to the girls I want to ask them about charity I want to ask them about hope Now go bring a sandwich All right, wait till I get my bicycle This house is so big Your kitchen must be in Idaho Say, don't try to get the cook your autograph now I've had important people out there That's hope for you Stall's around, you know Until he gets a good exit line Oh, he always gets one, too Bing What were you saying about charity? Oh, here's the pitch, girls My eldest kid, Gary He's called him on his old man For a little help It seems he has to write a theme About charity So he telephoned me Collect, of course, to ask What is charity? And you didn't know Right, Ruth, I didn't know So I told him to stand by Till I got a chance to caucus A few of my friends on it Now you, Ruth, what is charity? Oh, well, that's not so easy to answer Is it, Bing? I believe the word charity Comes from the Latin word caritas Meaning dearness or love So charity springs from love A love of humanity That makes you want to share What you have It's not so much giving as sharing Oh, exactly The things of this world Are not ours to give They belong to God We merely have the use of them While we're here We can't take them with us Not one tiny jewel Nor one small penny Only spiritual blessings Can be ours to keep So God gives us The happy privilege of charity As a means of sharing His earthly gifts With those who need them most Yes, either personally Or through some benevolent organization Yes, things such as The New York Catholic Charities That's right, Ann I'm an ex-New Yorker So I can testify To the wonderful work Being done by the New York Catholic Charities But that is Catholic Charity The world over That's right, Ann While I was doing stage plays In New York I had the opportunity To see those many Humanitarian services Rendered without regard To race or creed Well, thank you, Ruth And thank you, Ann I'm sure that Gary Will be greatly helped With all this material And by your words about charity Here's a song called Sure Thing Happens to be from A new Paramount picture Called Riding Hard They won't say Very quick Very quick Wasn't that jazzy The way I thought about it? Say, why don't you run out now And get the sandwiches I want to talk to the girls Oh, no, you're the host You get the sandwiches Let me talk to the girls I want to ask them About charity I want to ask them About hope Now go bring a sandwich All right, wait till I Get my bicycle This house is so big Your kitchen must be in Idaho Up near Payette Say, don't try to get The cook your autograph now I've had important people Out there That's hope for you Stalls around, you know Until he gets a good exit line Oh, he always gets one, too Thank you What were you saying About charity? Oh, here's the pitch, girls My oldest kid, Gary He's called him On his old man For a little help It seems he has to write A theme about charity So he telephoned me Collect, of course To ask, what is charity? And you didn't know? Right, Ruth I didn't know So I told him to stand by Till I got a chance To caucus a few Of my friends on it Now you, Ruth What is charity? Oh Well, that's not So easy to answer Is it, Bing? I believe the word Charity comes from The Latin word Caritas Meaning dearness Or love So charity springs From love A love of humanity That makes you want To share what you have It's not so much Giving as sharing Oh, exactly The things of this world Are not ours to give They belong to God We merely have the use Of them while we're here We can't take them with us Not one tiny jewel Nor one small penny Only spiritual blessings Can be ours to keep So God gives us The happy privilege Of charity As a means of sharing His earthly gifts With those who need them most Yes, either personally Or through some Benevolent organization Yes, Bing Such as the New York Catholic Charities That's right, Anne I'm an ex-New Yorker So I can testify To the wonderful work Being done by the New York Catholic Charities But that is Catholic charity The world over That's right, Anne While I was doing Stage plays in New York I had the opportunity To see those many Humanitarian services Rendered without regard To race or creed Well, thank you, Ruth And thank you, Anne I'm sure that Gary Will be greatly helped With all this material And by your words About charity Here's a song called Sure Thing Happens to be from A new Paramount picture Called Riding High Won't say That grass will grow Or ivy Will climb But darling I'd say we've got a sure thing This time I'd say that we're on our way To a star And take a tip And take a tip From me We are We are We are Won't say That rivers flow Or day turns Tonight But darling I'd say we've got a sure thing I'd say we've got a sure thing All right Won't say it's winter When snow falls from above But darling It's a sure thing We're in love And you think that song Will be ahead Stop taking bows Cross But here comes the Jolly orange juice man Refreshments ladies Oh the butler enters You may place the tray On this coffee table Judkins Very well sir Will that be all sir Thank you Thank you Judkins You may take the afternoon off Scram Judkins Come on And ruin the party Some coffee table You have for a bing It's 152 years old How can you tell I just counted the rings Say girls I thought Jimmy Durante Was coming out here with you As soon as you boys Stop tossing gags At each other We'll tell you what happened Go ahead Ann We're all ears Speak for yourself Rob Go ahead Joe and Leslie and I Went over to the radio station To catch Jimmy At the rehearsal Of his radio show And when we walked Into the studio Jimmy It's an outrage I won't stand for it You can't do that to me Just because you Well what do you know Ann Blight Hello Jimmy You know Joan Leslie Don't you How do you do Jimmy Say Jimmy I hope we didn't Interrupt anything What were you yelling about I'm glad you reminded me It's an outrage They laugh in my face While they stab me In the back What's the trouble Jimmy It's like this Ann They just timed the show And it's running over About three minutes So what do they want To cut out My song Well Jimmy Why don't you sing it And let him hear it Once he hears the song Sung as only Durante Can sing it He'll cut out a commercial Or something To leave it in Ann Will you help me sing it Oh certainly If I can Jimmy I tell you what You start it And I'll pick it up As you go along Okay we'll show him Who's boss here Once he gets that In his head He's got the whole thing In a nutshell Lately I've been feeling Kind of sad And kind of blue I sit around the house And mope a lot I can analyze your problem And I think it's time You knew You're too modest Too unassuming For a man with what you've got Oh I don't know Ann What have I got to brag about? Oh many things Jimmy Why you have that savoir faire That je ne sais quoi And joie de vivre Or I get that every summer When I eat strawberries Don't worry about me Ann As I am I'll get along But I can't let this go on You've got to realize You're wrong Just come out of your shell You've got something to sell You can have the world Under your spell Nod your nose What style Show your teeth What a smile Ann Why didn't you tell me before? I'll get started tonight If I play my cards right I'll be master of all When in sight I'll nod my nose What style I'll show my teeth What a smile Ann Why didn't you tell me before? The world is waiting The world is ready So Jimmy come down off that shell You may be right Ann Keep talking steady I'm even starting to believe you myself Don't be timid Don't fall I'm glad we had this talk They'll throw roses Wherever I walk Nod your nose What style Show your teeth What a smile Why didn't you tell me before? Yes, sir Why didn't you tell me before? Jimmy, that was great Bing Crosby is giving a little party up at his ranch in Nevada Crosby is throwing a party? That explains the noise I heard this morning The squeak of his pocketbook hinges Well, how about it, Jimmy? Can you come with us after the show? Gee, kids, I'd like to But right after the show, I gotta go over to my picture studio For a test in a romantic picture Jimmy, you in a romantic picture? If Pinza can do it, so can the ratty Why, naturally No telling how long that's gonna take You girls better go on without me All right, Jimmy, you can come out afterwards If I get through in time If I don't arrive by Christmas, count me out So long, Jimmy I'm glad I finally caught up with you Me too, Joan Boy, if I only had met you 80 years ago We'll be seeing you, Jimmy I hope that's real soon, Ann So long, kids All right, I'll get you to see you And that's what happened, Bing Ruth Hussey picked me up in her car And we came on without Jimmy Yes, but where's Joan Leslie? Oh, well, Joan got a last-minute call to the studio Oh, well, I hope Jimmy can get through that screen test in time He'll never make it, Bing How will I remember my first screen test? I played a scene from Snowbound Where the hero gets lost in the blizzard How was it? I hadn't eaten for three days When I found they were using cornflakes for snow I ate up the blizzard Don't you dare I didn't have a little tour with that one joke Yeah, you're not kidding Did I hear you girls say you wanted to hear Bing and me sing? Uh, well, Bob Gosh, Ann, you've talked us into it All right, Bing Wait a minute, Bob Let them coax us a little Yes, girls What do you say? Well, I suppose we'll have to listen to it But I'd much rather hear something else Oh, I see Well, if that's the way you sing Oh, all right Go on, Ann You sing something Well, Ruth, you've talked me into it Odd Bodkins, Crosby We've been caught in our own mousetrap That's right, there you go The stars will remember The night we said goodbye The stars will remember So will I A rose as a token A kiss that brought a sigh The stars will remember So will I And now the stars and I We share the lonely lane But in my solitude It seems I hear you call My name The world may forget you As time goes passing by As time goes passing by The stars will remember The stars will remember So will I Thank you, Ann Thank you, Ann, that was lovely You know, I got a horse I want you folks to ride He's a gentle old nag Called Black Dynamite Uh-oh On account of my operation I won't be able to ride I'll just handle the iodine concession How about it, Bob? Bing, the last time I went to New York I broke three things The record of the Paramount The mirror in my dressing room And my big toe That lets me out Besides that, I'm playing Your benefit tonight At a hot dog stand in Pomona Bye-bye, Bing So long, Ann Goodbye, Ruth Hey, wait a minute Wait, wait a minute Well, Ruth At least you Bing, Bing I just love to ride Black Dynamite And I will The very next time I get a part That calls for a girl With a broken neck I had a nice time At your party Goodbye, Bing But, Ruth Wait a minute Come here, hey Oh, Bing I have to go with Ruth I had a lovely time Bye But, Ann, the party isn't Well, folks Our party's about over But before I call Gary To give him his answer To the question What is charity Suppose you lend an ear While I run through These notes And what the gang Had to say about it Maybe you'd like to Pitch in with your ideas On the subject, too Let's see Got Fred Allen here Well, I certainly agree With Fred when he says You have to wrap A bit of your heart Around any Christian Giving you do And I think Bob Hit the nail on the head When he said To me, charity Is more than money Even though it may involve The giving of money Then the ladies Bless them They came up with About the best of the lot I think You remember Ruth And Ann agreed that charity Coming from the Latin word Caritas means Dearness Love The charity springs From love of humanity That makes you want to Share what you have And it was Ruth who added That the things of this world Belong to God And we have only The use of them That only spiritual blessings Are ours to keep But when you get right down to it No one said it better Than St. Paul I'll tell you what it was In case you've forgotten And then I'll add me, too St. Paul said And if I should distribute All my goods To feed the poor And if I should deliver My body to be burned And have not charity It profiteth me nothing I guess what St. Paul meant Was that true charity Is giving for love of God And love of your neighbor Because of God And that God Who reads the hearts of men Recognizes that difference It's a pretty fine thing To be able to tell a child Or to be able to show him How it works Through the sisters and brothers Of New York Catholic charities Who year after year With no material reward in sight Care for the sick The aged And neglected And the orphaned They have the real charity And you and I Can share in it, too Let's all give with both hands now So they can continue the work Which God has called us all to do Thank you Thank you