Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the 1024th consecutive University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable presents the second program in a new series on Problems of Asia. Taking part in a discussion of Korea are the Ambassador from Korea to the United States, Dr. John M. Chang, Niles Bond, Officer in Charge of Korean Affairs in the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs, Department of State, and Arthur C. Bunce, just returned this week from Korea, where he was Chief of the ECA mission to Korea since its establishment in January 1949, and before that, he was advisor to General Hodge during the period of military occupation. Mr. Bunce first went to Korea in 1928, speaks Korean, and is a distinguished economist. The moderator of today's program is Edward A. Ackerman, Far East Geographer of the Department of Geography at the University of Chicago, and past consultant to Allied General Headquarters in Japan. To open today's discussion on Problems of Asia, Korea, we present Mr. Ackerman. The latest news on Korea, which is still on the news wires, reads, Northern Front, Korea. Communist forces are surging toward the supply base of Taegu and the east coast port of Pohang in heavy new attacks along the entire Northern Front. One drive has carried the Reds to within less than 10 miles of Taegu. Toward the east, they have punched a wide gap through our defenses, recapturing Kigee and cutting the Taegu-Pohang Highway seven miles to the south. For the first time in two months, Communist planes have taken to the air to blast American positions on the Southern Front. Mr. Bunce, you were in Korea a few days ago. What do you think about the condition of things there now? Mr. Ackerman, I'm not a military expert, but the recent news certainly emphasizes General MacArthur's appeal to United Nations for more troops. It is my hope that that appeal will be met speedily. Apart from the military situation, however, there are other problems which are very serious in the small area we have under our control. For example, the population of that area has almost doubled with a tremendous influx of refugees. These people are without food, clothing. They have to be taken care of medically in order to avoid typhus and typhoid and smallpox spreading very rapidly. Winter is coming on. Housing is going to be a serious problem. I'd like to say this, that arrangements have already been made between the United Nations, ECA and the War Department, to take care of many of these immediate problems. And the whole ECA program has been changed and redirected in order to meet this problem that the civilian population is facing. Mr. Bond, you are an expert in the recent history of Korea, and you are the State Department official in charge of Korean affairs. On today's roundtable, the listeners and I want to learn all we can about Korea. Did the United States fail in occupation of South Korea? Why did we withdraw our troops? Why did the invasion by the North Korean forces occur? Was Syngman Rhee running a police state? What efforts did we make in the last four years to get the Russians to agree to a unified Korea? How much did we do to help the people of Korea toward democracy and land reform? These and other questions are what I would like to get answers to. So let's start at the beginning and get the full story. How did we get into Korea? Mr. Ackerman, although official relations between the United States and Korea extend back to the 1880s, nearly 30 years before the Japanese annexation of Korea, The current phase of our interest in Korea may be said to date from the Cairo Declaration of December 1943. In that declaration, the United States, Great Britain and China, in defining their war aims in the Pacific, expressed their collective determination that in due course, Korea shall become free and independent. That pledge was reaffirmed by the same three powers in the Potsdam Declaration of July 1945, and, and this point should be noted, was subscribed to by the Soviet government in its declaration of war against Japan in the following month. American military forces first landed in Korea on September 8, 1945, some four weeks after the capitulation of Japan, for the limited purpose of accepting the surrender of Japanese troops in that part of Korea lying south of the 38th parallel. On the University of Chicago round table discussion of Asia of July 30th recently, Mr. Hoskins told how the decision was made to divide the country at the 38th parallel. Now, North Korea was not given to the Russians at Yalta, but there is still a question in our minds, why did we make it the 38th parallel? The circumstances surrounding the establishment of this notorious line have somehow become the subject of one of the most prevalent and tenacious of misconceptions. Stated briefly, I would say that this misconception consists of the idea that the United States and the Soviet Union agreed at Yalta to the petition of Korea along the 38th parallel. As you have just said, the fact is that no arrangements relating to the division or joint occupation of Korea were made at Yalta or at any other wartime international conference. The establishment of the 38th parallel line was part of an overall military plan drawn up in Washington during the closing days of the war, the sole purpose of which was to define the areas in which American, Russian, and other allied forces would accept the surrender of Japanese troops throughout the Japanese occupied areas of the Far East. Why didn't we allow the Russians to accept the Japanese surrender in all Korea? Well, Mr. Ackerman, even though our disenchantment with our Russian allies was at that time still in its very early stages, I imagine that it was felt that the fulfillment of our pledges on behalf of Korean independence would be rendered immeasurably more difficult if Korea were to be occupied in its entirety by Soviet forces. One virtue of the particular line was chosen was that it placed Seoul, the historic capital of Korea, and the port and communications center of Incheon in the U.S. zone. I would add that from the point of view of the United States, the establishment of such a line in Korea was rendered particularly important by the fact that the nearest available American troops were many hundreds of miles and several weeks away in Okinawa and the Philippines, while Russian forces were poised on the very borders of Korea, and did in fact enter North Korea while the 38th parallel line was still under discussion. Far from permitting the Soviet Union to take over a part of Korea from which it could have been excluded, the 38th parallel therefore provided a holding line without which the entire Korean peninsula could have been occupied by Soviet forces long before American troops could have been put ashore. Mr. Buntz, you were advisor to General Hodge and spent many months in Korea. What is your view on these circumstances at the beginning of the trusteeship of Korea? Mr. Buntz, you were advisor to General Hodge and his office, he was last hour where anyone seeing calls immediately because he was in the short ravine. Mr. Spivan practiced an hour where he lived and I wasn't sure again I haven't expected training for people, but he basically expanded their data, which he demanded his judgment on how it needed to expedite the first time. Mr. C edge走 took off of Syria. Dr. C until circle of Syria,ña Thurys asked the first thought hablar about a young man called the Israeli immigrant więz We heard the mercury of Korea and�answering the ruins under surveillance of Korea's remembrance of NATO power. Mr. Spivan knew his decision made that the deal of the state took short of Africa, meaning he did not need to confirm any moreLean analogies of its HARRy awareness of the ore that Soon. is the future of the rest time he removed his running language from the Nazi army. closed the border completely, that persons, goods, and even money was stopped from flowing over that border. As a result of that, we went to Moscow, and there the Moscow decision was made in which they set up an agreement to establish a joint commission on Korea. When was that, Mr. Barnes, Moscow decision? The Moscow agreement was announced in December of 1945, if you recall. Following that announcement, we had a conference in Seoul. The Russians came down. The Americans took the position that we wanted to establish free movement of people and goods over the border and establish a uniform currency. None of these programs were accepted by the Russians. As a result, the only thing we got out of that conference was the exchange of mail between North and South Korea. Following this conference, of course, the Joint Commission met in 1946, and I was a member of both sessions of the Joint Commission. The first Joint Commission meeting, the Russians took the position that any party which had opposed the Moscow decision, which included the concept of trusteeship, could not be admitted for consultation in our consultative assembly, which was to be established under this decision. How did the Communist Party stand on the matter of trusteeship? Well, at the very beginning, the Communist parties were just as opposed to it as were the non-Communist parties. And there was a very interesting incident. They were having a parade, and the Communists got orders at the last minute that they were to support trusteeship. So half of them had banners opposing trusteeship, and half of them had banners supporting it. But all the non-Communist parties were overwhelming in opposing trusteeship. Americans took the position that if these people were to have something to say about their government, if they wanted to oppose trusteeship, they should be given the opportunity to do so. The first Joint Commission was completely futile. Russia said anybody that opposed this trusteeship concept could not be invited for consultation, which eliminated everything except the Communist parties. Now, following this breakdown in the Joint Commission, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Government exchanged letters, and a new basis admitting freedom of speech was established. But in the second session of the Joint Commission, when the Soviet command found that the non-Communist parties would sign a pledge stating that they would cooperate with the Joint Commission, the Soviet delegates immediately to the position that they would not admit them, because they had to be jointly approved by the American and Russian members. In other words, they established a unilateral veto of any of the parties or social organizations that wanted to join in this consultative assembly. We had taken the position that the parties and social organizations from North Korea would be accepted, and those Communist parties in South Korea, which would have given them, as a matter of fact, about 40% of the seats in that consultative assembly. The Russians would not accept it. The only thing they would accept was over 51%. The whole thing broke up again. So the only thing that we got from all the conferences with the Russians, Mr. Bunce, was an exchange of mail, which was an agreement made at the very beginning. That's right. This brings us to the North Korean invasion of last June 25th. For an analysis of the issues of this conflict, the University of Chicago Roundtable is fortunate in being able to present now a distinguished official of the South Korean government, Dr. John M. Chang, Ambassador from Korea to the United States. To present Ambassador Chang, we now take you to New York. It is a great honor for me to take part in the University of Chicago Roundtable discussion on Korea. I shall not attempt to give any background facts on Korea because I'm sure all of you are already quite familiar with it. In discussing the conflict currently waging in Korea, I might explain what happened in my country and why it happened. As for what happened, the answer is not far to see. The men in the Kremlin decided to test the strength of the free world. What is happening in Korea is not a civil war. It is a communist aggression. I shall tell you why. I shall tell you why. North Korea is, and since August 1945 has been, a captive area. From 1945 to the present time, it has not been so much a satellite as a puppet state. What it does is what Moscow tells us to do. To misunderstand that fact or to fail to grasp its meaning is to misunderstand the situation we confront. When the Soviet Union moves into Korea in 1945, she did so with her plan carefully laid. Communist expatriate Koreans were brought back and with them as a nuclear, a communist police state was set up in Korea. Over two million loyal and patriotic Koreans in North Korea refused to knuckle down to this totalitarian regime and they fled secretly across the border. Upon those who remained, the police state was ruthlessly imposed. They were forced into the locks of totalitarianism. It goes without saying that the army of North Korea was equipped with tanks, planes and artillery supplied by Russians. And this is the regime, and this is the army that at dawn on a peaceful Sunday struck without warning upon the Republic of Korea. That day will be well marked by historians. It was that day that resolved the doubt that beset the free world and resolved the issues of our time. It clarified the minds of men as nothing has done since the defeat of its power. The brutal attack of that day brought sharply into focus the danger the free world faces and which it must overcome. Now I wish to turn to the question of why this mad attack was launched. The briefest answer, and perhaps the best is contained in a phrase used by Mr. Paul Hoffman, director of ECA, when he called the Republic of Korea a bastion of democracy in Asia. The continued existence of the Republic of Korea could not be colored by the commons. It was too much of a success. The Republic of Korea was the only part of northern Asia which was not in commons hands. So long as the Republic of Korea continued to exist, the people of Asia would know that the United States and the rest of the free world renounced aggression. To our witness stand, testifying to the degree of success which the Republic of Korea has been making since 1948, we could bring the United Nations Commission on Korea, which has certified our two general elections, one held in 1948 and one held in May of this year, as both fair and free. I was also to cite the words of a great American, Mr. John Foster Dulles, who visited Korea just one week before the blow was struck. In explaining to the American people why he thought the attack was made, he said that the commons struck in force because the society was so wholesome that it could not be. He further said, and I now quote, I was in Korea and so with my own eyes that the Republic of Korea was a land of freedom. End of quotation. End of quotation. We Koreans realize with full solemnity the great global will to peace which has drawn so many people to our side. In all our 4,000 years of history, the Korean people have never fought an aggressive war. We have no designs upon the territory. We have no doubt about the rights of the rights of any nation. All we want is the restoration of our own homeland under a government of our own free choice. We have had a government of our own free choice since 1948 and this, the Russian inspired, Russian supported and the Russian direct invasion sought to crush. If aggression is encouraged by one triumph, it will seek still more. Surely, this is one lesson which the 20th century has had much cost to learn. A true and lasting peace can be effected only when the aggressors are completely subdued and disarmed. Only then would our country in North Korea be able to enjoy freedom and democracy. To say that the people and the government of the Republic of Korea are grateful for the generous and sacrificial support of the overwhelming majority of the members of the United Nations that have placed themselves at our side is but a weak way of saying what is in our hearts. Our feelings are especially deep and warm for the great contribution of the people of the United States whose armies fought in our behalf during the last war and whose sons are now giving their lives in our homeland to safeguard the cause of freedom. We cannot believe that such devotion and such sacrifices will be in vain. We can only believe that they mark the eventual dawn of a new day when peace and security will be restored to all the young people of the world. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador Chang. The Ambassador from Korea has said that the continued existence of the Republic of Korea could not be tolerated by the Communists because it was too much of a success. Do you agree, Mr. Bond? I certainly do, Mr. Ackerman. I believe that the existence of a working example of the advantages of democracy over totalitarianism on their very periphery posed a threat which the Communists felt they could no longer tolerate. On the other hand, it has been reported that the United States record in Korea is not a successful or a happy one, that we failed to understand the tremendous popular Korean demand for independence and reform. While the Russians in the North set up an all-Korean Communist government, avoiding direct intervention in Korean affairs, when General Hodge landed in Seoul, we proclaimed that in South Korea, military government is the only government. We then continued to employ Japanese police and officials and failed to push for land reforms quickly enough. Did the American government fail in aiding the Korean government toward a development of democracy? Mr. Buntz, what do you think about this? Well, I think it's rather strange that you have this statement of the North Koreans. They avoided direct intervention in Korean affairs, while in South Korea we did the opposite. I've known many of the two million refugees that came down from North Korea fleeing from the Soviet region. And the one thing they always told me when they came to South Korea was, here you can speak freely. Here there is freedom. In North Korea we are under a police reign of terror. That's true. On the other hand, Mr. Buntz, did they not have land reform in North Korea? They had a land reform in North Korea which was quite different to the one we had in South Korea. In South Korea we took a little longer to do some of these things. But the basic direction in which we were going was sound and towards democracy and freedom for the people. How does it compare with the North Korean land reform? Well, in South Korea we took the Japanese land and we distributed it to half a million farm peasants. They paid 20% for 15 years. In North Korea they never got any beefs for the land and they paid 35% per year in taxes. In other words, they were much worse off in North Korea under the North Korean system than they were under the South Korean land reform. Almost twice as badly off in other words. Yes. But you have mentioned that Japanese-owned lands were distributed. Is that the only reform that was carried out? Well, following that reform, the Korean government put in its own land reform law, which was passed in 1949 and was being implemented very rapidly. By November this year, if we had not had the invasion, tenancy would have been wiped out in Korea as it has been known as the past. It would have only been 5 to 10% of the farmers' tenants and they would have been tenants of state-owned land. And that is a normal rate of tenancy in any event, is it not? Well, you have to have a small amount of tenancy in changing over from land ownership from one person to another. The other things that we did in military government, for example, we set up a Korean interim government. The Americans became advisors. They were not directors any longer. And we also developed the basis upon which there was a free election held under the United Nations auspices. The criticisms of the police have been made, but again, we were trying to build up a police system and it was not perfect. One thing is often said about Syngman Rhee's government, that Rhee is running a police state. Now, you don't agree with this, Mr. Bunce. I think that you've got to look at it two ways. The idea of a police state is something which would make it completely impossible to have a free election. Now, Mr. Bunce, don't you agree that the last election was relatively free from your background? I do, Dr. Bunce. It seems to me that the police state charge can be pretty effectively answered by recalling the circumstances surrounding the Korean elections of 1948 and 1950, both of which were observed by United Nations commissions and both of which were found by those commissions to have been fair and free elections. You have said that the elections in 1948 and 1950 were fair and free, but it is reported that the 1948 elections in Korea were preceded by 589 political deaths and an estimated 10,000 arrests, and that the elections were boycotted by all parties of the left and center. Because these parties abstained voluntarily, the United Nations Commission recognized the election. But how representative or how popular is the government on the basis of such an election? Mr. Ackerman, I'm not familiar with the figures which you cite, but I would refer again to the judgment of the UN Commission on Korea, an international and presumably an impartial body. I would point out also that the 1948 balloting was held in the face of communist threats to break up the elections, by force if necessary, and that reasonable precautions were not only wise but essential. Mr. Bontz, you have a comment on this. I want to make one comment on this police system and the police threat. One thing that we've got to recognize is that during this period the Communists were moving down from North Korea. They'd attack police boxes, they'd shoot the policemen. They'd then take the families of the policemen and shoot them and burn their homes. And the police retaliated. Force begets force. It isn't something that we desire, but it's something that seems to me we have to face up to realistically. Mr. Bond, with respect to the boycotting of the elections by left and center parties which you mentioned, while it's true that certain middle-of-the-road groups boycotted the 1948 elections for fear of perpetuating the division of their country, that it's worth noting that these same groups not only participated in the 1950 elections, but according to the report of the UN Commission, made the most significant gains in the balloting. Other than promoting free elections and the beginning of democracy in Korea, what else have we done to help the Korean people? That is, we need to have support for democracy economically, for instance. Well, in economics I think that we have developed under ECA a program of rehabilitation. We've been developing their coal resources, power resources, building new railroads, developing their fishing fleet. We have increased industrial production at least 50%. We have irrigation projects, forestry projects. And when you look over the whole picture of South Korea as it was, the land reform and the increased agricultural production, which had increased 20%, meant the farmers were better off than they'd ever been in their lives before. We did not achieve as much for the workers as we had liked. The one thing... Thank you, gentlemen. Today's University of Chicago Roundtable was on Korea, the second in a series of programs on problems of Asia. Taking part were the Ambassador from Korea to the United States, Dr. Ja-Min Chang, Niles Bond, Officer in Charge of Korean Affairs in the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs, Department of State, Arthur C. Bunce, just returned this week from Korea, where he was Chief of the ECA Mission, and Edward A. Ackerman, Geographer of the University of Chicago. Be sure to order a copy of today's Roundtable pamphlet, which includes the full text of today's discussion and valuable supplementary materials. You'll want to purchase copies of this important pamphlet so that you may have a permanent record of today's discussion and the additional special materials. Individual copies are 10 cents in coin. Send 10 cents with your order to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. A four-year subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's discussion of Korea, the second in a Roundtable series on the Far East. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. And now, a special announcement. For the next two weeks, the Roundtable interrupts this series to present two discussions on human rights. Alice Bebler, Yugoslav delegate to the UN, Charles Malik, UN delegate from Lebanon, and Richard McKeon, philosopher, and members of past American delegations to UNESCO will take part in next week's program. Be sure to listen. Today's Roundtable originated in Washington, D.C. and New York, and came to you in part by transcription. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Probst. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. The Roundtable Alliance Music. . .