Ladies and gentlemen, I again bring you Miss Margaret O'Brien, who will take us to Washington, D.C. Go ahead, Margaret. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to present Basil O'Connor, President of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, who will introduce the President of the United States. Now for Mr. O'Connor, speaking to you from the White House. Thank you. One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the March of Dimes campaign for 1947 is now in its closing hours. I've spoken to you on many occasions during this campaign. I've spoken in vast outdoor amphitheaters, from great broadcasting studios, and in auditoriums devoted to public works. But tonight, on this final night, most fittingly, I speak to you now from a house. Only here would we find a house where, in older countries descended from tyrannic rule, a palace would stand. Had this structure been a palace, the man who lived in it nine years ago would never have dreamed his democratic dream, from which grew your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, founded in behalf of all the people and supported by all the people. But this is a house, and like millions of others set down on wide lawns, under tall old trees through the length and breadth of America, this is a White House. There could be no more perfect symbol of the land we live in than this place which our forefathers built as a home for the chief executive whom they, and we after them, should freely elect to office. Because this house is concerned with our affairs, we're all concerned with the affairs of the men who live in it. You know the birthdays, marking off the years of those men's lives. You've learned the old dates in school, and the new dates from your radio or from your morning paper. January 30th is the birthday of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the man of the democratic dream, who lived in this house nine years ago when the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis was organized. We meet here to commemorate the day with solemn gratitude, because his far-seeing wisdom, when he organized the nation's fight against infantile paralysis, made it possible for us to defeat last year's widespread epidemics of that horrible disease. Last year, in far too many of those other White Houses scattered throughout the land, there was heartbreak because a dearly loved child had been stricken. In houses of every size and color, in apartments and tenement flats, in cabins and skyscrapers, there was the same heartbreak. But from all the White Houses in the land had come, as they had come from every home in the city, town, and farmland, the dimes and dollars which made medical care available to all the stricken and changed heartbreak into hope. The dimes and dollars have been spent. The New Year opens before us, and infantile paralysis will visit our homes again. But again, from those homes, the saving silver flood has been pouring in for the last two weeks, and still there is time for more, and there is need for more. There must be enough to meet any crisis of the future. Tonight, from this White House, which symbolizes in itself the homes of America, this house which has always had tenants who bear in their souls the burden of our common welfare, the man who lives here now is going to speak to you. No kinder man ever lived than this man whose voice is representative of all your voices. Untiring and firm in the tradition of those who have gone before him, he has your welfare very close at heart. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States of America. Fellow Americans, again, it is my privilege to speak to you about a movement that should have the heartfelt support of all of us. I refer to the continuing fight against the scourge of infantile paralysis. Franklin D. Roosevelt, himself a victim of the disease, saw a need for an organization to wage the fight. And so, in 1938, he brought into being the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. We can do our part by giving to the March of Dimes. The National Foundation, supported by your gifts, reaches into every corner of the country to find and help the stricken. Let me show you by an example what the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has achieved. Within 30 years, there have been two appalling epidemics of the disease in the United States. The first epidemic, raging chiefly along the eastern seaboard, caught the country unprepared. There was not enough help, not enough knowledge. No one knew what to do. The poor suffered most. Not because infantile paralysis strikes more often among the poor, but because those cases lacked funds for medical care. As the total cases mounted, panic spread. Fantastic cures were advertised, for sale and not for sale. The total of dead for that epidemic was more than 20% of the victims, most of whom were young children. And most of those who survived were permanently crippled. The second of the two epidemics struck last year. First in Florida, then in Alabama, Texas, Minnesota, Colorado, Missouri, Kansas, the Dakotas, Wisconsin, California, Illinois, and all along the Mississippi Valley. Last year, the disease was more widespread. The cost of treating the stricken had risen very high. But thousands achieved complete recovery, and only 5% died. The country, this time, was not caught unprepared. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis had educated the public in knowledge of the disease. Doctors knew what to do. And not only doctors, but nurses and physical therapists. Because the National Foundation had financed training for personnel at many hospitals and universities throughout the land. The poor did not suffer most. Because the National Foundation was ready, through its county chapters, to provide funds for the care and treatment of every victim. There was no shortage of medical experts, equipment, supplies, or funds, even in the hardest hit areas. Because into those areas, the National Foundation rushed extra help of every kind. No organization, but a great national non-profit organization, could have handled so huge a task. In coming to our rescue through last year's epidemic, the National Foundation exhausted its funds from the 1946 March of Dimes, and drew heavily upon its resources. The millions spent last year on medical care and treatments, on research and education, must be replaced if the fight is to go on. If there is one of you who has not yet joined the March of Dimes, I urge you to go now and enlist. You have just heard the President of the United States.