Stand by, they're pouring water. What I'm saying is being cut? Shouldn't be. Can't stand by, doesn't mean stopping the geeks. I would have given you a couple of minutes notice, I would have told you to go ahead. You can stop now, Mike. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This welcome also is extended to our WNYC radio listeners, of course. This evening, we are presenting the third in the series of our Sunday forums, the title, Great Themes in the Great Hall. Now, one of the great themes in the Great Hall of Cooper Union has been in the making of public opinion. As some of you may know, some of the early meetings that led to public opinion being stimulated in favor of the Red Cross were held in this hall. Some of those meetings that led to the development of public opinion about labor laws for children were also started here. We could go on and on and mention various things of that nature that have been stimulated right in this particular room and this forum. So that all of us are interested in the making of public opinion. Not only in making it, and we always like to thank making it for the good. But not only in making it, but in what makes public opinion. And this evening, Mr. Joseph Barnes is going to speak to us on this topic. Mr. Barnes is a newspaper man, author, editor, and the New York Herald Tribune, and the New York Star. He not only has been engaged in making public opinion, but has known a large number of people that make public opinion. And it is a pleasure to introduce to you tonight, Mr. Joseph Barnes. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the making of public opinion is propaganda. Now that's an ugly word. Most of us, when we hear something we don't like or don't agree with or deplore, call it propaganda. And when we hear something we do like or agree with, we tend to call it truth or public education or leadership in ideas. But 25 years as a newspaper man, as a reporter, and as an editor, have led me to the conclusion that it's all propaganda. That any attempt to change us, to change the way we think, to create a new and different public opinion from the public opinion that existed before that attempt was made, is propaganda. I'm making propaganda here tonight by speaking to you. You're making propaganda by listening to me, as long as you do listen. When this meeting is over, and we all go out of the great hall, we will all go on making propaganda, as long as we use speech and words in our mouths to say the things that we mean and that we believe in. A very great man, Thomas Mann, said it in one sentence which I was delighted to find printed on the, on the printed program of this exciting and interesting forum. He said that speech is civilization itself. The word, even the most contradictory word, preserves contact. It is silence which isolates. Well, that's a profound and very true, I hope to show you tonight, very important and a very encouraging sentence. I'd like to use it as the text for most of what I have to say tonight, because more clearly and more shortly, it says what I have been able to learn in direct experience as a newspaper man about the business of making public opinion. Now, as the sentence connotes, we live in a world of speech. We live in a world of words. They're all around us. They're in the newspapers you read, the magazines and the books. They're in the radio programs and television programs that we get over the air. They're in the movies that we go to look at, or the, or the plays. Most of all, the words are in our own mouths. They're in our mouths and the speech that's the common speech of Americans as they go about their daily lives. And out of this speech, it seems to me that we're all vaguely aware that something is created that we call public opinion. We are also vaguely aware that this imponderable, vague, intangible thing called public opinion runs our lives. It makes wars, and we all hope it may sometime make peace. It makes strikes, it makes depressions, it makes prosperity, it makes all our hopes and our fears and our dreams. Now how is this public opinion made? If I'm right in what I've said to begin with, it's made by us. And the first and most important point I hope to make tonight is that it really is made by us. It's made by us as citizens. It's made by us as we live our daily lives. We live our daily lives. And all that the propagandists can do, whether we call them public relations counselors or editors or publishers, all the people who work with mirrors and work with gadgets and work with tricks to change this public opinion, is very sharply limited and it includes no miracles at all. It includes no miracles because I have yet to see, working in this country or working abroad, one single instance of the manipulators of public opinion creating public opinion. I've seen a lot of instances where they widen it, where they extend it, and where they make it deeper. I know because I spent part of my life engaged in this business, some of the tricks and techniques with which, by use of this medium of words, you can deflect or deepen public opinion. And I would like to talk a little bit about that, principally to make my point that all you can do is deepen it. Where the water runs, you can cut the channel deeper. But where the water doesn't run, you can use all the tricks that are in the bag and you won't make public opinion. Let me talk for a moment about the making of public opinion in wartime. Throughout part of the last war, I was engaged in what is known as psychological warfare. It's a major part of modern war. It's the attempt through words, through speech, through ideas, to strengthen your friends and allies, and to strengthen yourself, and to weaken your enemy. You do this by appealing to emotions, largely, and partly to convictions, to ideas. You do it with radio. You do it with leaflets that are dropped by airplanes. You do it with leaflets that are dropped by tactical airplanes or actually sent across the front line by patrols in the course of war. All modern nations engaged in modern war spend vast sums of money in psychological warfare. And psychological warfare is worth my talking about for a few moments. Because in time of war, no holds are barred. In time of war, there's lots of money. In time of war, there's lots of talent. You can go out into the American Commonwealth, and you can recruit, as this country did in the last war, extremely able men, who will work day and night trying to find what are the chisels, what are the crowbars, what are the levers, with which this strange thing we're talking about tonight called public opinion can be made. If, four years after the war is over, if you asked any of the men who won the British, or the American, or the French side, which I knew best, what was done by psychological warfare? What actually was accomplished? I think an honest man would tell you three things. There were three achievements in the making of public opinion in the war that were pretty important. I think they were all short of miracles, but they were pretty important. The first was what the Germans did after the fall of France. After the hot spring days of 1940, when the Germans had overrun the low countries, France, and taken Paris, the Germans, by an extremely adroit and shrewd use of falsehood and rumor, did spread around a great part of the civilized world a notion of inevitability. They spread the notion that, to use the American phrase that was then current, that this was the wave of the future. They spread the notion that blitz warfare, as the Nazi army had developed it, just couldn't be stopped. They spread it with extraordinary success, and for many months, in some respects for many years, large sections of the world stayed transfixed and, as it were, paralyzed by this propaganda. The second great achievement was after Dunkirk, roughly at the same time. The British, spread around the world by shrewd, manipulative means, the notion that they would never quit, that the British people just couldn't be licked, that with blood and sweat and tears, fighting on the beaches and fighting in the fields and fighting on the streets of their country villages, that the British people would never give up. That was quite a job of psychological warfare, quite a job in the making of public opinion. A third of the top marks that I, or I believe my colleagues, are prepared to give at the end of the war, was the job that was done by Americans from Pearl Harbor on, on one very limited theme. Americans did tell the world that our industrial power was unstoppable. From December of 1941 until the end of the war, you can chart a steady increase throughout the world of belief that Detroit, Chicago, New York, New Jersey, Cleveland, wherever our factories lay, that they represented a force so powerful that you just couldn't stop it. Now these were the three top high-water marks of manipulative effectiveness in the making of public opinion in the war. And I submit to you that not one of them was a new idea. Not one of them was a very difficult idea. And not one of them was an idea which wasn't underlaid by very substantial bodies of fact, of data which men could get not through propaganda, but get through their eyes, get through their direct sensory experience. Europeans who had seen the Nazi war machine knew it was strong. Europeans who had seen the resistance of Britain after Dunkirk, especially under the Nazi air attack on London, knew it was strong. Europeans who saw American jeeps and American tanks, American war production, knew it was strong. In other words, all that the making of public opinion, all that psychological warfare did in any one of these three instances, was to strengthen, to deepen, and to widen up impressions and ideas which were there in any case. Now, even those victories were not all peaches and cream. Even those achievements of the manipulation of public opinion were made at the cost of large sums of money, great expenditure of time and energy, and some mistakes. Now, the first, I said that facts should be as complete and as accurate as possible. I think it's up to us as citizens to demand that. To demand it in our choice of newspapers. To demand it in our personal habits. How we listen to stories, how we repeat them. I know how hard it is. I know how hard it is. I know how hard it is because for a good many years I've earned my living by being paid for trying to collect complete and accurate facts. It's impossible. No question about it. It's impossible. I wrote a book review recently of a book written by a colleague and a good friend of mine on Eastern Europe. And in the review, I wrote that the book was a good book and that for the most part it stood up. For the most part I thought it was an accurate book. But then I used the unfortunate phrase. I said a man who reports while he runs can hardly check, let alone recheck, his facts. And a young reporter whom I've never seen or heard of in my life wrote me a letter on the basis of my review. And said, what do you mean? Having been the foreign editor of a big New York newspaper and the editor of another New York newspaper. What do you mean by praising a man who hasn't checked or rechecked his facts? How can we live? How can we survive as a democracy unless reporters check their facts? I wrote him back and said I was sorry. I apologize. But I had to add this, that I don't know how a reporter can. I have reported wars that I never saw, that I never heard, and that tonight, standing here in front of you, I'm not quite sure whether they ever took place or not. That's true. That's true. I've reported other wars that I was in, where I was under fire. But in 1937, I was working in Moscow for a big New York newspaper, the Herald Tribune. And the Russians said that they were engaged in a war with the Japanese in Mongolia. And they got out daily communicating. It was 3,000 miles away, 4,000 miles away. I couldn't get there, the Russians wouldn't give me a visa to go there, let alone a train to get on and get there. The Japanese didn't say anything. They just kept quiet. And I and 20 other Americans in Moscow thought that one over, sucked our thumbs, scratched our heads, worried, and lost our sleep. And then we decided, well, probably, it's true. The Russians would be fools to say it was true. If it isn't true, probably they are having a war out there. And so we reported it. And I would be less than frank if I didn't tell you that I've lost a lot of sleep ever since then, wondering whether that was an honest thing to do or not an honest thing to do. But then when I wonder most, I pick up a paper and I read the stories out of Washington. I read the stories out of a campaign like the election campaign going on now. And as a cynical newspaper man who's been around, I scratch my head again and I think, how many of these reporters really know what they're writing about? They're writing it partly out of hearsay. They're writing it partly out of hunch. They're writing it partly out of press releases and handouts. They're writing it partly out of what their friends tell them, partly out of what complete strangers tell them. You add it all up, wrap it all up in one big snowball, and that's what we call truth. Well, obviously it isn't true. Obviously it's a long, long way from ascertainable, provable, demonstrable truth. The point I want to make here though is, even if it is a long way from scientific, from scientific truth. It's the truth we've got to live with. It's the truth we've got to live with because there's no way of getting any better truth. It's the better truth. Warner Lippman, nearly 30 years ago, wrote a book on public opinion, which still seems to me to be the best book that's ever been written on it. The first half of his book is devoted to a discussion of what he called fictions. By fictions he didn't mean lies or falsehoods. By fictions he meant those pictures of the truth that men get. They get them because that's the only way they're going to get anything. They're not true. But neither are they lies. They are the truth as seen through filters, as seen through all kinds of middlemen who twist, who distort, who change, who emphasize, who profoundly alter the nature of truth without committing falsehood. Well now, I believe that for the rest of our lives in this generation, we are doomed to live with fictions in Lippman's face. We're doomed to live with pictures of the truth which are not truthful. They are not the kind of truth that you work with in laboratories or that you work with in direct personal experiences as individual human beings where you can ascertain the facts of a given situation. I don't think myself there's anything we can do about that. I don't think we can do anything about it except as readers and as citizens to insist that the fictions be kept to a minimum and to insist that the newspaper business and the newsreel business and the radio commentary business be held up to as high a standard as we can think of in eliminating the fictions and in establishing truth. It's a hard and difficult job and there's no quick or easy way of doing it. I still think that one of the fun and exciting things about the last two generations in this country, a process in which Cooper Union, like our universities, like the churches, like citizens' bodies of all kinds have played a part, is the degree to which we have already stood up and said, let's have it more complete, let's have more facts, let's have more of the truth. I think that's good and I think it's hopeful. No, it's fine for me to stand up here and say, stand up and demand it. How do you stand up and demand it? You can't go out on the street outside and stand up and demand a better newspaper than you're going to get for three cents or for five cents, whatever you want to buy. You can demand it in part by buying the newspaper which seems to you to tell you the truth and not buying the newspaper which doesn't. That's more effective than most Americans know. That's what's known as boycott. That's what's known as selective buying. And I urge you, don't underestimate its effectiveness. Newspaper editors, I used to be one, were once defined as differing from congressmen in that they have to get re-elected every day. It's true. And when people don't re-elect an editor, he loses his job. And when people don't re-elect an editor, that newspaper tends to change its way of looking for truth. That's one way of doing it. The other way is education. Only by getting a national citizenry which is better educated, which has had more time to go to school, which has had more time to learn the distinctions between fictions and truth, will we ever really become masters of the making of our own public opinion. Now the second of the general categories of hope that I held out to you is that the context in which our opinion is received by us should be as numerous as possible. I said numerous deliberately and not competitive because I am a newspaper man. And in the newspaper business over the last few years, the principal argument in this particular connection has been whether or not newspapers have ceased to be competitive. I think you all know the bare statistical facts of the situation. The number of cities in this country which are now one newspaper cities, where if you live in the city, you read the newspaper or else there's nothing else to read, grows from year to year. It's already a frightening figure. 130 cities in America, which have six-figure populations, which are over 100,000 in population, now have no competing newspaper at all. There are cities like Louisville, Kentucky. This stretched from coast to coast, there's no point in enumerating them. There are cities where if you want to read a newspaper, you read just one newspaper, or at least newspapers owned by one man. And a good deal of the discussion and the work done in this whole field of public opinion over the last few years has been directed to this problem. How could we increase the competition of ideas through newspapers? I personally don't believe in that, and I would like to tell you for a moment why I don't believe in it. I don't believe that competition in itself is a panacea for any of our ills. I could oppose to Louisville a city like Boston, where I have lived and worked, where there are a good many newspapers, and where the level of newspaper work is, I would say somewhat humbly, the lowest in the United States. I don't think there is any city in America that is so badly served by newspapers as Boston. In other words, competition does not necessarily cure it. In some ways, it can make it worse. If you have a good many newspapers, then you will find that they compete so strongly and so bitterly with each other for newsstand sales and for circulation. But the murder or the case of rape or the fire or the threat of war tends to go into an eight column banner headline and the newspapers get steadily worse instead of better. And it is a curious but interesting paradox that many of the best served cities in America, as far as news is concerned, are cities which have only one newspaper, which is not forced by this competitive situation to sensationalize or vulgarize or distort the news, but which can edit the news in a fairly responsible way. That is all very well as far as competition is concerned. I still don't think we have enough newspapers. I still don't think we have, in this field of ideas which we are talking about tonight, that marketplace, that free forum or area of trading, without which the truth and the fictions are extremely unlikely to get separated so that you can tell what is truth and what is fiction. Now, why don't we have that marketplace? Now, why don't we have that marketplace? For a lot of reasons. And I am not going to bore you with all of them. I want to tell you some of them. And most of the ones I want to talk about tonight hinge around the whole concept of ownership of newspapers. And ownership hinges, in turn, around the fact that the media for shaping public opinion are the most expensive media in our very expensive world. Up until the present time, the ownership of a daily newspaper in any fairly important city in America represents an investment of many hundreds of thousands of dollars. The cost of press, the cost of press, the cost of lino-type machines, the cost of other technical apparatus, the cost of newsprint. Add these up and you have a problem so formidable that newspaper publishing, like radio network broadcasting, has become inevitably the prerogative of extremely wealthy people. Now, I have nothing against wealthy people. Wealthy people can be and often are as nice as any other people. I do have something against the domination of anything important to the democratic process by any group of people. By red-headed people or people with a squint or people who limp or people who don't limp. I just think that if it's going to be the democratic process and if a medium is important to the perpetuation of that democratic process, then it should be no holds barred and everybody, every man for himself. As long as the business of running a radio station or of publishing a daily newspaper has been as expensive a business as it has been, it has not been every man for himself. Now, what's the hope there? The hope there lies in technology. The hope there lies that within the next few years, we may have developed new processes of printing. These processes are already developed. It's a question of making them available. It's a question of getting them out of laboratories and out of experimental models into generally available machines. There's no secret about this. The last six months, I happened to spend a great deal of time on it. It is now possible to sell for $10,000 all the equipment that would be required to put a daily newspaper on the stands in New York. That's a combination of a great many things. It's a combination of an electronic self-justifying typewriter, which will eliminate the linotype machine. of new types of magnetic and electronic ink, which eliminate the whole factor of weight in printing. Printing is today, chiefly, a process of putting pressure on paper. It's no longer necessary. You can run at great speed presses made out of cardboard or papier-mâché, if you, by the use of new devices, pull the ink through the paper instead of pressing it down on top of it. I won't go into it. All I can tell you is that those of you who lose heart in the future of the democratic process in America should remember that within a very few years, it may well be possible again for Americans to manipulate public opinion the way they did in the days when this country was founded, the way they did in the end of the 18th century, when any man, any merchant, any newspaper man, any citizen who had ideas about the Constitution, or had ideas about the war with Great Britain, or who had ideas about the settlement of the lands in the West, could go out and print them. He could go out and have them printed in a pamphlet or in a leaflet. He could distribute them in the coffee houses of his time, and in doing it, he put his own picture frame, his own context around the truths and the fictions with which we live.