Good evening, folks. This, as far as I'm concerned, is the last of my television programs. As you know, this is the sixth that we've had on WPIX, beginning the 15th of last June. We had the idea then, and still have it, I don't think it's a bad one, that if we could come into your home for half an hour, once, say, every two weeks, and speak to you, talk to you, take you into our confidence in the matters that affect you most, the running of the city, that would be your health, your housing, policing, firework, all of the things that do affect you, that you would understand better what we were trying to do to benefit this city and its people. Now, if you recall, we began the first night with a seasonal problem, problems that had to do with playgrounds, parks, beaches, pollution, programs affecting the condition of your bathing beaches. Remember, after that, we had the Board of Education people, Mark McCluskey, we had the work with children, we had Judge Nat Kaplan, and several others on that program. We had Mr. Moses on here, talk to you about programs, parks, playgrounds, and other things. Now, if you recall, we took three straight programs to tell you what we're trying to do with our new municipal hospital program. Remember that? Remember that we brought you along to show you what the bottlenecks were, show you how troublesome it is to administer a hospital setup that deals with 21,500 people a day in our city, not counting the outpatient people. Remember that we finally came down to talk to you about $150 million. that the people of this city, state, made possible for us to use for a long-term municipal hospital program of reconstruction and rehabilitation. Now, you remember, we talked to you about that, and we ended up with this question, that perhaps after you'd given permission to spend $150 million, what guarantee would there be that you spent it properly, that you built the right things, that you didn't neglect something that should have been done. And if you recall, two weeks ago tonight, we set up for the first time in the city, just to guarantee continuation of the program, set up by law, the hospital board. Do you recall that? Well, that finishes the programs that I'm going to speak to you about up to tonight. Tonight's the last night. As you know, I'll be leaving here next week, and I'll have a little more to say about these programs before tonight is over. Now, tonight, again, I want the people of the city to have an opportunity to listen to complaints that have been made for the last three or four years by the members of the police department and the fire department. Complaints that cover two headings. They've been saying to me, and they've been saying to you, and they've been on television themselves at their own expense, trying to get across to the people of this city. That's a simple story they have to tell. They say, when our men, 10,000 firemen, 19,000 policemen, leave their homes to go out to perform a tour of duty, leaving their little families, their wives, and their children at home, they say two things happen. Number one, we are not getting enough pay to properly raise our families, meet our expenses, our normal expenses. Then they say another thing. We belong to two services in this city where the death hazards are great, where the casualty lists are high. None of us know, they say, when we go out to perform our particular services, fire department or police, we don't know that we'll ever come home again to see our people, never know whether or not we'll live through the tour of duty. And they point out that the casualty list is high. They say, they say, this is not an ordinary job. And now, lately, they've been saying to me, look, Mr. Mayor, let's have a straight talk about this. You're going into a civilian defense program. You're talking about building shelters. You're talking about atomic attacks. You're talking about burns and death from burns from radiation. When all these people that we're sworn to serve and protect are protected, which we hope they will be, who is it that has to stand out there and take radiation? The fire department and the police. They've got to be there in that moment of danger. That's what they say to me. Now they say, the least the public can do, and we're sure the least that the public would want to do, would be to give us enough pay to decently raise our families, meet our home obligations, and give us this assurance, this assurance, that if we have to pay with our lives for the defense of the people, that the pension system will give some form of protection to our widows and our children. And they say, if you want the sacrifice of life from us, Mr. Mayor, I know that the people would be willing to pay it if they knew what the facts were. Now, of course, folks, 19,000 men in the police department and 10 or 11,000 men in the fire department runs into a large number of men. And when you talk certain raises that they ask for in pay, it runs into a lot of money. And the condition at the moment in the city is not so good because you haven't got that money available today. I've said that to these men and they quite properly have come back and said, look, Mr. Mayor, the question is not whether you have the money now or not. The question is to first give us the assurance that our complaint is just in your opinion and the people's opinion. Then let's talk about doing justice once we agree upon what justice is. I said to John Crane of the Uniformed Firemen's Association, incidentally, after five years as your mayor, almost, I have never seen better work done than what the fire department has done. And the Uniformed Farmers Association represents these men. And of course, 33 years ago, I was a member of the Patrolman's Benevolent Association myself, still am a member. And if I couldn't speak too highly to you of what the police department as well as the fire department has done for the people of this city during the time that I've been here, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not looking for votes. I have no point now in telling you this except once. These men, and in the case of police department, women too, in cases, do heroic work. I'm satisfied that they have a story to tell. They've been telling it to me, and when Mr. John Carton, who's immediately to my right here, speaking for the police department, has an opportunity to talk, that will be his story, that will be John Crane's story, who's over here to my left. Now you say, well, what's all the fuss about? Why don't you go along, and why do we have to have, what other men have you got there with you? Well, over here on my left is Mr. George Buck. Now, Mr. Buck is the actuary for the city. If you don't know what an actuary is, I can tell you in my own way, it may not be very good, but he's the man that figures out just what the percentages of salary is for pension purposes. He's the man that sets up the reserves so that these reserves will stand as a fund to pay the pensions. And the pension system in New York City is very important. It's very large. And a slight mistake might be very costly to somebody. So we depend upon a man who, in the accuracy of his computations, makes no mistake. And that happens to be, again after a long lifetime, the actuary for this city. That's Mr. George Buck, who's right here. Now, alongside of me here, on the left, there's another man that you won't see around as often as I would like to have you see him in city work. And that's Mr. William Reed, the deputy mayor, a career man too, just like Mr. Buck in city work, municipal service, has been his life's work. He started small, he's come up the line until he has reached the highest job that he could possibly reach without an election, and that is deputy mayor of the city. Now, you say, well, what are they doing here? Mr. Reed is an expert. Now, what Mr. Reed wants to speak to you about, I'm sure is, just what it will cost to give the police and fire department people what they ask for. I think that also would be Mr. Buck's position. I myself will make no decision until we have heard from the two sides. Then I'll tell you what I think should be done. I gave this evening's program over to this subject because the protection of life and property, which is particularly the function of the two departments, is so important today, and it's going to be so important in the future that I thought I couldn't do a better thing for the people of this city than have you listen in and find out whether or not these two services have been treated fairly. Now, you're going to be a part of this just as I am. You're going to be listening in. Over here on my right, extreme right, is Mr. John Crossan of this station that you're listening in to, WPIX. Now, Mr. Crossan has a definite position here because he has on this station for over a year. He's been making WPIX available to the fire department and for a short time the police department for the purpose of telling you what their complaint is, what their demands are. And that is John Crossan's position here tonight. Now, Johnny, have you any other position here tonight? Well, I'd like to say to the ladies and gentlemen listening in this evening that about a year ago, they started the program, the fire department, with John Crane as its president, for pension equalization and for salary increase. And after 39 weeks, their contributions had dried up and they were forced to let the program go. And then it was picked up. What one was that? The fire department? The fire department. Then after that, the police, the PBA, with John Carton as its president, picked it up and they held it for 13 weeks. And it came to an end about a week ago, Mr. Mayor, and if ever there was a story to be told, they told it over WPIX. And I think they'll repeat it again tonight. And I know when you listen to this, you'll go out and do something as you've done before in sending in letters to the PBA and the UFA. And thank you, Mr. Mayor. All right, Johnny. Now, let's not jump to the conclusion until we find out what the facts are. The purpose of tonight is to find out what the facts are between the contentions of the men and the actuary and whatever Bill Reed's got to say. Suppose, who wants to speak first? You, John, will speak first. All right. Mr. Mayor, I'm here representing 11,000 firefighters in an appeal on behalf of their wives and children. The firefighters of the city of New York give a most efficient service. The best of services existing anywhere in the United States or in the world and we don't get paid on a comparable basis. We're here also to appeal for an adjustment in our pension contributions. What is our finding, based upon the findings of the Bureau of Labor statistics of the United States government that although the firefighter gets paid, the fourth grade firefighter receives $3,150 a year as a budgetary salary and the first grade firefighter, $4,150, actually our take-home pay is reduced in the fourth grade fireman's case to $1,900 and the first grade fireman's case to $2,650. Wait a minute now, Johnny. So the men and women outside will know what we're talking about. You have two grades of firemen, have you? Four grades. I'm giving you the maximum and the minimum. So you say the maximum is what grade? The maximum is the first grade fireman getting $4,150 as a budgetary salary. But actually $2,650 is take-home pay. So that's after he goes through probation period. After he does, he works for five years or is it three years? Three years. Three years. At the end of three years, from the time he goes on first, he's a first grade farmer. Is that right? That's right. At that time, he gets a salary of $4,100 and at that time, he pays something out of it and his take-home pay for a year is how much? It is reduced. By virtue of our contributions and deductions to $2,650. Now, how much is that a week? That a week is $51. $51. Does he take home $51 a week? That's what he takes home. All right. Now, that's the first... Out of a salary of $79. What does he pay for? What pension does he get when he retires? When he retires, he gets $2,075 pension. How long does he have to serve for that? 20 years. And what is the age limit? The age limit in the fire department? Yeah. There are no age limits in the fire department. 20 years service, he's entitled to a pension. Right? Right. All right. Now, what does he pay for that pension? Well, that's one of our problems, Mr. Mayor. Out of a weekly salary of $79, we pay over $8 for pension protection without comparable protection for our widows. And because of that, we are required to pay an additional $4 outside the department to protect our widows. All right. Now, look, let's take it the way that people will understand it. A fireman, over three years in the service, gets killed in action. Is that right? Very often. Very often, a fireman get killed in action. All ages, all times. All right. We'll take the one who is a first-grade fireman. If he's killed in action, we say he's a wife and three children at home. Now, what provision is made for the widow and the three children? The children, we'll say, range somewhere as within 10 years of age. That family of one wife, of a wife and three children, receives about $40 a week to keep them going the rest of their lives. But it is not those that are killed and recognize this line of duty, Mr. Mayor, that the problem exists. It's for those 80% who are disabled and never receive such consideration. By virtue of the fact that the fire department recognizes only if you get it right on the spot. All right. Now, wait. There is a difference between the case where the fireman is killed and where the fireman is seriously injured. Is that right? Now, suppose he's seriously injured and he can't work. What does he, and he will say he's a man about 35 years of age, but he's permanently injured, can't work anymore, has the responsibilities of home, which say a wife, three or four children. What provisions made for him? He said he pays him about $60, $65 a week. For how long? For his life. For his life. Now, how long does he have to be in for that? Over four years. Now, that, that would be where... That's not quite true. Enough is $65. All right. Now, at one time, you didn't pay anything for your pension at all, did you? Prior to 1940, we paid nothing. Well, no, when I was a cop, you didn't pay anything. We in the police department paid 2%, but you didn't pay anything at all. That's right. Now, it was changed, you say, about 1940? It's changed because the city pleaded poverty and the people refused to let them reduce our salary and we can set into a 6% reduction by virtue of pension payments. And at that time, the city foisted upon these men an expensive pension system running 10, 12%. 10 or 12%? 10, 12, up around that figure depending upon a man's age. All right. Now, did the same thing occur in the case of the police department? Pretty much the same. Well, Johnny, is there any, John Cotton, is there anything different in the police department from what John Crane's been telling us? Not too much, General, other than the fact that we have two serious problems affecting the 19,000 men in our department. One is salary. Well, you agree with John Crane on that. And as we told you before, General, the policeman in the city of New York has not received a salary increase in three years, notwithstanding the fact that in the past 10 years they've only received a 33% increase, whereas men in private industry and other civil service employees have received as high as from 75% to 100% increase in their salaries. Now, our second problem that affects us most seriously is this pension problem that was fostered upon us 10 years ago. Now we're in a position where the city of New York starts out and pays us the highest salary out of the 12 largest cities here in the city of New York. and what happens because of this unequitable pension system fostered upon us where we go from first place down to ninth place. Now that means this, that our men take home as low as $31 a week. And you figure a family... Hold on, John, for a minute. Now they're... So that we don't confuse the men outside or women listening in. I've been talking to John Crane about the 2,600 men, the 2,600 a year take home. We were talking about first grade firemen, right? We're talking now, too, about first grade firemen, but there are the young men. The lesser paid men. Now the lesser paid men are whom? Those up to three years... Fourth, third, second grade firemen. What is the lowest take home pay a week that they have? $36 or $1,900 a year. And the federal government says you need a minimum for a wife and two children of money to spend on food, clothing, and shelter of $3,300 or $1,400 more than we received and $700 plus more than our highest paid men received. All right. Now let's start off with this. You claim... Is this the same for you, Johnny? Well, it's a little different in this respect, General. Let's see that. $33 a week, the average man, the young man that takes home. That's a man 25 years of age with two children. Now, he requires four rooms. You can't get four rooms in the city of New York for less than $60 a month. He gets $124 a month. That means that he must maintain himself, feed his family, and so forth on $2.48 a day. Now, here in the city of New York, do you think that you can maintain a family on $2.48 a day for four people? We can't do it. And the condition is getting worse each day. Something has got to be done, General. Now, the legislators here in the city of New York got to realize the plight of the young policemen and the young firemen. We can't go on indefinitely. Our men are up to their neck in debt. And they're indebted to all their friends and everybody else. You're bringing young men into the job, and they got to start off right from scratch by holding their hat in their hand, going around, trying to get something to eat for their family. That's what's happening here in the city of New York, the greatest city in the world. It's primarily because of that pension system, General. It was forced upon us ten years ago, and we can't get rid of it. You're getting sold and only a rich man's son can afford to come into the police department or the fire department. Let's see what the actuary and... May I interrupt a second, Mr. Mayor? Don't overlook that you're asking men to come into these jobs at these salaries. The most hazardous occupations known to man is certified by the Citizens Budget Committee. No question about that. The highest incident of heart disease is certified by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Our life expectancy is around 53 years, and our running expectancy is 23 years, and you can't expect men to give this service, particularly in times of crisis such as this, when we're bound to be killed if anything should happen without proper protection for our families and proper salaries so our children can eat. All we're asking is that they assume a little greater part of the cost of the system because of the hazards of the fire department and the hazards of the police department. That's not unfair, General. Let's see what the actuary has to say about this thing. Mr. Buck, will you tell us... Well, General, I... First of all, are they right in what they say? Well, I think... Are those figures right? I think they are right that they are complaining against the high contributions that are required... Now, the figures that they give as to take home pay, are those figures correct, do you think? They are all right, in my judgment. I see. But in answer to that, we have city employees all through the city that are paying comparable contributions to their fund. Well, that's probably... No city employee has the same hazards. What they point out is this, that they have an unusual type of hazard in the occupations of firemen and policemen. They claim that they're entitled to more protection without taking it out of a salary that they claim is now meager enough. That's right. They say that the city ought to give their families more protection. That's one part of their story. I'm not prepared to argue that, Mr. General. And I'm not here to oppose their claims. I think that they now have their bills in such a position that they will change the plan without destroying its actuarial base so both the members and the taxpayers will know what the cost is. Now let me go back to this situation. Pardon? What do you think, we've only got five minutes to go. What do you think the cost would be in the case of pensions to give them the kind of relief that they ask for? Well, what they're asking, they have now the most liberal pension plan in the city of New York. Their contributions are not any higher than thousands of city employees are now paying for less liberal benefits in the general city retirement system. Now the city is paying a contribution of about 14.5% for the firemen and 12.5% for the policemen. For teachers, it's paying about 5%. And for city employees, it's paying about 6%. Now the police and firemen have a break at the present time in that they only pay 45% of the cost, whereas the city employee has to pay 50%. That makes a difference of 10%. In favor of the... General, they sold us an insurance policy in lieu of a pension system. Absolutely, Mr. Mayor. It's not a pension system. I know it either. It happened in 1940. We can't get rid of it ever since. And this demand, it will cost for our pension next year less than it cost to face up city hall this year. You can't evaluate $450,000. You can't do it. You can't evaluate that and sell us some things. These men lay their lives down. We got 187 widows. Mr. Mayor, these figures can't buy bread and butter. They won't buy bread and butter. And bread and butter is what we need. Mr. Mayor, they're suggesting that you raise your city contributions from a 14.5% to 19%. How much will that cost? It'll cost about $5 million, ultimately, for the police and fire. That's ultimately in 50 years. $5 million, for the people that are already in, the young ones, all the old ones, you've got 133 people on pension to every 100 men. You've already required that debt. We're talking about the president's bill of men. Not the men in Article 1. This is our last opportunity to talk to you. General, did I hear not to get this man for you? Because this is not the answer. He gave us a million in the quarter this afternoon, General. General, let's vote system. Boys, let's get this story across. $450,000, Mr. Mayor, next year. Will you hold it for a minute? Well, this is the fact that a man can come in at 21 and retire at 41. He'll live a whole lot longer on pension than he ever worked in the service. And at 41, 80% of all men are disabled. You've got 130 men on pension to 100 men in the old force right now. You're going to have over 100 men on pension to every 100 men in the active force. Now, what I say is that's going to continue, but they're asking for an increase of about 4% in the pension contribution of the city. And I think that the general city employees, particularly those in equally hazardous positions, and the teachers, there is no occupation in the United States of America equal to a firefighter's job and has it. Well, in the last study the city made, the street cleaners had more people killed than the police and fire from the street cleaning department. That was when they took them off the streets without any examinations, general. What he's talking about here now is this electric bill here will cost a million dollars if you live long enough. And the Citizen Fighter Commission, Mr. Mayor, says ours is 62% higher than any, the nearest one. Well, hold it for a minute. And they are not friends of ours. Bill Reed, you're in the same position I am. You want to get the answer, and I think the man outside and the woman outside wants to get the answer. Well, the answer specifically to your question, general, is a million in the quarter the first year. That's what it will cost to give them what they want. That's right. And it'll give them three and a half a week in the fire department and four and a half a week in the police department. Now, that's... Now he's cooking with that much. Hold it for a minute. Let's see. Let Bill Reed tell... Now let Bill Reed tell us what... Bill, now, what these men are asking for in the case of pension adjustments will cost a certain amount of money. A million and a quarter the first year. And it'll cost a million and a quarter. That's right. Now for 30,000 men, that is not too much. That isn't for 30,000 men, general, that's only for the smaller group that are now in the new fund. And that's the small group most in need. 18,000 men and their families and their wives. Fine, now wait. If it's a million and a quarter and it takes those young fellas and the police and fire and gives them the guarantee in their homes that they'll be protected in case anything happens to them, don't you think, Bill, that should be done? I think it should be done, general. Absolutely. Absolutely, it should be done. Well, wait a minute. The time's getting short. I see the sign out that I've got about a half a minute to go. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard what I've been listening to and it is in the final analysis your business. If you have men doing the important work that these men are called upon to do, if while you sleep they're on the job protecting you, if when the fire occurs in the middle of the night, they're there to protect you. If in the course of their work the figures show that these men suffer death and serious injury, that they have families to support, have responsibilities at home. And if you are now in a position that you see this city in here tonight with Mr. Carton on my right and Mr. Crane on my left really bringing to you the fears, the worries that are in the hearts of those men when they turn out for a tour of duty, keeping all the considerations, their responsibilities in their minds. and if these worries could be relieved in a budget of $1,250,000,000 by an additional million and a quarter, then I strongly recommend that immediately there be legislation passed by the city council to give these two departments the kind of help that they ask for in the case of pensions. Now we haven't had time to go into the salaries tonight, but time should be made. I hope you agree with me that in turning over this last television show of mine so that you can hear this, I'm talking about your protection. I'm talking about the work that they call upon to do for you. I don't want to see anything happen that would reduce the efficiency, the esprit de corps, the morale of either the fire department or the police department. I am afraid and I agree with them that time has come when we must do this one thing. In the case of pensions, we must also give serious consideration to make their lives sufficiently satisfactory that they can do the right thing in the maintenance of their families at home. If that costs more money, then you and I have no right to ask them to make the sacrifices they call upon to make unless we're willing to pay them for it. Ladies and gentlemen, goodbye. Can I say a word, Mr. Mayor? We have appealed to the people of this city. for relief and our right of appeal has been denied ever since 1940. We appeal again. You have stated it is the city's obligation and the city must do it and we want the city's answer as soon as possible. Your bill is before the council at the present time. Then this is the time to bring that to a head and get action on it. And that goes to the salary to the sentiments of the police department. For a million and a quarter there should be no further delay because I think it's serious enough for that. The whole package Mr. Mayor, salary and everything, wouldn't cost $10 million. And every other city department of our size has received it and the city owes it to us, owes it to our family and our children. All right, John, that's the message that we are bringing into the homes of the people of this city tonight. Now I am leaving. Do you agree with me that when Mr. Jack Flynn of the WPIX and the New York Daily News two years ago approached me and asked me if we couldn't put on these television shows as an educational contribution that wasn't he right? Isn't it a good thing for you to hear these discussions as we hear them in transacting the business of the city? Wasn't he foresighted in bringing up this proposal? And when he turned over WPIX for this purpose once every two weeks, this is an expensive operation, when he turned that over freely as a service to the public of this city, don't you think it was patriotic and generous of him and of those that he represents? Well, I do. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that a way will be found to continue these television podcasts. Now, you must also understand that before we commenced them, we canvassed every television company in this city and asked them to take their share of it, and for one reason or another, they couldn't fit it in to their programs, and then WPIX took it all alone. That's what they've been doing, and this is the sixth, the last of mine, but you'll always have a mayor, you're going to have Vincent and Pelletieri the next time out, I think it's September the 7th, and as the years go by, the use of television for this purpose, to bring the message into your homes, a business that affects your living. I don't care what it is, housing or schools or streets or police or fire, transportation, purchase, the hospitals and health parks, the thousand and one things that have to be done to make this city a livable place that must be made every day better than it was the day before. They cost money, they take a lot of planning, you ought to be in on some of that planning, it's your business, you should take an interest in it, and I do hope, honestly hope, sincerely hope, that these television broadcasts will continue without interruption, and that every day the men and the women, the boys and the girls of this city, by their attention to these programs, will know more and more about the things that the city is trying to do to make it a better place in which to live. I'm sorry, time is up, I'm saying goodbye to you. Forty years is a long, long time looking ahead. Forty years is not so long when you look back. I had hoped to be with you for three more years as mayor, but as Mr. Robert Burns said, the best laid plans of mice and men gang after glee, so did mine. I'm going into some other work, a new work, in public service. I'm looking forward to it with eagerness. I know that I'll enjoy it, but I also know that I will regret not being here on these television programs every two weeks, talking to you, trying to get you to see it my way, perfectly happy after I try if you didn't agree with me, but trying all the time. that I will regret and miss. And until I see you again, no matter how seldom it will be, may God bless you, protect you, every one of them. Good night. all right. But you didn't neglect something that should have been done. And if you recall, two weeks ago, tonight, we set up for the first time in the city, just to guarantee continuation of the program, set up by law, the hospital board. Do you recall that? Well, that, finishes the programs that I'm going to speak to you about up to tonight. Tonight's the last night. As you know, I'll be leaving here next week, and I'll have a little more to say about these programs before tonight is over. Now, tonight, again, I want the people of the city to have an opportunity to listen to complaints that have been made for the last three or four years by the members of the police department and the fire department, complaints that cover two headings. They've been saying to me and they've been saying to you, and they've been on television themselves at their own expense, trying to get across to the people of this city that a simple story they have to tell. people. They say, when our men, 10,000 firemen, 19,000 policemen, leave their homes to go out to perform a tour of duty, leaving their little families, their wives, and their children at home, they say two things happen. Number one, we are not getting enough pay to properly raise our families meet our expenses, our normal expenses. Then they say another thing, we belong to two services in this city where the death hazards are great, where the casualty lists are high. None of us know, they say, when we go out to perform our particular services, fire department or police, we don't know that we'll ever come home again to see our people, never know whether or not we'll live through the tour of duty. And they point out that the casualty list is high. They say this is not an ordinary job. And now lately they've been saying to me, look, Mr. Mayor, let's have straight talk about this. You're going into a civilian defense program. You're talking about building shelters. You're talking about atomic attacks. You're talking about burns and death from burns from radiation. When all these people that we're sworn to serve and protect are protected, which we hope they will be, who is it that has to stand out there and take radiation? The fire department and the police. They've got to be there in that moment of danger. That's what they say to me. Now they say, the least the public can do. And we're sure the least that the public would want to do would be to give us enough pay to decently raise our families, meet our home obligations, and give us this assurance, this assurance, that if we have to pay with our lives for the defense of the people, that the pension system will give some form of protection to our widows and our children. And they say, if you want the sacrifice of life from us, Mr. Mayor, I know that the people would be willing to pay it if they knew what the facts were. Now, of course, folks, 19,000 men in the police department and 10 or 11,000 men in the fire department runs into a large number of men. and when you talk certain raises that they ask for in pay, it runs into a lot of money. And the condition at the moment in the city is not so good because you haven't got that money available today. I've said that to these men and they quite properly come back and say, look, Mr. Mayor, the question is not whether you have the money now or not. The question is to first give us the assurance that our complaint is just in your opinion and the people's opinion. Then let's talk about doing justice once we agree upon what justice is. I said to John Crane of the Uniformed Farmers Association, incidentally, after five years as your mayor, almost, I have never seen better work done than what the fire department has done. and the Uniformed Farmers Association represents these men. And of course, 33 years ago, I was a member of the Patrolman's Benevolent Association myself, still am a member. And if I couldn't speak too highly to you of what the police department as well as the fire department has done for the people of this city during the time that I've been here, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not looking for votes. I have no point now in telling you this except one. These men, and in the case of police department, women too, in cases, do heroic work. I'm satisfied that they have a story to tell. They've been telling it to me, and when Mr. John Carton, who's immediately to my right here, speaking for the police department, has an opportunity to talk, that will be his story, that will be John Crane's story, who's over here to my left. I say, well, what's all the fuss about? Why don't you go along, and why do we have to have, what other men have you got there with you? Well, over here on my left is Mr. George Buck. Now, Mr. Buck is the actuary for the city. If you don't know what an actuary is, I can tell you in my own way, it may not be very good, but he's the man that figures out just what the percentages of salary is for pension purposes. He's the man that sets up the reserves so that these reserves will stand as a fund to pay the pensions. And the pension system in New York City is very important, that's very large, and a slight mistake might be very costly to somebody. So we depend upon a man who, in the accuracy of his computations, makes no mistakes. And that happens to be, again, after a long lifetime, the actuary for this city. That's Mr. George Buck, who's right here. Now, alongside of me here, on the left, there's another man that you won't see around as often as I would like to have you see him in city work, and that's Mr. William Reed, the deputy mayor, a career man too, just like Mr. Buck in city work, municipal service, has been his life's work. He started small, he's come up the line until he has reached the highest job that he could possibly reach without an election, and that is deputy mayor of the city. Now, you say, well, what are they doing here? Mr. Reed is an expert. Now, what Mr. Reed wants to speak to you about, I'm sure, is just what it will cost to give the police and fire department people what they ask for. I think that also would be Mr. Buck's position. I, myself, will make no decision until we have heard from the two sides. Then, I'll tell you what I think should be done. I gave this evening's program over to this subject because the protection of life and property, which is particularly the function of the two departments, is so important today, and it's going to be so important in the future that I thought I couldn't do a better thing for the people of this city than have you listen in and find out whether or not these two services have been treated fairly. Now, you're going to be a part of this just as I am. You're going to be listening in. Over here on my right, extreme right, is Mr. John Crossan of this station that you're listening in to, WPIX. Now, Mr. Crossan has a definite position here because he has on this station for over a year. He's been making WPIX available to the fire department and for a short time the police department for the purpose of telling you what their complaint is, what their demands are. And that is John Crossan's position here tonight. Now, Johnny, have you any other position here tonight? Well, I'd like to say to the ladies and gentlemen listening in this evening that about a year ago they started the program, the fire department, with John Crane as its president, for pension equalization and for salary increase. And after 39 weeks their contributions had dried up and they were forced to let the program go. And then it was picked up... Which one was that? The fire department? The fire department. Then after that, the police, the PBA, with John Carton as his president, picked it up and they held it for 13 weeks. And it came to an end about a week ago, Mr. Mayor, and if ever there was a story to be told, they told it over WPIX. And I think they'll repeat it again tonight. And I know when you listen to this, you'll go out and do something as you've done before in sending in letters to the PBA and the UFA. And thank you, Mr. Mayor. All right, Johnny. Now, let's jump to the conclusion until we find out what the facts are. The purpose of tonight is to find out what the facts are between the contentions of the men and the actuary and whatever Bill Reed's got to say. Suppose who wants to speak first? You, John? I'll speak first. All right. Mr. Mayor, I'm here representing 11,000 firefighters. And an appeal on behalf of their wives and children. The firefighters of the city of New York give a most efficient service. The best of services existing anywhere in the United States or in the world, and we don't get paid on a comparable basis. We're here also to appeal for an adjustment in our pension contributions. What is our finding, based upon the findings of the Bureau of Labor statistics of the United States government, that although the firefighter gets paid, the fourth-grade firefighter receives $3,150 a year as a budgetary salary, and the first-grade firefighter, $4,150, actually our take-home pay is reduced in the fourth-grade fireman's case to $1,900, and the first-grade fireman's case to $2,650. Wait a minute now, Johnny, sir. The men and women outside of know what we're talking about, you have two grades of fireman, have you? I have four grades. I'm giving you the maximum and the minimum. Now you say the maximum is what grade? The maximum is the first-grade fireman getting $4,150 as a budgetary salary, but actually $2,650 is take-home pay. Now that's after he goes through probation period, after he does, he works for five years, or is it three years? Three years. Three years. At the end of three years, from the time he goes on first, he's a first-grade farmer, is that right? That's right. At that time, he gets a salary of $4,100, and at that time he pays something out of it, and his take-home pay for a year is how much? It is reduced by virtue of our contributions and deductions to $2,650. All right.