Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, will discuss with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Police Commissioner William O'Brien, Director of the Police Emergency Division of Civil Defense. And now, to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Well, Commissioner O'Brien, Director of the Police Emergency Division, can you tell me what your department is doing to affect the civil defense program to meet the present emergency? Yes, Commissioner Wallander. We have created in the office of the Chief Inspector the Division of Civil Defense. Charged with the responsibility for organizing and carrying out the functions and the duties of the police department civil defense program. We are reestablishing the structure of the Air Warden Service, along with much the same lines as it was organized during the last war. We have subdivided our precincts topographically into zones, sectors, and posts. Zones will include areas of 50,000 population, sectors 5,000, and posts will include about 500 persons. Zone wardens and their deputies and sector wardens and their deputies are being selected in each precinct. A volunteer precinct director and a deputy director of light duty rescue service are also being selected in each precinct. Well, Commissioner O'Brien, are you recruiting the air wardens at the present time? No. There will be no recruitment or enrollment of air wardens for the time being. However, provisions have been made in local precincts to record for future reference the names of those who volunteer at this time. What provisions have been made for the assignment of police personnel to the Air Warden Service? We have established a fully staffed headquarters division of civil defense in the chief inspector's office. A lieutenant, sergeant, assigned to act as incident officer and supervisor of the air warden service in each local precinct. Will you tell our listeners about the Division of Civil Defense that you have established in headquarters? The Division of Civil Defense acts as a central coordinating agent for the varied civil defense services of the police emergency division. Selected superiors in this office have been placed in charge of such operations as planning, training, communications, transportation, evacuation, and building control. In connection with training, Commissioner O'Brien, what progress has been made in this field? We are now conducting an atomic energy and civil defense indoctrination course at the police academy. Dr. Morris Shamos of New York University, Deputy Inspectors of Divisions, Captains assigned to Borough and Division Officers, and selected precinct captains as well as lieutenants and sergeants designated as incident officers and supervisors of the Air Warden Service and precincts are attending this course. It is planned that all superior officers of the police department from the rank of Captain Up will take this course within the next few weeks. This is an intensive five-day course intended to indoctrinate members of the department and the principles of radiological warfare and the techniques to be used in adequately providing civil defense against atomic weapons. Subsequently, it is our intention to indoctrinate all members of the department in this radiological warfare course. Well, Commissioner O'Brien, now in the field of communications, what progress has been made? New York City has been designated as the Key Point Air Raid Warning Center, and the police department has been placed in charge of the New York City phase of the Ground Observer Corps. The Ground Observer Corps is an integral part of the Nationwide Aircraft Warning Service, is it not? Yes, Commissioner. We have already established three observation posts in the city. Outstanding community leaders have volunteered and have been designated by this department as supervisors of these observation posts. Volunteer personnel have been selected from veteran and civic groups throughout the city. Right now, we are in a position to man these observation posts 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The ground observer on duty in an observation post immediately phones data on aircraft observed. This information is evaluated and coordinated with data from the radar screen of the Eastern Air Defense Force. In the event of an anticipated enemy attack, warnings are sent to Key Point Air Raid Warning Centers. The Key Point Air Raid Warning Center for New York City is under the jurisdiction and control of the police department, and we are organized to instantly alert the Nassau County Sub-Air Raid Warning Center by teletype and all key officials, departments and agencies of this city by phone, and the general public by air raid sirens. Commissioner O'Brien, you mentioned transportation in reference to civil defense. What facilities have you available in this respect? Well, in addition to our own autos, our motorcycles, patrol wagons, and emergency service division trucks, we will have trucks assigned to light rescue squads in each precinct and an emergency taxi corps. These various vehicles may serve at various times as ambulances, evacuation vehicles, and transportation for emergency personnel and equipment. We expect to have 11,800 taxi cabs and about 35,700 taxi drivers ready for immediate emergency mobilization. Now, Commissioner, what have you done in regards to building control? Well, the building control directors for industrial, commercial, and office buildings are being enrolled in their local precincts. In most cases, the superintendent or the manager of the building has been appointed the director in charge of the building control unit, and he is generally responsible for all emergency civil defense measures within his building unit. Are all of these matters we have been discussing ramifications of the air warden service? Yes, Commissioner, and I would like to point out at this time that the New York State Civil Defense Law gives members of municipal and volunteer defense agencies the power to detain for purposes of arrest in a proper case those who violate duly issued civil defense regulations or willfully disobey the official orders of such members. Naturally, these powers are available to auxiliary police as well as to air wardens. By the way, Commissioner O'Brien, can you tell us what progress has been made in respect to the formation of the auxiliary police? Well, Commissioner Wilder, as you know, we have discarded the designation City Patrol Corps used in the last war in favor of auxiliary police in order to emphasize the close interrelation between the regular police force and the volunteers. Former Deputy Police Commissioner George P. Mitchell has been appointed chief of the auxiliary police. His appointment assures us of an executive who is thoroughly familiar with police organizational procedure. At the present time, colonels in command of auxiliary police divisions located in patrol borough headquarters, lieutenant colonels in command of auxiliary police regiments located in patrol borough offices, majors in command of auxiliary police battalions located in patrol divisions, and captains in command of auxiliary police companies located in patrol precincts have been selected. Now that the top echelon of the auxiliary police has been appointed, are you accepting enrollment of auxiliary policemen? Not as yet. However, as in the case of air wardens, local precincts are prepared to record for future reference the names of those who wish to volunteer their services immediately. It is contemplated that the personnel of the auxiliary police shall number 40,000 men and women. Will you explain to our listeners how this figure was decided upon? The recruitment of this number will provide two auxiliary police for every member of the regular police force. Since the auxiliary police will work four-hour tours, it is felt that two of their members should be the effective equivalent of one patrolman performing a full eight-hour tour. In this manner, it is expected to double the available manpower of the police department in its efforts to ensure adequate personnel in case of atomic attack. General Lucius D. Clay, chairman of the New York State Civil Defense Committee, has said, and I quote him, as terrible as an atomic disaster might be, thousands of lives can be saved if your organization is in readiness to meet the emergency. Unquote. Now, Commissioner O'Brien, will you tell our listeners how you propose to deal with the particular exigencies of the possible atomic attack? Well, Commissioner Wallander, in view of the fact that the prime obligation of the police department is the protection of life and property under conditions of atomic warfare, we will be faced with grave and unusual responsibilities. Accordingly, we have developed a comprehensive plan which provides for alternate police headquarters and auxiliary communication headquarters in the event of mobilization of any of the existing facilities. We have also provided for a succession of command in the event key personnel become casualties. During the last war, report centers were set up in each precinct. Do you intend to follow the same plan in the present emergency? No, because the large-scale destruction anticipated in atomic warfare, we have decided to establish report centers at greater intervals. One report center will service two or more precincts, and thus the likelihood of individual report centers being immobilized will be lessened. Bomb reconnaissance wardens, fire watchers, auxiliary policemen, leaders of light rescue squads, post wardens, building control wardens, and messengers will communicate directly with these designated report centers. The purpose of an enemy attack upon New York City would be to create civil disorganization and thereby disrupt the war effort. In what way does the police department propose to maintain the war potential of this city in the face of atomic attack? It is believed that the efficient utilization of civil defense forces will be effective to combat public hysteria. The civil defense forces, by the prevention of panic, sabotage, looting, and civil disorder, and by the maintenance of public morale, will help to defeat the purpose of the enemy. We propose to effectuate orderly evacuation if such is necessary. The prevention of the physical disintegration of this city's war potential calls for heroic measures. I am certain that we can rely on the personnel resources of the police, air wardens, ground observers, and auxiliary police to carry out their duties in any foreseeable emergency. Can you tell us, Commissioner O'Brien, to what extent we can count on equipment resources? Well, the Mayor's Bureau of Planning and Operations has made a study of disaster control plans for the past several years and has been prepared to invoke measures designed to meet disasters. The plans developed by the Mayor's Bureau of Planning and Operations are readily adjustable for expansion to meet wartime conditions. Statistical control of the quantity, quality, and emergency availability of the tremendous equipment resources of the city will, in the event of atomic disaster, enable us to press into service all equipment located throughout the city. In view of the possible extent of the damage to be anticipated from atomic weapons, has the police department taken steps to work out a program of mutual assistance with neighboring communities? Yes, we have been very active in exploring the areas of cooperation, not only with other city departments, but also with federal, state, and municipal police agencies. Plans are being made for mutual aid and the development of mobile reserves. Thank you, Commissioner O'Brien, for your very enlightening talk on the civil defense program of the police department. Is there any parting thought that you would like to leave with our listeners? Yes, Commissioner Wallander. I would like to emphasize the fact that a well-planned and trained civil defense organization, and with a proper spirit of service on the part of all citizens, we can materially defend ourselves against atomic attack. The situation would be disastrous if we permit ourselves to adopt the defeatist attitude. Radiological weapons must be accepted as just one more of the long line of hazard of modern warfare. Civil defense spells survival. Civil indifference means death. You have been listening to the fifth in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City civil defense organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner William O'Brien of the Police Department, Director of the Police Emergency Division of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening at this same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. syndicate patrol Conference in the upper trade number has come to a place betweenudi and pharmaceutical across Gill 않 ease to the community