Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen of the Foreign Policy Association. I thank the Chairman very much for his introduction. Only the event can tell whether you get more out of the so-called wisdom or out of the penicillin. I've been given a, I think as a topic, a sort of a roving commission. It is the United Nations and American foreign policy. That's plenty of ground to cover, and I expect to cover it in a rather rambling sort of a way. Talking first a little bit about the United Nations and the forthcoming meeting of the Assembly, and ending up, if I carry out my program, with a few words about American foreign policy. Now you here are all looking forward eagerly, as I am, to this forthcoming meeting of the General Assembly. I have always had great faith, particularly in the General Assembly, as the organ of the United Nations which was most apt to make it succeed. I have, from the beginning, been skeptical about the ability of the Security Council to perform any very important role at the early stages of development of international collaboration. The reason is that the Security Council deals only with matters of difference, and it deals with those matters of difference under conditions which make their solution extremely different. That is due primarily to two factors. First, the existence of the veto power, which means that there can be no solution which is not agreed to by all of the five permanent members. It is also due to the fact that there is such an inadequacy of international law, that there is no really agreed and accepted rule of conduct by which the action of nations can be judged. So it has always seemed to me, from the time of the Dumbarton Oaks proposals, that the Security Council would be largely an impotent body. It could serve a useful purpose in bringing to public light matters of controversy. It would be very difficult at the present stage for it to bring those matters of controversy to an acceptable solution. On the other hand, the Assembly is a body where the nations work together, not necessarily about differences, although they can discuss their differences, but where they work primarily, I would hope, on matters of common concern, where they attempt to do things which are in the common interest, and where it is possible to develop more of an atmosphere of fellowship than is possible under the conditions which surround the Security Council. Just as a sidelight on my own reactions to the matter, I might mention that after the San Francisco conference, Mr. Armstrong asked me to write an article for Foreign Affairs about the Security Council. I declined to do it. I'll write an article if you want about the Assembly, but I do not have enough confidence in the Security Council to write the kind of an article which probably ought to be written. And so I wrote my article about the General Assembly. Now, the General Assembly hasn't yet gotten under full swing. This is the second meeting. The first meeting was held in London last January and February. where I attended, as your chairman has pointed out, as a member of the American delegation. That meeting in London was very largely occupied with organizational matters. There's an enormous mass of procedural things that have to be settled before a great body like the United Nations and its Assembly can get underway. And to a very large extent, the activities at London related to the election of the various officers of the Assembly, the election of members of the subsidiary bodies such as Economic and Social Council. At that time we elected the members of the Security Council also, and elected the members of the World Court, adopted rules of procedure, so that there was not a great opportunity in London to get down to dealing in a cooperative way with some of the substantive problems, which I hope will unite the efforts of the members rather than disunite them. We did deal with two or three constructive and substantive matters. We took some action with reference to the threatening world famine, which I think was helpful in at least preparing the ground for the action which the nations later on took, particularly the nations which had excess food supplies, to try and meet the acute famine conditions which prevailed in the world this spring. And we took some action with reference to trusteeship and dependent peoples, which was constructive and where the resolution in relation to that was adopted unanimously. There was no division in that matter as between the so-called East and Western Blocs. Now we set up the Atomic Bomb Commission, although that was at that time primarily a procedural matter in which the Assembly acted. Now as we pass on here to the second meeting of the General Assembly, we still have a number of procedural matters which have to be dealt with, although that is not nearly as great as was the case at the first meeting in London. We do not have to elect the officers of the Assembly, because this is technically the second part of the first meeting of the Assembly. It is that very largely because it was desired to avoid the necessity of having to go through the rather harrowing process of electing officers, and because we felt that we had extremely good officers who had been elected at the meeting in London. It was particularly desired to retain the services of Mr. Spock as the President of the General Assembly, as he had performed his delicate task as President of the Assembly, there with extraordinary ability and tact. And largely, I would say as a personal tribute to Mr. Spock, this meeting that we are having now is the second part of the first meeting of the Assembly, rather than technically the second session of the Assembly. So that we will start out with the same officers that we had and were elected in London. There will be a problem of elections to the Security Council. There were three members of the Security Council whose terms will expire on the first of January, and whose successors will have to be elected now. Those whose terms expire are the Netherlands, Greece, and Mexico. That, uh, the fact that they drop out of the Security Council is regrettable, not only from the standpoint of the very fine service which has been rendered by their members on the Security Council, but perhaps the most serious effect of it will be upon the Atomic Bomb Commission, Atomic Energy Commission. That commission is made up of the members of the Security Council plus Canada. That is a work where continuity is extremely important, and where the members of the nations whom I've mentioned have taken a very active and constructive part in the work of that commission. And it is going to involve a certain loss of continuity to have those three drop out of that particular commission and have three new states come in who will not have the background of experience which have been had by the representatives of the Netherlands, Greece, and Mexico. Then there's the election of six new members of the Economic and Social Council. I might add, in the case of the Security Council, that the retiring members by the Charter are not eligible for re-election, so it is not possible to re-elect any one of those three. In the case of the Economic and Social Council, it is possible to re-elect those whose terms expire. One of those whose terms expire is the United States, which had only a one-year term. The general assumption in London was that while there was no provision in the Charter for the permanent membership on the Economic and Social Council of the so-called Five Great Powers, that in all probability it would be the desire of the Assembly to have those states continue to be members. It is probable, I would assume, that the United States would be re-elected a member of the Economic and Social Council. Another election that comes up is the election of new members of the United Nations. The procedure there involves a recommendation by the Security Council to the Assembly. There were eight applications for new members made to the Security Council, of which three were approved by the Security Council. Five were disapproved through the exercise of a negative vote by one or another of the five permanent members of the Security Council. So that they will come up before the General Assembly. Three states, Afghanistan, Iceland and Sweden, whose applications for membership have been approved by the Security Council, so that they are eligible to be voted on by the Assembly. And I would assume that they will be favorably voted on by the Assembly. And I think that the state which can get through the eye of the needle, as represented by the Security Council, I think would have a fair chance of getting through the Assembly. Those are the principal matters of procedure which will come up before this forthcoming meeting of the General Assembly. Then there will be quite a number of matters of substance. I haven't got nearly time enough to cover all of those here this afternoon. The total of items on the agenda of the Assembly is in excess of 50. And perhaps about 10 of those are procedural matters, and there remain about 40 which are substantive matters. I'll only comment briefly on some of those which seem to me of the greatest importance and the greatest interest. Although as events may actually transpire, some of the matters that I don't speak about may turn out to be more important and attract more attention in public press than those of which I do speak. First of all, there will be the report of the Secretary General with reference to the work of the Security Council. And that, I suspect, may open up a debate in the course of which there will reappear some of our old friends, Greece, Spain, and Iran, which have been a subject of discussion and debate within one or another body of the United Nations since it was organized and started functioning in London last January. There were, as you recall, several matters, including those three which were very fully debated by the Security Council and where no conclusion was come to due to the operation of the so-called veto power. And I suspect that there may be efforts in the course of the General debate to have the Assembly record its views on some of those matters, although the Security Council technically was unable itself to do so. Another substantive matter which will come up before the Assembly is the question of trusteeship and the matter of dependent peoples. That's a matter which I'm particularly interested in because I was the American member on the committee which dealt with that in London. And to my mind, that represents one of the great areas where the United Nations can make a substantive contribution and where all the nations can work together in harmony to achieve the charter ends of greater autonomy, free institutions, and better economic, political, educational conditions for the non-self-governing people of the world. The charter deals with that problem in two phases. There is the chapter 11, which deals, broadly speaking, with the problem of all non-self-all peoples who have not yet achieved full self-government. And then there are chapters 12, which deal with trusteeship. Chapter 11 has hardly been adequately appreciated, in my opinion. Attention has been concentrated pretty much on trusteeship. Well, trusteeship is important, but the areas which are likely to come under trusteeship will embrace only a very small fraction of the total area of non-self-governing peoples. In all probability, in any predictable future, not more than 10 or 15 million people are likely to come under trusteeship. While the total area of non-self-governing people is, of course, many, many times that number. I love you, dear. I love you. This is just a very large priority table, here Allahvarih Augustus. I love you. Thank God.