We are speaking to you from the grand ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York. We are here for the dinner dance under the auspices of the Columbus Citizens Committee Incorporating, commemorating the 458th anniversary of the discovery of America. We turn you over to Master of Ceremonies for this evening, Commissioner Manetti, who is now speaking and will introduce the speakers that we are to hear during this evening's forum. The generations to come by the grateful recipients of the scholarships awarded by the Columbus Citizens Committee. As you know, these scholarships are awarded annually without restriction to race, creed or color. Only in a country such as ours, the United States of America, can the sons and daughters of immigrants, yes, sons and daughters of poor immigrants, find the opportunity that we and our fathers, and for many of us our grandfathers, found in the land of the free. It is sufficiently important, especially at this time, in an otherwise troubled world, to stop long enough to dwell in memory and with appreciation on what this land of opportunity has meant to us all, as well as to our families and our forebears. This is the time, indeed, this is the hour, for genuine and loyal devotion to this land of ours. At this time, I have several communications which I know that you would like to hear. September 6, 1950. Dear Mr. Pope, I have given very careful consideration to your letter of August 28th, inviting me to participate personally in the observance of the program in New York commemorating the discovery of the New World by Christopher Columbus. I think it particularly appropriate that you should lead in carrying out the traditional ceremonies established by your late father. In this time of grave international crises, I seem to have no alternative but to remain constantly in Washington to deal with problems as they arise. I regret, therefore, exceedingly, that I cannot accept your invitation to attend the dinner and parade being arranged under the auspices of the City of New York and the Columbus Citizens Committee. The deeds of Columbus and his intrepid companions remain to this day the heritage of men of might and of courage the world over. My message to all who celebrate his achievement is to approach the problems of this mid-20th century in a spirit of determination which inspired the dauntless Genoese navigator. Very sincerely yours, Harry S. Truman. The second, the State of New York, Executive Chamber, Albany. Dear Gene, I am happy to send warm greetings to the members of the Columbus Citizens Committee and their guests through you who have succeeded your distinguished father as its president. The epic of modern freedom began when the citizen of Genoa and the men he led made the first landfall in the Western Hemisphere. They had done more than discover a new world. Their discovery opened the door to millions of the oppressed and unfortunate who found in a new world such freedom and opportunity as had never existed before. This was the most important consequence of the voyages of Christopher Columbus, Admiral of the Ocean Sea. It is accordingly most fitting that we cherish the memory of this great Italian navigator and recall his courage, his vision, his faith, his tenacity. Columbus Day is also an occasion for recalling with honor the traditional friendship that has existed between our people and the people of the country which gave birth to Columbus. Throughout the decades, this friendship has been strengthened by our common ideals of liberty and progress. The civilized world rejoiced when the Italian people won their latest single victory over the forces of tyranny. Their defeat of the Communists in the historic free election of 1948 demonstrated beyond doubt their determination to preserve their liberties. Today, they are partners in the North Atlantic pact, an instrument of defense against those who threaten the peace of the world. We are fortunate indeed that Italy is today a bulwark of freedom in the Mediterranean. Columbus Day gives us also an opportunity to recall the magnificent contributions to the building of our country by Americans of Italian origin. Their culture and their industry have been of incalculable benefits to us all. Their patriotism has been proved by their participation in all the wars we have fought for the preservation of our liberties since the birth of our country. And today, in great numbers, they are hierarchically fighting for the cause of freedom in far-off Korea. My hearty congratulations to the members of the Columbus Citizens Committee upon their inspiring efforts to make Columbus Day a truly American celebration in which all Americans, regardless of national origin, are proud to join. Sincerely yours, Thomas E. Dewey. And a cablegram from Italy. Generoso Pope, Jr. Please accept my hearty good wishes on the occasion of the Columbus Day dinner as fitting tribute to the great discoverer who was the first to open friendly communication between the two hemispheres. My only regret is not to be present with you and your distinguished guest this evening, James Clement Dunn, U.S. Ambassador to Italy. We have just received the telephone message of congratulations and best wishes to all present. We'll see you at the parade tomorrow. Walter A. Lynch. And now, it is an honor for me at this time to introduce to you the Under-Secretary of the Treasury and the Deputy Secretary of National Activity of Parliament. The Deputy Secretary of Congress, Dean W.S. Ambassador to the Treasury and the Secretary of Congress, the Secretary of Congress, we have just received the telephone message of congratulations and best wishes to all present. We'll see you at the parade tomorrow. Walter A. Lynch. And now, it is an honor for me at this time to introduce to you the Under-Secretary of the Treasury of the Treasury, to introduce to you the Under Secretary of the Treasurer, the Honorable Edward H. Foley, Jr., who will present to Gene Pope, Jr. the Distinguished Service Certificate awarded by our government to his beloved father for the services which he rendered to his adopted country during the war years. Mr. Foley. Mr. Chairman, Ambassador Tarkeani, Madam Tarkeani, Senator Lehman, Senator Ives, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I am delighted to be here on the occasion of this splendid dinner. I know of the fine accomplishments of this Italian-American organization, for in addition to being a native New Yorker, I spent 14 months in Italy during the recent war. I know that in peace and in war, you have been a source of great strength to this nation of ours and that the Columbus Citizens Committee, since its very foundation, has made a great contribution to the progress of our times. In 1451, almost 500 years ago, a baby was born of humble parentage in the city of Genoa. As a youth, he poured wine in his father's tavern, heard the legends of the sea from the lips of hardy mariners, and dreamed of how he would someday sail beyond the pillars of Hercules, adventuring after the secrets of the mythical enchanted islands. Named Christopher for the patron saint of travelers, this young Italian became a seafarer, acquired a knowledge of navigation, and collected a large library of manuscripts and maps that dealt with the possibility of unknown lands beyond those that were known. He drifted to England and Portugal and France and Spain, trying to interest capital for outfitting of ships for a voyage of discovery. Finally, in 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain agreed to furnish ships and men for the voyage. And on October 12 of that year, after weeks of sailing on uncharted seas, Christopher Columbus discovered the new world. Thus did a man of simple Italian origin write the first chapter in our national history. And down through the centuries that have passed since then, tens of thousands of other men and women of Italian birth have voyaged to the new world, lending their strength and genius to the development of this great nation, helping to write the American story. They have dignified the arts and sciences. They have become leaders in business and industry. And they have filled many of the highest public offices. They have succeeded well in every human endeavor. I come here tonight as the representative of the Secretary of the Treasury to pay tribute to a deceased chairman of the Columbus Citizens Committee who achieved unusual stature here in this great city. Generoso Pope, known as Gene to his thousands of friends, all over this nation, like Columbus, was born in Italy in humble circumstances. He came to America in his early youth where he surmounted the difficulties of a new language and new customs. He amassed a fortune, became a noted publisher, a prominent figure in business and industry, a leader in the religious, civic, and political life of his nation and state and city. Gene Pope lent his fine mind, his generous heart, and his abundant energy to many public causes. And under his guidance, the newspaper Il Progresso became the country's outstanding Italian language publication. During the United States savings bond campaigns of the defense and war periods, Mr. Pope volunteered his services to the Treasury Department and in the seventh war loan acted as chairman of the Italian-American Committee, which oversold its quota by many millions of dollars. Until his untimely death last April, he remained a steadfast friend of the savings bond program and his newspaper, under the able guidance of his son, has continued its effective support of the Treasury's efforts. In recognition of the late Mr. Pope's great contribution to this program of public service, the sale of United States savings bonds, the Treasury's Distinguished Service Citation is being posthumously awarded. Secretary Snyder, who found it impossible to be with us tonight, has asked that this symbol of a nation's gratitude be presented by me to Generoso Pope Jr., who follows in his distinguished father's footsteps, both as publisher of Il Progresso and as chairman of the Columbus Citizens Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Gene, this is the highest civilian award in the power of the Secretary of the Treasury to bestow, and it carries with it the full admiration and respect of the Department for this great man, your beloved father, who worked unceasingly for the betterment of his adopted land. It gives me great pleasure to present to you on behalf of your distinguished father the Treasury's Distinguished Service Citation. Citation. I have a long one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Foley. It is both an honor and a pleasure not to introduce to you because you all know him, but rather to present to you the Toastmaster of the evening, a young man who has manifested that he has both the caliber and the capacity to follow in his father's footsteps and who has evinced an aptitude and an energy befitting the splendid stewardship of his illustrious father, that he will carry on to success and will exemplify the sterling character and marvelous achievements of his dad is, I am sure, your genuine wish as well as mine. Ladies and gentlemen, I give to you your Toastmaster, the president of the Columbus Citizens Committee, Genaroza Pope, Jr. Dean, take off. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Minetti, Mr. Harriman, Your Excellency Ambassador Tarkiani, Senator Rives, Senator Lehman, Secretary Foley, General Goldstein, Acting Mayor Impeletteri, Judge Ferdinand Pecora, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen. No occasion could be more appropriate for the presentation of this award for my late father than this dinner, which is part of the celebration of Columbus Day, which was so dear to his heart. We are happy indeed to know that the government of the United States saw fit to reward his efforts during the war years. And I am particularly grateful to you, Secretary Foley, for your kind and generous expression. This is a magnificent gathering of all people, regardless of race, color, or creed, which is significant of the true meaning of the Columbus Day celebration. As in the past, the theme of this year's celebration is Americans All. When I say Americans All, I mean that all of us should take at least one day a year to express our feelings of pride to be part of this great country. I am sure that all of you here tonight are happy to call yourselves Americans. Here in this country, we have our liberty, the freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and we can worship God as we choose. But we also have a great responsibility. Today, the people of the world look upon the United States as a symbol of freedom. And it is up to all of us to see to it that to free people all over the world, it will be free forever. What better way have we to ensure the freedom of this great country of ours than by preparing the youngsters of today who will be the men and women of tomorrow through our great system of education. Education is the only weapon we have to fight the elements which would change our freedom into slavery. Unfortunately, education is denied many youngsters of today who have the will and the ambition to continue their studies. As in the past, the proceeds of tonight's dinner and journal will be used to provide scholarships for children in our high schools who might not otherwise have an opportunity to continue their study. These children are selected by the Board of Education and the Departments of Education of the Archdiocese of New York and Brooklyn on the basis of their needs and of their scholastic attainment. As you know, the Board of Directors of the Columbus Citizens Committee decided to name these scholarships the Generoso Pope Scholarship Awards as a living memorial to the man who made them possible. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of you should be proud that you have been here. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that you have had a part in reinforcing the foundation of our great democracy. And now, I am very happy to present to you the chairman of the Souvenir Journal Committee, who has done a great job in giving us the largest journal in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Anthony Masciarelli. Reverend Clergy, Your Excellency, Honored Guests and Friends. As chairman of our journal committee for this year's Columbus Day celebration, I would first like to express my sincere gratitude for this opportunity to work in a fine cause. Many thanks should also go to the members of my committee who are tireless in their efforts to make the 1950 drive the success it has become. Finally, this is my chance to mention my appreciation to the very many individuals who thought enough of this endeavor to participate, from those who have taken pages in the journal and to the thousands who gave what they could afford in the form of boosters. Incidentally, it is very interesting to look back and note the manner in which our booster lists came into being. Before last year, the scholarship fund was supported by the proceeds of our dinner and journal. However, we discovered that in this process, we were necessarily passing over a tremendous number of persons who were warmly sympathetic towards our program, but whose ability to contribute was extremely limited. We thought that we might work out that problem through the establishment of booster lists, and the response was most gratifying. Not only did so many people exhibit a satisfying eagerness to have their dollars play some part, but many who could not afford more actually went to the trouble of joining their quarters in order to get a dollar booster on the journal list. Those of you who have engaged in fundraising efforts will have no difficulty in understanding the pleasant implications of this rather unusual situation. I think it shows clearly the genuine feeling which these people have for our campaign and their honest regard for its aim. And it has made the tired members of the general committee much happier. I have enjoyed being part of the Columbus Citizens Committee. I hope that the opportunity to work along with the wonderful people I have known in this group will continue to be mine for many years to come. There are no doubt in my mind regarding the future of either the celebration or the scholarship award, for our highly successful past is our guarantee of even bigger years to come. I thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Maciarelli. And now it is a privilege to present to you a great Senator of the United States who has on many occasions demonstrated his affection and interest in the work of this committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the senior United States Senator from New York, the Honorable Irving Ives. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Clergy, Your Excellency Ambassador Tarkiani, Mr. Harriman, my colleague Senator Lehman, Attorney General Goldstein, Acting Mayor of Pelletieri. I'm not going to carry it one further at the moment. I'll just say now, other distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I am proud to join with you tonight in commemorating the 458th anniversary of the discovery of America by that very great Italian, Christopher Columbus. Many times in our nation's development, we have had urgent occasion to draw upon the example and achievement of Columbus. So today, as America forges her leadership in the world, it behooves us to look beyond our horizons with the same courage and tenacity of purpose with which Columbus himself sought out the new world. The traditions of democracy, which we as a nation have upheld through sacrifice and bloodshed, are increasingly menaced today by the red forces of enslavement. As never before in our history, this post-war period has truly been for us a time demanding the courage and perseverance so truly exemplified by Columbus. In meeting it, we are rededicating ourselves to the faith that all men shall have equal opportunity in a free society and that the cherished principles of liberty and justice shall prevail at home and throughout the world. For these things we have fought in the past. For these things we are fighting today and will, with God's help, continue to fight whenever and wherever tyranny would attempt to enslave free men. Compounding this menace of the modern age is a treacherous force which we sometimes blandly refer to as communist propaganda. Let us not be deluded. America today is engaged in a gigantic campaign of truth against communist lies. It is a struggle to gain and reaffirm man's faith in his fellow man. It is perhaps the biggest prize the men in the Kremlin are aiming at and one for which they spare themselves no effort, however great. For theirs, theirs is a program of dividing the free world against itself, of turning brother against brother, of conquest and subjugation. They seek and will continue to seek to do this by distortion, by intrigue, by false hope and false promise of peace. These nefarious tactics have thus far been successfully opposed by free men the world over. And I am certain they will continue to be exposed. We can point proudly to the many times since the end of World War II that communist lies have been rejected. None, surely, is a better example than the overwhelming defeat handed the communists in the Italian election of 1948. Neither Mr. Tagliati nor even Mr. Stalin is going to forget that one for a long time to come. And as we stood firm in Europe, the communists turned to Asia. There they have now bared themselves as true aggressors. It is not unexpected that tomorrow they may seek again to provoke satellite aggression in Europe. For the communist animal dies hard and imposes upon us the need for continual vigilance and ever-strong defense. The fight for truth is the modern crusade. In this great endeavor, no small part is being played by the Columbus Citizens Committee. The scholarships which the committee makes possible each year to a substantial number of our worthy youth in effect sharpen the broad blade of our defense through education in truth. To advance the truth is to advance the cause of man's freedom. And I am certain that this was the motivating principle which moved the late, revered Generoso Pope in his inspired leadership in this field and which today is carried on so admirably by his sons. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Because our kinfolk in Italy, even as we Americans of Italian birth or origin, are a God-fearing people, we Americans of Italian ancestry are proud of our heritage, of our people's contributions to the arts and sciences, to medicine, to music, literature and painting, to government and to religion. Whether we be Catholics or not, I think we can all agree that the Eternal City has given our troubled modern world a succession of great pontiffs and spiritual leaders, from Leo XIII to Pius XII, who have always been unfaltering princes of peace and foes of materialism and communism. They have kept alive in men's hearts the whisperings of hope that he who rules us all will yet heed our prayers for peace among all peoples and all nations. We Americans of Italian birth have much to be grateful for on this Columbus Day. as our joyous legions march down Fifth Avenue to the tunes of martial music in honor of Christopher Columbus. And I am happy to tell you tonight that I will be one of those marching men in the legions at the head of the city departments. with our nation's help Italy has fought off communism and is climbing the hard road back to a stable economy and free, stable self-government. With our nation's help Italy will resume its rightful place in the family of nations aligned against aggression and despotism and dedicated to liberty equality and freedom. On this Columbus Day we Americans of Italian birth give thanks to the Almighty for the blessings he has bestowed on our land beacon lights in the new world for free men everywhere. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Mayor Impelitari. Now it is my privilege to present to you the great representative of the Republic of Italy to the United States His Excellency Ambassador Alberto Tarcchiani. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To be brief I will begin with only ladies and gentlemen. Once more tonight I have the honor and the pleasure to be among you in this solemn commemoration of the Columbus Day which has become a national holiday by a recent by a recent and very wise decision of President Truman for this too we must thank him heartily. On this occasion it is my duty in the first place to recall that a year ago I was sitting at the side of our late chairman Generoso Pope who so suddenly left us when he was reaching the apex of his public and private activity and of his success in both fields. Generoso Pope was for many years the constant and passionate inspirer the promoter and faithful supporter of this worthy manifestation of the common feelings ideals interests and aims that so closely unite the Italian and American people and use for it all the force of his ardent art and of his vast influence so that we feel his presence here among us tonight and associate his name with the success of this noble celebration we have here the presence of Mrs. Pope and the three sons of him who are doing so well for the common interest and for the Columbus celebration to commemorate periodically the so legendary and yet so concrete figure of Christopher Columbus means not only to praise the vision the courage the heroism of the Italian navigator but also to strongly reaffer that new period has begun in the history of mankind a new era which is growing powerfully and glorious since the discovery of America even though Columbus himself never imagined not even in his most daring dreams the enormous contribution that he was bringing to the evolution and the metamorphosis of the world in this very year and particularly in the last few months the decisive supreme importance of the American factor had a sudden formidable confirmation the assistance and leadership of the United States in the world's affairs is now not only omitted but requested when nations already troubled by economic and political problems and political problems are also under the menace of aggression by those who want to reduce all of us to a totalitarian condition of misery and slavery and slavery in this chaotic and very dangerous phase of our time the generous and precious friendship of the United States within and without the Atlantic treaty is for Italy the most solid assurance of security of rearmament for a legitimate defense of continuation for the strengthening of the national economic and social structure even more than other sister nations Italy has good reasons to turn her grateful thoughts to Columbus the great protagonist of one of the epoch-mated enterprises in the struggle against natural adversities and against malicious human skepticism in fact the great Genoese opened the way to Europeans of all races who established on this continent the basis for a mighty triumphant Christian and democratic civilization he was then not only a gallant Italian sailor a devout believer and a man of science he was also the forerunner of a prodigial expansion of life and progress across the land and the tame oceans which became for the first time ways of communication and not abysses of separation among men Italy reaffirms again with modernly pride her everlasting admiration and gratitude towards Columbus her reiterates her pledge of firm solidarity and active fraternity with the American people and with the American people Thank you Ambassador Tarkiani Thank you Ambassador Tarkiani Now ladies and gentlemen I know that you all have a lot to talk about but I also think that it can wait till the end of our speaking program Most of us here tonight are interested in hearing what our speakers have to say and I can assure you that there are very few to come and now it is a privilege to present as our next speaker a familiar figure to our Columbus Day celebrations He has served as chairman of the board of directors of this organization since its inception and has always lent a guiding hand to all our activities Ladies and gentlemen the Honorable Ferdinand Pecora you Congratulations Means the éléments and the ichelaround and the Mr. Toastmaster, Reverend Gentlemen, Your Excellency Ambassador Tarkiani, many distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and my friends. As I look over this assemblage from this admirable point of vantage, there is brought home to my mind the opening lines of that great poem by Lord Byron called The Night Before Waterloo. And I'm strongly tempted, very strongly tempted, to paraphrase those opening lines in this fashion. There was a sound of revelry by night, and America's capital had gathered here her beauty and her chivalry, and bright delights shone o'er fair women and brave men. But I am sure that all of the many resplendent ladies whom I am facing now will not think that I slight their presence if I single out just one and paid to her, for myself and for all of you, a tribute of respect to the charming, gracious, and sweet lady who through all the years of the adult life of our departed leader gave him strength and sustenance and inspiration with the constancy of her love and attention. I refer, of course, to Mrs. Catherine Pope. Thank you. Tonight we gather again in this magnificent banquet hall to commemorate the achievement of the great Italian navigator who 458 years ago burst the ocean's bars and flung open the gates of America. Columbus's discovery is the greatest recorded in history. It marks the dawn of the modern world. Probably no single adventure in the ageless story of mankind has had such a vital influence on the progress of civilization as that wondrous achievement of the Admiral of the Ocean. And for two reasons. First, because it disclosed a new world rich in natural resources and treasure which have since been developed for the benefit of the entire world. and secondly, because there was eventually established here a new form of government based upon the eternal truth that all men are created equal. Columbus's discovery gave to the world an immense haven where millions have found refuge from persecution both religious and political. the pioneers who came here struggled against tremendous difficulties but they were undaunted by their handicap and by uniting their hardy spirit and loyalty with those of the native bond they produced the miracle which stands before the world today as our peerless America. in this glorious fellowship of people of every race, color and creed the sons of Italy have played a noble and important part indeed. We can never adequately tell the story of how the countrymen of Columbus helped develop our great country. We take a justifiable pride as we recall how gallantly the people of Italy have fought for the cause of liberty. Her exploits as a co-belligerent with the allies in World War II was signally praised by all of the allied war commanders. America is appreciative too of the contribution to the cause of liberty by her valiant sons of Italian blood. Let me cite one figure to remind us of their wholehearted devotion to the land of their adoption. While Americans of Italian origin constitute only 4% of the total population of the United States, yet in World War II the Americans of Italian origin have fought in all the wars for the preservation of our freedom since the very birth of our country. And even today, they are shedding their blood in far-off Korea, shoulder to shoulder with their buddies of every other racial strain, national origin and creed. The immigrants that came here from Italy helped our country in its broad strides of development. Their industry and bronze aided in the construction of our great railroads, our tunnels and skyscrapers. Through their honest toil, they helped fashion our highways and bridges and industrial plants. The vast cultural and spiritual contributions by those of Italian blood to our civilization, its arts, sciences and professions are everywhere evident. It is easy on occasions like this to remember the genius of such creative minds as Galileo, Da Vinci, Verdi, Puccini, Michelangelo and Marconi. These cultural giants fill us with pardonable pride for they are part of our inspiring heritage. But while we bow in respect before their brilliant accomplishments, we soberly turn our thoughts to the Italy across the seas, which today is a bulwark of freedom for Western civilization. Italy was the first country in Europe since World War II to show the world how a free people in a democratic election could repudiate that hideous ideology called communism, which even now rears the world. It's ugly head and constitutes the greatest menace to liberty everywhere. In that historic election of April 1948, the people of Italy, with their ballots, gave communism its first resounding defeat and gave a greater confidence to all the democratic nations. When America's democracy was challenged in World Wars I and II, her sons rallied to its colors from every city and hamlet. They came from its factories and its farms, from its palaces and its penimums, rich and poor, native-born and foreign-born, black and white, Jew and Christian, Catholic and Protestant, but Americans all. They worked and fought and died to preserve that democracy. Their unity of spirit and loyalty won the victories of war. That same unity and loyalty will win the no less important victories of peace. He who would divide our people into class against class, race against race, and creed against creed, is a traitor to America's democracy. And that democracy is again being challenged throughout the world, by the masters who live in the Kremlin. They proclaim that democracy and communism cannot live side by side in this world. I am bitterly opposed to everything that communism stands for, but I agree with them in that one statement that democracy and communism cannot live together in this world. And I insist that the survivor of the two must be democracy. And it will be, my friends, if we all cling with the greatest devotion to those ideals of liberty and equality, which have made democracy the most progressive political boss that mankind has ever known. Thank you, Judge Pecora. Thank you, Judge Pecora. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is my distinct privilege to present as our principal speaker, representing the President of the United States, the Special Assistant to the President, the Honorable W. Averill Harriman. Mr. Chairman, honored guests, members of that fine family of Generoso Pope, and my friends of the City of New York. I suppose it's hard for you, who have lived here constantly, to recognize the joy of a citizen of New York City to come back to a gathering of this kind after having spent so many years overseas. And therefore, I am very grateful to you, Pope, for giving me this opportunity. This morning, when I saw President Truman, he asked me to bring to you his personal greetings to tell you that it would have given him great pleasure if he could have been with you tonight. I'm sure that all of us here want to join in wishing him Godspeed on his journey and every success in his arduous endeavors. Now, being the twelfth and the last speaker on this platform, I'm gradually getting the impression that we are here tonight to pay tribute to a great Italian by the name of Christopher Columbus. I'm glad to have you. But I would like to have you consider what is his special significance to us at this time in our history. Now, the times in which he lived were most stirring and turbulent. It was during the period when the Renaissance was in full bloom. All forms of expression were finding an outlet. There was an outpouring of human energy and achievement that had never known before, been known before in history. There was a new spirit that was sweeping the world. Our modern civilization, in fact, has grown from that Renaissance. And in all of this, it is very interesting and very significant that it was the great men of Italy that led the way and gave the inspiration to this great human development. And it is, therefore, by no means un-understandable that the great men of Italy today are showing the way in many forms of human endeavor. But among those great Italians of that generation, Columbus had a unique position. He was one of the first men of the world who had a global concept. And, in fact, it is fair to say that he was one of the first men in the world that began fighting isolationism. And we still have that fight before us today. He looked beyond the confines of his own country and beyond the confines of the Mediterranean and of Europe. And when he went out to prove his convictions, he was surrounded by doubts and almost insuperable difficulties. But Columbus was a man of determination and of courage and above all of faith. And it was his faith that changed the course of history. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are today at a turning point when our faith can change the course of history if we show the same kind of determination. And, therefore, there is a lesson for us today. Once again, we are living in a stirring and turbulent age. Once again, we are witnessing developments of great importance, great achievement in human development, in science and in energy, production. And perhaps these are, of course, the greatest that the world has ever seen. But in spite of all that, we have one main objective, which is far nobler and far greater and far more important than any that has gone before. And that is that we are engaged in a search for peace, in a discovery of the way that we can find the road to peace. Now, the thoughts of all of us turn to peace. The desire of all of us is for peace, for the search for peace. We know how Italy has been affected by war and by peace. Previous speakers have spoken and have told you of the great achievements that the Italian people have done since the end of this last devastating war. Now, they haven't said one thing which I believe is of vital importance. And that is that in this election, which you've heard tonight and which you all know about, it wasn't only that Italy was saved from the communist imperialist aggression. It was that the whole of Europe was saved by the bravery and determination of the Italian people. Now, I know of what I speak because I have been in Europe eight years of the past ten, during and since the war. And I saw the sweep of the aggression that came from the Kremlin marching across Europe. And it was the Italian people who were the first ones to stand up against it. And I, for one, admire them and will be grateful for them for this great achievement. And if they had folded, as did others in the East and as did the unfortunate people from Czechoslovakia, we would have well have seen that march go to the Atlantic. Now, I believe here tonight that we should per pop faire of that spirit and that energy which this kindly and pourtant people bring in at theС forte on the earth and also stands. to that spirit and that energy which this kindly and peaceful and generous people have shown during the past five years. The difficulties still confront Italy, but if only we can maintain peace, I have confidence that Italy will again blossom forth in a new renaissance. And what is true of Italy is true of other free peoples. But now, Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, let me make it very plain that there is no easy or single road to a peaceful world. To gain our objective, to achieve our goal, we must proceed on a wide front. We must strive to eliminate those conditions which are the source of war. And we must foster those conditions which contribute to peace. Now, let's analyze a few of them. It is too late this evening to go into too much detail. But certainly, one of the first and most important is that we must continue to work with other nations to further and strengthen the authority and effectiveness of the United States. And that is just what the American people are supporting. And your representatives of both parties are doing in this city at the present time. And as has been said before, we must give the Italian people the opportunity to join the United Nations and to contribute so much as they can to this great work. for those cities first and foremost, we must- believe that they are good for the vastitude and the potential for happiness and Jenkins. Because we must say thank you to the expanse of monks, and the steps of Jesus Christ come through this past year to the healths we must read for people who have decided to meet the possible possible side.ismic says the long-term campus process came through .