On the historic council chamber in City Hall, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, will tender the full civilities of the city today to His Excellency Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, President of the Republic of Chile. On this very magnificent spring day, the really first warm, pleasant day we've had, let us hope that it is significant in the fact that the warmth of feeling between the two hemispheres, north and south of the Americas, will be very much improved and brought into closer focus by the visit today of the President of Chile. The Honorable John A. Coleman is Acting Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception, and every arrangement has been made to make every possible gesture of dignity and friendliness on the occasion of the President's visit today. The usual crowd is in front of City Hall, and of course the noonday at this time in New York City always means a tremendous number of people are out of their buildings and out of their offices, and one of the great privileges of being adjacent to the historic City Hall here in New York is to participate in these receptions, which the Mayor tenders to distinguish visitors as they come to our city. The band of the Department of Sanitation, Maestro Celebrate Conducting, is furnishing the music inside the Council Chamber, and our own Police Glee Club under Sergeant Edward Dillon is the vocal feature of the reception. And now there are the fanfares which welcome the President. In just a few moments, we'll see the familiar face of the Mayor of the City of New York conducting his guest, the President of Chile, into the Council Chamber here in City Hall. The ladies' hats certainly reflect the springtime because I never saw so many vivid and so many beautifully blended colors as the ladies are wearing here in City Hall today. And we're just waiting anxiously now for the first view of the Mayor as he conducts the President of Chile into the Council Chamber here in City Hall. Certainly the colonial proportions of this building, their true beauty, lend themselves very much to the formality and prodigal of the reception of a distinguished dignitary, especially when we recognize and receive the head of a great nation here in our wonder city, New York. From the porch of City Hall, I wonder how many realize that almost within view of that vista to the tip end of Manhattan, where the parade today started to the President of Chile, really began the United States of America. Because down there at the tip end of Manhattan, which is now Baffrey Park, and the adjacent territory there is the early Dutch settlement, which really had the first tangible activity of a settlement creating a would-be and growing nation here in these United States. And then finally, of course, we know that the United States grew from those early beginnings, and it was no time at all until just outside the wall of the early Dutch settlement at Nassau and Wall Street, the President of the United States, George Washington, took the oath of office and asserted for all time that one government, at least in the world, recognized man's inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And with the founding of these 13 colonies, the original United States, one of the greatest governments anywhere in the world was formulated for the good and benefit of all mankind, as it has turned out, of course, because the concept there asserted has since been the goal and the aim of all governments and all people, to represent those people and bring as much as possible within the borders of those nations, the life and happiness and the pursuit of that happiness that we say is man's own right. The Constitution, one of the greatest documents ever conceived, conceived spiritually, and taking its inspiration from God himself, asserts this right. And on this foundation, we have seen all these things transpire. The amazing thing when these visitors come to our own United States here, and particularly to New York City, they're always very much amazed at the simplicity and the directness of the approach to matters of importance. The friendliness of the crowd and the facility with which people move around freely. And while dignity is preserved, no amount of friendliness or freedom of movement is sacrificed in the dignified reception to the guest. It is then we get some idea of the Congress of Men, the Congress of Nations, and the Brotherhood of Man. There will be a splendid review after this reception in the Aldermanic Chamber. I beg your pardon, I'm going back. I'm thinking more of history than I am of fact. I'm talking about the Dutch settlement, and I think of Alderman. It's now the Council, as you know. Well, here in the Council Chamber itself, a very, very beautiful room. Right across from me is that wonderful portrait of Lafayette, valued at $350,000, that was painted by one of the outstanding men of communications, the inventor of the telegraph, Mr. Morse. It does seem amazing that a man could have two such diametrically opposite talents and have them so great and in such great abundance. Because the telegraph itself was a great development, as radio telegraphy was later on. And Lafayette himself said, and we can't take it from any better authority, that Mr. Morse's portrait of him was one of the finest and most like life of any that he had ever had painted by any artist. He stands there in his dark brown coat, rather deep yellow trousers, in a very interesting background that Mr. Morse has created, that is indicative of the time that Lafayette visited here. And now here's our guest, and there's the applause. And the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, is again smilingly the host to His Excellency Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, President of the Republic of Chile. And now they're taking their place on the rostrum here, and in just a few moments, we'll have the formalities as Mr. Coleman's voice is heard over the microphones. Mr. John A. Coleman is acting chairman of the mayor's committee of reception. Just a moment now for personal introductions. The photographers are looking very alert. They never miss a trick. It's a good thing they don't, because when we go back into the morgues, as we call the photograph files of the press, when we go back into these files, we're able to recapture these events. And you know, to those of us who are in them from year to year, it's quite surprising, the faces we recognize, and the facts that check, as we look at these pictures, that the photographers are so absolutely meticulous, demanding, and sure to get. And God bless them for it, because we have an impeccable record, because of their splendid efforts. They don't think very much of prodigal, because when everybody is bowing and polite, they say, take off your hat, shake hands, smile. And of course, the guest, no matter how distinguished he or she may be, realizes it's a record of history. They're doing a job. They're doing a wonderful job. And they haven't time for too much formality, because the pace of the present-day world means, get results, and we'll rest in the midst of those grand achievements. Well, now, Mr. Coleman is just making a few necessary presentations. He's assembling his guests around the mayor here on the rostrum in the council chair. And now the cameramen are having their innings. They're holding up everything for a moment, but that's important. And these flashes of lightning are quite interesting, as we catch glimpses of those faces, temporarily lighted by the brilliance of the flash. Now, Mr. Coleman is getting ready to make the introductions. If the photographers will let him, they're still calling out orders. And, well, I say orders, you know what I mean. They want to get a picture that will thoroughly portray the friendliness, the joy, and the pleasure of this magnificent spring day, when the Republic of Chile and the Republic of the United States of America meet here in historic City Hall, a few blocks from where it all began at the corner of Nassau and Wall Street, when George Washington was inaugurated as president. And don't forget you're invited to the inaugural ceremonies of George Washington April 28th, Friday, at the same spot. The 30th is the actual date, but coming on a Sunday as it does, it has been moved up to Friday the 28th. Your Excellency, Mr. Mayor. And now Mr. Coleman has just addressed the mayor. The reception this morning will open with the national anthem of Chile by the Department of Sanitation Band, and will be followed by the Star Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. Gentlemen. Now, here we are. Our 5th hymn timeuda! We'll be with you, Mr. Hammond! The Queen of the Champions reminiscent of the Charge회 from the State of beide The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Mr. John A. Coleman The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Honorable Gabriel Gonzalez Videla and Mrs. Videla. Your Excellency, the President of Chile, Mrs. Gonzalez, distinguished visitors, rarely does it happen that we are honored such as we are today. As mayor of this city of more than 8 million people, I am highly honored to extend to our most distinguished visitor, President Gabriel Gonzalez Videla of Chile, a warm and cordial welcome to the capital of the world, the home of the United Nations, which he helped to organize. Mr. President and Madame, this welcome includes the members of your family who also honor us today. The visit of our eminent friend further solidifies the traditional firm friendship which exists between this great democracy of North America and the great democracy of Chile. President Gonzalez is well acquainted with this nation and its people, and he knows how sincere we are in our efforts to attain world peace. In fact, he participated in the organization of the United Nations at the memorable conference of San Francisco in 1945. His nation and ours stand shoulder to shoulder in the cause of freedom and democracy, and the firm policy of his country is one of friendship and solidarity with the United States on the basis of equal sovereignty. President Gonzalez comes to us as a good neighbor who recognizes that his country and ours have a vital common interest. Our interest is that the nations of the Americas be free, prosperous, and united against aggression from within and without the vast boundaries of our hemisphere. Like all good friends, President Gonzalez is visiting our home. He will talk to the people and with the official families of this and other cities. He will visit our great power plant at the Tennessee Valley, and other developments that have made a fuller life for the citizens of our country. He will learn of our achievements and of our problems, too. He will find many a common basis on which knowledge can be exchanged to help his country and ours as well. Mr. President, I know you are going to be visiting with us for some days to come. I want you to know, sir, that our citizens join with me in the hope that your stay in our midst will be so happy and memorable that you will carry back to your country the knowledge and the assurance that we are truly not only good neighbors, but they're brothers in the common cause, freedom, equality, and democracy. Thank you. Mr. President, I have the privilege, sir, of presenting to you, as an expression of our sentiments in this city, the following certificate. The office of the mayor of the city of New York. Know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, president of the Republican Republic of Chile, whose public benefactions in serving his nation and the course of world peace as statesman, diplomat, and finally as president and as a member of the Chilean delegation to the great conference of San Francisco, which carved the foundation stone of the United Nations, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. In witness whereof I have had the honor to sign, and now, Mr. President, the honor to present it to you, sir, and to present you, not only to those who are in this historic room, but to the people of the city of New York, who welcome you with all their hearts. Thank you. Thank you very much. The mayor of the city of New York has just presented the beautifully engraved scroll to his excellency Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, and the cameramen are insisting that he hold it. The mayor is now holding it quite objectively for the cameras, and the president of Chile is smiling. The mayor is very, very happy indeed. The scroll itself presents a very beautiful sight. Even from this distance, we can make out the gold seals and the colors, and the cameramen are having a real holiday in there taking pictures. So you see, if you're not here, you'll see it all in your papers. The mayor. His excellency, the president. although everyone knows when we hear from the Grandmaster's grave that he can wear shirts the American strap. Here we can thank you very much. Mr. Alcatraz and Monsieur Manolos. Mr. Alcatraz, Mr. Bob Monge,idianah is concerned that gustaría持't be seated. Mr. Alcatrazt and Mr. 되는or you are clearly vaccinated Con múltiples emociones recibo la caluroso bienvenida de la Ciudad de Nueva York. Comprendo que tanto las palabras tan amables del señor Alcalde, como la acogida que me dispensan, que me han dispensado en este momento los habitantes de esta metrópoli, van dirigidas al representante de un pueblo que siente y practica los ideales democráticos que han hecho grande y respetada a esta gran nación de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica. A Nueva York llegaron en todas las épocas los hombres que huían de la opresión y la tiranía en tierras extrañas. Así, en esta magnífica ciudad, que es hoy día la capital del mundo y la capital de las Naciones Unidas, se funden como en un crisol diversas razas, diversas lenguas, diversas ideologías religiosas. También en mi país, señor Alcalde, ha constituido a través de su historia un refugio para quienes buscaban tranquilidad y libertad espiritual. Esta característica democrática de mi pueblo lo ha llevado a entonar en el himno de nuestra canción nacional, que Chile, la tumba, será de los libres o el asilo contra la opresión. Vos, señor Alcalde, personificáis la vitalidad de esta democracia, la igualdad de oportunidades que ofrece para que todos los hombres que laboran por su grandeza obtengan el justo reconocimiento de sus esfuerzos. Venido de tierra extranjera, habéis llegado a la dirección de la más grande ciudad del mundo. Quisiera esta oportunidad de recordar que también un hombre de origen irlandés dejó huellas profundas en la historia de mi patria. El libertador de mi país, el primer jefe que tuvo la República de Chile, fue Bernardo O'Higgins. Habéis hecho mención, señor Alcalde, del rol que me ocupo desarrollar como delegado de Chile en la Conferencia de San Francisco. Hoy, como gobernante de una nación democrática, siento el legítimo orgullo de haber sido uno de los firmantes de la Carta de las Naciones Unidas. Todos los esfuerzos de Chile, así como los de la gran nación norteamericana, están consagrados al reabustecimiento de la Organización de Naciones Unidas que constituye para nosotros la única y la última esperanza de alejar al mundo del flagelo de una nueva guerra. Agradezco, señor Alcalde, vuestras cálidas palabras y de vivo corazón tributo mi gratitud y mi admiración a los ciudadanos de esta ciudad extraordinaria. Quiero que sepáis que el pueblo de Chile, que es su presidente, que en ellos tenéis un firme y leal defensor de los postulados democráticos, que son la base indispensable de una vida digna, de una vida noble, de una vida próspera y al mismo tiempo de una vida absolutamente libre para nuestro espíritu y también para todos aquellos individuos que perseguidos en otras tierras buscan en los Estados Unidos, como han buscado en Chile, estos ideales de justicia y de libertad. We have just heard the voice of His Excellency Gabriel González Videla replying to the mayor. Now we'll have a translation. I have the honor to present the Undersecretary of State of the Republic of Chile, the Honorable Manuel Troco, who will interpret the remarks of his excellence. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, with a great variety of emotions, I receive this warm welcome of the city of New York. I realize that all the words spoken by the mayor and the welcome of the people of this great city are directed toward the representative of a people that feel and practice the democratic ideals which make your country great and highly respected. To New York have come in all periods of history men who were escaping tyrannical oppression in foreign lands. Thus, in this magnificent city, which is today the capital of the United Nations, are fused together different races, languages, and religious faiths. my country, Mr. Mayor, has also been through history a refuge for those seeking peace and spiritual freedom. This democratic characteristic of my country has inspired its people to say in the words of our national anthem that Chile shall be a shelter against oppression or the grave of the free. You, Mr. O'Dwyer, personify the vitality of this democracy, the equality of opportunities offered in order that all men working for its greatness may obtain due recognition for their efforts. Coming from a foreign land, you are now at the head of the greatest city in the world. On this occasion, I would like to recall the fact that also a man of Irish origin left a deep imprint on the history of my country, the liberator of Chile. The first chief of the republic was Bernardo O'Higgins. You have referred, Mr. Mayor, to my role as a delegate of Chile to the Conference of San Francisco. Today, as president of a democratic country, I feel proud of having been one of the signers of the Charter of the United Nations. All the efforts of my government, as well as those of your great nation, are consecrated to the strengthening of the organization of the United Nations, which constitute for us the only hope of wiping out of the world the curse of war. I thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your kind words, and from the bottom of my heart, I pay homage of gratitude and admiration to the people of this magnificent city. I wish you to know that in my country and in its president, you have a staunch defender of the democratic principles which are the inescapable foundation for a life of dignity and freedom. The Undersecretary of State of Chile translated the president's remarks. Mr. Coleman. Thank you for your wonderful remarks to the people of the city, Your Excellency. I might add that we are very happy that the Republic of Chile had no Higgins and that New York had no Dwyer. So, I thank you for that and we will now be entertained by the members of the police department, Glee Club. Thank you. Thank you. Alexandra Chisholm Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For your land So home again We come along In fiery strike Before is overessions that Toilers nairs O normally the blindsided Many became fair His waiting gate To breathe The true ans old lover And many are hard Withymph and proud We are at home. We are at home. We are at home. We are at home. Glory and love to the men of all. Their sons may copy their branch and bold. Come in, in heart and a sword in hand. All ready to fight for our land. All ready to fight. All ready to die. All ready to die. All ready to die. All ready to die. All ready to die. Amen. All ready to die. All ready to die. All ready to die. All ready to die. The Pennsylvania Folkers. The Pennsylvania Folkers. The Pennsylvania Folkers. Come your father and join in the club. The Pennsylvania Folkers. All is right there, it's not a boy. Here, when you have found the West of Plania, you've got some food. Everybody has a mania. You'll do the poker from Pennsylvania. Come on and swing your lady's bed, see the gums and fly. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Everybody, get your prickly dog. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. This goes on, they're on a bill that's all. They're there, you're all. They're free. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Happy as can be. They stop to have a beer. They're not a crowd, they get to cheer. They kiss and they're as hard to dance again. Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Zoom, zoom, zoom. Everybody has a mania. Do, do, do, do, do. The poker, the poker from Pennsylvania. Everybody has a mania. Do, do, do, do. The poker, the poker from Pennsylvania. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the Police Department Glee Club. I will now ask the guests to remain in their place until His Excellency and the mayor and the official party have left the room. Thank you very much. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has just tendered the courtesies and the friendly hand of the city of New York to His Excellency Gabriel Gonzalez Videla, President of the Republic of Chile. We might make a very, very vile pun by saying most of us call the country Chile. Well, this is the warmest day we've had in New York so far. So there's nothing Chile or Chile about today except the wonderful reception which the mayor organized for the president of Chile to warm the hearts of all concerned with the principles of democracy and man's right to the life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, epitomized first by the work of O'Higgins in Chile and by O'Dwyer in New York as Mr. Coleman so beautifully pointed out. So with these final words and as they are shaking hands and a few intimate who have not met their president here in New York are taking this opportunity under the benign hospitality of the mayor and under the dais here in the council chamber. Just a moment now, they're starting down the aisle where the president will review the parade in front of City Hall. Well, that's about all we can tell you now from City Hall and we return you to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system.