This morning as our first guest on Around New York, we have with us Postmaster Edward J. Quigley of Brooklyn. And the reason being that there's a special postage stamp that's going to be issued through Brooklyn on December 10th. First of all, good morning, Postmaster Quigley. How are you, Mr. Morse? And secondly, I wonder if you'd tell us something about this special stamp. Well, Mr. Morse, the borough of Brooklyn has been singularly honored and is indeed proud of having a stamp issued in its name commemorating the Battle of Brooklyn. Which took place 175 years ago. The Battle of Brooklyn. Well, is this the first time that Brooklyn is going to have a commemorative stamp? Oh, yes. It took years of intense activity by civic groups and leaders of Brooklyn to achieve it. This stamp will commemorate one of the most outstanding battles with its strategic withdrawal fought during the Revolutionary War. Well, now, this is all very interesting because we always love to cover historical points of interest in New York and environs. I wonder if you could tell us, Mr. Quigley, something about the locality where this historic event took place. Well, this battle was fought within the limits of the old town of Brooklyn on August 27, 1776. It was there that General Washington's army was stationed on the hills of what is now known as Prospect Park and South Brooklyn, while others were on a hill of the present Greenwood Cemetery. Now, from the geographical location of the troops, you can see that the battle was held in Brooklyn. Yeah, very definitely. And it seems that this Battle of Brooklyn should bring to mind many old landmarks. That's so. That is very true. The British troops marched through Flatlands to King's Highway and up through New Lots to the cypress-covered hills of East New York, and finally down the present Fulton Street to Gowanus Bay. Hmm. Where did the actual fighting take place, do you know? Right off Prospect Park down to Third Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, and the secondary line of defense was upon the present Brooklyn Heights. It was from the Heights that General Washington withdrew his troops from the old ferry landing to Manhattan, and this is the maneuver that was hailed as one of the most masterly moves in military history. Is there going to be any sort of old special wording on the new stamp? Down at the bottom of the stamp is the inscription, Washington saves his army at Brooklyn. At long last, Brooklyn is receiving the proper recognition for this historic event. Well, that's fine. And where can one purchase this new stamp? Well, on December the 10th, the stamp will be sold only in Brooklyn at all of our classified stations. After December the 10th, it'll be on sale in other cities throughout the country. How about stamp collectors? How do they figure on this? Will they be able to obtain first-day covers? Oh, most assuredly. By mailing a letter to me containing self-addressed envelopes without postage, together with a money order to cover the purchase of the new stamps. And these first-day covers will then be mailed to the collectors on December the 10th. Oh, that sounds easy enough. I think then, for those who are interested, we ought to repeat that. They mail their requests for the new covers to Postmaster Edward J. Quigley, Brooklyn Post Office, Brooklyn One, New York. And enclose a money order or a check, hmm? That's correct. Not a check, unless it's certified. No check unless it's certified. A money order, then, I guess, would be... A money order would be perfect. Fine. Will there be a ceremony when the stamp is first placed on sale? Well, I believe it'll be one of the nicest ceremonies, I think, that would accompany the issue of a new stamp. On December the 10th, the same day of the issue, the post office officials will come up from Washington, the mayor of the city of New York, the borough president of Brooklyn, together with representatives from schools, business, churches, civic associations, banks, and incidentally, Mr. Morse, also the governors or their representatives of the states of New Jersey, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Delaware. Wow. All of these states participated in the battle. They will gather with us that day at Sculpture Court in the Brooklyn Museum to witness the first sheet of the Battle of Brooklyn stamp being presented by the postmaster general to the borough president. That's certainly an impressive list of dignitaries who are going to attend. It ought to really be a wonderful ceremony. It seems that Brooklyn certainly is going all out for this event. It's been a long time coming, Mr. Morse. One might say 175 years. The citizens of Brooklyn are going to make this an outstanding event. And to me, it'll add just another page of their splendid history. Well, thank you so much. You've added, I think, a splendid page to our own program here. I'd like to thank you very much, Postmaster Edward J. Quigley of Brooklyn, for coming up to speak with us about this wonderful event on Around New York. I'm grateful for the privilege. Thank you.