I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I retired policeman. Colonel Eddie Egan, who won the 1920 light heavyweight boxing champion. Little Johnny Hayes, who won the 1908 marathon race. Frank Critt's gymnastics victor on the long horse in 1924. A retired fireman. Paul Pilgrim, won the 400 and 800 meter track winner in 1906. Charlie Bacon, who won the 400 meter track and field hurdle in 1908. Dick Landon, the high jump champion in 1920. Irving Jaffe, the speed skating champion in 1928 and 1932. Gertrude Ederle, the English Channel fame, 1924 winner, swimming relay team. Dick Button, figure skating champion in 1948 and 1952. Any others here? And I know when you boys and girls come back, you will make the same history that the athletes, whose names you heard a few minutes ago, made during the past years. Mr. Mayor, again, thanking you for the signal honor that you bestowed upon me. I'd like to report complete success, not only up to date, but at the end of this Olympic drive that we have, the Olympics to be held in Helsinki starting in the month of July. Thank you very carefully. Thank you very carefully. Thank you, Mr. Controler. For the United States Olympic team, Avery Bunner's President of the United States Olympic Committee will speak. Mr. Whalen, Mr. Mayor, you see before you hear the 1952 United States Olympic team. This is a great day for those boys and girls. It's the culmination of four years of hard work and training. They have won these honors in the good old fashioned American way through their own ability, through the strength of their muscles and the alertness of their mind. That's the only way you can get on the United States Olympic team. No one can buy a place and there is no pull nor favoritism. We're only sorry that we have to leave behind many others of almost equal ability. I can assure you that this team realizes the interest and the support of the sport-loving public which has made possible this trip to Finland. And I think I can assure you that they will give a good account for themselves. I need not tell you that in many parts of the world they do not think so much of the United States. But they do respect our athletes. They have to. And that's why they are good ambassadors. I want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for all you have done for us here in New York. I want to thank you, Commissioner Joseph, as head of the New York Olympic Committee. We'll have a good report to make next month. Thank you again. His Honor, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere. Mr. Whelan, Comptroller Joseph, Colonel Henschel, Mr. Brundage, Reverend Richards, Coach Hamilton, officials and members of the United States Olympic teams, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to extend my personal thanks, the thanks of the people of the City of New York, to the distinguished controller of the City of New York, Lazarus Joseph, who, in spite of his very arduous duties as the Chief Fiscal Officer of the City of New York, also took on the job of chairmanship of the New York Olympic Committee. And it's largely through his efforts that our New York City campaign went over the top. Thanks, Comptroller Joseph. New York City is happy and proud today to extend its traditional warm welcome to the host of devoted friends of amateur athletics in our country, and more particularly to the members of the United States Olympic team, which is to carry our nation's banner into the forthcoming Olympic Games at Helsinki. New York City, the enthusiasm, energy and initiative of hundreds of officials and members of amateur athletic organizations in and out of colleges have kept alive the spirit of the Olympics. You, to a large degree, you, to a large degree, have made it possible for the amateur athletes of the country to win places on an Olympic team every four years. an Olympic team every four years. You have kept burning in the United States, the spirit of friendly competition and sportsmanship kindled in ancient Greece and revived by a far-seeing Frenchman in 1896, when the first modern Olympiad was held in the city of Athens. Here around me is the finest example of our great free democracy. Youth, vibrant, eager, strong, skillful, generous. This is the flower of America. Merged into one great company are young men and women of many strains of ancestry. All have proven their right to wear the shield of the United States in world athletic competition. All are of course eager to win and we desire victory. But more satisfying to us who stay at home is the realization that these young men and women will conduct themselves so as to bring honor to our homeland. Whether in victory or in defeat, they will be modest and sportsmanlike. None has said in the past 56 years of Olympic games that Americans have been bad losers. None will ever say in the future that they are arrogant winners. Who can deny that these are our greatest goodwill ambassadors? They will make friends among the young athletes of the world. They will pierce the iron curtain with their friendliness and their comradeship. Gathered with us today also, as Controller Joseph has already pointed out, are the old Olympians, the men and women winners of the past. The years will roll away and you too will join their company. May you distinguish yourselves as they have. I have often wondered why it is that New York City, the greatest city in the world, never has had the Olympic Games here. Other great cities of the world, London, Paris, Berlin, Athens, have been the scenes of the Olympians. Twice the games have come to the United States. Twice the games have come to the United States. To St. Louis in 1904 and to Los Angeles in 1932. But never to the east where the nation was cradled. Surely this great sports loving city would welcome the Olympic Games. Surely... This great Mecca for travelers not only of people in the United States but from peoples all over the world would be a most popular host city. I understand that the 1956 games are already scheduled for beautiful Melbourne, Australia. But I am informed also that there is a slight possibility that Melbourne may relinquish its bid. Therefore, I here and now call upon the New York City Olympic Committee to carefully explore the possibility of bringing the 1956 games to New York City. That is... That is, of course, if Melbourne withdraws. And here in the city of New York, we hope that Melbourne does withdraw. Or in the event Melbourne should not withdraw, then to think in terms of inviting the world's athletes to the city of New York in 1960. Members of the United States Olympic team, our hearts go with you to Helsinki. Our hopes, too. Our hopes that you will win. Our hopes that you will enjoy yourselves. When you return, we anticipate the great pleasure of giving you a typical New York City welcome. Thank you to the journey and may you to have a very successful trip. Thank you. And our speakers may be Mr. For the benefit of the radio audience, I might say that they're gathered here on the stand today to pay tribute to our United States Olympic team with our city officials on the flag offices of the New York area, are the flag officers of the New York area, the Army, the Navy, the Marines, the Coast Guard, and the Air Force. Included among them is General Willis Krittenberger, Rear Admiral Olson, and Admiral William F. Halsey. The response for the United States Olympic team will be made by the Reverend Robert E. Richards, National AAU Pole Vaughting Champion. Mayor M. Pelletari, distinguished guests, and other friends, we wish to express our gratitude to you for this very fine occasion. It is a very moving and inspiring thing to be here and to see this demonstration of your support, your overwhelming enthusiasm for this Olympic team. It is a wonderful feeling to go to Helsinki and the World Championships knowing that there is a vast number of American people who are with us in spirit. Every person on this team is thrilled and proud of the opportunity to represent this nation in these great international games. All of you can be well assured that on the field of competition we will give our all. However, we are going to Helsinki as more than athletes. We are going also as representatives of the highest ideals of our American way of life. We feel that in this time of international tension, the Olympic Games provide a medium for creating understanding, friendship, and goodwill. We intend to win, but if we are defeated, we will accept it graciously. On the field and off the field we will abide by the principles of good sportsmanship. Above all, we will remember the words of Baron de Couperin when he said, Teams is not winning, but in taking part. The essential thing in life is not conquering, but in fighting well. Thank you.