The The danger in Germany today is not the danger of a Nazi revival. There seems to be very little evidence of that. The danger is rather of a lethargic population, little interested in politics, and a bureaucracy that is equally tired and lethargic. No, I had been to Germany before. I was with Amgus in military government during the period of early occupation. Now to return to something about the German people and their attitude today. What do they think about us, America, one of the occupying powers in Germany? What's the present-day average German impression of America and Americans? We have many friends. There are 50 million or so Germans, and of course any statement one makes about all of them is likely to be untrue about some. But in general, the Germans and Western Germany admire the United States and are friendly to it, perhaps a bit less friendly than they were a few years ago. But nevertheless, there is a tremendous reservoir of friendship there for us. Mr. Mott, you spoke in your opening remarks about a lethargic attitude among Western Germans. Will you tell us a little more about that, how they look at the future? Mr. Mott, you spoke in your opening remarks. Mr. Mott, you spoke in your opening remarks. Western Germany sees itself in the international field as the clock between two fires, two powerful countries which may make Germany a battleground and no man's land between them. They see two alternatives for Germany in that respect. The first is that Germany may take part in the war, again suffer destruction as she suffered in the war. She sees the other alternative of an occupation with looting, looting of a severe kind, such as half of Germany already has known. She doesn't like that alternative. But of the two, she sees little to choose, and hence is not particularly interested in taking part in any future. military operations. Are those the only alternatives, Mr. Mott? By no means. And that is the point the Germans fail to understand. If the disaster of a war should come, Germany can hardly avoid being a battleground. She can hardly avoid taking part in the struggle, and she can hardly avoid the prospect of an occupation. Thus, there is not an alternative between fighting and being occupied. It is an alternative between fighting and being occupied, or fighting with a chance of not being occupied. Professor, after the last war, we went about, with our allies, demilitarizing Germany. Now, because of historical developments of utmost gravity, we are speaking to the Germans in terms of having them re-arm to join the North Atlantic Treaty nations to defend Europe. Now, how does this go down with the Germans? Professor, several Germans, who are very favorable to the United States, told me frankly, that we had done too good a job in demilitarizing Germany. That they had learned their lesson too well. And that they didn't want, the vast majority of Germans didn't want to have any part in any future war. They wanted to be neutral. Professor, well, with that attitude and the related one, a feeling that they are caught in a trap, it's going to be no simple job, I suppose, for the German people to be brought to a state of mind where they would go forward optimistically, or at least with determination, on the rearmament side. What if the North Atlantic Treaty nations, General Eisenhower and his staff, are able soon to show great strides forward in the defense of Western Europe? Will that influence the Germans? As they explained it to me, the great majority of Germans with whom I talked are interested, first, in not having Germany a battlefield. Mr. Mott, are the Germans using this present emergency situation as a bargaining lever to perhaps lighten the occupation burden on themselves or gain themselves more freedom of action? I think one needs to distinguish in this respect between the German government and the German people. I found no evidence on the part of the German people of a desire to bargain with the occupation authorities. The occupation is heavy, as any occupation is, but they realize the defense costs money, and they look upon us not so much as an occupying power as a defense for Germany. On the other hand, the government is clearly interested in driving as good a bargain with the United States as it can, in order that it may have a selling point to its own people, a justification for a possible rearmament. Will Germany, the German government, and the Western German people, fight for their freedom if that becomes necessary as we would fight for ours? Freedom to Germany is a new thing. They do not know what it means in many cases. Oh, they have freedom of speech, they have freedom of the press, and they like it. They particularly are glad of their freedom of religion. But to expect a people who have known freedom for only four or five years to fight for it with the same zest of Americans who have known freedom for over a century is to expect a great deal. In that regard, what is the influence of our democratic way of life among the Western German peoples who have been exposed to it now more than they ever have before? Have we gotten anywhere with our own style of democracy? It is much easier to sell our gadgets, our automobiles, our bathtubs to the Germans than it is to sell our democratic ideas. At the same time, we have made some real important gains in the latter respect. We have established forums where the public have met with their local officials and have questioned them about their local policies. We have stimulated an interest in politics to a very large degree, larger than anyone could have thought possible. At the same time, the amount that we have been able to do in this field is, of course, slow and little compared to what needs to be done in a Germany with a long aristocratic and dictatorial tradition that Germany has had. How about the flow of people, German visitors to the United States, and their returning to their own country? What effect and what attitude do they bring back with them? The people who have been to the United States and have returned to Germany as a result of the exchanges program which the State Department has conducted are the shining lights of Germans who really understand something about American democracy. There are exceptions, of course. Some of them did not profit as much as others. And there are some Germans who have not been to the United States who are thoroughly democratic. But by and large, one can go through Germany interviewing Germans in one city after another. And one will find that those who have been to the United States and have seen what democracy means here are the ones who are really enthusiastic about our way of life. I'm afraid, Mr. Mott, that only a handful of Germans have had the opportunity to visit us so far. We hope that in future there will be more of them and in larger volume. But let's turn for just a minute to the work that you were engaged in during your recent visit in Germany. Local government in the Western German cities and provinces. Are the Germans interested in their local government? Yes, they are interested to see that the streets are clean, to see that the water is pure, to see that electricity is provided, see that police protection is given. But in the sense of controlling the local government, the average German feels he has no responsibility. The local government is not controlled in Germany, as in the United States, by the people. It is controlled by the state administration, by and large. And the local officials look to the state administration for approval and for money to engage in new projects, rather than looking to the people for approval. Are the local officials in Germany mostly elected officials, as ours are, or not? The only elected officials in Germany are the city councils. And the city councils have not quite learned their role as a means of explaining to the public the tasks, problems, and jobs of the city administration. Executive officials in Germany are all either chosen by the council, or in some cases, appointed by the state administration. Is there evidence that work on our part over there, work such as you were doing, is having an effect toward raising public interest in local government? And are there any incidents that would indicate there is more interest, and that the people in general are trying to do something about it? I think it would be difficult to praise too highly the work of the Christ's resident officers. That is, the officers that we have in each county in the American zone of Germany, to try to help the Germans develop a more democratic local government. In some of these crises, or counties, the local officers have done a tremendous job in promoting forums, in developing civic interest, in arousing the public to take a part, active part, in their government, rather than passively accept whatever the government wishes to give them. Even to have the temerity to complain about actions taken by their governing officers? There was one very interesting case I saw of a crisis where there had been a big forum, fostered by the local newspaper and fostered by citizens of the community, protesting an increase in the taxes. And as a result of that forum, they were able to get the taxes cut somewhat. I don't know who was responsible for the idea in the first place, but I suspect the resident officer had a good deal to deal with it. Professor Mott, this has been an interesting interview, and I'm sure that the job that you contributed during your time in Germany is one of the kinds of things that is going to help out the situation of U.S.-German relations, and perhaps the future of Germany and its people. Will you give us a few closing thoughts on what you think of the situation in Germany and what it could lead to in the years ahead? There are two possibilities. There are two possibilities. If we can have a period of peace, a period which we hope may last for a long time, Germany can easily and readily develop into a democratic nation. We have sown the seed. We have sown the seed. We have paid a tremendous investment in Germany, and it can develop in democratic ways that we would like and will cease, I think, to be a menace to the world. If war comes, and no one in Germany or in America, I'm sure, wants a war to come, but if war comes, the very purge of war may require Germany to fight for her liberties so newly won, and may make Germany realize the tremendous sacrifice necessary to preserve those liberties. And in war or in peace, there is a real prospect that Germany may become a democratic partner in the family of nations.