This is Bill Leonard to introduce the 34th program in a weekly series called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Your chances of surviving an atomic attack are pretty good if you've had civil defense training. But what happens then? What happens to the thousands of survivors whose homes have been destroyed, who must be evacuated from the target area and taken care of? All over New York State, communities are preparing to handle just such a situation. This week, we'll see what Ithaca has done about it. Hello from Ithaca in upstate New York. We'd like you to hear some sounds that you might hear if you spent a day in the Finger Lake City on Lake Cayuga. First, the familiar Cornell chimes from on the hill. Next, the Ithaca fire call blanketing the hill. And now the hollow sound of the Lehigh Valley diesel as it spins its way into Ithaca. Those are sounds, some peculiar to our city, others just sounds you'd hear anywhere. But there is one sound few Ithacans or other Americans, for that matter, have never heard and hope they'll never hear. The mushrooming blast of the atomic bomb. However, this sound, although not heard, has exerted its influence on this city. And it's that impact I'd like to tell you about. But if you don't mind, I'd like you to wait just a minute, because I've promised to do it for some other people, too. And they're about to join us. There's the Lehigh Valley train again, coming into the Lehigh Valley Railroad Station here in Ithaca from New York. On it are undoubtedly some people bound here on business with Cornell University, Ithaca College, or one of Ithaca's several industries. On it also are Mr. and Mrs. John Doe and their son Johnny. They've made the seven-hour trip from New York City because they wanted a vacation in the beautiful Finger Lakes country. And also because they wanted some answers which we in Ithaca are prepared to give them. Their question is a direct one. But I see them now, and I'll let them ask you. Right over here, Mr. Doe. Oh, hello, Mr. Smith. Good to see you. I don't think you've ever met my wife. Hello, Mr. Doe. My son Johnny. Hi, Mr. Smith. Hello, Johnny. When do we start our tour? Oh, Johnny, don't rush things. Oh, that's all right. You've come a long way to get an answer to your question. And if you're willing to get started right away, why, I'm certainly willing. All right, then. What does happen to a family like us, three perfectly average people? No, we wouldn't for a minute admit that we're average. No, that's right, we wouldn't. And we'd therefore expect certain courtesies that we might figure the truly average family could do without. So what would happen to us if our home in New York City had to be evacuated and if we were assigned to ethics? Well, I know the first thing that would happen. We'd get on the train and take the same ride we took today and land right here. That's right, Johnny. And here to meet you would be people like me who'd know exactly how to organize things for the swiftest possible handling of 500 or so New York City evacuees. Now, that's the number we'll figure have arrived on this train. All right, then. Let's pretend we have been evacuated and here we are. I've got a feeling I'd need some pretty good organization to welcome me. I think I'd be pretty upset no matter how well prepared I was for anything like this. Exactly. That's what we take into consideration. Now, you see the parking space here behind the station? Mm-hmm. Well, picture that full of vehicles for emergency transportation. First on the list are ambulances, naturally, because there might be some wounded among you. Well, that must mean that Ithaca is pretty well fixed by way of a hospital facility. It is. Tompkins County, in which Ithaca is located, has three hospitals and a nursing home, and they can take care of a normal load of 500 patients. But for an emergency like this, they're able to handle 850 people. In addition, we've arranged to set up emergency medical stations. Where, for instance? Oh, in churches, dormitories, and gyms. Most places we'll be able to care for still another 300 people. That's reassuring. Let's say that someone is wounded, only not very seriously. Isn't there a chance that he might get one of the hospital beds? You mean deprive a more serious case of it? Yes. No, that's where our medical teams come in. Oh, I see. When they meet you here at the railroad station, they'll grade wounded people according to the type and seriousness of the wound. Evacuees seriously wounded will go right up on the hill to Memorial Hospital. Serious chest wounds will be treated at Biggs Hospital, a little way up Puga Lake. And meanwhile, patients moderately ill, or who have improved enough to be moved, will be placed in the Cornell Infirmary. Well, okay, Mr. Smith, but maybe we're rugged. Maybe we don't get wounded. I certainly hope you're right, Johnny. Well, then, what happens to it? The medical teams wouldn't have to bother with us, so, uh, who would? A member of our Transportation Corps, which in turn is assisted by our auxiliary police to make sure that everything runs smoothly. Oh, I see. For our purposes, let's say I'm the Transportation Corps member who meets you, and let's get in my car and proceed according to schedule. All right. Now, Mr. Doe, you can ride with me in the front, and Mr. Doe and Johnny in the back. All right, come on, Johnny. Get me this morning. Everybody comfortable? Yeah, we're all right. Well, no, just because I'm curious, where are we going? To Barton Hall. That's the big Cornell drill hall, big enough to feed 6,000 people without straining at the seams. Little, you see it. All set? All set. Is Barton Hall where they play basketball, according? It is, Johnny, and Barton Hall is prepared to play a mighty fine game on the side of civil defense now. Uh, say, what happens to us when we get to Barton Hall? Oh, John, be patient. You'll see in time. I'd like to know a little more about Ithaca, Mr. Smith. Is this the Main Street? Yes, we call it State Street. Up ahead there, on the hill to the left, you can see the Cornell Library Tower. And on the hill to the right, over there, that enormous building is the Morse Chain Company. Now, right next to it is Allen Whales, where they make adding machines. And a little further down the hill, hidden by the trees, is GLF. Oh, yes. The Grange League Federation. A good chunk of our Tompkins County population is employed in those places. Say, uh, just what is the population? Well, we have about 50,000 people living permanently in Tompkins County. And does that include the students? Oh, no. Uh, that number, 50,000, is swelled considerably by the student population when Cornell and Ithaca College are in full swing. Oh, I see. Incidentally, over there, a couple of blocks to our left, you can't see it, of course, are the Ithaca College building. Hmm, here's where we shifted the second to make the hill. Oh, is this the one that's far above the Yuga's waters, Mr. Smith? The very same. That building we just passed on the left was the Cornell Infirmary I told you about. And there on the right, just a block down, is Memorial Hospital. And here's where we turn to go up to the campus. There certainly are some beautiful old houses here. Yes, indeed. And they are not outside our civil defense picture, either. Last October, Tompkins County householders filled out questionnaires about civil defense. They indicated they'd be willing to care for 17,000 evacuees in their homes. Well, here we are on campus. Yeah, I've always heard about the beautiful Cornell campus, although I am an NYU man myself. Oh, boy. Me for Cornell. You know, school wouldn't be half so tough at a place like this. Quite a concession coming from you, Johnny. Well, here we are at Barton Hall. My goodness, it's big. Boy, looks as if you could play six games of basketball at once in this place. You could with no trouble at all. And now, follow me. Things are a little different from the way they'd be in the emergency conditions we're talking about, so you'll have to do some imagining. Hey, I feel completely lost. Afraid you're going to have to set the scene, Mr. Smith. At the moment, it's very difficult for me to picture anything but a vast emptiness. Well, then let's fill the emptiness fast. Here, as we come in, we have registration tables. Your name and address, please. That's what they'll ask you for. Is that all? Absolutely. As I told you, this is all applying for speed and ease. The only reason we want your name and address is to establish some sort of identification to provide information when inquiries start coming in on missing people. Well, I must say that's simple enough. Now what? We eat. Johnny! Well, Mr. Smith said that 6,000 people could be fed in here, so won't they be? Yes, Johnny. As a matter of fact, they will, but there are some other matters that can be cleared up, too. Let's say, for example, that you have a cut on your hand. Ah, which I got bravely rescuing a puppy from some debris. Yes, which you got bravely rescuing a puppy. Well, there are real doctors here, too, to treat minor injuries as that, the kind that weren't serious enough for the hospital. And you, Mrs. Dole, let's say the weather is pretty chilly and in your hurried evacuation, you weren't able to bring warm enough clothing. Emergency clothing will be available. Say, I just thought of something I'll bet you haven't considered. What's that? Well, now, look, in the rush, I found myself financially embarrassed. I only have a couple of dollars in my wallet and my checkbook somewhere in New York City, possibly in a pile of rubble, though I hope not. We've thought of it. You can be fixed up with emergency funds here. You really have thought of everything. You know, it's going to take a fantastic number of people to handle all these services. Well, you're right, of course. We figure on just about half of our county civil defense workers doing jobs directly connected with evacuees. Well, how many workers do you have? Well, also, we have 2,500. That means about 1,250 will be doing these jobs, starting at the railroad station, providing transportation and medical service, doing the clerical work here and the feeding that Johnny's so interested in, and finally seeing to it that you're given a place to sleep. Yes, all based on the survey you made last October. That and a subsequent survey which covered churches, college dormitories, neighborhood houses, and other public buildings. In fact, amazing as it is, we find that we are willing and able to put up 25,000 evacuees here. Quite a number, considering our own population is only 50,000. Well, that indicates quite a strong public feeling about civil defense. Sure does. Of course, New York State has allocated only 9,000 evacuees to us here in Tompkins County, so we're actually gearing our organization for this smaller number, but never losing sight of the fact that we can do more. I think. Well, what's next? Well, it's at this point that our 420 wardens take over. They guide you to the proper homes and buildings and answer your questions and take care of any details that are troubling you. They also inform householders that you're coming and help the householder to prepare for this emergency guest. Well, who are the wardens? Oh, neighborhood people. They know all their neighbors well, so they're really equipped from way back to do their job. Uh, shall we go to your assigned house now? Yeah, let's. I'd like to stay in that big gray house we passed on the way up. Well, you can't pick and choose, Johnny. Oh, listen. The Cornell Chimes. One of the sounds Ithacans have come to know and love over a long period of time. I think you'd feel considerably reassured by them if you were here in an emergency situation. Say, you know, I'm really impressed. Somehow, when you live in New York City, you think of places like Ithaca as being in the sticks. That's an awful thing to admit, but I'm really surprised. Oh, you needn't apologize. We're used to it. And we enjoy proving that the sticks are well under control. Good heavens. What's that? That certainly isn't a reassuring sound. No, it's not in more ways than one. It's our fire siren, and none of us likes to hear it. But at the same time, that raucous sound travels so much further than a more musical sound would that we can at least be sure our distressing who gets to the right people. Well, now here we are. From the looks of things, I'd say the Browns are out right now, but if this were our real emergency and not an imaginary one, Mr. Johnson, the warden for this neighborhood, would have told the Browns you were coming, and he'd have shepherded you down here. Say, I like that. It's good neighborliness, and that's important. Very important. I think you'd also be pleased to know that Tompkins County's firemen and equipment are ready to be sent to other communities in need, and medical teams, too. Besides which, we're planning to set up two other welfare centers smaller than Barton Hall, but operating on the very same principle in two other Tompkins County towns, Groton and Trumansburg. And that? Oh, another of our familiar Ithaca sounds, the noon whistle up at the big morse chain plant on South Hill. That reminds me. I'm hungry. Well, friends, there's the story behind the sound. My name isn't really Mr. Smith any more than the Browns, or really the Browns, or the warden is Mr. Johnson. Actually, I'm a radio announcer named Don Martin, and Mr. Doe is a fellow called Joseph Conway. A continuity writer named Anita Monsees pretended she was Mrs. Doe, and a young colleague of ours, Jim Adams, was Johnny. Anita wrote the script, and Joe Short produced it. What we had in mind was to give you a picture of our part, Tompkins County's part, in your own plan for survival. The program you just heard was prepared for Plan for Survival by Station WHCU in cooperation with Cornell University. I'd like to reemphasize that the basic purpose of this series is to encourage you to think about your own plan for survival, both where you live and where you work. Listen again next week at this same time when this station will again present Plan for Survival. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense, and this is the Civil Defense Radio Network.