The city station and the microphones of networks and all other facilities are in the council chamber. It's very interesting broadcast. Regrettable indeed that we can bring you the picture as well. When the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, receives His Excellency Miguel Alamón, President of Mexico. There's been a great deal of advance information on the visit of the President of Mexico to our country since we all know the particulars and the magnificent pageantry. That was a factor in the federal welcome to the President of Mexico when the President of the United States, President Truman, welcomed our distinguished neighbor from the South in Washington, D.C. Well, the only meaning in the crowd today is the weatherman. He hasn't sent us the best day possible, but as Al Jolson would say, it's raining violets, so if you want to accept that discount, why, it's all right. A great number of people have turned out in a national Mexican costume, and it lends indeed a remarkably interesting color to the pageant today, a little touch of folklore that we don't often get, because on most of these occasions, everyone is all dressed up in their best bib and tucker, a la Hottie Carnegie, and Earl Benham and so forth, and we don't see much of the national aspect. Yet the Mexicans have turned out in their colorful national costumes, hundreds of them in front of City Hall, and the military display from Fort Jay is indeed a very impressive one. On a balcony outside City Hall, especially arranged in the park, within good focusing distance of all that is to take place here today, your movie cameras are busy grinding and making a record of today's event. One of the splendid things about movies and cameras is the fact that we can always recapture the event, who is there, what they look like, and all about it, in future times when we're trying to get a better idea of history, why there's the picture, and the words naturally are easy to put together. A picture can kill a million words, and sometimes it does. We're just waiting expectantly now, because those who arrived in the vehicles with the President of Mexico, Mr. Whelan and the Mayor, why they're doing their best to get into the small colonial confines of this truly beautiful building, City Hall. We can't help thinking what an extremely fortunate circumstance it is that our thoughtful forefathers put together in the exact proportions of beauty that the City Hall does obtain, so that it really makes an interesting background from any angle that you would like to take a picture. The magnificent hallway, that staircase which is so impressively beautiful, the crystal chandeliers, the governor's room, the furniture from old Federal Hall, when the government of the United States was established first under President Washington at Nassau on Wall Street. All these things are recapitulated right here and brought forcibly to our mind. The very idea of the building itself gives us some idea of what the forefathers thought was an adequate building for a city like New York at the time. Well, one of the standing jokes is the fact that they never put the white marble on the back of City Hall because they said it would be centuries before the city went that far. Canal Street was the scene of the Lisbonard Farm, and the only reminder we have of that now is the fact that Lisbonard Street is just a block below Canal Street, and we get some idea then of the early beginnings of the colonial picture at the time. And yet we imagine, from the standpoint of colonial times, this building was huge indeed. If anyone doubts the sincerity and the pride and the joy of the Mexican people that are fortunate enough to be here in New York City, they should see the unqualified wreaths of smiles, their faces, their flowers, their color. Everything is happiness supreme. They feel indeed very happy about the visit of the president of their land here in New York City, and one of the factors of City Hall is the fact that at this focal point, all these historical factors culminate in the reception which the mayor of the city of New York presents and extends to those who have accomplished. And no city in the world loves to recognize accomplishments so thoroughly and completely as New York City that has accomplished so much. The only delay now is the fact that you just can't move in the aisle of the council chamber just at present, since those who arrived in the cars are jamming the aisles, but the police department is doing their usual smiling, pleasant, shall I say, job on an occasion like this. Would it be prodigal? But they're arranging it very nicely, and the people are finding space where there didn't seem to be any. And even people are moving over, and where one person sat, well, in some occasions, two people are managing to sit. Depends on the destiny that shapes our ends. We're just waiting expectantly now. President Aleman, the mayor, Mr. Whelan, and the distinguished group of citizens who are on the committee welcoming the president of Mexico have adjourned to the governor's room at the head of the staircase here in City Hall so that some sort of order can come out of the late arrival of guests. The police officers are now distributing those who cannot find a seating room around the walls, the beautiful paneled walls of this council chamber with its magnificent painted ceilings with the escutcheons of the five boroughs and the civic goddess enthroned in the middle panel and, again, surrounded by the escutcheons and coats of arms of the boroughs. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is the mayor of the city of New York. Mayor of the city of New York, escorting His Excellency, Miguel Aleman, president of Mexico. Some of the little Mexican children there in the aisle in their Mexican costumes stepped out of line, police or no police, and they gave their beloved president a very warm shake hand. He stopped a moment. So did the mayor. And now, through this tremendous concourse, the mayor is finally able to make the rostrum, and the president and the mayor are on the rostrum now in the council chamber. The Mexican and American flags are waving. The cameramen are shooting. Let's hope the day will come when the only shot in the world will be a camera shot from one of the men holding a camera. These familiar faces, particularly to anyone who has handled these occasions at City Hall, it's interesting to see the familiar faces of the cameramen that have participated for years in these things. That's why we receive such expert coverage at all times of any event that takes place. And if the president of Mexico thinks he has ever faced a barrage of any kind, he's never quite equal to the one that's flashing lightning now in front of the, ordinarily, the council president's chair here in the council chamber. It's a very fine arrangement of rostrum and chair so that the distinguished guests have every possible vantage point. And yet, the room itself performs wonders regardless of its size. It's interesting to watch Mr. Morris' portrait of Lafayette, who invented, Mr. Morris invented the telegraph, you know, and so few people know he was a fine artist. And now Mr. Whelan is speaking and presenting his guest. Mr. Whelan has just spoken. He has announced the singer. The two anthems will be sung, the American and the Mexican anthem. He has announced the song. The Mexican anthem. Mexicanos al grito de guerra, el acero apresca del brindón, y retiemblen su centro la tierra, al sonoro rugir del cañón. Y retiemblen su centro la tierra, al sonoro rugir del cañón. La Tierra de los Matelas, Señor Capitan, del copykk y retiemblen su centro la tierra, si no propongas nada, si no propongas nada, el torno de mu Omicially mukel 맞아�aito. Y rearte de la tierra, y rearte deunda un año para la tierra, u S. Hulex llama al rector pérez. Global H Bahala de la palabra y de Champagne. El Ane Spect着, L Natomiast Him para la tierra pero sabes ilusión. el אys了 y de Má even W peł. Má ав banget Profanar con sus plantas su suelo, piensa patria herida del cielo, un soldado en cada hijo de Dios, si un soldado cada hijo de Dios. Mexijanos al grito de guerra, el acero apresa del brinón. Y retiemblen su centro la tierra, al sonoro rugir del cañón. Y retiemblen su centro la tierra, al sonoro rugir del cañón. Just heard Mr. Thora's sing the Mexican anthem, and now Miss Manning of the Chicago Opera Company is announced by Mr. Whalen to sing the American anthem. Sing the national anthem. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming. Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight. For the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. The ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. The ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. And the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. All the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. By the ramparts we watched waived, For the land of the free And the home of the brave Maestro Celebré and the Department of Sanitation Band, that excellent organization of musicians who have played so often on these occasions, accompanied the two singers. And now, Mr. Whalen. Mr. Mayor, it is a great privilege to present to you His Excellency Miguel Alamón, President of the Republic of Mexico. Well, again, the shooting, I mean the cameras, of course, and it's an excellent opportunity to combine a picture of the President and the Mayor. President Alamón. Your Excellency, today, today, the great city of New York, the great city of New York, is extremely proud and happy to pay tribute to our most distinguished visitor, President Miguel Alamón of the Republic of Mexico. In the Council Chamber, in the Council Chamber, in this historic City Hall, we have assembled for this official reception to the Chief Executive of our Southern Friend and Neighbor. here, many celebrated international figures have been accorded the heartwarming greetings of this metropolis of the world. none was ever more welcome than His Excellency President Alamón. презimat次ぐ President Alamón crystallizes the bond or friendship friendship that exists between the republics of Mexico and the United States. He and his fellow citizens recently demonstrated in eloquent fashion their affection for the United States when they graciously entertained President Truman with characteristic Mexican hospitality. But the friendship of Mexico and Mexicans for this nation and the American people has been demonstrated on many other occasions. We remember particularly that during the recent war the Republic of Mexico joined with this nation in the world battle for freedom and that her troops served with ours in the liberation of the Philippines. We must never allow comradeship of the battlefield to become a victim of peacetime indifference or misunderstanding. I am confident the mutual affection of our two great peoples will grow even stronger with time and that Mexico under such enlightened leadership will gain even greater stature among the nations of the world as a bulwark of progressive democracy. democracy. This visit of your excellency provides us with a long desired opportunity to show our genuine affection for you and the people of Mexico. As mayor of the city of New York and on behalf of the citizens of our city I bid you sir a cordial welcome. furthermore I do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service the Honorable Miguel Aliman President of Mexico Chief Executive of our great and friendly neighbor nation who has contributed immeasurably to the understanding understanding between the Republic of Mexico and the United States to emphasize the esteem and affection in which the great president of Mexico and her citizens are held by the people of our city I have the honor to confer honorary citizenship of the city of New York upon our distinguished visitor. The president of the United States just presented the scroll to President Aliman of Mexico and you're not seeing it over the radio but your cameramen are in there in all the papers tomorrow. The movies will record it. In fact every facility for recording this event by pictures is being thoroughly undertaken by the cameramen. And I've seen barrages of cameramen before but not quite as many as are here and I notice there are a great many apparently from Mexico and Spanish speaking organizations as well. And now we'll... Oh well... Prodigal vanishes when the cameramen get busy because they just take pictures whether the anthem's playing or anything else and we understand why. Because a picture is a picture when it happens not possibly when the opportunity comes to take it. And when they see something that looks like a picture they take that picture and the temporary suspense of Prodigal is pardonable in this particular case. And years later when we go to the files I should be technical and say the morgue but I hate the word of the newspaper offices and pull out these pictures. Then indeed the graphic story is told. Mayor O'Dwyer. It is now my honor and privilege to present to you His Excellency the President of the Republic of Mexico. President Aleman is certainly receiving a most cordial welcome here in City Hall today. You've just heard Mayor O'Dwyer present him. He's begging them to keep quiet so that he may speak. And now the President of Mexico. Señor Alcalde. Con particular agrado. Acojo las palabras de bienvenida. Que en nombre de la ciudad de Nueva York. Acaba usted de pronunciar. Con particular agrado. Inspiradas por el noble sentimiento de la solidaridad interamericana. Constituyen un mensaje de amistad hacia mi país. Donde al ser conocidas despertarán un eco de sincera reciprocidad y de franco aprecio. Para México. Para México. Enfrentado ahora. A la inmensa tarea de mejorar. Las condiciones en que vive su población. Y que a fin de realizar tal propósito. Ha emprendido con entusiasmo. Una campaña. De recuperación. Económica nacional. Nueva York. Ofrece el estimulante. Ejemplo. De una. Ciudad. En cuya actividad. Existe el esfuerzo humano. Sostenido. Sin desmayo. Todo es aquí labor humana. La naturaleza brindó solo un trozo de tierra. Entre dos anchas corrientes fluviales. Cerca del océano. La industria hizo lo demás. Oradó la red de túneles. A través de la roca. Enarcó los puentes. Sobre ambos ríos. Y alzó las torres. Que mudan la ciudad. En un espléndido colmenar de acero. Cimentada en la roca de Manhattan, Nueva York. Lo está por igual. En la energía de sus moradores. No menos firme. Que aquella. Emporio. Al que afluyen las naves de todos los mares. Y ya. Las aeronaves. De todos los cielos. La gran urbe ha realizado. En poco más de un siglo. Su prodigiosa expansión. Maravillan al observador. Su continuo desarrollo. Y su juvenil dinamismo. Pero aún más. Le asombra. Que a la potencia material. Cuyo empuje. Incontrastable. Pudiera anular. Toda actividad del pensamiento. Junta en Nueva York. El interés. Por las inquietudes intelectuales. Sus museos ofrecen a la cultura. Tesoros de arte. Y múltiples riquezas del saber. Sus bibliotecas reflejan. El ritmo vital. De la población. Y lo mejor dotado. De la juventud. Neoyorquina. Estudia en la universidad. No solo aquellas técnicas profesionales. Que habrá de ejercer más tarde. Si no cuanto. El universo propone. A la apetencia investigadora del espíritu. Mas si la sorpresa. Volvió las miradas del mundo. De un siglo a esta parte. Hacia la ciudad. En perenne de venir. Ahora las dirige también. Hacia ella la esperanza. Elegida. Como sede de las Naciones Unidas. Los pueblos. Quebrantados. Adoloridos. Ponen su fe en el organismo. Que aquí. Habrá de llevar a cabo. El más importante esfuerzo. Intentado por la humanidad. Para abolir la guerra. Y para sentar la paz. Sobre durazderas bases. De concordia. Y de buen entendimiento. Y así. Es nuevamente. Símbolo de libertad. El bronce que eleva su antorcha. En vuestra bahía. A la obra comenzada. Por las Naciones Unidas. México aporta. Su desinteresado concurso. Y como primer paso. Para la consecución de aquellos fines. Sustenta la doctrina. De la solidaridad. Continental. Mediante. El afianzamiento de los vínculos. Entre las repúblicas. De nuestro hemisferio. A las cuales une. Más que la situación geográfica. Y la analogía del pasado. La semejanza de las instituciones. Y el amor a la libertad. Tales nexos. Revisten evidente importancia. En las relaciones. Entre países. Que como México. Y los Estados Unidos. Son limítrofes. Así lo profesan ambos gobiernos. Y lo han comprendido los dos pueblos. Cordial es nuestra amistad. Según lo aprueba. La visita. Del excelentísimo señor presidente Truman. A México. Y mi presencia aquí. Para corresponderla. En la amable acogida. Que Nueva York me dispensa. Descubro un agurio. Propicio para el desarrollo. De la política. De buena vecindad. Y para el incremento. El intercambio. De toda índole. Comercial. Cultural. Turístico. Entre nuestras dos naciones. En este recinto. Expresión de las libertades cívicas. No puedo menos de pensar. En todos los esfuerzos realizados. Por el pueblo. De los Estados Unidos. En favor. De esos ideales. Por ellos. Ha luchado igualmente México. A lo largo. De su agitada historia. Y en los duros años. De la reciente guerra. Y por ellos. Vertieron su sangre. Soldados mexicanos. Lado a lado. Con los hijos de este país. En la común defensa. De los derechos humanos. Es ese espíritu. De firme adhesión a la democracia. Y de fe en la libertad. El que me mueve a pediros. Señor alcalde. Que os sirváis a aceptar. Junto con mi reconocimiento. Por la distinción que recibo. Y junto con mis votos. Por vuestra aventura personal. Y la de vuestros colaboradores. Los que formulo sinceramente. Por el progreso. Y prosperidad. De la ciudad de Nueva York. El presidente de la ciudad de Nueva York. El honor de la ciudad de Nueva York. El honor de la ciudad de Nueva York. El honor de la ciudad de Nueva York. Miguel Alemán. President of Mexico. Who just concluded his speech. There will be a translation. The official interpreter. President. Huberto Sen. Your honor. I shall cherish. With enduring pleasure. The words of welcome. Which on behalf of the city of New York. You have spoken. Inspired by the noble sentiment. Of inter-American solidarity. They are a message of friendship. For my country. Where they will stir an echo. Of profound appreciation. Mexico. Now engaged in the great task. Of improving. The living conditions. Of its people. And having for this purpose. Undertaken. An intensive campaign. Of economic recovery. And development. Finds. In New York City. The stimulating example. Of a tireless. Dynamic activity. Everything here. Is the product of human labor. And ingenuity. Nature contributed. Only a strip of land. Between two wide streams. Near the ocean. Industry. Has accomplished the rest. It has drilled. A network of tunnels. In the rock. It has arched. Mighty bridges. Over the rivers. It has raised. The stately towers. That make your city. A veritable beehive. Of steel. Erected on rock. Your city. Has been built. Likewise. On the granite. Like energy. Of its people. An emporium. Whither flock. The ships. That ply. All the oceans. And now. The airships. Of all the skies. This great metropolis. Has attained. It's prodigious expansion. In little more. Than a century. Visitors marvel. At its unbroken growth. And its youthful enthusiasm. But they admire. Even more. The fact. That its material prowess. Has not overwhelmed. Its spiritual. Achievements. New York City. Is vitally interested. In cultural pursuits. Of all kinds. Its museums. Serve culture. Displaying the richest treasures. Of art. As well as the most illuminating. Exhibits of science. Its libraries. Reflect intellectual growth. Of its people. And its magnificent colleges. And universities. Enlighten its youth. Eager to acquire. Not only technical. Or specialized knowledge. But also to engage. In research. And satisfy. The quenchless curiosity. Which nature awakens. In the minds of men. During the last hundred years. The world has turned. Its fascinated. Admiring eyes. Towards this ever expanding city. Now it turns them. In tremulous hope. Your city. Has been chosen. As the seat. Of the United Nations. The stricken. Distressed. Peoples. Of the world. Are placing their faith. In this organization. Which conducts here. The widest experiment. Yet attempted. By man. To abolish war. And to maintain. Peace. On a basis. Of understanding. And amity. The colossal statue. Holding aloft. Its torch. In New York Bay. Is become a new. The symbol. Of liberty. Mexico's contribution. To the work. Of the United Nations. Has been heartfelt. And generous. But Mexico. Believes. That the first step. We must take. In the furtherance. Of the ends. Pursued. By that organization. Is to uphold. Hemispheric. Solidarity. Strengthening. The ties. That bind. The American republics. Together. Let us remember. That our countries. Are united. By the similarity. Of their institutions. And their common. Love of freedom. Rather than. By their geographical. Proximity. Unparalleled histories. Such bonds. Are doubly important. In the relations. Between countries. Such as Mexico. And the United States. That have a common border. Both our governments. Realize this importance. Both our peoples. Understand it. That our friendship. Is cordial. And sincere. Was amply shown. By the visit. Of his excellency. Harry S. Truman. President of the United States. To Mexico. And by my presence here. To return. His courteous call. In the hearty. And gracious welcome. With which I have been greeted. In New York City. I find an auspicious. Ammon. For the advancement. Of the good neighbor policy. And for an ever growing. Exchange of goods. And services. Between our nations. Commercial. Cultural. And touristic. Today. On this spot. Which symbolizes. The ideals. Of political freedom. I cannot. But think. Of all the efforts. Made. By the people. Of the United States. On behalf. Of those ideals. Mexico. Has also striven. For them. All along. Its troubled history. And recently. During the hard years. Of the war. For those ideals. Mexican soldiers. Fighting shoulder. To shoulder. With your own troops. Shed their blood. In our common defense. Of the rights of man. It is this spirit. Of earnest devotion. To democracy. And of faith. In freedom. That moves me. To ask. Mr. Mayor. That you kindly. Accept together. With my gratitude. For the honor. You have done me. My fervent wishes. For your personal happiness. And that of your worthy assistance. As well as for the prosperity. And progress. Of the city. Of New York. You heard the ambassador. Who made the translation. Of President Aleman's speech. When the president of Mexico. Responded to Mayor O'Dwyer's. Generous. And resplendent greeting. For the city. Mr. Whelan. If our distinguished mayor. Has any weakness. It is. Towards his alma mater. And one of the musts. That he insists upon. Before. Your Excellency. Leaves this century old. Building. Is a song. From the police. Glee Club. Thank you. Thank you. To a plant is shot to you If you have the soul and the spirit Then the spirit you'll see through Hearts can inspire For the hearts we define For the strong obey When the strong men shows them the way Give me some men who are stout-hearted men Who will fight for the right they adore Start me with ten who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon give you ten thousand more Oh, shoulder to shoulder and older and older They go and they go to the floor Then there's nothing in the world Can go no more apart Where shall heart and men And sing together man to man Give me some men who are stout-hearted men Who will fight for the right they adore Start me with ten who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon give you ten thousand more Oh, shoulder to shoulder and older and older They go and they go to the floor Then there's nothing in the world Can go no more apart Where stout-hearted men And stick together man to man That was the Police Glee Club Sang at special request to the mayor Honoring the President of Mexico here in City Hall It's a splendid thing that we have the musical organizations of the city department So now Mr. Whalen Seated while His Honor the mayor escorts His Excellency from the room And now the mayor of the city of New York The Honorable William O'Dwyer The Honorable Grover Ray Whalen The distinguished members of the mayor's committee Act as an escort to the President of Mexico The Honorable Miguel Aleman As he turns again toward the Great Hall and City Hall here And is leaving for the cars that will take him To the Hotel Commodore And at that point The mayor of the city of New York And the mayor's committee are tendering a lunch To His Excellency President Aleman And the members of his entourage And your city will broadcast The various microphones of your city radio stations Will carry the speeches from the room in the Hotel Commodore There's just a little stop there And I wanted to see what was going to happen No, they're safely out now of the council chamber here In City Hall And that's about all we have to tell you from City Hall And we return you now to the studios Thank you You You You