The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Can we stop polio? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses the progress which we have made in coping with polio. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the causes of polio, how we get it, and what precautions should be taken to avoid it. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Douglas Buchanan, neurologist at the University of Chicago, Dr. Edward Comper, orthopedic surgeon in the medical school at Northwestern University, and Mrs. Frances Carlstein, Executive Secretary of the Cook County Chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Mrs. Comper and gentlemen, this seems to be the season of the year in which polio often reaches epidemic proportions. Can you give us some idea of the extent of the disease this year, Mrs. Carlstein? Good news, Mr. McBurney. We're running about nationally about 9,000 as of August 12th, against 14,000 a year ago. That's good news nationally, and that picture is pretty much true locally. Do you think that Dr. Buchanan, that the cooler summer, the cooler weather, is responsible for this good news that Mrs. Carlstein brings? I think it must be, because it seems in each year that there have been epidemics, that the epidemic tends to die, although not completely, whenever the temperature drops. Is the disease increasing over a period of years, Mrs. Carlstein? I would say yes at the present time. Since 1946, we've noticed a definite upswing in the disease, certainly locally in the United States, since 1947, all over the world. I would say that the statistics from 1942 to 1948 would show about 14,000, between 13,000 and 14,000 as an average year. In 1948, we had over 26,000, and in 1949, over 42,000. 1949 was your worst year, is that right? That's right, the worst one in history. What people does polio select, Dr. Comper? Is it essentially a children's disease? It is not essentially a children's disease. Poliomyelitis is no respecter of persons or of ages. Although more children have the disease than do adults, for perhaps several reasons, many adults probably have had the disease in such a mild form that no diagnosis was made. And hence, they do have immune substances within their bodies which make them more resistant to the disease. It's of some interest, perhaps, that people who live in rural areas are more likely to have this disease than those who live in the cities where there is more congestion and crowding. How do you account for that? Or can you account for it? We can only offer some possible explanations. In the rural areas, sanitation may not be as good as it is in the city where we have public health departments constantly on the job. Also, flies and other insects which may be vectors in spreading this disease are much more numerous around barns, on farms, and the drinking water in many farms may not be as pure as it should be. As an example, in 1949, the number of people who had poliomyelitis in Chicago or in New York City was about 35 per 100,000 population. While in some of our northwestern states such as Wyoming and Montana or Idaho, the incidence of polio was more than twice that high. These are states where the population is scattered and where there are no large cities. And yet, there were 65 to 85 cases of polio for each 100,000 population in those rural areas. Has that been your experience with this disease, Dr. Buchanan? Well, my experience has been purely in cities, but by reading, I would agree at once with Dr. Kompier. How deadly a disease is this, Dr. Buchanan? It's not as deadly as many people perhaps imagine. so that at least 50% of people who have this disease, even in the phase in which the nervous system is infected, do recover from it and recover from it completely. The actual death rate is much lower than that with such other diseases as carcinoma or heart disease. So that it is not a deadly disease in the sense that those others are. what percentage of people are crippled as a result of infantile paralysis, Mrs. Carlstein? Well, about from 15% to 20% are pretty seriously crippled despite treatment, of which 8% die. But 40% to 50% get well completely and about 25% to 35% will have some slight paralysis, but nothing to interfere with normal living. It would have a residual, but by treatment it wouldn't handicap them. Are these statistics improving as a result of modern surgery, would you say? Yes. at least there are fewer individuals who are being left totally disabled or so severely disabled that they could not obtain employment because we are succeeding in preventing many of the deformities which formerly occurred as a result of no treatment. Curvatures of the spine, for instance, following a severe paralysis of polyomyelitis may be severe, totally disabling the individual. Many of these curvatures can be prevented by good orthopedic procedures and physical therapy. Those that develop in spite of treatment can usually be checked or corrected if recognized early and the spine made strong by an operation known as a spinal fusion using bone grafts. I think most people have the impression, Dr. Buchanan, that infantile paralysis or polio is a relatively recent disease. I know from what you've said that that isn't the case. Briefly, what is the history of this thing? How long have we known this disease anyway? The disease itself, known as infantile paralysis, has been so known only for about 100 years. But historically, of course, the disease must have existed before that. The first actual reference to the evidence that poliomyelitis existed a long time ago was the finding of a skeleton by Flandus Petrie near Cairo. This skeleton was calculated to be somewhere between 3,000 and 4,000 years B.C. And in this skeleton, the left leg was obviously shorter than the right and the changes in the bone were perfectly compatible with the diagnosis of poliomyelitis. Another example that this has been known, at least has existed, for an indefinite period, is the fact that Hippocrates, himself, had some statements in his aphorisms about epidemic paraplegias, when those probably were really evidences and references to what is now called poliomyelitis. In addition, much later, for example, a person like Sir Walter Scott obviously suffered from poliomyelitis. infidelisces, and he developed this from the history of his life when he was a year and a half old, and this came on in the classic manner after a period of three days in which he had fever, and on the fourth day he was found to have a complete paralysis of his right leg. This, of course, persisted throughout all the rest of his life. The first person who ever actually described this in a medical sense was a man called Underwood who did this in 1784. And then the actual expression of using the term of infantile paralysis was actually introduced by the French, by Duchesne, in 1845. There are two other people whose name are always referred to in this disease, and one is Chaney and the other is Medin, and those were people who studied epidemics, and the latter, Medin, was the first person who properly realized that this was an infectious disease. The fact that this, however, was a disease essentially of the nervous system and not of any other part of the body was not really known until 1905, and that's not very long ago, and that was known by, and described by Wickman. The last two particular points in the history is that it was not until 1908 that Landsteiner was able to transfer this disease to a monkey and to prove that this was the same disease as happened in a human being. And a year later, Flexner demonstrated that this disease was caused by a virus. Your history there suggests several questions to me. Are animals, then, not carriers of this disease? There are two diseases. which in all probability are very similar to the poliomyelitis which affects human beings. And this is a disease first, which will occur in swine, which has a specific name with veterinarians, and the second is a similar disease which occurs in mice. And those are caused also by a virus, and the virus which causes those two diseases, in the swine and the mice, have many characteristics which are very similar to those of the poliomyelitis virus, which is under discussion at the present moment. So that there are animals who carry a disease somewhat like poliomyelitis, and in many respects are probably plus cousins of it. Now, Dr. Buchanan has referred to this as a disease of the nervous system, Dr. Comper. I think that many people think of it as a respiratory disease. Until a few years ago, the statement was sometimes made that poliomyelitis and the summer cold were probably one and the same thing, that in some instances the victim of the summer cold became paralyzed, in other instances he did not. We know that this is not true. The virus is found in the nose and the nasopharynx in patients who are acutely ill with poliomyelitis. But the virus reaches the central nervous system through the gastrointestinal tract. And hence those who become ill with poliomyelitis are contaminated probably or become infected probably through drinking water that contains the virus or through eating food that has been contaminated by other handlers who were carriers of the disease or patients who were ill with the disease or by flies and other insects which may have become contaminated with the virus and hence then light on the food leaving virus which can be taken into the mouth and into the intestinal tract. the spread from the intestinal tract to the nervous system is probably along the nerve pathways. I think it should be mentioned at this point that no one has ever accurately demonstrated the presence of the virus of poliomyelitis for example in the bloodstream and very seldom ever in a lymph gland. But as Dr. Compea says it has been demonstrated both in the nose and throat and in the intestine of people who have the infection. it's of interest that this infection or at least the virus itself has been found for two or three days in the nose and throat and as long as four or five weeks in the intestine of a person who has the disease. The actual invasion of the virus from the elementary tract into the nervous system is a peculiar thing which this virus has as a peculiar quality and it travels along a nerve axon and it doesn't do what most infections do travel by the bloodstream or in the lymph system or the reticular endothelial system and it travels along the naked axon and it will do this wherever it is possible for the virus to leave the elementary tract and get into the nervous system. It can do this at various levels throughout the whole length of the intestine. It's of interest in reference to the fact that practically the majority of people who have poliomyelitis are more liable to have weakness or trouble with their legs than they are with the middle part of their body or to have much more trouble with their legs than they most usually do with their arms. In all power of early the virus as it leaves the intestine goes into the nervous system along particular grey pathways which exist between the intestine and the nervous system. It so happens that in the nervous system there are two specific places throughout the length of a person's spinal exits in which grey fibres exist and those grey fibres are so called because they do not have the usual variety of insulation or medulation on the outside of. And that those places where those grey fibres exist are in the cervical region and in the lower part of the lumbar core. And it may very well be as has always been stated by Tumi that this is the usual variety or the usual route of the ingoing of the infection from the intestine to the nervous system that this perhaps is the reason why the majority of human beings who have this disease are more liable to have trouble with their legs than they are with their thorax or they are with their arms. It might be explained at this point that there are several viruses a family of viruses closely related but not identical. which can produce the illness which we recognize clinically as poliomyelitis. Three of these viruses have been definitely identified. We know that there are other viruses. How many strains of viruses can produce poliomyelitis we do not yet know. One of the most important things that we need to learn about this disease is exactly which viruses how many of them there are and how to identify each one. And studies to try to determine these facts are being carried on now in several leading universities under grants supplied by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. viruses. When these facts are known it will be much more likely that vaccines can be developed polyvalent vaccines or vaccines made from all of the known viruses which can produce poliomyelitis and such vaccines then would have a good chance of producing immunity if they are used for that purpose. I suppose when you speak of the several strains of the virus Dr. Kompier that would perhaps give us a reason to believe that some people can be stricken with polio more than once. We have had a few instances in our experience I would say very rare. What are the scientific facts on that? Can people get polio more than once? Is it truly polio the second time? That question has been asked by scientists and by many lay people. One attack of poliomyelitis confers some immunity probably complete immunity to that particular virus which produced the attack of poliomyelitis. However I have had two patients who have had two definite attacks of poliomyelitis seven to ten years apart in each instance producing paralysis. That doesn't mean that that patient was not immune to an attack from the same virus that produced the first attack. In all probability it was a different virus that produced the second attack. It can be stated however from statistical studies and stated very definitely that any person who has had poliomyelitis once is extremely unlikely to ever have another attack. Can you have polio without knowing it Dr. Buchanan? If you mean by that the fact that a person may have the insertion of the virus in some way into his body and from this there's no clinical evidence of infection and there's no clinical evidence of weakness or paralysis of course this is true. so that there are many people who do have the infection and this may come when they are young or when they are old and they have no knowledge that this infection has ever happened and again as was mentioned earlier this may have been looked on as some mild upper respiratory infection. Such a person however must have had the infection because a large majority of the population of grown up people do carry immune bodies in their blood against this actual specific virus at least two or three types of virus and such people must have acquired this infection in all probability in childhood at some time when no one knew that they were actually suffering from this disease at present under discussion so that there are many people who have the infection in this way and do not know that they have had it but this is to their own good because it means that they are now in all probability immune. Dr. Buchanan I'm thinking in terms of some of the questions that come to the National Foundation for Infantial Paralysis from parents and those who are concerned about their children I would say many times unduly concerned and one of the things we have said to them is to avoid over fatigue I think that's been interpreted almost as hibernating for the summer months many of our parents feel they're afraid to have their children engage in normal sports they want to rest all the time now what about this business of avoiding over fatigue can it stop polio or when do you avoid it I think it is true that if a person actually is in the critical point of his infection in which the virus itself is about to invade the nervous system that if that given person at that time exercises more than usual or is cooled and chilled more than usual that it in all probability will produce a greater weakness after the illness has gone there is some experimental evidence in animals that this is true because it is possible to increase the severity of disease and increase the rate of infectivity of animals who have been heavily exercised and heavily chilled after the actual inoculation with the virus so it is true as a practical measure that if a person is suffering from this disease in the early stage before it has actually invaded his nervous system or if just at the point at which it is about to do this that that person exercises much more than normal he probably is in some danger and he probably has doing himself some harm which if he had rested would not have happened it is at once true however that this is nothing to do with the question of every person during the period in which polymyelitis is present in a community having no exercise doing nothing it makes no difference in the slightest whether the person exercises as much as he wants before the actual virus enters his body it is only at the critical point at which it is about to invade his nervous system and then probably exercise will increase the blood supply in the region of the terminations of the exons from his nervous system into his elementary tract and perhaps it is true that this will drive the virus not only more quickly into his nervous system but drive it further within the confines of his nervous system so to again exercise with a person who has got the infection at the critical point is probably bad but exercise before this point means nothing in other words then our parents would be we would give them good advice if we ask them to put the child to bed when he is ill and have the doctor decide what his difficulty is and just keep him quiet during the time that he may be having the beginning of an acute infection infection I think that's helpful because so many of our families feel that during polio season they don't want to go to camps or they don't want to go to parks or they don't want to swim they just want to be very quiet and it upsets the normal routine of life and I believe that's much worse for the community than all of this terrific precaution which puts them in an unusual state what do you say to that Dr. Comper I would agree with that in for the most part I do think that the chance of swimming pools especially small artificial pools becoming contaminated with the virus from swimmers who perhaps are not ill at the time but are carriers of the virus or from swimmers who are just beginning to become ill and hence have the virus within their intestines in large quantities is great enough that during the months of August and September it would be wise to keep normal children away from those pools or to close the pools as has been done in many of our cities now you're kind of hard on swimming pools how about theaters and other public gathering places schools for example that's a very good question in fact it's a question which comes up every year in which our public officials have to answer and reach some decision the mayor is asked shouldn't we close the school letters are written in shouldn't we close the schools because there's a lot of poliomyelitis in the community the facts the facts are that this is a disease in which the spread is by way of the mouth and the gastrointestinal tract at least in most cases in other words food water or food and water contaminated by flies insects and the like the patient who has poliomyelitis but just direct contact between a normal individual and a person who is ill with poliomyelitis carries almost no risk one can occupy a bed next to a bed in which there's an acute case of poliomyelitis and stand very little chance of getting the disease provided normal nursing procedures are followed particularly repeated washing of the hands on the part of nurses or doctors who go from one bed to another that has been shown in Winnipeg Canada and other places where there is no quarantine for poliomyelitis where patients acutely ill with the disease are brought into an open ward with other patients and yet in no instance has the well patient or the patient with a broken leg but no illness ever caught the disease in these wards so that there's no good reason for closing the school as a matter of fact children are probably safer in school than out playing in the street or the alleys as they probably would be doing if school were not open at the regular time as soon as schools open here in Chicago every year possibly because we're beginning to get cooler weather by that time but I think also because of the better control of these children the incidence of poliomyelitis usually goes down sharply Dr. Buchanan is there any evidence to show that certain people are less susceptible to polio than others I'm thinking particularly of this research of Sabin that you were telling us about a little earlier this work of Sabins of Cincinnati is one of the most interesting recent things which have come out in poliomyelitis this is by observation that in native communities it seems to be true that small children are less liable to acquire the infection or if they do to have it in a much less serious form and by observation and by testing it seemed to be true that there was some peculiar substance which was present in milk and specifically at the beginning in human milk that this substance was in the nature of a protection against a virus infection by considerable work it was demonstrated that this was not just an antibody which was being carried through from the blood into the breast milk it was also demonstrated that this was not just a specific protective substance against one virus it seemed to have an action against all viruses it is also of interest that it was discovered that some cow's milk had this same substance and others had none at all the significance of all this of course is entirely unknown where it will lead is also unknown but it is the first new idea which has come out in the whole process of prevention Dr. Buchanan was that one of the grants supported by the National Foundation for Infantil Paralysis I believe it was if we are to stop polio we cannot hope to do it simply by adding new operative procedures to repair the damage when there is already paralysis polio can only be actually stopped by finding a means of preventing it such as the vaccines toxoids and so forth which have prevented other contagious or infectious diseases and our only hope for that is to continue to obtain support for research projects such as are being carried on now in the laboratories of almost every university in this country research that has been supported by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis a source of support for which there is no substitute today how are these polio cases handled when you do get them in the hospital doctor have you made progress in surgery that's significant many operations have been perfected by which it is possible to make an arm or a leg that had been relatively useless due to paralysis become a useful member but this is at best just patching up your emphasis then is on prevention and I take it that the National Foundation which you represent is contributing in that direction thank you you've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand Discussion Can We Stop Polio we invite you to subscribe now for copies of the Reviewing Stand Weekly Discussions our guests today were Dr. Edward Compear Mrs. Francis L. Carlstein and Dr. Douglas Buchanan now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program next week the Reviewing Stand begins a series of three rebroadcasts of interesting and provocative discussions which have brought special response from our listeners the first of these transcribed discussions will be on the subject why read the Bible you will hear Edgar J. Goodspeed world renowned student of the Bible and author of how to read the Bible Wayne A.R. Lee Dean of Faculties at Roosevelt College Albert E. Barnett Professor of New Testament at the Candler School of Theology and Joseph Haratunian Professor of Systematic Theology at McCormick Theological Seminary we invite you to listen next week when we discuss the question why read the Bible this is the Mutual Broadcasting System the Bible and spend a few minutes on. and putting on. the Bible and will and go in the first and in where the Bible you and will see exactly as a much will change in
