The Chesterfield Supper Club starring Perry Como. Cigarette, cigarette, Chesterfield. There you are sir. Always by Chesterfield. The cigarette of right, cigarette of right, cigarette of right, cigarette of right-wing. That is to say you can welcome thoseigo hive. Heck this is delicious. The nations of the world in time of war gather to build the edifice of peace. The United Nations Conference on International Organization is in session. This is Ben Grauer speaking from the NBC box of the Golden Horseshoe of the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco. Where the delegates of 46 United Nations are assembling in the solemn opening conclave of their momentous series of meetings designed to blueprint the reconstruction of the world of tomorrow. This is an hour of portent and promise most faithful in the annals of man. A moment whose implications are so tremendous that it almost stills the tongue. The events of this conference are of personal importance to every heart and home in the world, from Marble Mansion to Adobe Hut. We of NBC pledge that this, one of the greatest news stories of all time, will be brought to you clearly, honestly, and completely from the city which now becomes the news capital of the world. Difficult problems must be solved here. Hard knots of national differences untangled. But one fact brightens the outlook, one potent and inescapable reality. The vast majority of our planet is represented here, garbed in various and curious costume, crying out in unfamiliar tongues. Here truly is one world before our eyes. An age-old dream of man coming to realization. And there's another spirit guiding this conference, that of the leader who charted the way. In his memory, every flag that flies over the conference city is at half-mast, while at this moment more thousands of fighting men are preparing to embark a mile from here to complete the victories of the peoples of peace. And now, the opening session. In just a moment, Secretary of State Edward R. Stetinius, Jr. will declare this conference formally open. He will introduce the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman, who will speak from Washington. And then we will hear the Governor of California, Earl Warren, and the Chief Executive of the City of San Francisco, Mayor Roger Lapham, who will add their words of welcome. That is the business of the opening session for which the delegates now are assembled in the San Francisco Opera House, one of the beautiful buildings in the handsome civic center of this city. Our observation booth here in Box J in the Opera House is situated in the center of a perimeter of boxes, much like the Golden Horseshoe in New York City's Opera House. Just below us on the floor are the seats of the delegates, and those seats are filled every last one of them, with some 800-odd delegates from 46 nations, including those who have just recently arrived a few moments ago as we stood at the entrance and saw the reception tendered to Foreign Minister Anthony Eden and to... Ah, there's the strains of the World Security March. Here entering is an honor guard of 16 selected men and women of the armed services. They're lining up before the mass flags at the rear of the stage, the mass 46 flags of the nations. And here appearing on the stage is Secretary of State, he's expected momentarily, Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius. A hush falls upon the auditorium. There's the energetic figure of our Secretary of State, and we take you now to the stage and Secretary Stettinius. His name's D.V. Henry. Just D.V., that's all. His mother's Mrs. Alice Henry. She lives near us. 995 Morris Avenue. The Bronx. Let me tell you. No quiet, all of you. Now go on, Bucks. Well, this guy, D.V. Henry, he's a friend of my brother Mike's, see. Him and D.V.'s two brothers, Desmond and Raymond, they all used to pal around together at D. Wick Clinton High. And then D.V. went to New York University for a year. And then he got himself a job in the post office. Quirkin'. And when the war came along, he joined the Navy. Boy, he sure thought he was going to get away from handling mail and see some action. What do you reckon they put him to doing? Sorting mail. Sure, they made him a mailman. Third class on a destroyer in the Atlantic. And D.V. was burned up, I guess. But anyways, he wrote to Mike that if that was what the Navy wanted him to do, he'd do it. And what do you know? His old C.O. up and cited him for shuffling mail. The commanding officer hereby commends Henry for his splendid spirit, for efficient performance, and of devotional duty during the past year. Henry aided greatly in building up and maintaining the high standard of efficiency of this ship, and has materially aided in its efficient organization and operation during the most difficult period of his career. Okay, okay. Now, skeet. Gee, thanks, Mr. Tompkins. Never thought you'd get around to me. What's yours? Anybody we all know. He used to be assistant scoutmaster for Troop 1 in Yonkers and Camp Consular at Collins, and was assistant director on the waterfront. How big of a man? Her. Yes, I knew him. He won letters in soccer and track at Roosevelt High. Sure, he was examined on the Boy Scout Court of Marla. Wasn't he an Eagle Scout? He was coming up for his examination when he was sent overseas. Being an Eagle Scout won't seem much to him anymore. Gosh, he won all kinds of medals. There was to get it. Camp McClellan. That's right. We're mighty proud of her. He already won the Presidential Unit Citation, the Good Conduct Medal, the Infantry Combat Medal, and the Purple Heart with a cluster. And you know what he's got now? A bronze star. What do you know? Sure, his uncle told me. Mr. Goldstein. Lives in Yonkers, 55 O... Sego Street. He's got a picture of the citation. For heroic achievement in combat, that on November 21st, 1944 in France, during the attack against hostile positions on the bank of a river, the progress of the fighting carried Company L far from the battalion command post, and both wire and radio communications were disrupted. Private First Class Herbert Blum, the company runner, left the battalion command post in an attempt to locate his unit. After three hours, he found several wounded members of his company. Water. Anybody got any water around here? There's a river down there someplace. Golly, I wish we knew where we were at. If you don't get that leg of yours to a first aid station, you ain't gonna have one. Don't I know it? Who's that? Hold it. Hold it, we'll fire! Hey, hold it. Hold it, fellas. Hey, fellas, it's Herbie. Hey, you guys. Thank heavens. Gee, I've been hunting Company L for three doggone hours. What do you mean, Company? We're looking for ourselves. You mean they're not around anywhere? We lost track of them hours ago. Joe here's gotta find a first aid station and find it quick. Well, there they were. A lot of cut-off men wounded, see? So he tells them how to get to the nearest first aid station and he keeps on slugging around trying to find out where his company's at. So in about two hours, somebody tells him they already crossed the river and then he goes back to the battalion headquarters. Hey! Private first-class plumb, Company L reporting, sir. Have a ration and ammo detail of taking the company across the river. And a lot of casualties, Major. Well, we're pretty hard up here as it is, but, well, okay. You guys need it more than we do. Okay, fellas, dump your stuff for a minute and take it easy while I go across and do a little reconnoitering. And for Pete's sake, keep an eye out. There are a lot of Nazi fucks around here that haven't been sold up yet. I'm the first-class Company L, sir. Can you tell me where Company L is located? I seem to have lost them. Afraid not, soldier. This is Company K here. L Company may be down there on those hills. You say you've got russians and ammunition? Right across the river, sir. I sure could use a little. You could spare it. I'll lead them over and we'll build your dump here tonight. There you are, sir. There's your ration and ammunition dump. Anything else we can do for you? No, except take along some thanks. You and your details sure are a lifesaver, but you look worn out, Plum. Why not swat and rest a while? No, thanks. I'll take the detail back where I got them in the Battalion Command headquarters. And I have to find my own company. Well, good luck. Say, how many hours have you been wandering over this hillside looking for him? About ten hours so far, sir. About twelve hours so far, sir. Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen hours, sir. He then continued searching for his own company until after more than fifteen hours of traveling over difficult terrain, he was overcome by exhaustion and was forced to rest. Private First Class Herbert Blum is hereby awarded the Bronze Star Medal for heroic achievement in combat. The Bronze Star Medal You've been listening to New Yorkers All, Heroes All, all true stories of a trio of New Yorkers now serving in the country's cause, carrying their valiant spirits and indomitable courage from one end of the earth to the other. From the European theater to the South Pacific, they will carry on till the war is won, the peace is won, and they can return once more to the enjoyment of life, of liberty, of the pursuit of passion. Tune in next week at this time for additional stories of New Yorkers All, Heroes All. The production tonight was written by Adolf Schusenberg and was directed by Mitchell Zablin as a public service speaker of the municipal broadcasting system. Tememory Zablin까지 from office to Cook of the dental and test toward world peace. It is our daily prayer that the bonds of understanding forged here will serve to benefit all humanity for generations to come. We here on the Pacific coast of the United States of America are fully aware of the special recognition you have given us. Ours is a young civilization, a civilization that has made its greatest development during the lifetimes of men now living. Many of you represent nations which are not only ages old, but which have for centuries been making the struggle for a better world, the struggle in which we are now all joined. It is a double compliment to us, therefore, to have our young and hopeful segment of the world chosen as the drafting room for a new era in international goodwill. We recognize that our future is linked with a world future in which the term good neighbor has become a global consideration. We have learned that understanding of one another's problems is the greatest assurance of peace, and that true understanding comes only as the product of free consultation. This conference is proof in itself of the new conception of neighborliness and unity, which must be recognized in world affairs. The plan to hold this conference was announced at Yalta, halfway around the world, only two and a half months ago. Yet, in spite of all the tragic events of the war, including the sad and untimely death of our own president, it opens today, here in San Francisco, on schedule, and without the slightest interference with the greatest military undertakings in all history. Unity has created the strength to win the war. It is an expression of the strength to win the power of the world. It is an expression of this spirit that I, as governor of California, welcome you to our state. Thank you. Thank you, Governor Warren. The municipal authorities and the people of this historic city have spared no effort and no sacrifice to provide to this conference every facility to accomplish its labors. I present to you a man who eminently deserves the gratitude of all of us. My friend, the Honorable Roger D. Lapham, Mayor of San Francisco. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, President Truman has spoken a welcome to you on behalf of the entire United States of America. Governor Warren has greeted you on behalf of the people of California. I greet you in the name of the people who dwell on the shores of the Bay of San Francisco. We welcome you to the Gateway of the Pacific. Cosmopolitan San Francisco is well-fitted to act as host to our many guest nations. She has gone forward under the flags of six nations. She now stands on the threshold of her greatest role, welcoming a conference whose objective is international and international organization. An organization so implemented that it will take us far along the road of civilization and on toward the goal of world peace. Almost 100 years ago, our port was thronged with vessels and with men of all nations seeking gold. Today, we are still seeking, but we seek a different treasure. For here in this war memorial opera house, raised to those who died in the First World War, and to all intents and purposes they died in vain, we look to you, thinking men and women, for the foundation of a just and lasting peace. This being so, it is altogether proper that San Francisco here and now begins its contribution to a peacetime world. If we can help, we stand ready to serve. But we have no intention of making demands upon your time and energy while you face this solemn and all-important task. As the main gateway to the front lines of the Pacific War, San Francisco has borne and still bears a heavy wartime responsibility. You delegates bear the brunt of what lies before us in the post-war world. May we help you in creating the framework of a world security organization. An organization built not on the shifting sands of distrust, but on the rock of mutual understanding. Like good soldiers, soldiers of peace, we of San Francisco are yours to command. In the past few years, hundreds of thousands of men and women devoted to war have passed through our city. With hopeful hearts, we welcome you men and women devoted to peace. Thank you, Roger Lapham. Fellow delegates of the United Nations Conference, President Truman has spoken of the grievous loss which came to America and to the world less than two weeks ago. This conference of the United Nations to prepare the charter of a world organization owes much to the vision and the courage of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Many of his last hours were spent in preparation for this moment. For a moment which in the wisdom of God, he could not live to see. We are met here at a time and at a place which he proposed. We have met to carry forward the great purpose for which he spent his strength to build a structure of lasting peace after victory in this war. We have lost a wise and a valiant leader. But the purpose lives on. And in this purpose, the United States is more resolute than ever. All America spoke through Franklin Delano Roosevelt when he said, The structure of world peace cannot be the work of one man or one party or one nation. It cannot be an American peace or a British or a French or a Russian or a Chinese peace. It cannot be a peace of large nations or of small nations. It must be a peace which rests on the cooperative effort of the whole world. There can be no middle ground here. We shall have to take the responsibility for world collaboration, or we shall have to bear the responsibility for another world conflict. All America spoke through President Truman just now when he said, With ever increasing brutality and destruction, modern warfare, if unchecked, will ultimately crush all civilization. We still have the choice between the alternatives, the continuation of international chaos, or the establishment of a world organization for the enforcement of peace. In their purpose to build an enduring world structure, a world peace, the people of the United States believe that they are firmly united with all the other United Nations. They are united with the large countries which, of necessity, have had to bear the main burden of winning victory over our common enemy. We are united with the smaller countries, so many of which have suffered the agony and the destruction of conquest. All because of the failure of the peace-loving peoples to unite in time against aggression before this war. The vital national interests of each of the United Nations require that all the United Nations work together to make peace and freedom secure. No one of the large nations, no one of the small nations, can afford anything less than success in this endeavor. Each of them knows too well what the consequences of failure would be. It is therefore with this strong bond of compelling mutual interest that this conference of the United Nations begins. It is with this clear understanding of what the realities demand of us that we fortify our high vision of a permanent structure of organized peace. A great American, Cordell Hall, who devoted many years of his life to the task before us, expressed to me only last Sunday his profound faith that whatever the difficulties, the labors of this conference would be crowned with success. We all hope that Cordell Hall's improving health will permit him to take part in this conference later on. To us who are Americans, it is a hopeful symbol that this conference is met in San Francisco. In our history, the West has always meant the future. San Francisco is a place toward which many generations of Americans have turned their eyes with, and with faith, American pioneers opened a new path westward across the wilderness. With courage, they met and conquered every danger along the way, until they reached the promised land that they sought. Since then, Americans have always thought of California and of San Francisco as a place where hopes come true, where all purposes can be accomplished. Now, the deepest hope, the highest purpose of all mankind, enduring peace, is here committed to our hands. We, too, are pioneers on a new road. There will be many obstacles and many dangers. We, too, must call upon the courage and the faith of those who came to California before us, across the wilderness. Do not bear fell into this fantasy park all of Patties Rovers come to