which of course are not and should not be the concern of the public schools. In the teaching of foreign languages, our schools, I think, intend to equip our children with an understanding of the civilizations and the attitudes of the peoples of the world. Lord, to appraise the varying forces which intervene in international affairs, we must know the background and the impacts upon which these are projected. It's a great familiarity with the language and the roots of countries and peoples and civilizations help to enrich that appraisal. By including the study of the Hebrew language and culture in its curriculum, the New York public school system has substantially advanced its program for a more enlightened and a more spiritual citizenship. I want to take this occasion to express my own thanks and the thanks of the Jewish community and the community in general of this city, to the superintendents and the principals of our schools and particularly to Dr. Ernst and Dr. Lieberman, who are in charge of the high schools and junior high schools of this city, for their courage and vision in making this project possible. I want to commend the hundreds of young people, boys and girls in the high schools, who demonstrated their interest in Hebrew culture by taking part in this contest and setting an example of greater value to thousands of others. And to you, who have merited the awards which you are to receive today, I wish to extend our warmest congratulations and best wishes for continued success in your cultural and academic endeavors. I think it is appropriate that at this time I should read to you a message from the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. It is a message addressed to Mr. Judah Lapson, Director of the Hebrew Culture Council of the Jewish Education Committee of New York. Dear Mr. Lapson, please convey my congratulations and best wishes to the students who excelled in the second annual contrast in Hebrew culture and its contribution to American life, held recently under the joint sponsorship of the senior and junior high school divisions of the Board of Education, in cooperation with the Hebrew Culture Council of the Jewish Education Committee of New York. City of New York is much the gainer because of its policy of according due recognition to the cultural contributions of the various groups comprising its vast population. When the Board of Education of the City of New York in 1929 admitted Hebrew on a par with the other languages taught in our schools, they showed great foresight in thus promoting a better understanding of the culture of a large segment of our city's population. The thousands of students now taking Hebrew in our high schools and junior high schools are the best proof of the popularity of this subject. I understand that the contest in Hebrew culture and its contribution to American life attracted the participation of a large section of our high school youth, including Christian and Jew, Negro and White. This is as it should be. American democracy owes much to the Hebrew cultural heritage. By giving free expression to this historic contribution, we are deepening and enriching our democratic way of life. Sincerely yours, William O'Dwyer, Mayor. Dr. Ernst, it is my great pleasure and privilege to deliver to you on behalf of a group of friends of the Hebrew Culture Council these prizes which are to be awarded to the winners of this unusual contest. Thank you. Judge now, on behalf of the men and women and students assembled here, I want to thank you for them for the splendid address that we've just been privileged to hear. And I want to thank you and your associates in the Hebrew Culture Council and in the Jewish Education Committee for organizing this competition and for making it possible to award these prizes. I know you're all anxious to hear names, and there's no necessity for my saying anything more about the importance of the occasion or the topic. I just want to thank you for the And it amounts to this. By winning in this competition, you've shown that you can write about Hebrew culture. May I ask you to do more. I want to ask you to study that culture so thoroughly and so sincerely that you will become imbued with its spirit and thus make of yourselves its modern contemporary representatives so that from you there may be handed down to successive generations the very spirit of the culture that we are here met to honor, so to speak. I shall now call the names of the prize winners in the academic high schools and then the winners in the junior high schools. Unfortunately, my colleague, Dr. Lieberman, who expected to be here, was called to an important meeting in Manhattan. Now, in the academic high schools, the winners are the following. Joseph Gottesman, James Monroe High School. Aaron Green, Lincoln High School. Wolfgang Hallow, Boys High School. Claire Liss, Thomas Jefferson, Stanley Matherin, Clinton, Eli Riscotto, Bronx High Schooler, Rishato, Rishatko, excuse me, Bronx High School of Science, and Phyllis Rubin, Erasmus Hall. Thank you. Each of you will be richer by a $25 war bond and a book, and I congratulate you. And a certificate. Three things, good heavens. Now here we have the second, the winners of second prizes in the academic high schools. Dorothy Appel, Evander, Dorothy Beanstalk, Roosevelt, Bertram Chernock, Tilden, Sandra Dobin, Music and Art, Flora Dortort, George Washington, Helen Gelman, Morris, Alan Hirschfield, Brooklyn Technical High School, Franklin Horowitz, Taft High School, Marshall Horowitz, Stuyvesant, Annette Laskin, Bushwick, Robert Levine, James Madison, Bernard Levinson, Far Rockaway, Charles Moore, Boys High School, Herbert Perlman, Samuel Gompers, Technical High School, Lenore Radack, Midwood High School, Herbert Rickman, Christopher Columbus High School, Audrey Taylor, Tilden, Yetta, Zane Worth, Seward Park, and Arnold Zucker, New Utrecht. And then we have some honorable mentions, too. Or may I say, the second prize winners will each get a $5 savings stamp and a book and a certificate. And here we have, though, those essays merited honorable mention. Lawrence Antler, Tilden, Ruth Benario, George Washington, Jerome Cohen, Clinton, Suzanne Cutler, Midwood, Gerald Feldhammer, Boys High, Rosalind Fisher, James Monroe, Liza Geffen, Liza Geffen, Julia Richmond, Goldfarb, Brooklyn Technical High School, Lenore Grossman, Tilden, Elaine Hagler, Jefferson, Ruth Hagler, Thomas Jefferson, heavens, it runs in the family and in the school, Pauline Height, William Howard Tare, Gerald Hoffer, Erasmus, Lenora Josephi, music and art, Jerome Lefkowitz, Christopher Columbus, Victor Levinson, High School of Science, Anuita Margolis, Midwood, Dina Mishkov, Roosevelt, Emmanuel Quint, Tilden, Abe Rothenberg, Lincoln, Arnold Schnall, New Utrecht, Joseph Serifman, Stuyvesant, Max Spalter, Boys High, and Sylvia Wurtzberger, Seward Park. Each of you will be given a very nice certificate. And now, for the winners in the junior high schools. Now you needn't miss Dr. Lieberman at all, you junior high school people. Nine years ago, I had his position in the junior high schools, so I'm quite at home, and not an entire stranger to you. Here are the prize winners. I don't seem to have the first prize winners of the junior high schools. What's that? I see. There were no first prizes in the junior high schools. Boys, you've slipped since I was with you. But there is a number of second prizes in the junior high schools, and here they are. Sarah Lynn Benjamin of Booty Junior High School, David Falk, Woodside, Esther Gitman, Herman Ritter, David Goldman, Montauk, Susan Halperin, William Niles, Saul Kugler, Henry P. O'Neill, Martin Lieberwitz, Mark Twain, junior high school, Harvey Nadal, McCombsdam, junior high school, Ruth Newlander, Horace Mann, Rhoda Silva, Wilton, junior high, Stanley Sperber, Farragut, junior high, Jeanette Steinsault, Winthrop, and Marvin Slashauer, Thomas Knowlton, junior high. And the honorable mentions in the junior high school division are Dorothy Berlin, McCombs, junior high, Laura Borowski, Winthrop, Saul Bromberg, Montauk, Roberta Freeling, Margaret Noe, junior high school, Miles Gallin, Booty, Lawrence Handler, of Farragut, Adele Krongelb, Krongelb, Wilton, junior high, Clara Pogoski, John Burroughs, junior high, Diana Reinitz, Herman Ritter, junior high, Rhoda Solomon, from William Niles, junior high school. And so, ladies and gentlemen, from the Board of Education building on Livingston Street in Brooklyn, your own city station brought you ceremonies marking the presentation of awards to 74 high school and junior high school winners for the second annual contest in Hebrew culture and its contribution to American life. Bidding you good afternoon from the Board of Education building in Brooklyn. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Oh, more broadcasts interesting. Thank you.
