Five months ago, the President called and asked me to come to Washington to talk to him about a defense mobilization job. Maybe if I'd have known exactly what the job was, I wouldn't have gone to Washington. But nevertheless, I did go, and after the President explained very carefully that he had been unable to get anyone else to take the job, and put it on the basis that it was a patriotic obligation, I decided to take a whirl at it because I felt I had very little to lose. I thought it out very carefully, and I felt that if I took the job, that the worst that could happen to me was that I would get fired, and that would be good. I could go back to Toledo, where the people had always been very kind to me, and I would imagine that they would forgive me for any sins that I could commit on a job of this kind. And so, having very little to lose, I decided to take a whirl at the job. At that time, we found a great deal of distress in the country. Prices were rising, and people were asking for direct controls. On all sides, you heard discussions from business leaders, from labor leaders, from government leaders, all demanding that some type of controls be imposed. And so, controls have been imposed, and I'm not going to exactly go into a review of the five or six months that we've been in business, but I want to talk about some of the current problems that we have. On April the 30th, we issued some regulations controlling the price of beef. Beef had gone up, from January of 1950, approximately 50 percent. I'm talking about beef cattle. The cost of living generally had gone up approximately 10 percent. Wages, somewhere in the neighborhood of 10 percent. Food generally, 11 or 12 percent. But beef cattle, 50 percent. From January the 25th until the date we issued our beef regulation, beef cattle had gone up about 12 or 13 percent. On January the 25th, we had imposed a freeze on packers, on retailers, wholesalers, but had not imposed a freeze on livestock for two reasons, at least. One reason was that the subject of the control of livestock was very technical. We didn't have the time to get out regulations. Secondly, we felt that we might take a chance on the assurance given to us by a great many livestock people who said that livestock prices had pretty well reached their peak, and that without control, by controlling the packer and controlling the retail outlets, that the price of livestock would remain rather constant. Well, it didn't remain constant. And so we issued our regulations on beef. We felt that beef had become symbolic in this price control program. Certainly, most of you gentlemen are married, and you know that when your wife thinks about the high cost of living, she thinks about the price of meat. She knows what the price of brown steak is. And we're not concerned too much about steaks, but we are concerned about what happened to the prices of ground meat, hamburger, stew meat. Any type of cut that the housewife normally buys had risen in price to the point where it had become practically prohibitive. Certainly, if we were going to ask wage earners to remain constant, keep their wages frozen, if we were to ask other businesses to keep their prices level, how could we justify permitting a continued rise in the cost of livestock in the face of the fact that it had already increased 50% since January of 1950, and since it was already at 152% of parity, and parity had been put out in the act as a fair price, I don't think that we had any other choice. And we issued those regulations, staggering out the rollbacks in such a fashion that we hoped that it would cushion the shock on some of the feeders that had purchased cattle after January at higher prices, hoping that it would be a balanced program. And as far as I'm concerned, the beef regulations will stand as they are, and that we will carry through the two rollbacks in August and in October, and that the October 1st rollback will be the last rollback. At that time, we feel that we will have restored the retail price of beef to a reasonable pattern and also produced a reasonable pattern in the cost of livestock. I think it's essential to the stabilization program that that pattern be carried out. And we intend to carry it out as the regulations have been issued. Now, we're engaged at this time in the consideration of whether the act should be renewed or not. Certainly, there are many arguments on both sides. A good many people who favored controls in the beginning finally have found that they were controlled and now decided it wasn't such a good thing because some way or other they visualized controls for the other person, never feeling that it would come to them. And so we're getting many questions raised in some opposition to the renewal of the act. The question is being raised from certain sources today as to whether price controls have been effective. And our answer has been a most emphatic yes. One of the fortunate characteristics of the American people has been the ability to put behind them quickly misfortune and distress, crisis and emergency, and to move confidently into the future. But this happy faculty must not become a liability by causing us to ignore the lessons of past experience. Just four months ago, we were considerably distressed with the steadily rising cost of living and the upward march of prices. Normal methods of business were disrupted as businessmen and consumers engaged in a scramble to buy and price, price and buy, as each sought security in more goods or higher prices. Yet today we seem to have forgotten the uncertainties and the trials of a few months ago. And we have those who say that controls are not effective and not needed, that our economy can withstand the stress and strain ahead without any assistance. Certainly you as purchasing agents can remember distinctly that the articles you bought went up in price with each purchase. Today, even though you may have the irritations of attempting to locate scarce materials, there is some surcease in the fact that prices have remained relatively stable through February, March, April, May, and into June. We have already begun to hear complaints about credit restrictions. Automobile dealers, television manufacturers, and others are complaining about heavy inventories and slow-moving items as a result of the inability to finance their sales. If we were to impose the most extreme type of credit controls, we still would be faced with a period of expanding credit. The second objective must be supported if we are to achieve stabilization. But certainly we must be realistic in admitting the limitations imposed by the circumstances we face. The third indirect control plan proposed is very glibly stated. They say increase taxes where they will help most to take the pressure off of markets already under strain. There is no definition of where these taxes would fall or how high these taxes would be. Interestingly enough, the suggestion comes from sources ordinarily opposed to higher taxes on the grounds that higher taxes blunt incentives and interfere with the productive capacity. I challenge those persons who advocate higher taxes to state who should pay them and in what amounts and whether the draining away of these taxes to take the pressure off of markets would not be so high that they would blunt incentive for production. Certainly now, more than ever, we must inspire all Americans to the need for more and more production of manufactured goods and farm commodities. Certainly we will have a new tax bill, and it will have to be a higher tax bill. But can we believe that a tax bill will be enacted or injustice should be enacted high enough to siphon off consumer purchasing power to the drastic extent necessary to relieve the impact of rising purchasing power? We cannot overlook the further fact that even with the budget imbalance, 200 billion in liquid assets in the hands of the American people still could set off a ruinous inflationary spiral. The economic control program must be a balanced one. It must make use of the indirect controls within their limitations. It must make use of direct controls within their limitations. But one without the other would present an unbalanced approach that would be disastrous in seeking to meet the abnormalities that are bound to exist as we sweat and strive for military and economic strength. Certainly direct controls create difficulties. They are vexatious. They bring on paperwork that requires personnel for business to prepare and personnel for government to administer and to enforce. But who is willing to exchange these relatively minor disturbances for the unbridled license, gross profiteering, and scare buying that were leading us to disaster in late 1950 and early 1951? It was not that a majority of American business had created or wanted inflationary conditions to exist. It certainly was not that a majority of American labor wanted or created these conditions. It certainly was not that a majority of the American consumers wanted or created these conditions. But there was an active and greedy minority acting solely in their own selfish interest who created condition upon condition that the rest of the American people could not control without action by their government. Today we are beginning to see rationality where it did not exist before. We are approaching a solution of our problems with cool heads and good sense. We are working together. Our defense production is moving steadily ahead. Our economic strength is growing day by day. We can still hear the grinding of gears that have not yet meshed. But the operation has become smoother and the adjustments are becoming fewer. We are showing the world that a democracy slower to get into action can move with irresistible momentum as our citizens cherishing their individual rights and freedoms work collectively to build a greater strength and unity than those whose whole philosophy is totalitarianism. The controls we accept voluntarily today preserve our freedoms tomorrow. As individualists throughout our history we will have our differences and our disputes. But we can and we will demonstrate the strength of character the determination and the self-discipline to live temporarily with controls that we may live permanently with freedom. In closing I want to leave just one impression with you. We've held our doors open for many people to come here and they've taken advantage of that opportunity. But more than that has been the lesson that we've been able to furnish the people of how free people were able to build the greatest standard of living that the world has ever known. And so we have a great responsibility in the world today. There's no other nation that can be strong if we are not strong. There's no other nation that can long remain free if we are not free. It isn't the case of a substitute that someone else can do it. There's no one else that can do the job that we must do. And so in order to do that job we must maintain ourselves strong economically as will it well as militarily. And we can't do it unless we work together. Certainly we've got to give up some of the things temporarily that we've cherished. But in giving them up we're making ourselves stronger and building for a stronger future. A future with more liberties and more freedoms. I have great confidence that the American people in times like these could work together. Certainly this isn't a case of my being able to do the job alone or our entire office being able to do the job. We need your help and we need the help of all citizens. And with that help we will do the kind of a job that will demonstrate once more that the American people know how to sacrifice and know how to remain strong in the face of a total enemy. we have a mix of a number where it's going to be there. We have a great long .