The Northwestern University reviewing stand. Are we losing the Cold War in Europe? No, I'd say we're winning the Cold War in Europe, but in saying that, I'd also like to point out that the Cold War is a global war and that we're losing it in Asia. We are winning the war in Europe. The success of the Berlin Airlift First, and now the Marshall Aid, which is rebuilding the economy of the war of devastated nations, is cutting the bottom out from under communism in Western Europe. Our success is real, but temporary. Long-run success is being jeopardized by our internal political squabbles and social antagonisms. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today we discuss the question, are we losing the Cold War in Europe? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the basic conflict between the United States and Russia, and an evaluation of the Marshall Plan and the Truman Doctrine. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our guests today are Captain Michael Fielding, public affairs analyst and lecturer, who was in Europe last year and has just returned from an extensive tour of Asia. Kenneth Olson, Dean of the Medill School of Journalism, and Franklin Scott, Professor of History, both of Northwestern University. Dean Olson and Professor Scott have recently returned from trips to Europe. What do you mean by the Cold War, Fielding? Well, the Cold War, essentially, of course, is a competitive sale of two antagonistic, ideological, political philosophies. But in Russia's case, this ideological assault by Russia against the democratic position is supplemented by a campaign of physical pressure, which the Russians bring to bear, either directly or indirectly, in the so-called strategic areas all over the world, areas which are vital military bases that we would have to dominate in if we were ever to win another shooting war. Do you go along with that, Scott? Don't you think, Fielding, that really the essential thing is the power conflict and that the ideological conflict between communism and democracy is secondary as far as the Cold War and a potential hot war is concerned? Well, Scott, I don't think that you can actually divorce the two. I think the economic aspects of the Cold War and the military aspects of the Cold War are so closely integrated that you cannot tell one from the other. What is your opinion on this, Olsen? Let's get down to essentials. Russia, with its tremendous resources and its military might, could overrun Europe now in a few weeks, and we could not stop her. But Russia must have time to consolidate its power in its huge newly acquired areas, must rebuild its internal economy, its industry and transportation, must develop atomic bombs before it will risk war. Now, that's giving us just a little time to build up enough military and economic strength in Western Europe to make Russia hesitate to make war. Well, may I add here, Olsen, that in my opinion at least, there isn't the slightest chance of Russia going to a shooting war at the present time. There are two good reasons for that. First of all, her industrial setup is such that the Russians are anywhere from two to five years from having rebuilt their industrial plant and brought that plant back to a point where it could actually support the drain of a world war, number one. Number two, the Russians are having, as you know, a great deal of trouble with their so-called puppet allies in the Balkans. And until such time, as they bring those allies back into line, as allies, until such time, it would be suicidal for the Russians to launch themselves into a hot war that they would be bound to lose. Well, how firm is Russia's position in Eastern Europe with these satellite nations, Scott? I'm thinking there of Czechoslovakia, Finland, Yugoslavia. In some of those countries, it looks very firm indeed. Of course, in the other, definitely satellite countries, it has been for a long time. For the last 18 months, it's been firm in Czechoslovakia. And Czechs who oppose the regime have simply had to leave. Tito looks as if, maybe in Yugoslavia, he might possibly break away. I'm afraid, listen, I'm afraid, Scott, I'm going to have to, I'm going to have to contradict you on that point. I was in Yugoslavia last year. I didn't go in with a passport or visas. I went in without papers. I went in with fake papers. I saw Yugoslavia. There's a few outsiders can see it. And I can assure you that in spite of Tito's present resistance to Moscow, there isn't the slightest chance of Tito or Yugoslavia breaking away from the Russian camp and joining democracy. How's the slightest? The only comfort we can get out of the present situation in Yugoslavia is that it is giving Russia pause. She's having to stop to consolidate her position there. Right you are, Olson. I take issue with Scott on another thing, that this is only economic, not ideological. Vyshinsky yesterday talked about Stalin having made a statement that he wanted to live in peace with the rest of the nations back in 34. But in 47, as late as 47, Stalin reiterated the statement of all the communists that wars are inevitable so long as the capitalist system exists, that only the destruction of the capitalist states and the conquest of the world for communism can produce peace. Well, I would agree with Fielding to this extent, Olson. That is, that it's almost impossible to divorce the power conflict and the ideological conflict. I would simply put it that the ideologies are being used as tools through which the war of power is being fought. But there's one other of these countries in Eastern Europe that we haven't mentioned. Whatever may be the situation in Czechoslovakia and whatever may be the possibilities in Yugoslavia, one of the interesting countries there on the Eastern border between the West and the East is Finland. And Finland, while seemingly under the Russian shadow, is one of the countries which most definitely stands ideologically and in interest with the West. I'd like to attempt to explain the difference as between Finland and Czechoslovakia. In order to understand that difference, you've got to also understand the methods by which Russia takes over countries. The first thing they do is to infiltrate into the government of that country if they can and then they go after two major portfolios. Exactly. The Ministry of the Interior which gives them control over the police, the Ministry of Defense which gives them control over the army. once they are in those two positions, it's only a matter of time before they take over. Now in Finland, in Czechoslovakia they achieve that. In Finland, the Finns have seen to it that communist agents do not get control in those two critical ministries and therefore the Finns have been able to resist being taken over by Soviet Russia. But it has been touch and go even in Finland and for a time there was a communist minister of the interior, Lenno, who had charge of the police. But the city police and the army remained under Finnish control and the Finns were watching Lenno every minute. One of the commonest phrases one hears over there is, we are not Czechs. In the spring of 1948, when they were debating what they should do about the Russian demand for a mutual assistance pact, they told themselves again and again, it cannot and it will not happen here because we know the Russian enemy, we know their methods of infiltration, we know how they attempt to create chaos, we will not let it happen and it's because of that knowledge of theirs, more than anything else, that they have been able to prevent the kind of thing which happened in Czechoslovakia. It happened in Czechoslovakia against the will of the majority of the people, but it could happen because the people were not sufficiently aware, in Finland, they were aware. That's right and may I also add this to what I said before, that so long as a country can resist being taken over originally, she always has a chance to continue saving herself because once a country has been taken over, once the communists get control, then you see the kind of police system that the communist totalitarian powers impose upon a nation make it absolutely impossible for mass opposition to organize and so without organized mass opposition, that opposition must remain impotent. Let's get back to this Cold War. We Western nations desire peace and we'd hope to live after the war in peace with Russia. I think the Russian people too desire peace, but their masters in the Kremlin, led by a dictator more absolute than Hitler, are driven by this implacable aim of conquest of the world for communism. Now we didn't wake up until after communism had engulfed nine European countries and then we were driven to this policy of trying to contain Russian expansionism. Well now, is this a case of communism versus capitalism or is it just another case of power politics of the sort we have faced for hundreds of years? Well, at least I think it is a case of power politics of the kind we have faced for hundreds of years. Only, the setting and the pattern is different. It is always different. When the balance of power concept first came into our language, if not into our politics, it was a case of a number of states protecting themselves against the hegemony of one great state. In the late 19th century, the balance of power concept became instead a balance between three states of comparatively equal power against another three states of comparatively equal power. but there was still a balancing and juggling. Now, since World War II, we are in a position where there are only two great power centers in the world. There isn't even any secondary power in the world, but only third and fourth rate powers after these two great ones. And the attempt to balance, to readjust power between these two great power centers creates a new situation. It's a new game over what used to be. But though we have two great powers, nevertheless, we have blocks of secondary powers that are affiliated with the two great ones. And extremely important, Dawson, in the strength of those two great power centers. I would say this is power politics more desperate than the world has ever faced before. The principles, the principles of the power politics as we see it played today are identically the same as the principles of power politics that have been played throughout history. In this particular case, as you say, you have two major powers, the United States on the one hand, Russia on the other, attempting to win the minds everywhere, each for his particular political and economic concepts. So it doesn't make any difference whether the nature of the power politics game has changed. The principles are exactly the same. That's correct. We as Americans have always decried this power politics, and yet we're up against something now that we've got to face, because the only argument that Russia understands is power, and we've got to face her with power. Well, now, is Russia's possession of the atom bomb going to make any appreciable difference in this Cold War and this balance of power, Captain? I don't think so, McBurney, not at all. It was foreseen long ago that Russia would get the atom bomb, even if she hadn't gotten the atom bomb. She had an answer to atomic bombing, of course, which was biological warfare. Last year, when I was in Europe, I found that there was very little fear of the atom bomb in Europe, the great fear of the atom bomb is here at home in the United States. I've always been of the opinion that nobody will ever use the atom bomb again. It's one of these devastating weapons like gas, biological warfare, that has a very serious boomerang or kickback effect. You see, it's very difficult to protect yourself against your own atom bomb. Now, with the element of retaliation introduced into the picture, I think there's far less chance of the use of the atom bomb than ever before. Well, that certainly isn't the position generally taken in this country. What do you think about it? Well, I agree with Fielding to this extent, but I fear that now in this summer, why, it was true. There was less war talk in Europe than there was in the United States. But now that the people know Russia has the atom bomb maybe two, three, four years before they expected it, I feel they're going to feel the need of getting together as they did not before. there's going to be, in other words, an intensification of the Cold War, even if possibly, as Fielding says, and we all hope, a permanent postponement of a hot war. Yes, because Russia is in a stronger position, naturally, with the atom bomb. My point is that, I thought you asked whether it increased the chance of a shooting war. I say no. That's a good question. I say no. It does not. Well, now, we've been talking here about Russia's position in these satellite countries, in Czechoslovakia, Finland, Yugoslavia, and many countries definitely inside the Iron Curtain. How solid is our position in Western Europe, Captain? I think our position is fairly solid in Western Europe because, as a countermeasure to this two-pronged attack by Soviet Russia, the ideological attack supplemented by physical pressure, we devised two very good weapons, the Marshall Plan on the one hand, the Truman Doctrine on the other. And as a result of the application of these two principles to Western Europe, I think we have brought Western Europe back to a point now where communism's chances of taking over are very materially reduced. I think that's absolutely correct. In fact, it's amazing how the communist strength in most of the countries of Western Europe has declined. It indicates that much of that strength wasn't really ideologically communist to begin with but was merely protest against the bad conditions of the immediate post-war period. We're winning economically. We're winning in the sense of military cooperation. But it seems to me at the same time there is one way in which we are very definitely weaker now than we were four years ago in Western Europe. And that is in the minds of people. And that is extremely important in the lineup for a future war. That is extremely important for the strength with which people will struggle for a common ideal. Scott, we're getting away from this martial aid plan. I think we must give it credit. I saw evidence of it in Europe this summer. Four years ago after the war, the great problem in France was food. The Germans had taken all their horses off the farms. There was no farm machinery. There was no fertilizer. There weren't people to work the farms. The young men were gone. They could raise very little. One coalition after government after the other fell because they couldn't feed the people. The communists cried, give us a chance. Vote for us and we'll supply the food. Well, what happened? Six million people, almost one in every three, voted for the communists. They weren't communists but they were desperate for food. Now agricultural production has been brought up through the martial aid plan. They have food. And today, the communists' support is greatly declining. Which only goes to underscore, really, the fact that economic instability inevitably plays into Russia's hands. If you encounter starvation, as I've encountered it, you'll find that to the starving man, political freedom has very little appeal. But a plate of soup has a whale of a big appeal. That's undoubtedly correct. And that's why I think it's important to emphasize that while we are unquestionably strengthening ourselves and Western Europe both at the same time, we are, to a certain extent, weakening by some of our own actions the strength of democracy insofar as the democratic ideology is a tool in the conflict against the communist ideology. We're weakening it by such things as the lynchings in the American South which are used all through the world by communist propaganda. We're weakening it by things like the riots against Paul Robeson at Peekskill, New York, where we thought we were attempting merely to express ourselves but where some of our internal squabbles are used in the field of international propaganda against us and against the free democratic way of life. Yes, yes, Scott, I too ran across that in Europe last year and in Asia this year. There is a growing contempt for what these people under the lash of Russian propaganda term our hypocrisy over here. We pay lip service to our democratic principles but we too often violate them and in violating your own principle you're merely weakening your own position. In other words, these people are far less eager to accept our word for the fact that democracy is the finest political concept in the world if we ourselves refuse to live it. That's very true and also don't forget the other propaganda lines the Russians have there. While the people of Europe generally are grateful for this martial aid there's also underneath this fear that we're just using that to tie the European people to the kind of American imperialism. Yes, one of the specific angles on that is the objection of the Norwegians to this 50% clause with regard to shipping. The clause that provides that 50% of the shipping of martial aid goods must go in American vessels. The Norwegians like all these other people are glad for the aid. They need it. At the same time they are great shippers and if they're deprived of their own means of earning money by shipping goods then the other aid doesn't do them much good. Well of course Russian propaganda constantly makes a point of that. In other words Russian propaganda tells these people and not without a certain germ of truth that we are using Marshall Plan aid to Europe to bolster our own economy there's no question about it. There are big factions in the United States who look upon Marshall Plan aid as a sort of dumping ground for American surpluses and so forth for additional profits to American business and the Russians are making a great deal of hay out of that particular kind of propaganda at the present time. Don't forget either the Russians are saying that well you can't rely on these Americans all right now but wait till they get this depression which we're sure is going to come to the United States then they're going to leave you high and dry. You can't trust these Americans they're not going through with this Marshall aid plan very long nor does the Atlantic Pact mean anything to you. Yes and they point to the delays in the ratification of the Atlantic Pact and to the vagaries of Congress with regard to the European recovery program and so on. On the other hand I do think while we must recognize those facts and while we must do everything we can to try to correct them we must recognize at the same time that the Marshall Plan is having a tremendous success throughout Europe. Olsen has mentioned the effect here in France for instance. One specific case can be cited from Denmark where the Danes figure that every one dollar of ERP aid means for them four dollars worth of increased production. Now if that kind of pump priming can go on then Western Europe can be rebuilt. I wonder if we can't all agree on this one point and I think we can and that is that the Marshall Plan has succeeded in achieving its prime purpose of preventing Western Europe from going into Russia's hands. Let me give you a few figures. Mr. Paul G. Hoffman whom all of you know is the head of ECA came out a short time ago in Battle Creek, Michigan and gave some very interesting figures on production. He said for instance that the Marshall Plan in its 18 months of operation was way ahead of schedule that in his opinion by 1952 the Western European countries would be able to stand on their own feet and then he quoted some rather interesting production figures. He showed that overall production in the recipient nations is now 15% above pre-war levels and that in Britain British production is 50% over pre-war levels and I think you mentioned Olsen that in France it's 30% over pre-war levels. Now that's all a very good sign of success. This year we learned from the French industrialist and government people that their total production of coal steel manufacturing this year is going to equal 1929 which was the best year in French history and will be 30% ahead of what it was in 1939 pre-war. Now this Marshall Plan is certainly one of our big guns in this Cold War. I think that the Truman Doctrine to which you referred earlier is the second big gun. Now tell us about that. I think the Truman Doctrine is the first big gun because the Truman Doctrine is achieving something that too many of us overlook. While we are trying to bring the world to our way of thinking and we are trying to aid them to get on their own economic feet the Russians are going behind our backs and doing something that could be very disastrous in the long run. They are trying through physical pressure in the strategic areas to rob us of our bases. Now while we are winning the Cold War in Europe while America and I are focused on the Berlin airlift and the progress made in Western European countries you notice the Russians went behind our backs and they took over China. Now actually China's loss is tragic enough but its repercussions are disastrous through Southeast Asia for instance where communism is making rapid strides. I am almost ready to write off all of Southeast Asia at the present time. Now if we lose all our bases you'll see and even bring these Western European nations back to a position where they can stand and they're only at feet economically if we lose our bases then we've lost not only the Cold War but we've lost any chance of winning a shooting war because military power as such is valueless unless you can bring it to bear against the vitals of an enemy and for that we need bases all over the world. I think it's an interesting thing that the Truman Doctrine actually is a very broad thing and didn't refer particularly to Europe though the immediate problem was Greece and Turkey at the moment in March of 1947 the thing was announced. The doctrine speaks in broad and general terms in really global terms. In essence to use Truman's own words what it amounts to is this it must be the foreign policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures. Now that brief quotation from the Truman Doctrine itself indicates how the thinking was in terms of both economic upbuilding and military defense and we have used both those means by which to implement the Truman Doctrine in the two and a half years since its declaration. Its purpose is mainly military in other words you've had your extension of the Truman Doctrine to Greece and Turkey you are now in process of extending Truman Doctrine principles to the Western European base through the North Atlantic Security Pact we applied the Truman Doctrine in our aid to Chiang Kai-shek and so forth. So you see the Truman Doctrine is very important. Mainly military, yes but first it had to be economic and that's why the Marshall Aid Plan was the first step in strengthening Europe so that there could be military strength later on. Yes, but there's very little of the economic in building up Greece's army and counseling Greece's army in its fight against its communists and building up a Western European army and aiding and supporting Chiang Kai-shek's armies and building up the Turkish army that's military. That's particularly true and yet in Western Europe perhaps the major problem is economic even if we are thinking in primarily military terms. Let's say the first step is economic. The first necessary step is economic. But now that the economic problems have been largely are on the way to solution let's say we now do have to set up a military balance of power in Europe to prevent the Russians from taking over by force. Let's get into this point too that though this doctrine was announced two and a half years ago it took a year after that before the American people were awake to what this problem was and before we could go ahead with the Marshall Aid Plan as a first step. And it took the taking over of Czechoslovakia to awaken them. That's right. That's right. Not only America but Europe too. Yes. The Truman Doctrine was very unpopular both at home and abroad when it was first announced. But within a year events like the demands of Russia on Finland and like the coup in Czechoslovakia convinced people pretty generally that that kind of policy was absolutely necessary. Unfortunately you see while we have recognized the policy of committing in addition to our dollars manpowers we have in Greece and Western Europe and so on and so forth we have not yet opened our eyes to the fact that there are certain situations as in China where the manpower may have to be American manpower and there is there is one very rude awakening that's going to come to the American people in the next 12 months. It'll have to be American manpower in many parts of the world which will have to be committed. Well how can we prosecute this cold war more successfully? In conclusion let's have your recommendations. Scott? Well I think we should continue our present policy but we should not lead our allies to expect more than we will deliver. Congress should speed up its process of making decisions. Every citizen should realize that his words and actions represent the United States and democracy and that to win in this conflict of interest and ideology throughout the world we must prove that American democracy really is the best form of society. we should not remain in a weak defensive position but take a positive and affirmative stand. Olsen? While I agree this is a global war and do not gainsay the importance of Asia nevertheless the United States must not for one minute slacken its efforts to strengthen our allies in the West for though Russia has for the moment eased its pressures in that area she has not given up she will continue to press her advantages and if she should overcome Europe she would have an arsenal that would make our position impossible. Fielding? Well my point is that we could win the war in Europe lose it in Asia and lose the war because in my opinion certainly in the opinion of other military authorities the loss of the war in Asia would inevitably mean the loss of the entire war because this is a global war. Number two all the bases from which we can actually strike the vitals of Russia because her concentrations are in the Euros and in Central Asia happen to be in the Near East and Far East. Well it's heartening to know that you men who have recently visited in Europe take an optimistic view of our position in Western Europe. We seem to be agreed that the Cold War in Europe is closely related to that in Asia and Captain Fielding at least takes a rather pessimistic view of our position in Asia. We shall look into that question next week. Thank you gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion Are We Losing the Cold War in Europe? Today's program is the first in our series on the Cold War. If you'd like printed copies of these discussions why not send now for the reviewing stand pamphlets with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin $1 for the next 4 months $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. That address again the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Captain Michael Fielding author, lecturer and commentator and Kenneth E. Olson dean of the Medill School of Journalism and Franklin D. Scott professor of history both of Northwestern University. Now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand moves to a different area but discusses the same question. We asked are we losing the Cold War in Asia? Our guests will be Captain Michael Fielding again, William McGovern professor of political science at Northwestern University and Frederick S. Marquardt assistant foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. We invite you to listen next week are we losing the Cold War in Asia? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Next week remember our guests Captain Michael Fielding William H. McGovern and Frederick S. Marquardt. This is Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.