This is the time to talk taxes. For nearly four million individuals, it's time to prepare state income tax returns for 1950, due April 16th. To bring you facts you want to know about the state income tax, we've arranged a discussion of the common questions about tax reporting. The answers will be authentic, because they come right from the state tax commission. Here to tell you about deductions and exemptions and rates are Commissioner Spencer E. Bates, President of the State Tax Commission, Tax Commissioner Alan J. Goodrich, and Mr. George P. Klein, Director of the State Income Tax Bureau. Now, Commissioner Bates, what's new and important in state income taxes? Well, one of the most important pieces of New York state income tax news concerns the rate that has just recently been established. And I know taxpayers will be glad to know that the 10% reduction has been continued this year on Governor Dewey's recommendation. In other words, you will again pay your state tax on a basis of 90% of your normal tax. Well, it's nice to know that there's something that hasn't gone up. In terms of dollars, what does this continuance of the 10% reduction mean to the taxpayers, Commissioner Goodrich? Well, it will mean a tax saving of more than $30 million to state income taxpayers on their returns for 1950. There is an additional saving for unincorporated business taxpayers. The rate of the unincorporated business tax has been continued at 3% instead of the normal 4%. And that will mean a saving of around $6 million to some 50,000 small businessmen who are subject to this tax. Now, I know your filing requirements are different from the federal tax. Just who has to file a state income tax return? Now, that should be right up your alley, Mr. Klein. It is. The filing requirements are $1,000 for a single person, $2,500 for married couples. That means if you are single, you must file if you had a net income and net capital gain of $1,000 or more last year. If you are married, you must file if you and your wife together had a net income and net capital gain of $2,500 or more. Also, you must file if you had a gross income of $5,000 or more, regardless of the amount of your net income. Now, I want to get this straight before we go further. Has any of my state income tax been deducted from my salary? What about that, Commissioner Bates? Not if you are a resident of the state. Resident taxpayers owe the full amount of the tax due and are required to make a payment when the return is filed on or before April 16th. Only in the case of non-residents of the state has any of the state tax been withheld from your pay. Now, tell me this. Which form should I use for the state tax, Commissioner Goodrich? Well, we have two forms for resident taxpayers. Form 200 is the short punch card form. Form 201 is the so-called long form. They are both easy to make out, but the short form is simpler and faster if you are eligible to use it. Well, now, just who is eligible to use the short form, Mr. Klein? The test is kind of income, not the amount of it. You are eligible to report on short card form if your income was only from such things as salary, wages, commissions, interest, or dividends, and if you adapt the flat 10% deduction method in place of itemizing your deductions. I think I know what's meant by the flat deduction method, but just for the record, will you explain it, Commissioner Bates? Every taxpayer has the choice of two deduction methods. He may itemize his allowable deductions for such things as certain taxes, interest paid on debts, insurance premiums, contributions, and so on. Or he may instead take a lump sum in place of itemized deductions. The flat reduction is 10% of your gross income, up to a maximum of $500. And what about husband and wife who file separate returns? If the flat deduction method is used by one spouse, it must be used by both. They may divide it between them in any proportions desired. But the total flat deduction for both may not exceed 10% of their combined income or $500. And when is it to my advantage to file the long form, Commissioner Bates? When you can justify itemized deductions amounting to more than 10% of your income or more than $500 maximum. And then you would save money by using the long form and itemizing same. A taxpayer who is in doubt ought to check both deduction methods to see how it works out on his own individual case. The way it works out in most cases is that the taxpayer saves money under the flat 10% deduction method. And he certainly saves a lot of time by using the short form. Now, someone mentioned that certain taxpayers must file the long form. Commissioner Goodrich, who does that apply to? It applies to taxpayer who has an income from business or profession or from rent or from sale or exchange of property. In which case, you must then use the long form, form 201. And as pointed out a moment ago, you use it also if you itemize your deductions. This may sound like a silly question, but when I report my income on the state tax return, do I include amounts withheld from my pay, money which I didn't actually receive? I'm referring to deductions for federal income tax, for insurance and so on. Amounts deducted from pay for such things as federal income tax, Social Security, purchase of U.S. savings bonds, hospitalization and so on, are all part of your income. Even though not directly received by you. As part of your income, such amounts must be included in the gross income you report on your return. And now, let's talk about exemptions. I understand the state tax exemptions are quite liberal. Just what are they, Mr. Klein? The unmarried taxpayer gets an exemption of $1,000. Married couples and qualified head of family gets $2,500 plus $400 for each additional dependent. Thus, a married couple with two dependent children would have a total exemption of $3,300. And now, just what is meant by the term dependent, Commissioner Goodrich? A dependent under the state law is a person under 18 years of age or a person incapable of self-support by reason of disability or a person in full-time attendance at school or college. In each case, the taxpayer must have contributed more than 50% of the support in order to claim the dependency credit. It should be remembered, too, that if your exemption status changes during the past year, your exemption has to be prorated according to the number of months in each status. Ah, and now we come to the part I like best about taxes, the deductions. In case a taxpayer prefers to itemize his deductions rather than use the lump sum deduction of 10% up to $500, what is some of the deductions which he may be able to take? Um, Commissioner Bates, want to start us off on that? Well, you can deduct certain taxes, such as real property taxes on your home, city or county sales taxes, motor vehicle license fees, the state gasoline tax of $0.04 a gallon, federal taxes on transportation, on amusements, and on telephone and telegraphic messages. But you cannot deduct federal income taxes. And in addition, Mr. Gary, you can deduct interest payments, such as on a mortgage on your home, contributions you make to church and charities, within a limit of 15% of your net income, and certain expenses incurred in carrying on a business or in producing taxable income. But all of these have to be substantiated. And you can deduct medical expenses if the expenses amount to more than 5% of your net income. The deduction may be taken only for the amount by which the medical expense exceeds 5% of net income. There are a maximum limits of $1,500 for a husband and wife or head of family, and $750 for every other individual. And don't forget the deduction for insurance premiums. You can deduct up to $150 for life insurance premiums paid on life or endowment policies on your own life. I believe the New York's income tax law is unique in allowing this deduction. Now, what about losses such as damage to property by a storm such as that big blow that we had last November? Well, certain losses are deductible. If you suffered losses as a result of a storm or from fire or theft, you can deduct such losses to the extent that they are not reimbursed by insurance. Of course, you have to substantiate your claims for losses. If that wraps up deductions, I have a question about the men and women in military service. How do they stand up on the state income tax, Commissioner Bates? All military pay of men and women on active duty in the armed forces is exempt from state tax. And so are family allotment payments made by the government to families of servicemen. Non-military income is not exempt, but the taxpayer in the service may on request have an extension of time for filing a return and for paying any tax which is owed. If ability to pay is impaired by reason of his military service. Actually, the law is so designated as to prevent any hardship for men and women in the service. We want to do everything we can to help, but it should be pointed out that we have no means of knowing that a taxpayer is in service unless he or a member of his family notifies us. That is why we must be advised where the extension of time for filing and payment are desired by a member of the armed forces. A good suggestion. And I remember that Commissioner Goodrich had some other instructions he wished to bring up. Just what were those items now, Commissioner? Well, a lot of correspondence and extra work could be avoided by both the taxpayer and the department if every taxpayer remembered three things. First, file with the state the copy of the form which has your name printed on it. If there is an error in the name or address, correct it. Second, be sure to report your social security number on your return. It helps us credit your payments to your account. And third, double check your arithmetic. Then I'd like to add a reminder about the rate of tax. Please remember that your tax is again subject to a 10% reduction. Figure your normal tax at the old rates as printed on the form. Then take off 10%. You pay 90%. But remember that payment of at least one installment is due when you file your return. Just what is the installment payment plan on the state tax? If your tax is more than $5, you may pay it in installments. If your tax is $20 or more, you may pay it in four equal quarterly installments. But in no case may an installment payment be less than $5. Of course, you may pay the full amount when you file your return if you prefer. It is important to remember, however, that at least an installment payment is due at the time you file your return. If your return is not accompanied by at least an installment payment, the law says your full tax becomes due immediately. Is it possible to tell just quickly and very briefly the purposes for which this tax money is used, Commissioner Bates? One ninth of it is devoted to retirement of World War II veterans bonus bonds. The rest of it is devoted to local and state purposes. Fifty-six cents of each state tax dollar goes back to the localities for the support of local government, while forty-four cents goes for state purposes, including state institutions, highways, recreational facilities, civil defense, and so on. Is it true, Mr. Klein, that your department has information about the income of taxpayers even before they file their returns? That's right. Every employer is required to file information reports showing payments made to employees within the tax limits. We also get information from other various sources. Then you can tell when a taxpayer is delinquent. Oh, yes. Where there is no individual return to match up with the employer's information report, it usually means the individual is delinquent. And then what happens? The delinquent is then required to file a return. In addition to the tax, he now owes penalties and interest, and it adds up pretty fast. In fact, the law provides that where delinquency extends beyond sixty days, the tax may be doubled, and there is interest on top of that. The penalties are even more severe where deliberate tax evasion is established. Just as a matter of information, how does the state income tax compare with the present federal tax, Commissioner Bates? Well, the state tax is much less in every case. If you want an example, take the married man with two dependents who reports an income of $5,000. His federal income tax would be $361. But his state income tax would be only $23.40. Thank you, Commissioner Bates, Commissioner Goodrich, and Mr. Klein. You've been listening to a discussion of your state income tax by two members of the New York State Tax Commission, President Spencer E. Bates and Commissioner Ellen J. Goodrich, with Mr. George P. Klein, Director of the State Income Tax Bureau. Remember, your state tax return is due on or before Monday, April 16th, and you pay only 90% of your normal tax.
