This, I think, will be the seventh, if not the eighth season, the company has had at the City Center since it began in 1948. Mr. Kirstein is here to tell us a little more about the company and to check me on my facts. Am I right about that eighth season? No, this is the seventh season, actually. This is the seventh. Tell me, Mr. Kirstein, would you please, if we could backtrack a little here to 1948, your principal concern at the City Center, as I understand it, has been not only the presentation of works that have been developed before 1948, but new works. That's right. We're trying to keep a balance of innovation and an established repertory. But on the other hand, we don't do any ballets that have been done by any other company, with possibly one exception, which is Stravinsky's Farberg, in which we do in a version that was prepared by the composer and by our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine. But by and large, the works that we do were created for us, that is, for the New York City Ballet Company or its various predecessor units. And since we've been in the City Center, we've done approximately 10 to 15 works which haven't been seen in New York. And in our next season, for example, we're doing three new works. What are those? We're doing a very brilliant new American ballet to minstrel themes by the young choreographer Ruth Anna Boris. I just come away from a rehearsal of it, and I think it's called Cakewalk, and it embodies a large minstrel show, as it might have been done in the Mississippi River showboat around 1850. I think Miss Boris is an old friend of Miss Bordania's here. What do you know about this ballet, Miss Bordania? Well, I know something about Miss Boris. We made our debut at the Metropolitan in 1936. Are both of you doing the same thing? Both of us dancing in common. Actually, Miss Boris was one of the premier dancers, and that was also the first time I saw Mr. Kirsten and Mr. Balanchine when they had an association with the Metropolitan. That's when I fell in love with the ballet. Miss Boris has done a couple of ballets since she left the Metropolitan Opera, though, hasn't she? Yes, she has. She's done two ballets, but I think this is the most, really, wonderful opportunity for her because she has, I think, a chance to do something she really wants to, and in a company where there's a lot of excitement and enthusiasm and very finely trained dancers, which I must say is a rare thing to see. I'm sure Mr. Kirsten would agree with us about this, but Miss Bordania, could you be a little more specific about why you think this company is the locus for this kind of activity? Locus, that sounds terrible. What is a locus? What do you mean? The ideal place for it. Well, simply because the repertoire, for me, is something that is new and constantly something that changes with the time. I may not be saying articulately. I'm not very articulate about that, but what I mean to say is that you don't get old, stuffy, long, unimaginative stories. You get primarily what I think the ballet is meant for. You get dancing. People are on the stage, and they're moving well. And I must say, some of the ballets that I have seen, where people stand still and weigh their arms for hours at a time. You'd agree with Miss Bordania here, then, that some of the older works that the other companies present are not the essential thing about a ballet company? Well, you put me in a very difficult position, because it's exactly like saying, I think my children are beautiful. I do. But I think it's a little bit different. First of all, our company has a policy which is based on the background of a school. All our activity started in 1934, when I had the opportunity of asking George Balanchine to come to the United States and found a school. And before that time, although there were many individual studios, I don't think in this country there was ever an attempt to make a balanced faculty of a number of authoritative teachers. In the last 16 years, we've developed a very large school, the School of American Ballet, which has trained a great many dancers, not only in our own company, but in other companies. And the coherence of the style of the school, the similarity of the training, and the clear way in which the kids are taught to dance has had an enormous effect on our repertory. And I think this is what Miss Badania means when she feels that she's pleased by seeing the quality of a continual dance effort rather than any other sort of pantomime movement or narrative gesture. Yes, exactly. That's exactly what I mean, Mr. Carson. And isn't this somewhat the same pattern that happened in Russia in the Mariinsky Theater when they had the school there? Well, it's an attempt to make the same kind of a thing. After all, our school is not state-endowed, and our company is not a state company. It amounts to being a municipal company, which is another thing. But I think it's fair to say that outside of the Soviet Union and outside of Western Europe, we have the largest and the most authoritative school. And the school is responsible for a generation of choreographers outside of our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine, who after all was a product of the Imperial and State Schools. And we also have trained some five generations, I figure it to be, if you call it generation dancers every three years, about five generations of dancers, some of whom at the present moment have even gone back to our school to teach. Was Miss Boris a student at the School of American Ballet? Yes, she was. Oh, yes, indeed she was. She was at the very beginning. And not only that, she was a member of a little company I had in 1936, 37, 38, called the American Ballet Caravan. Yes. So she herself has grown up within the school and outside of the school. And if you have a school through which people can go before they arrive at some kind of real theatrical experience and train them in this process, the end result is, as Mr. Kirstein says, have to have a style. Well, not only that, but we are very fortunate in not only having a school, but we have a home. And the home is the New York City Center of Music and Drama. And due to the imagination of the board of directors, and particularly Mr. Morton Baum, who was the chairman of the executive committee, we've been able to have a place which is really a kind of home base. We are accustomed to the stage. We give a series of performances there every year, in the fall, in the winter, and in the spring. And we have a very fine orchestra in the direction of Mr. Leon Barzin. That's wonderful. And another thing is that we have now begun to build a very large metropolitan audience. And people come expecting to see a certain kind of ballet, and they are familiar with our dancers. And I don't think that any other country, any other city in America, has the fortunate situation of this connection with a center. Now, it's traditionally been true that the ballet has been connected with opera. And it's very difficult for a ballet company to exist outside of an opera situation. You can't run ballet 52 weeks in a year. But we share the stage of the city center not only with Mr. Laszlo Halasch's city center opera company, but also with Mr. Morris Evans' dramatic company. And we are one of a unit of three which keeps a very big theater going. And I think this is almost the only case in America where you have something approaching a state theater. Yes. Except the only difference being, as you yourself pointed out, it is a municipal rather than a state organization. The Soviet and the French and the English are all national in small nations. You said something about the New York City, the other parts of the New York City center, namely the opera and the drama. I think of the audience as being a very special kind of audience. And that is that they are not, as far as I have been able to observe, the regular metropolitan opera-going audience for the opera, nor the drama-going audience for the drama. I think you're pretty much. And that's what's exciting about them. At least for me, I seem to be using these adjectives. Well, it's very reassuring for me to have a... I don't know any of the people in the theater. I mean, it's very difficult for me to go downstairs during intermission, for example, and find anybody. Yet the house is very often full, and I see night after night a whole new section of people, often very, very young, who come into the theater, and who seem to have an attitude which is entirely fresh. Could we go back, Mr. Kirstein, to talk about the new ballets that the company is doing during this extraordinary, special three-week spring season? Well, aside from the Minstrel Show Ballet by Ruth Anna Boris, which we call Cakewalk, there are two other works. There is a very brilliant framing of two of our greatest classical dancers that our chief choreographer, Mr. Balanchine, has done to Mendelssohn's extraordinary, virtuoso piano piece, Capriccio Briand. Mr. Balanchine has designed a showpiece for our first dancer, Maria Tallchief, and for Mr. Andrei Glewski, who is known, generally speaking, as the greatest exponent of the classic style, probably, in this country. Aside from that, we're also doing a new and extremely interesting ballet by Jerome Robbins, whose dances for The King and I have made such an enormous hit. Yes. This is called, he calls it The Cage, and it's actually done to music by Stravinsky. It's the Basley Concerto, a concerto that Stravinsky, or actually, a concerto grosso that Stravinsky wrote for the Society of Music in Basel, Switzerland. For the information of the radio audience who might want to listen to this piece of music that Mr. Robbins has arranged his ballet to, it has been recorded and is easily available. I want to ask you a little bit about the music, Mr. Kirstein, because that interests me very much. In looking over the repertoire, I wonder about how much music you have commissioned and how much Mr. Balanchine has simply taken out of the repertoire of, so to speak, great music. Well, it's about half and half. Mr. Balanchine and myself in the last 16 years have commissioned a large number of works. For example, we have worked with Mr. Stravinsky on two occasions. He composed for us the card party, or poker party, Je Descartes, which is in our current repertory. He also composed Orpheus for us on commission. And at the present moment, he is composing another work, which will be a kind of third act following Orpheus. We have commissioned Hindemith and Aaron Copland and Alexei Hayeff and a number of other younger composers, and we intend to go on as much as we possibly can, working with the best contemporary composers, or rather those people who are most interested in working with dancers. On the other hand, we also have used a considerable amount of music from the established orchestra repertory. And our repertory really is largely symphonic. We have a very large orchestra, and very often it troubles people that the orchestra is so big. I think that's one of the chief and great attractions, to hear a fine orchestra, which at the same time that you're... I'm sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt this, but our time is up. Thank you, Natalie Baudania and Lincoln Kirsteen for joining me in discussing the new season of the New York City Ballet. The opening night of the New York City Ballet's current season is Tuesday evening, June 5th. This is Francis Mason inviting you to tune in next week at this time when we invite you to meet the New York City Ballet Company. Ms. Ruthanna Boris, choreographer of the new ballet Cakewalk, which the company will present on Tuesday evening, June 12th, will be with us at that time. This is Francis Mason. And this is Natalie Baudania. And this is Ruthanna Boris. Last week, in the first program of this series, Mr. Lincoln Kirsteen, General Director of the New York City Ballet Company, gave us a general idea of what the present three-week spring season of the New York City Ballet Company was going to be like. He told us about the three new ballets that the company was going to present. Our primary interest is the New Ballet Cakewalk by Ms. Ruthanna Boris, who is with us here tonight to talk about her new ballet. It sounds so solemn. It sounds as though we were on a jury trial. Last week, we had Mr. Lincoln Kirsten. This week, we have the lovely and gifted and vital and vivacious Ruthanna Boris, who is sitting right across from me. And I'm going to start shooting questions that are right now because... First, Ms. Boudini, I think I can agree with you without being solemn at all about it. Oh, good. That's fine. Ruthanna, this program, especially, the program called Meet Your New York City Ballet Company, and you are our star. Why? Because... I meant why as an exclamation. Ah, ah, that's better. Well, you're our star for the reason that I'm about to ask you, question that I'm about to ask you. One, where were you born, Ruthanna Boris? I was born in Brooklyn, New York. Where did you go to school? I went to school in Westchester, in Long Island, and in New York City. All right. This includes ballet schools as well as... Ballet schools in New York City. Well, now look, friends, this is the point. New York City Ballet Company, New York Girl, born, bred, danced, everything New York City, which, of course, is the most exciting thing for this company. Very exciting thing for me, too. Yes, it is. I like New York. Well, for the audience, too, may I put in here. Well, now, the first time I saw Ruthanna Boris was when she was dancing as a premier dancer at the Metropolitan Opera. You were both together at the Metropolitan, weren't you, Miss Bedania? Yes, we were. We both made our dance. Ah, yes. In the same opera, was it? Francis, you haven't lived until you've seen Natalie dance. Or heard you sing. Or heard me sing. That's right. We did do the Botter Broad together. That's right. You were Esmeralda. Yes. But the first time I saw Ruthanna, she danced in Carmen, and I took one look at her and fell in love with her, and I've still been in love with her as a dancer. Sometimes I get very mad at her as my friend, but outside of that, I, um, let's talk a little bit about your ballet, Ruthanna, because that's the most... Yeah, let's get on to the present business. Uh, Miss Boris, uh, you've done some other ballets before this that I know the radio audience is probably familiar with. Uh, what's the difference between those and this one? Could you give us an idea? Well, uh, a great deal of difference. The other two to begin with were, uh, encased in a much more traditional form. The music was European to begin with. The first one was done with Gounod's music and the second music of Aubert. And the music for Cakewalk is probably the most exciting music so far. It's, uh, music by Louis Morrow Gottchok, who is an early American composer. He lived about the middle to the end of the 18th, the 19th century, the 1800s, and wrote out of his own background, which was primarily the South. He was, uh, trained in Europe at one time, but his heart was... Yeah, I think in Europe he was a student of, uh, the big French composer Hector Berlioz. Uh, Ruthanna, I wish you'd, uh, mention the names of your other two ballets, because I think both of them are very important, and many of the people who've seen them, um, should remember them. Well, the first one was Cirque de Deux, and the second one was Calque Fleur. What in the world does Cirque de Deux mean? All right, Ruthanna, what does it mean? Does it mean anything? It's, uh, based on the form Pas de Deux, which everyone knows, meaning dance for two or step for two, and Cirque, which is circus. So put them together and you have circus. See, that's what I love about her, Frances. I mean, you get all these wonderful things that pop right out of the... I don't want to get academic again, but, uh, to get back to Cakewalk and the difference it has between these earlier ballets, Miss Morris, isn't it true that your first ballet, Cirque de Deux, was, um, a classical circus, let us say. Exactly that. Your second ballet had a story to it, if I remember it. Yes. What have you got here? Have you got a story? Uh, no, I haven't got a story. It's, uh, based on the form of a minstrel show, but it's, uh, a ballet show. A minstrel show consists of three parts. First are jokes, songs, and dances. The second part can be anything, and the third part is, uh, a play or something, anything that the performers happen to do well. One of the wonderful things I found out they used to do, what? Doesn't that still happen in the ballet nowadays, don't they? Yes, a ballet is very close to a minstrel show. Don't you always put in the steps that you do best? Uh-huh. You're very lucky because singers don't have that much, much opportunity. Well, that's where the choreographer comes in. Ah. Now, what have you done having come in? Have you turned it all into, it's all, of course, dance? It's all dance. No songs. No songs, but lots of jokes. Not spoken, however. Visual jokes. Choreographic, visual jokes. That's exactly the way to do it with a group of the most charming young people it's ever been my pleasure to work with. The dancers of the New York City Company. They're all so well-trained and so musical and this is in their background. They can step right into the tradition of the minstrel show with that kind of It's in their blood. They're all full of cakewalk. They are. Well, I saw the rehearsal, part of the rehearsal, what, the part called Banjo and the thing that delighted me was that I was seeing exactly what you were saying but everything done in dance which of course must be a very, very difficult thing to do. No, it's not. Dance is a language and I always feel that if it can be said very well with words it can't be said well with dancing that you simply say it with dancing it's a means of communication. And you get all the different entertaining elements of a minstrel show converted into one medium and amusing in that way. That's right from the standpoint of dance. Have you got the usual thing? Have you got N-Men and Interlocutor? I have N-Men but I don't think I think the audience should come and see it because we shouldn't give it away. It's a very, very attractive and charming and thoroughly delightful idea and I think anybody who doesn't come is just silly. Ruth Anna has had really a remarkable picture to show us right here and those of us who live in New York and who have observed the dance because, Ruth Anna, tell us, how old were you when you started to dance? I was 10 when I started to study actually. That was in the very early days when there were very few good schools and incidentally you just said something that brought up something. You said it was remarkable and I feel for these this time it is remarkable but in another 20 years I hope it will be very usual. Yes. I think that's the thing that the New York City Company is working toward. I think it's the thing that Mr. Kirstein and Mr. Balanchine have accomplished and if I've been one of the tools, let's say, or mediums through which this was expressed I'm very, very proud of that and going to that school every day and seeing what's happening there and knowing that it's going to go on. It's a very important thing. It makes me feel very happy about the fact that it will be usual in a very short time. Yes, and I think that here in New York we have a chance which is a very rare chance to see the development of a really great ballet company. And a really American company. Yes. That's the important thing. Using yourself as a, being used as a tool I think is a little degrading in your case. No, I think you're more than that. Good tools, to be a good tool is good and you evolve from that. Exactly. You begin as a student. Of course you do. Well, Roussana was used as a tool in, and a very remarkable, very willing, very remarkable tool in the thing in Serenade, Mr. Balanchine's ballet, which Miss Boris danced with a great acclaim. I can't begin to try to tell about it because it was remarkable and concerto barocco. Well, I believe that it's been our very rare privilege to have worked with George Balanchine. A thing happens once every four or five hundred years that an art form, usually in the person of one person or two people, moves from one country. In this case, it moved across an ocean. And I believe that ballet has found a home in America and that this is the way to forward it, this is the way to make it, and it's been wonderful to be a part of it. It is wonderful to be a part of it. Balanchine's coming to America, then you think it's sort of centered the real dance world here. In America and in New York City, actually, because this has been the place from which he functioned. And in New York City at the School of American Ballet. At the School of American Ballet, and its home, the New York City Center, where it performs salaries. It's a wonderful organization which works on all, how is it you say when a car, all the gears are, or the spark plugs are spark, cooking with gas. Everybody is cooking with gas. Well, I'll tell you, the thing that I think is very fortunate for us here in this country to be able to observe is the development of choreographers, so to speak, after the father. I mean, Mr. Balanchine being Papa, and then the children, and then the children getting married, and having their children, and so forth and so on. And here we have one of the first children who, well, I guess you are one of the first. I was one of the original members of the American Ballet, which was the first company that Mr. Kirstine and Mr. Balanchine had, and then at the ballet caravan later on, and I was with them when we met at the Metropolitan Opera House. Yes. Well, you really followed them all the way through, and are sort of a genuine example of what they can teach. And you know, Americans are so proud of their automobiles and their bathtubs and their sinks and their refrigerators, and I hope that the day will come along soon where they will begin to realize what they have in the arts, which... Oh, I think that the audiences at the city center do realize that, Natalie. They're the most wonderful audiences. I've sat in all parts of the house at different times seeing the same programs from the balcony and from the orchestra and from the mezzanine, and there's such a feeling of belonging, there's such a feeling of participation. A little bit like a baseball game, isn't it? I agree with both of you about this, but could you be a little more specific about the audience? What do you mean about like a baseball game? Well, let me tell you, this is a really very cute story, but I came by one night and heard a young boy talking, and he was saying to his friends, and they were all very, oh, I don't know, 18... 19, that is not young. Think of that tall chick. She was going to the right or to the left, which is, of course, ballet, which is a baseball term, you see. This young man, let our radio audience be in ignorance, was referring to the prima ballerina of the New York City Ballet Company. Yes, which is a wonderful help. Imagine saying anything about, say, a pavlova issue going to the right or the left. You know, that's a neat thing, the way those kids move around, but that is, of course, a very healthy sign. Oh, it's wonderful. I sat in front of a young man and his fiancée, I think, one night, and he had seen the ballet, and she hadn't, and he was explaining everything to her, and they had such a wonderful time. They had a marvelous time together. They not only enjoyed the ballet, but they found a great deal of rapport between themselves, which perhaps they hadn't realized before, and I thought, very good, don't go to the movies, go to the ballets. You mean the ballet stimulates all sorts of things. Well, this brings up an idea that I've had for some time and have been talking about with Miss Bledania here, that in addition to bringing up dancers to be fine choreographers, like you are, Miss Forrest, Mr. Balanchine and Mr. Kirstein are also bringing up an audience. They certainly are. They really are. And the audience is also bringing us up. Exactly. And I think that that's what will make this particular ballet, the cakewalk, a very interesting thing to see, because the American audiences do know about minstrel shows. Oh, dear, look at the time. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt right now. Thank you, Ruth Anna Boris and Natalie Badania for joining me in talking about the New York City's new ballet and Miss Boris's new ballet. We want everybody to come, everybody, and their cousins and their uncles and their aunts and their fathers. Which will have its first performance on Tuesday evening, June 12th. This is Francis Mason inviting you to join us again next week at this same time when Vita Brown, dancer and assistant to the ballet master of the New York City Ballet Company will be our guest on Meet Your New York City Ballet. Goodbye.