Other committees work on city planning, traffic, the city's financial and fiscal affairs, and numerous other major problems. The Citizens Union's hard-working staff with long experience in city affairs prepares material and aids the volunteers in their work. Our Executive Secretary, George H. Hallett, Jr., goes to Albany during the legislative session to act as the people's lobby. Getting through things that help a major part of the public. And Eleanor Tanzer, our Assistant Secretary, regularly appears at the Board of Estimate Council hearings to express the Citizens Union point of view. Our counsel, Samuel D. Smollef, is constantly available to give of his valuable advice and experience in the numerous legal matters. And where necessary, he institutes lawsuits to protect the public interest. An example of this activity is a victory by the Citizens Union and the public in depriving Mayor O'Dwyer's chauffeur bodyguard of $3,000 a year each of pensions to which they weren't entitled. And the Court of Appeals so decided. I've given you but a small sample of the work of the Citizens Union. The only way to become adequately familiar with this work is to join in it and experience it. It is an extraordinary organization. Let there be no mistake about it. The Citizens Union is nonpartisan and nonpolitical. But it is not neutral. It is a fighting organization. The Citizens Union fights for measures that soundly benefit the largest number of citizens. And it fights against special privilege and special interests. The Citizens Union is no private club. All are welcome to join it and to work in it. Our office is at 5 Beekman Place. You can write to the Citizens Union, 5 Beekman Place, New York 38. Did I say Beekman? Beekman Street. I keep calling it Beekman Place. That's probably wishful thinking. Write to the Citizens Union at 5 Beekman Street, New York 38, for a membership application and a copy of our monthly publication across from City Hall. Write or telephone the Citizens Union for any information that you desire concerning the City of New York. This is your fight. Join us in it. Thank you. You know, I left out something earlier. I think one of the things that we have not lost in the City of New York is freedom. And I think it's worth mentioning that this program, which in many ways is critical of some of the activities of the City of New York, is being carried nevertheless by a radio station of the City of New York, a radio station incidentally, WNYC, which was backed by, in its fight for, a very fight for existence by the Citizens Union many years ago by, during the time of Mayor LaGuardia, when the political, were very definitely against it. And I'd like to express our appreciation to WNYC for allowing us the use of our, of its facilities this evening. You know, in spite of my earlier remarks, I actually have been continually impressed by the number of men and women who devote themselves to the job of making this a better city. And such a man is going to take over this meeting in about 15 seconds. He's the vice chairman, a vice chairman of the Citizens Union. He's a distinguished lawyer. I've learned from some experiences of affairs like this that all lawyers had better be distinguished. In this case, it is deserved. He's also an independent Democrat, I'm informed. That can mean a great many things these days. And he is the chairman of your committee of awards for 1952, Dana Converse Backus. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens Union, there are many in this audience who have participated in developing the Citizens Union principle and program for the city of New York. But the other side of that process is getting the program adopted in the legislature. And one step ahead of that is getting elected to the legislature right-minded people who think well of the program. The man of whom I am about to speak, in addition to being interested in civic improvement, has been able to get himself elected several times. And it is my pleasure, on behalf of the Citizens Union, to present to him this citation. The Citizens Union of the City of New York, in recognition of outstanding public service, awards this citation of merit to Assemblyman John Robert Brook. For his courageous and vigorous sponsorship of a far-reaching program of election reforms, designed to make government more responsive to the popular will. Mr. Brook is championing bills for permanent personal registration, direct election of district leaders. He's even got Tammany Hall coming out for that. Repeal of oppressive restrictions on the nominating process, and removal of primaries from vacation time. So that some of you can go and vote in the primary. In other fields also, he has rendered legislative service of a high order. Because of his close cooperation with the civic forces of this community, it is singularly appropriate that he is chairman of the Assembly Committee on the City of New York. Mr. Brook's activities are advancing in a notable way the Citizens Union's objective of returning New York to the people. Mr. Brook. Mr. Marshall, we are very proud of you being here for the nation. Mr. Backus, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the City Council, honored guests, members and friends of the Citizens Union, Mr. President of the City Council, I received this award with sincere gratitude. It is a great honor, and I am proud of the fact that I have been found worthy of it. My pride springs from the fact that it is an award of this organization, the Citizens Union, which tonight is celebrating and commemorating 55 years of nonpartisan service to the best interests of all of the people of our city. Mr. This Union of Citizens, inspired over the past years and now by the leadership of many unselfish, devoted, and patriotic Americans, by its persistent and constant attacks upon the forces of corruption in public life, by its intense research of and watchdog vigilance over city and state legislation, by its untiring and successful efforts in spreading its impartial views and careful appraisals of issues and candidates for public office, has rendered to the people of the City of New York a tremendous good service, and has made most outstanding contributions to the cause of good government. The Citizens Union may proudly take credit for initiating many legislative reforms that have greatly benefited our city, and for defeating many measures contrary to the best interests of the people. In recent years, it has helped prepare and has strongly supported an election reform program designed to restore and protect the people's right to a free expression of their choice of candidates for public office and party office, and the people's right to express freely their opinions and views with respect to party stands and political issues. I introduced a program of election reform at the last session of the legislature. This program was based upon the firm conviction that given freedom to choose candidates for public office and party leaders, the people will select capable, honest, outstanding, and patriotic men and women. They will pick candidates who, when elected, will not compromise or cooperate with the evil forces of corruption. They will pick candidates who will render faithful, loyal, efficient, and honest service. The issue today is how best to achieve morality in government, morality in public office, and morality in party office. When we read and hear of the crime, corruption, and other scandals emanating from our nation's capital, and when we read and hear of similar scandals concerning our city government and local officials, we realize the depth and breadth of this basic issue. These situations can only be cured by giving the people the means to choose freely their leaders and candidates. Consciousness in the people of this issue is evidenced by the widespread support our election reform program has been given since my bills were introduced. Support from the Citizens Union, from the League of Women Voters, the Civic Legislative League, the Election Reform Committee, and from many other civic organizations dedicated to the cause of good government. In my public statement of last October, I pointed out that machine politicians had gradually gained control of, and wholly taken away from the people, the party organizations. I pointed out that this had been accomplished over a period of years by the adoption of arbitrary and restrictive election laws. These arbitrary, unnecessary, and restrictive election laws have so effectively tied the hands of the independent party enrollee, have so effectively made increasingly more mysterious and more difficult the election procedure, that they have left the average party enrollee with a feeling of utter hopelessness, helplessness, blind resentment against the system, and disgust. I will be specific. First, here in New York City, we have a system of personal annual registration. This system I consider to be an arbitrary and unnecessary one. In the city, there are four and one-half million voters, qualified voters that is, if they personally register each year. Last fall, only one million nine hundred thousand registered. In the final two weeks of that hotly contested campaign, tremendous interest was generated by the candidates. That interest was generated as well among hundreds of thousands of voters who had not registered, qualified to vote, by registering. These hundreds of thousands of voters were effectively disenfranchised. I have now for two years introduced the Citizens Union League of Women Voters permanent personal registration bill. And it is extremely significant to me that, with the exception of a small segment of labor, the sole opposition to the bill comes from the bosses of political organizations. I maintain that this opposition is based simply and solely upon the dislike of machine politicians for a large party enrollment. Permanent personal registration would mean a constant enrollment in New York City of about 3,500,000 party members. This would be extremely distasteful to the party bosses, for they maintain their position of leadership through controlling the core of the political organization, and are fearful of a true expression of opinion by a majority of a large party enrollment over which they cannot wield the same degree of control. Permanent personal registration is inevitable, and I will not relent in my strenuous efforts to bring about its early enactment. It is progressive legislation. It is legislation for the benefit of and productive of the free expression of opinion by all of the people. That's not all. That's not all the people of New York have a right to expect. Because clean government is not necessarily good government. Those who have been decent have not necessarily had a monopoly on efficient government. Fine jobs have been done for the people by those who notoriously in the past practiced the old rights of corruption. But that kind of government has become too expensive. The kind of good government we got from the old corrupt machines has fallen down because government functions, government services have become sufficiently complex, sufficiently close to the people that we no longer can afford. The waste, the inefficiency, the payoff that comes with the kind of good government we got from the old corrupt political machines. Now again, what should, what can the president of the city council do about this? That has given my staff and myself great concern. Where do we fit into this good government picture? We are a legislative office. Our time is involved with calendars of a city council, calendars of a board of estimates, sitting in both of these bodies, attending committee meetings. We have not the administrative machinery of the city of New York. And yet, the people of the city of New York expect a certain amount of leadership, a certain amount of thought, a certain amount of careful consideration for these problems. And we are trying to do just that. In the course of doing it, we have made mistakes. We are going to make a great many more. We are not only learning, but we are learning with a small staff. A small group of men, of whom it has been charged that they are trying to be a president of city council's office, a commissioner of investigation's office, a commissioner of investigation's office, and the DA's office. Well, it's a lot of work for four or five men. But it's the kind of work that has to be done in this city. It's the kind of work that needs leadership from wherever it will come, and support and help from every man holding responsible office in this city. Now, besides this fight against crime, there are so many jobs that we must do, that we must do to keep the public who want independence. We must keep them feeling that independence in politics, independence in government is worth the fight, because the public put up a terrific fight to get it. They do it at great personal cost, and once they've got it, they want to feel that they're getting something for their time and their trouble, and that some progress is being made. They want somebody to keep them informed, to keep them informed when the administrative officials of their city are not independent of corrupt political machines. They want somebody to keep them informed when political appointments are made, for no other reason than to satisfy the political machines that control the nominating machinery, the very machines that your organization set out to fight last year and fought for many years before. I think the people of New York want the government of the city of New York reorganized in a way that it will be efficient. I think they feel that we have horse and buggy government. I think they feel that we are trundling along in an ancient fashion and trying to run a $1,500,000,000,000 business without the simple machinery that one would find in a smoothly operating corporation or a smoothly operating union. I think the people of the city of New York expect leadership in the solution of their fiscal problem. Now there I'd like to say one thing. You all have heard that I have insisted I will vote against the sales tax this year. You have also I hope seen or heard of my statement urging the other members of the Board of Estimates of the City of New York to vote against that tax and to vote against the other so-called nuisance taxes. The basic reason for this aside from any policy opposition to the sales tax or any of the other taxes is very simple. New York City is said to be in a fiscal crisis. After sweating over a capital budget and an expense budget for six months and sweating doubly because the first time I looked at them I didn't know which end to open. After that I was convinced that we are indeed in a fiscal crisis. But more than that the conviction sticks that that crisis will be much worse a year from last January. The cost which we have deferred by deficit financing. The mounting deficits in the subway. The absolutely undeniable continuing need for further salary increases particularly with the cost of living index still rising all point to one thing. The next year's crisis is going to make this year's crisis look like lush prosperity. Well why wait for it? Why drift into what may well be an even more insoluble problem? Why not use the quiet summer months even if there is a political campaign for president to get legislative action, legislative hearings on a program for New York City? What are we waiting for? I remember what happened this January. We came back after the Christmas and New Year's holidays. We were presented to the budget. The legislature was meeting in something like 10 days. And everybody was in a rush. There was no time to do anything but vote. Well we voted. Now I think that when we face this fiscal problem we have to face one thing clearly and honestly. And that is how much service do the people of New York City want? Those who have the responsibility must decide that. We must then get technical advice to tell us how much it will cost to give that service. We must then decide and let the people tell us at the next election whether we decided right how much of that service we want to give. And I would like to add that how much we can give depends to a very great extent on how much we can economize. Now you can't depend on individuals. This is a job for the people. It's a job for groups. It's a job for just such a group as your citizens union which has taken leadership in so many other cases. We must not yield to mere personalities, mere personal leadership, mere individual desires. It's a job for all of us. If we do it together New York can continue to be a great future. It has this future. It has it not only for the people living here who want our services. It has it for the taxpayer whose taxes can be reduced if we make this city attractive to more citizens like the five sons of Bill Leonard and to more business. If we bring creative, productive, useful business with the people who come with it into the city. If we make it and continue to make it a desirable and useful place in which to live. Then we will have to pay for these services. Not the present eight million. We will grow and we will grow in terms of productive population and productive business. In that job, I hope the citizens union will continue to do the job it has done so well. And I, with the help I hope to have from within, from my friends in New York City and from God above, help to work with you to accomplish that end for our people and our city. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Halley, for the benefit of our radio audience. You've heard the 55th annual meeting program of the Citizens Union. Dana Converse Backer, Chairman of the Committee on Awards. Milton Bergerman, the Chairman of the Citizens Union presiding. And the award for public service presented by Mr. Backus to John Robert Brook of the New York State Assembly. And the award for public service presented by Mr. Halley. This program here at the Roosevelt will continue after we have a moment for WNYC to break away and carry its own programs further. You have been listening to a broadcast of the 55th annual meeting of the Citizens Union brought to you by your city station from the Henry Hudson room of the Hotel Roosevelt. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you all. Thank you very much for watching. Thank you. Thank you.