Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the City Department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Bernard J. Gilroy of the Department of Housing and Buildings, who is also Chairman of the Committee on Shelters for the Civil Defense Organization. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense. Here is Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Gilroy, you have been active in connection with the civil defense of New York City since its organization several months ago. In fact, you and I were associated in similar activities during the last war. Since I established the Committee on Shelters of which you are the chairman, much work has been accomplished, I know that. It may be of interest to our fellow New Yorkers and our neighbors to hear about the work of this Committee on Shelters. Will you tell us something of the basis on which the Committee started? Yes, Commissioner. We started by obtaining publications on defense work. These were studied and conferences were later attended to obtain information to guide the Committee on Shelters. Of course, our experience during World War II was leaned on to a great extent as today's problems on civil defense differ little from that of the past war. That's insofar as Shelter is concerned. I'd like to stress that by referring specifically to Shelters. Commissioner, what does your committee consider of most importance if the citizens of our city are to suffer the least harm from an attack? Commissioner Wallander, I'd say first is a firm determination to obey directions and to be subject to discipline under stress of attack. Second, the realization that we have the means for protecting ourselves to a great extent. And third, that any cover is far better than remaining in the open, fully exposed. In other words, get under cover when an alarm sounds and keep calm. Well, Commissioner Gilroy, I discussed with you the general problem of shelters to be used in the event of an impending bomb attack, considering especially the atom bomb. We agreed that the city's duty as to shelters was of broad scope. You recall this clearly, I'm sure. Will you tell us something about that? Yes, indeed. You appointed a Committee on Shelters to study the matter and to make recommendations. How did your committee proceed, Commissioner? Well, we proceeded on the basis, Commissioner, that we should first determine how best to protect the people of New York City on two bases. Namely, the first was the occupants of buildings, whether residential or commercial or public. The second was to protect the people on the streets, pedestrians and in vehicles, and especially in areas of dense street population. Just what has the Committee on Shelters done in this respect in these two categories? Why, the Committee has made its general recommendations as to that area within each of the different types of buildings to which the occupants should go in the event of an alarm of an impending bombing. Briefly, Commissioner Gilroy, what are the Committee's thoughts on shelter areas for the occupants of buildings? Commissioner, we decided first that any coverage is better than exposure in the open. Within buildings, except in special cases, sellers afford the most desirable protection. Frequently, buildings will be found to have such uses in sellers as to make them poor shelters, and in others, the height and vast number of occupants within a building make it impractical to use a seller. Why, Commissioner? Well, Commissioner Wallander, the available area might be insufficient to accommodate the numbers of persons in the building. Also, the distance of travel from upper stories of a multi-story structure would preclude the occupants getting down in the expected warning time. And furthermore, in modern fireproof structures, interior corridors several stories below the roof may provide good, easily-reached shelter areas. Now, in many of these buildings, steam plants, mechanical equipment, large water mains, fire lines, gas mains, and so forth, and poor access to and egress from sellers, storage and such will render them undesirable. How will the owners of buildings obtain information to guide them? That is, as to their directions to occupants of their buildings. The Committee on Shelters, Commissioner, has made general recommendations as to the most suitable locations of shelters in various types of buildings. These recommendations have just been summarized and are being made available to owners. When these general recommendations are not deemed suited to a particular building, the owner may obtain further assistance by sending a request to the Committee addressed to me. The Department of Housing and Buildings, with the assistance of other public and private agencies, will advise such owners as to the best locations to be used as shelter areas. What has been done in the matter of locating shelter areas in buildings for people who happen to be on the streets? Well, in the areas of dense street occupancy, housing and building inspectors have surveyed numerous buildings, hundreds of buildings, to locate shelter areas which may be used by people out of doors when an alarm is sounded. When such area is found, the available capacity is determined and permission is sought to use that area as a public shelter. When that permission is received, the police department is notified and that department then proceeds to provide signs indicating the locations of the public shelters. Incidentally, the work of making such signs is well underway. As to schools, public and private, what is their status? I'm glad you asked that question, Commissioner. We are presently helping all schools, public, religious and private in the city, and we're giving them all possible assistance in devising the best protection for their children. Inspectors of the Department of Education are now inspecting all public schools in New York City and hundreds of other schools to determine the safest shelter space in each building. We have written to some dozen religious agencies operating schools for children, offering our services to the end that the best interests of their children may be served. Incidentally, we have had numerous replies giving us lists of the schools under their jurisdictions. It is hoped that those private school heads who have not yet communicated with the Committee on Shelters through me at the Department of Housing and Buildings will do so at an early date. I'd like to make it clear that I'm located in the municipal building New York 7, New York. Also, my telephone number is worth 25600. And if I'm written to or telephoned to, we're here to assist all schools in the city and we'll give prompt service. You didn't tell them your name, Commissioner. It's Commissioner Bernard Gilroy of the Department of Housing and Buildings. What groups are represented on your Committee on Shelters? We have a very broad representation. We have real estate, architecture, engineering, including structural, sanitary, ventilating, and electrical, in addition to municipal agencies. Do the shelter areas and buildings provide reasonable protection from the effects of an atomic bomb blast? Why, yes. Based on information obtained from the results of the bombing of Higasaki in Hiroshima and reports of the Autonomous Energy Commission, the United States Department of Defense, the casualties resulting from the explosion of an atom bomb can be greatly reduced by the use of these shelters, especially if the owners and tenants follow the recommendations made by the Committee on Shelters. Well, that's fine, Commissioner Gilroy. These recommendations are always, are, they're in ways in which people can increase their safety. Is that the thought you're thinking? Yes, Commissioner Waller, that is. Let's start with the occupants of one or two family dwellings. In these dwellings, the occupants have been advised to use their cellars as air raid shelters. Now, that gives them initial reasonable protection which can be increased, the safety increased. they provide an electric battery lantern in the cellar and keep one or more flashlights in their bedrooms. These will be necessary in the event of some curtailment of electric power service. They should also have an axe or a crowbar in the cellar as it might be helpful in removal of fallen material. Cellar windows should be covered with substantial wire mesh screens or more substantial blocking on the exterior such as bags of sand, lumber, and so forth. An outside exit is most desirable and should be provided from the cellar so if the facilities within the building are blocked, they can use the outer exit. The floor above the cellar could be reinforced by a greater on post to reduce the floor of the span of the floor beams, increasing its ability to bear a load. A heavy table in the cellar will afford added protection beneath it. In addition, it's desirable to have water pails and a fire extinguisher in the cellar which would lessen the danger of damage by fire. Now, the occupants should keep as far from exposure to glass as possible near a corner of the cellar away from windows and outside doors. Of a special importance is this, do not shut off gas and electric meters. These services should remain on. Well, that's very interesting, Commissioner Gilroy. Will the occupants of apartment houses, tenements, hotels, and similar buildings do likewise? Well, in some respects, Commissioner, the instructions to tenants in apartment houses, tenements, hotels, and other multiple dwellings will be similar. But many of these buildings, especially in the multi-story residence buildings, the cellars or basements will not be adequate for the number of persons in the building, and the public halls above the entrance hall will be found to provide equal and, in some cases, preferable shelter. In addition, an air raid warden will be assigned to each floor of these buildings to direct the tenants to the shelter area. Our advice to the tenants of apartment houses, hotels, and other similar buildings is, first, know your air raid warden, the warden for your floor, and obey his directions. Keep one or more flashlight to dry cell electric lanterns in your apartment. Go to the air raid shelter promptly when the alarm sounds and bring along the flashlight or electric lantern. Keep away from in front of windows and away from outside doors. Our space in cellars of basements is not available for use. The public halls above the entrance hall should be used. The doors should be closed tightly. They're your doors from apartments. Tenants should not stand in front of doors from an apartment, and tenants should keep as far below the roof as is practical where they'll get that direction from the air raid warden. Again, I'd stress do not shut off main gas and electric meters. These services should remain on. You told us what the tenants of residence buildings can do to increase their safety. Is there anything the owners can do to increase the safety of the tenants? Oh, yes, Commissioner Waller. There's much that can be done. In the first place, they can remove all rubbish and eliminate as much stored material as possible from the shelter area, whether cellar or above ground. They can cover all gas of the shelter area with heavy screens of one-half inch or smaller mesh. They can remove all fixtures or articles in the shelter area that are liable to fall. If the cellar is used as a shelter area, the owner should have a reinforcement where that's necessary. One or more flashlights or lantern should be provided and that could be in the custody of the superintendent. Also, crowbar acts. Water pails extinguishers. Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Gilroy. This talk and the answer to the questions that were propounded have been very interesting and I'm sure will be helpful to our people. Thank you. You have been listening to the ninth in the important series of reports on civil defense in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Bernard J. Gilroy of the Department of Housing and Buildings who is chairman of the Committee on Shelters for the Civil Defense Organization. Next Tuesday evening at this same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.