A short while back, a United Nations Children's Fund representative was in the village of Radomir, Bulgaria. He learned that the children of the village hadn't had milk in any form for years, and they'd never heard of milk in powdered form. And they were so suspicious of it that the mayor of Radomir had to bring them together in a public square and work on them. This is what actually happened that morning in the square. Picture the children gathered around the mayor. They're all rather sullen and scared. Children, our children, just look at this milk here. Cool, wet, tastes delicious. It was sent to us by all the nice friends of Bulgaria because it's what you need. Now who'll step up and drink some? You know our friends wouldn't send anything harmful, don't you know that? I'm surprised. You, uh, you older children, aren't you ready to risk your lives to show that the United Nations would never send us bad milk? Not one of you? I will drink it. Oh, just one? Well, all right, George. Come on up here. Now, taste this and see if I'm wrong. Here. Well, you like the taste, George? It's good. But not as good as real milk. You feel sick from poison? No. I feel all right. And still able to walk? Yeah, sure. I feel fine. Well, you, uh, you like some more? Yes, plenty. There, children. There you are, you see? That was really good. Well, George drank it. He liked the taste. He didn't keel over. And the day was won. Now I want you to pretend that you're in a makeshift clinic in the heart of a Greek village that was knocked into rubble during the war. Listen to Mrs. Henriksen of Denmark, one of the Scandinavian Red Cross nurses who've given so much to this international anti-tuberculosis campaign. It's enough to make you weak. Many of these children have never known the taste of an orange or milk, to say nothing of the protection and love which our own children take for granted. They have no home or school to go to, no games to play, no toys except what they make themselves. And they're so innocent. Not one is born with a weapon in his hand. There are no economic rivalries in the cradle. No child picks up a prejudice but what is taught him. But their elders fight wars. I think children are bound together in the most terrible society on earth. The brotherhood of those punished for crimes not of their doing. Do you know how much it costs to kill each enemy soldier in World War II? $245,000 per man. Do you know how much it costs to inoculate a child against tuberculosis? $0.10. $0.10. During this joyous holiday season, I hope every one of us will remember the children in far-off countries. These children do not wish for toys. They want, they need food. They need medical assistance. They need clothing. We can help them have a happy holiday by sending a contribution to the UN Children's Fund Committee. New York 16, New York.