American Red Cross, Mr. O'Connor. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow will mark the opening of the 1948 Red Cross Fund campaign for $75 million. In asking your all-out support this year, the Red Cross is appealing to you individually to contribute to the welfare of your neighbors. The Red Cross movement, you know, was founded upon the spirit of neighborly service. In an age bordering on despair, this impulse to serve others assumes even greater significance. In the last four weeks, I've traveled over this country, meeting with representatives of over 2,000 Red Cross chapters. I've seen this neighborly spirit in action on every side. I've talked with thousands of chapter leaders. Their single purpose, their common aim, is to keep the Red Cross symbol aglow as a guide to all those who turn to it in time of need. All America is being asked to participate in this campaign. Therefore, it's very fitting that the organization's honorary chairman join in this appeal. And now I have the honor to present to you the President of the United States. My fellow citizens, I am speaking to you tonight not about affairs of state, but about that good friend of humanity, the Red Cross. As the honorary chairman of the Red Cross, I have made it my business to examine its program and its financial requirements. Its greatest strength lies in the fact that it belongs to the people. It reaches into every community of our land. An average of one person in every family in the United States now holds a junior or a senior Red Cross membership. Such widespread acceptance by the people tells its own story. It is inspiring just to review the role of this far-flung organization. When the Red Cross is not... with the Red Cross, it is not a question of doing merely one job well. Its program has many important parts. The Red Cross must be ready at all times to move and act simultaneously on widely varying programs. In all it does, service to humanity is its main objective as well as its sole reward. An example of how the Red Cross operates along so many fronts is revealed in one of its reports to me. Recently, it launched a national blood program. And the first regional blood center to be opened in this new service was dedicated last January 12th. During the same week, the Red Cross was aiding the victims of six separate disasters in widely scattered sections. Some had just occurred. Work on others was in the final stages. These catastrophes included a Gulf Coast hurricane, a flood in Oregon, New England forest fires, a plane crash in Georgia, a southeastern tornado. At the same time, aid was being given to distressed Navajo and Hopi Indians in the far west. As always, the families caught in these emergencies were dealt with on an individual basis. Yet the Red Cross was able to carry out all these assignments without the slightest interruption in launching its new blood program. When catastrophe strikes, the Red Cross moves with the precision of a well-trained army to bring order out of chaos. It provides aid to stricken people without weakening their self-respect. Altogether, it has handled 3,650 disasters in its time. These errands of mercy represent a shining chapter in the annals of relief-giving. The 1948 campaign objective totals $75 million. The results, however, should be limited only by the generosity of the American people. Certainly, no price tag can be fixed upon the comforts given or the hopes relit by the Red Cross. Its services, particularly in these days, are priceless to our way of life. So, even when we add up the dollars needed, even when we add up the pints of blood required, even when we add up disaster cases handled each year, all of us realize that the Red Cross service cannot be measured accurately by any known yardstick. What we can do when the campaign gets underway is to remember the organization's deeds. Perhaps we can picture the light on the faces of the bewildered, arrogant sufferers. Upon learning that the Red Cross would rebuild their wrecked homes, perhaps we can see, as the Red Cross workers have seen, the gratitude of the New Englander upon being assured that he would live after nearly 100 blood transfusions, or the relief of thousands of veterans when they realized the Red Cross would lend them a hand. Thousands of times in the year ahead, the Red Cross will be called upon to meet similar situations. In this great cause, it matters not how we may differ on the pressing issues of the day. Beneath the flag of the Red Cross, we are a united people. In this spirit, I ask you, my fellow citizens, to give the Red Cross your wholehearted support. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard the President of the United States. The President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.