Northwestern University in cooperation with the mutual broadcasting system presents the reviewing stand. In 14 weeks Northwestern University moves into its centennial year. 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The reviewing stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the reviewing stand analyzes Korea test case for American foreign policy. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the adequacy of our foreign policy as revealed by United Nations operations in Korea. Now our moderator James H McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr McBurney. This week has been designated United Nations week. In recognition of this occasion we are today beginning a series of three discussions which give special attention to the place and to the role of the United Nations. Our speakers today are James Avery Joyce, British barrister, author and lecturer. Quincy Wright, professor of international law at the University of Chicago and Kenneth Colgrove, professor of political science at Northwestern University. Now what does Korea mean in American foreign policy, Wright? It seems to me it's a manifestation of the success of the policy which President Truman and Secretary Atchison have repeated on many occasions. Namely there's a policy of giving full support to the United Nations in collective security, the policy of economic development, especially in Asia through the Point 4 program as manifested in the recent resolution of the United Nations to give support for the rehabilitation of Korea. A support for nationalism or nationalities particularly in Asia, the recognition of these struggling new nations and the effort to have them admitted to the United Nations. And finally the policy which is known as the Truman Doctrine of containing communism, preventing the expansion of communism by aggression and subversion. These three, these four policies are related and it seems to me they are all of them manifested in the successful operation in preventing aggression in Korea. Do you share that view, Colgrove? I regret, McBurney, that I can't share that view. I look upon the Korean crisis as a near failure on the part of the United States. It was only the brilliant strategy and military genius of General MacArthur. They got us out of this unfortunate debacle. The whole crisis indicates very well the inconsistency, the lack of global character, and the lack of leadership on the part of foreign policy of the United States at a time when the United States is the greatest aggregate of people, resources, and technocracy that the world has ever seen should have taken the leadership in preventing this aggression. This aggression occurred largely because of the vacillating policy of the United States. Such inane remarks as Dean Acheson last January that indicated that we would get out of Korea simply invited the Russian and the North Korean Red Army aggression. It seems to me that this whole affair shows that our policy is one thing in Europe and another thing in Asia. And again it shows that our government has been lacking in preparing to meet such aggressions so that Soviet Russia and the Red Koreans would have known that as soon as they cross the 38th parallel they would have been met instantly by the American forces. Again I think this shows the incompetence and the lack of ability on the part of the United Nations. The whole affair in Korea has been won by American diplomacy which was reversed in just 24 hours time. We made this debacle a success largely because of the courage and the resources and the manhood of our boys and General MacArthur whom we sent to Korea to meet this aggression. which would not have occurred if we had been properly prepared. Joyce, where do you stand in this difference of opinion that's been aired here? As an Englishman I'm rather reluctant to take part in this discussion at all, particularly as it is centered upon American foreign policy. May I say that we English sometimes appear to be under the mistaken belief, I emphasize mistaken belief, that the United States until quite recent years didn't have a foreign policy at all. It had a Monroe Doctrine, so we are taught in England, and only quite recently did it begin to have a foreign policy. In fact in 20 years the United States has had to catch up as it were with 200 years of English foreign policy. And so I would just say at this point waiting for my two colleagues to give me the clue that my intervention here will be confined to generalities. And as this is a matter of very great emotional interest to the American people, I shall have to be somewhat guarded in what I say. But it must be understood that in the circumstances of the subject I think I'd better keep the foreign policy in a very general way. In fact even be so boldest to suggest that I would have to be somewhat in a very relevant. In fact even be so boldest to suggest if I may, that perhaps in my view it might be a good thing to abolish foreign policy from the point of view of the welfare of the people of the world. But that's probably irrelevant. Well I think the important thing to emphasize in the Korean matter is the fact that it gives the best illustration we have had in world history of the operation of collective security. The League of Nations tried to organize collective security. It was relatively successful in the Bulgarian-Greek affair of 1925 and in some other instances. But in the great instances in Manchuria and in Ethiopia, although it attempted to it failed. Now Professor Coldgrove says that this was a near failure. Well, it was not a failure. It had been a success. Of course we can't look too far in the future. It was a clear recognition by the authority of the world community that aggression had occurred and that it was a failure. And then a rapid and forcible action by the world community as a whole to prevent aggression. It was a manifestation of the operation of the world community and the great powers operating under the flag of the United Nations to prevent this aggression from being successful. Well, what success we had was due of course entirely to the initiative of the United States. If this had been left to the United Nations, I'm afraid we'd been just pushed right off the peninsula of Korea, pushed right out of Busan and into the sea. The whole operation was almost entirely American. When we put ground forces into Korea to fight the Red Army on the 4th of July of this year, the ground forces were 90% American. And at the end of that month, it was, pardon me, the ground forces were 100% American. And at the end of that month, the ground forces were still 100% American. And now at the present time, after eight weeks of warfare, the ground forces are still about 90% American. This whole operation was American from beginning to end with a little help from the United Nations and some moral support, which I will grant was helpful. I, of course, agree that the main forces were American, but I think it's significant that no action was taken until the United Nations had made its decision that the matter was one of aggression and had called upon the members to carry out the resolution of the United Nations. Well, McBurney, that was the very point that I wanted to make from the very beginning, the lack of preparation for this. President Truman reversed his policy completely on the 25th of June, and it took two days to get the resolution through the United Nations. And our policy should have been such that from the very beginning, as soon as the Red Army marched, we had already the permission of the United Nations. If we wanted that permission, I think we should have gone ahead without that permission if we didn't get it. But we were not prepared to meet aggression instantly. And as a result, McBurney, we have 30,000 casualties in North Korea due to the incompetence and the vacillating policy and the lack of leadership on the part of President Truman and his Secretary of State Dean Acheson. If I might intervene as almost an innocent bystander here, I'd like to point out that although possibly 100% of the troops on one side were American, or if you like, you can say United Nations from this point of view, the 100% on the other side were North Koreans. In other words, in answer to Quincy Wright, this is not a test case for collective security at all. This is an action, a frontier action, on the part of one big power or group of powers against a small power. Although the North Koreans, as we know from the facts, were trained and they were armed, as always happens in the case of small countries, in this case by Russia, in effect, it was not China, not the Chinese armies, not the Russian armies in North Korea. It was the North Korean armies. Now, in those circumstances, I would say this is by no means a test case to collect security. And we've even had the suggestion, which of course throws a great deal of light on the whole situation, just now from Kenneth Colgrove, that we might in fact have been more anxious and have got in first. I don't know if I misunderstood him, but if so, I think that's a very serious statement. Well, I agree with Joyce on the latter point. I think if you're going to operate against aggression, the first thing is that you must be sure that you're not the aggressor yourself. That, of course, does bring with it certain military disadvantages. Sometimes the military point of view to take the offensive is advantageous. But that is entirely incompatible with the United Nations policy of collective security. One must avoid provocation, and I think we did that in Korea, that we wanted to make it absolutely certain that if aggression took place there, it would not be by the United States or by the South Korean Republic. And certainly that was demonstrated. But that lack of preparation has cost us 30,000 casualties. Our boys have been killed in the rice paddies of Korea simply because we were too afraid, lack leadership in preparing properly for the aggression which we positively knew was going to happen someday in the very near future. Well, the only thing I can say to that is if you compare it with other instances in history, if we had been more willing to carry out the policy which I think Secretary, the late Secretary Stimson wanted to carry out in Manchuria in 1931, I think we would have avoided all the casualties of World War II. And the same may have been true in regard to the Ethiopian attack. All one can say is that we were more alert, more ready to live up the principles of collective security in this instance than we had been in any previous instance during the period since the First World War. I should like to emphasize here, however, that it seems to me the reason for these casualties, the reason why the situation developed in the war at all was due to the partisan attacks which occurred last winter, which I am convinced gave the green signal to Mr. Stalin. Mr. Stalin. He is operating through satellites and I cannot agree with Mr. Joyce that this is solely an operation by the North Koreans. I think it was an operation of the North Korean communists acting as satellites of the Soviet Union. I should like to expand on that point. Senator McCarthy has given us a common noun, like the noun, quisling. McCarthyism means an irresponsible, in my opinion, contemptible hiding behind congressional immunities to smear innocent people and to embarrass the administration. McCarthy is an unimportant person. I don't think that would be a danger. The danger lies in the fact that very much more responsible members of the Republican Party used McCarthy as a tool and created a situation of political embarrassment, of division of opinion in this country, which opened the way for aggression by the Soviet Union. I think we should learn from this that while, of course, differences of opinion are the essence of democracy, that irresponsible utilization of differences for partisan purposes in matters of foreign affairs are extremely dangerous in our world. So, McBurney, I think it's highly fantastic to do, as my good friend Quincy Wright does, to lay the blame for this Korean crisis upon Senator McCarthy, to say that Russia and the Red Koreans acted because of McCarthyism in the United States. In my opinion, Senator McCarthy has done a great service to the American people. I regret very much the means he had to take to do it. But when you have a corrupt administration, such as that of President Truman, when you have a majority in the Senate and in the House, such as the present Democratic majority, that whitewashes all attempts to oust the pro-communist advisors from the state department and other departments and also to sever pro-communist advisors outside the department from giving advice to the state department, it seems to me we have to expect means used such as Senator McCarthy used. Now, of course, all autocratic governments like Soviet Russia, just like Hitler's government, know that there is division and dissension and confusion in democracies. And, of course, we are no exception to that. I would say that the chief cause, immediate cause for this aggression by Soviet Russia and North Korea upon South Korea was due to Dean Acheson's speech in January 1950, where he indicated we were going to get out of Korea. It was also due to the fact that the State Department didn't use any of the appropriations which Congress made to arm the South Korean armies. They kept tanks out of there, South Korea. They kept heavy artillery out of South Korea. Congress had given the president the means for helping the South Koreans to defend themselves, and the Secretary of State, flaunting the will of the Congress of the United States, left the South Koreans open to this attack. Russia saw that this was the situation and took advantage of it. Well, now, Mr. Acheson has been blamed. Mr. McCarthy has been blamed. Where do you place the blame, Mr. Joyce? I seem to be acting something like an umpire in this dispute. I would hope, if I may say so, an umpire in the British tradition, because I've seen umpires rather roughly treated in other parts of the world. I hope these two gentlemen do not deal with me in that way. In fact, by perhaps taking this line, they may come together. My view is, as you notice, very strongly opposed to Colgrove's here, and to some extent to Quincy Wright's. For example, Colgrove has used the term highly fantastic that we should put the blame in that direction. It seems to me, as a student of world events, and I hope a world citizen, that we are putting the stress too much when we suggest, in the wrong direction, when we suggest that here's a fellow in the Kremlin with a lot of levers, and he watches bipartisan policy in this country, and when he sees them having a go at each other, he pulls a lever and he has a revolution here, pulls another lever and he has a revolution in that country. That does seem to me to be highly fantastic. It's not my view of international life. And moreover, and here I come to the main point, if I may, in my estimation, it is not true of the Asiatic problem. Now, we are having to deal with a corner, a very small corner, a fragment, of the problem of what I regard as an Asiatic revolution, of great dimensions, and of long-term dimensions. The Korean incident is an incident, and one of many incidents already, in something which it is very important for us, as a democratic people, to understand, and then to build a policy in terms of the realities. To have these, if I may say so with great respect to my colleagues here, fantastic ideas of the exaggerated powers of the Kremlin, or some other group of men, who after all are only human beings, and all the frailties of human nature, is not helping us at all in building up our own policies. And therefore, I would submit, as a proposition to both my colleagues now, that we look at the Korean incident against the background of this great change, this great swing of opinion and thought and economic and social development in the Far East, and see how far our policies, insofar as we can influence them, can deal with the realities of the Far Eastern world. If this Korean incident happens, and this success, as Quincy Wright has referred to it, results in the doubling of the armaments of the Soviet Union, or something like that, then how can we say it has succeeded? For heaven's sake, let us be realistic, and deal with the Far East in terms of realistic policy with regard to the future. There have been mistakes in the past. Do not let us make those mistakes again. I hope we can spend our time mainly on how to put things right. I want to take that up. I don't think I should let my good friend Colgrove's attack on the Department of State go by, without noting that not a single one of the charges of Senator McCarthy were sustained by the Senatorial Committee. Which was a White Wars Committee. In which Senator Lodge and other Republicans agreed in that respect, not in every respect, but every charge he made fell to the ground. But in respect to Mr. Joyce's matter, I entirely agree that the rivalry in armaments which has existed between the United States and the Soviet Union is very unfortunate. The problem is, can collective security make the prospect of successful aggression so slight that the necessity for states to arm in defense will be greatly reduced? I am in hopes that it may. I am in hopes that out of this demonstration of collective security, it may be possible to make further progress in the strengthening of the United Nations, which will make possible agreements on armaments. That certainly is a hope. If I follow Joyce here, he is saying in substance to you gentlemen, that you are mistaking the issues in the Far East. That what we have on our hands is a fundamental social revolution in Asia. And we have a tendency in America to regard this issue in terms of a fundamental strife between Russia and the United States. Yes, I think that is the basic issue between myself and my two friends here. Well, I wouldn't agree with that, McBurney. I think we in the United States don't look upon this Cold War as simply a struggle between ourselves and Soviet Russia. I think we are fully aware of the fact that imperialism is being liquidated and probably must be liquidated all over the world. We do regret that while British imperialism is being very wisely liquidated, that Russian imperialism is taking the place of British imperialism. And again, while Dutch imperialism has been liquidated in a large part of the world, Soviet Russia, pulling the levers, I would say, by the Politburo in Moscow, is trying to infiltrate Indonesia with communism and bring on the world revolution, bring on disaster to democracy everywhere. I believe we fully understand that there is in Asia a social revolution and also a nationalistic revolution. And that these are both going hand in hand throughout Soviet Russia. I would agree with my friend Joyce that the Russians, this Politburo, have used this revolution to their own hands. And that we probably have not been so successful in a selfish way to use these revolutions to promote our own interests. We should use them, of course, to help promote democracy and peace throughout the world. But we are fully aware of the existence of both a social and nationalistic revolution. Well, I go along with that analysis almost completely. I think the great movement, this dominating opinion of the Asiatics, is nationalism. Nationalism which began in Western Europe, moved to the Middle East, and now we find it all over Asia. And by nationalism, or perhaps the nationality, I'm not at the present time attempting to distinguish between those two terms, seems to me the demand that a distinctive culture shall be represented by autonomous and distinctive political institutions of an independent character. I think we have to recognize that that is the great movement in Asia, and that it manifested itself in opposition to the overseas imperialisms, principally of Great Britain, France, and the Netherlands, and to a lesser extent the United States and the Philippines, although we got out of the Philippines very rapidly. The fact that it had been directed against overseas imperialisms of the great Western powers has given an opportunity for the Soviet Union. And they have in full measure espoused the nationality movements of Asia, concealing from the Asiatics that they are doing this for the purpose of extending a new imperialism of the Soviet Union. It seems to me that that is the public information matter which we have to get across, that we are really in favor of nationality. It's our birthright. We insisted upon our own nationality in the Declaration of Independence, that we should make ourselves the champions of Asiatic nationality movements. We should assist in their economic development through point four, and we should disclose the way in which communism, once it gets into a country, subverts nationality into a new, into subordination to a new imperialism directed from the Kremlin. Now, Quincy Wright has listed a number of things we should do. Should we do these, gentlemen, through the agency of the United Nations? Is that instrument adequate to the kind of problem we face in Asia, as you see it, Joyce? I'd like to preface one comment in view of the remark about the British attitude here, and speaking as a member of the British Labour Party, which has no use, of course, for the communist setup. We in the Labour Party for years have been working at this very problem that the United States is now having to face most acutely. It is, in a sense, as I think one of my friends has said, the liquidation of at least imperialism in the mild sense. And the building up of Indian independence and colonial development and so forth is part of that present programme. But I would agree very fully with the suggestion of Quincy right here, that we have to go on to something more substantial. My personal view, of course, and I speak personally here, is that the institutions of the United Nations are not adequate, let alone the institutions of old-fashioned 19th century diplomacy. We can no more deal with eastern matters, far eastern matters on the basis of diplomacy, than a man on a wooden bicycle could negotiate the Grand Central Station. The thing is out of date. And even the United Nations fails, insofar as it hasn't the instruments of justice and of economic welfare on a substantial enough scale to deal with the main basic problems of Asiatic change. And hence I would go along with Quincy Wright and go further than Quincy in this regard and say, we have to transform the United Nations in the fields of justice and of economic development as the instrument of world government able to handle and having the institutions to handle such incidents as the incident of Korea. I regret, McBurney, that I have very little confidence in any movement towards world government at the present time. I do think that something can be done through the United Nations, as Quincy Wright has very well said. But the United Nations needs leadership. And it seems to me the safety of the world, the salvation of the world at the present time depends upon American foreign policy. The leadership of the United States, both within the League, within the United Nations and outside the United Nations. If we can work through the United Nations, all right. But I would like to see us expel Soviet Russia from the United Nations and make the United Nations an organization which could actually work for peace, which it is not doing very successfully at the present time. The policeman of the bulwark of defense against aggression at the present time is the United States, the American people, our resources and our technocracy. I believe the United Nations is the best we have. I wish we had a greater sentiment of world citizenship that would lead to its strengthening. I think that gradually through the United Nations, we could build up that sentiment and strengthen the institutions of the United Nations. But the United Nations has proved very successful in the incident of Korea. And I believe through careful measures of strengthening it and utilizing it, we can develop a better situation. Korea has one important test. First, Wright has spoken for the United Nations and enjoys the position of world government. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Korea and Foreign Policy. This is the first in a series of reviewing stand discussions on international problems as they relate to American foreign policy. Our next two programs will deal with Russian aims and the defense of Western Europe. Copies of any one of these broadcasts can be obtained by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Or you may wish to send 30 cents for the whole series or better yet, begin your subscription to the reviewing stand with these interesting discussions. Send only one dollar for the next four months. Two dollars and 50 cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Kenneth Colgrove, James Avery Joyce and Quincy Wright. All right. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand presents the second in its series on international problems when we consider Russian aims and American foreign policy. Our guests will be Louis Gottschalk, professor of modern history at the University of Chicago. Walter Murgurian, editor of the Review of Politics, an expert on Russia and its impact on American foreign policy. And James Avery Joyce, a British author, barrister and educator whom you heard on today's program. We invite you to listen next week for an analysis of the subject, Russian aims and American foreign policy. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Dick Coughlin, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of the U.S. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast every week as a public service feature of the U.S.