The City of New York, Vincent R. Impeletere, acting mayor, in cooperation with WPIX, presents At the Mayor's Desk, a program of informal discussion between the mayor and members of the city government. And now, here is the acting mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. Impeletere. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for permitting me to come into your home once again this evening to talk to you informally about something that I'm certain that the average citizen of the City of New York is vitally interested in at the present time. Only a day or two ago, I, as your acting mayor, appointed a new police commissioner of the City of New York. A gentleman in whom I am certain all of the people of the City of New York have full confidence as I have. I'd like to have you meet our new police commissioner, Tom Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the City of New York, I am very proud to receive the honor from Mr. Impeletere to be your police commissioner. I hope that I can fulfill his judgment in doing a good job. Tom, I think that the people of the City of New York would be interested in knowing something about the background of their new police commissioner. Are you a New Yorker by birth? Yes, I am, Mr. Mayor. In fact, I have, I think, a unique distinction. Both my father and mother were born in the City of New York. I was born on 56th Street and 2nd Avenue. I lived in Manhattan for about five years, and then the family moved to the Bronx. And we lived in the Bronx in the Bedford Park section until I was married in 1939, and then moved to the Yankee Stadium section. And then Christmas of last year, moved to Manhattan, 36th Street. Now, uh, you're in the same borough from which the acting mayor hails. Uh, Tom, uh, somebody told me that your grandfather was a member of the police department. Is that so? Indeed he was, Mr. Mayor. Tell me, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the interruption. Sorry myself. Well, he was a member of the New York City Police Force, I think commencing in 1872, and retired in 1912. Uh, tell me, uh, Tom, uh, uh, you're a pretty big fellow, you know, and, uh, the average citizen has an idea that the average New York cop is a big, powerful, tall man. How tall are you? I'm 6'4", Mr. Mayor. How much do you weigh? 245. Pretty good. Uh, what's your college background? Well, I went to Georgetown College in Washington. I graduated with an A.B. degree in 1927. Then I went to Fordham Law School here in the city. I think that's your college. That's my law school, too. I graduated in 1930. I've been practicing law for 20 years. That's, uh, just a little less than I have, Tom, but tell me this. You've had something to do with the prosecution and weeding out of the criminal element, have you not? Yes, I've had eight years' experience. In what office? In the office of the United States Attorney. That's the federal district attorney's office for New York. And, uh, what's the particular job that you held in that office? Well, since 1945, I was chief of the criminal division. That's a pretty important job, is it not? Yes, I think so. Uh, I've read in the papers that you had a lot to do with the preparation of the case against and the trial and conviction of a certain gentleman who was alleged to have conspired against the security of the government of the United States. Is that so? Yes, Your Honor. I prosecuted Al Juhis for the crime of perjury. It was charged that he lied twice before the grand jury, and I convinced the jury that that was a fact. Well, I, I, I knew a lot about your background, Tom, but when I read about the heroic job you did in convicting Al Juhis, a communist who had conspired to overthrow the democratic form of government that we enjoy in the United States. I felt that you were the right type of man to become the police commissioner of the city of New York. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think the city and the people of the city feel somewhat the same. I have received perhaps 600 telegrams and over 2,000 letters, and quite a few of them just signed Citizen of the City of New York. Tom, uh, we have a, a very large police force in the city of New York. My recollection is that we have approximately 19,000 police officers. And I, as the acting mayor of the city of New York, have publicly declared and have told you privately that based upon my long experience in public service, going back for a period of approximately 20 years, that I have great confidence in the integrity and the honesty of the average New York City policeman. Do you share that feeling? Mr. Mayor, not only do I, but I'm sure the average New York City citizen does. That we have here in the city the greatest and the finest police force in the city of New York. There might, of course, be some who are venal. But like in every barrel of apples, I'm sure that there's a rotten one. But by and large, I'm very proud to be associated with such a fine force. And, uh, you, uh, share my feeling, do you not, that while neither one of us, nor the people of the city of New York, have any thought in mind at all about destroying the morale of the honest cop, and keeping the confidence of the city of New York on high gear with reference to the average New York City cop, we share the common thought that if there's any grafter in the police department, it's your job as police commissioner and my job as mayor to weed them out and see to it that they're vigorously prosecuted. Mayor, I share your feelings wholeheartedly. And I can assure you, as I will the people of the city of New York, that I will not countenance any graff. If I am given the evidence of any veniality, of any policeman, whether he's a patrolman or an inspector, he goes out with no questions asked. And to that end, when you took over this job, Tom, uh, you will recall that I told you that I wanted the police commissioner and every member of that department, with the full cooperation of the mayor and the city of New York, to cooperate with every prosecuting agency within the city of New York. Mayor, those were almost your same words. I have already seen Mr. McDonald and seen the five district attorneys in the five boroughs, and I have offered them both yours and mine, full of cooperation. And is it not the fact that you've also conferred with the grand jury of the, in Kings County, that's now actively engaged in this investigation? That is a fact. The day that I saw Mr. McDonald, he introduced me to the grand jury, and we had a discussion there for some few minutes, and I told them that I was there to offer them every facility that the police department had, and in your name, to offer them your complete cooperation. I can tell you, Mr. Mayor, that they were very happy. Well, that has been my attitude from the very inception of this investigation. I want the people of the city of New York to know that. On the very first occasion, when District Attorney McDonald asked for an appropriation to start this investigation, I happened to be the acting mayor. I sponsored his request and voted for it as a member of the Board of Estimates. Since that time, on every occasion, I have voiced the wholehearted cooperation of my office to the end that this investigation be prosecuted with vigor. When I selected you, Mr. Murphy, I did that with the end in view that you were to do exactly that. And I know I can assure the people of the city of New York that are listening in and witnessing this program that you will follow the lead that I have established, and from time to time, when the occasion arises, you will confer with me so that both of us can reassure the public of the city of New York that their interests will be safeguarded. That is exactly our agreement, Mr. Mayor. Tell me this, Tom. Sometimes people misunderstand things. Were you recommended to me for appointment by any politician? No, Mr. Mayor, I was not. Are you a member of any political club? No, Mr. Mayor, I am not. You have to... I am a registered Democrat. I have been since I'm 21 years of age. And I voted the Democratic Party. But in this job, when I appointed you, I want the public to know that I appointed you exclusively on the basis of your past record of public service. Those are your words to me. And when I offered you this job, I told you that you had the job without any strings whatsoever. Exactly what you said. And you know that to be the fact to you, right? I know it is, Mr. Mayor. As a matter of fact, if there are any strings attached, you would... Oh, we'll go back to you tonight. You wouldn't want the job. That's right. I couldn't do it. And I wouldn't want you to take it. Thank you. Tom, uh, it's our attitude in this investigation to cooperate with every agent of government that's interested in wiping out this cancerous situation, if it exists. Isn't that so? That's right. You and I have received a request from Governor Dewey to sit down at the conference with him tomorrow morning. And I've already informed the governor, and I've told him that you as the police commissioner and I as the acting mayor would be very happy to sit down with him tomorrow morning and bring him right up to date on what we have already accomplished, and what we propose to do to the end, that if there is any evidence of graft and corruption in the police department, we want to take bigger steps to wipe it out. That is correct, Mr. Mayor. So that tomorrow morning at 10.30, you and I will sit down with Governor Dewey at his headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt. And I assume at that time you will tell Governor Dewey exactly what you have already done and what you propose to do. That was mine, done. And I assure the people of the city of New York that tomorrow morning I will be very happy to sit down with Governor Dewey and with Police Commissioner Murphy and tell the governor what my attitude has been in this investigation since its very inception, and what I propose to do in cooperation with Police Commissioner Murphy in saying to it that this investigation is going to be done. And I assure you that this investigation continues vigorously. Ladies and gentlemen of the city of New York, I want to assure you, as your acting mayor, that I appreciate this opportunity of coming into your home, principally tonight, to have you meet Police Commissioner Tom Murphy, a gentleman in whom I have the utmost confidence, and I'm certain, after you see Tom Murphy in operation for a very short period of time, I will be able to meet you. For a very short period of time, the people of the city of New York will have the same confidence in Police Commissioner Murphy as I had when I got you. And he agreed to accept this very high call to public service. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you for this opportunity. You have just heard Acting Mayor Vincent R. Impelitiri and Police Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy. At the mayor's desk will be heard again next Thursday evening, October 5th at 8 o'clock. Take care. Thank you. Thanks 예쁜 Thompson R process M projet from組. Take care. Thank you very much. Take care. Take care. Appreciate it. Take care. Or lift us your way. Like. Okay. Have a good at all. Give me, take care. in Bronie. Base Division is your way toaho group. We'll fill us out. Do it. Take care.Power enemy team. Take care. Vamos Pero, либо地. Take care. Use Darth Faulk.