NBC greets you from the House of Representatives in Washington, D.C., where today a joint session of Congress has been convened to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Cuba. Today's joint session will be highlighted by addresses by President Truman and the Ambassador of Cuba, His Excellency Guillermo Belt. The national anthems of Cuba and the United States will be sung respectively by Miss Emma Otero and Miss Hollis Shaw. Musical accompaniment will be by the United States Marine Band directed by Major William F. Sappleman. The broadcast portion of the program will be concluded with the benediction by the very Reverend Ignatius Smith, Dean of the School of Philosophy of Catholic University. President Truman, Ambassador Belt, and Father Smith will be introduced by the Honorable Joseph W. Martin, Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives, and now the Cuban National Anthem. Missionary really has been unveiled with the Origin of Government, Lib Nod Julian and beimmering Jongebow, beautiful nation. Bers, Bupping Navy,rangnod Bering Trans其实, and Penland Festival of the Asian Organization plays an Albiz對不起 Leadership- Golf Labor. In the ability to change and re хочу to change and equipments In cadenas, vivir, morir, en la frenta y el propio sonido del flamín, escuché el sonido, a las armas valientes correr. El sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el sonido del flamín, el flamín, el flamín, el sonido del flamín, los que, en el flamín, los que, en la fe, en la fe, en la fe, el sonido del flamín, el flamín, admiration the beginning of the final struggle for independence, led by Jose Marti and his valiant compatriots, Gomez, Maceo, and Garcia. Our people made increasingly plain their desire to assist the Cuban patriots. The sinking of the United States battleship Maine in Havana Harbor on February the 15th, 1898, crystallized the growing sentiment in this country for joining forces with the Cuban people in their fight for self-government. The Congress passed a joint resolution expressing in clear terms the conviction of the men and women of the United States that the people of the island of Cuba should be free and independent. It also expressed our determination that once the Cuban people were liberated, they and they alone should govern the island of Cuba. It is the passage of this joint resolution 50 years ago today which we are commemorating in this ceremony. This joint resolution, the foundation upon which our relations with the Cuban Republic are based, brought the military and naval forces of the United States into conflict at the side of the the Cuban patriots. The names of Shafter, Roosevelt, Hobson, and many others were joined with those of Gomez, Maceo, and Garcia. For four months, as Americans fought side by side with their Cuban allies, the opposing forces were driven back. On August the 12th, Spain signed the protocol of peace and agreed to give up Cuba and withdraw her forces. The dream of Jose Marti became at last a glorious reality. The sympathetic interest of the United States in the welfare of the Cuban people did not end with the victory. We assisted the Cubans in repairing the ravages of war and in overcoming problems of health and sanitation. The comradeship of war was succeeded by the notable peacetime collaboration of General Wood, General Gorgas, Dr. Walter Reed, Dr. Agrimante, and other men of science and public life. From these sound beginnings, relations between the Republic of Cuba and the United States have continued through the years on a mutually satisfactory basis. I believe that few nations of differing languages and cultures have drawn so closely together during the last 50 years, freely and without dearest, as have Cuba and the United States. Many other factors have contributed to the understanding and affection between our two nations. Travel between the two countries is extensive, and our peoples have come to know each other, and each other's customs and cultures at first hand. Trade between the two nations has increased steadily in volume and in importance. The experience of Cuba and the United States refutes the false assumption that neighboring peoples of different races and cultures are naturally antagonistic. On the contrary, the history of Cuban-American relations demonstrates that when people of different countries enjoy opportunities for frequent personal contacts and a free exchange of information and knowledge, their ties of friendship grow stronger through the years. Although our two countries are separated by only 90 miles of water, and vary greatly in size and strength, they collaborate harmoniously on a basis of equal sovereignty and independence of action. This relationship provides living proof of the ability of nations, great and small, to live in peace and to enjoy the full benefits of commercial and cultural exchange. The same harmonious relationship can prevail among all nations, provided they possess a genuine desire for peace and a firm resolve to respect the freedom and rights of others. This is a truth. The whole world should take to heart, particularly at this time. This stands for the stronger peace and strength. The konwentary organize, eleven years, a person who was in order to achieve that wouldn't lead to ice which foundation of national attack in the air. It is a huge wonderland monster. Mr. President, Mr. President of the Senate, Mr. Speaker, members of the Congress, distinguished guests, it is with the deepest emotion that I appear before the Congress of the United States on the 50th anniversary of the Joint Resolution to express once more the undying gratitude, the warm affection, and the sincere friendship of my people for the American people. This is indeed a fitting occasion to commemorate that resolution, which plays such a decisive role in the future destiny of my country, not only recognizing at the crucial moment of our long struggle for liberation the right of the people of Cuba to live in freedom and independence, but also disclaiming any intention to exercise sovereignty, control, or jurisdiction over our island. Our confused and troubled world today can derive splendid lessons from that resolution, which genuinely and sincerely expressed the sentiments of the American people. Since the beginning of Cuba's century-long struggle for freedom and independence, our patriots always had the decided help and warm sympathy of the American people and of the American press. That support was viewed with suspicion by a malicious world which saw in the protection of a mighty power for a small island nothing more than a secret desire for an accession. The Young Resolution and the policy of the United States towards Cuba in the last 50 years are the best answer to those who do not conceive that the noble American people are always ready not only to fight for their own freedom and independence, but likewise to shed their blood generously and to sacrifice their life for the liberation of all the people of the earth who are suffering from tyranny and oppression. As President Truman has so rightly said, the relations between our two countries are a shining example of how nations with different languages, traditions, and cultures may be drawn closely and sincerely together through the strong bonds of mutual respect and trust. Cuba and the United States offer eloquent proof that the small and the great, the weak and the powerful, can live in harmony and peace when they share the same fundamental concept of justice, democracy, and liberty. Cuba and the United States offer a great opportunity to serve as a nation of liberty. At this very moment, the nine international conferences is meeting at Bogota, defying whatever powers of darkness there may be, with the firm determination to complete an organic pact designed to regulate in a democratic way the relations among the American States. Let us take this opportunity to say unequivocally to all the world that here in this hemisphere, nations can freely associate themselves not on a basis of coercion and intimidation, but on a plane of equality and mutual respect. That in the inter-American system we do not permit special privilege to the so-called big powers, not even the veto or permanent seats. Let us remind to the world that in this hemisphere there is a great nation with no need for an iron curtain to safeguard its frontiers or maintain its prosperity. The strength of that nation and the strength of our inter-American system rest on our firm determination to stand by the principles which gave birth to a free America. May God give us the courage and the spirit to defend and preserve our precious heritage, so that the life of our liberators may not have been sacrificed in vain. The national anthem of the United States will be sung by Miss Hollis Shaw. The National Anth Clemente of the United States is known as part of of Qbrave of Boeing delta outside fromemet. Yes. What the