As another feature of the American Art Festival, WNYC now presents the first of a series of programs in conjunction with the Institute of International Education. This transcribed series will serve to acquaint you with the international arts program conducted by the Institute and with some of the arts students who have come to this country under its auspices. Now, here is Mr. Donald J. Schenck, Vice President of the Institute of International Education. We have in the studio this afternoon Mr. Wilson Lair, Director of the Theater Workshop at City College, and one of the members of the sponsoring committee on the International Arts Project, and Mr. Jurjan Andreasen, a young Dutch composer who was in the program last year. This is the second year that the Institute of International Education, with assistance from the Rockefeller Foundation, has sponsored an arts program. As far as I know, this is one of the first attempts to include artists in an international student exchange movement. For the last 31 years, the Institute has been bringing students to the United States from all over the world, and contrary-wise, sending American students to other countries. The Institute has brought also professors, engineers, agricultural and industrial trainees, and specialists of all kinds. But last year, for the first time, we sponsored this program, which is designed to bring young artists to this country for three months of study and travel. This arts program at the Institute is a direct result of our firm conviction that there is a desire among people everywhere to break down national barriers in all fields. This idea that understanding between nations can be fostered especially through the arts was very well expressed recently by an American violinist after he'd returned from a concert tour abroad. He said, We have neglected to demonstrate to the Europeans our advancement into the one realm, the arts, where kinship eternally exists. And he went on to say, Quote, I think that we all agree that art is an international language, but more than that, it is one language that all Europeans respect. If we speak it, we can create a rapport now non-existent and can close a gap wider than the ocean that is between us. That was the end of the quote. Our hope is that these young artists who have come to the United States from 13 different nations will do something toward closing that gap. They should have a real chance in this country to find out what's going on in the arts by visiting schools and universities, attending performances and exhibits, and by consulting outstanding people in the art world. In December, they'll come back to New York to attend a seminar on world understanding through the arts in which young American artists and critics will also participate. In addition, some of the work which they've done will be shown here in New York. As you can well imagine, choosing these 20 artists from all the applications that we have received was most difficult. Nominations were made by the ministers of education and the American cultural attachés in these various countries. But a committee in the United States, composed of authorities in various fields of art, chose the final 20. In this process, the Institute had had really invaluable assistance from a very distinguished group of American artists, including representatives from the League of Composers, Artists' Equity, Actors' Equity, the Authors' League, the American National Theater and Academy, the American Institute of Architects, and so on. The 20 who are here now have come from Austria, Colombia, Finland, France, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Switzerland, the United Kingdom. But after all, this program is really only just beginning, so I think it would be better, Mr. Lair, if you'd tell us, since you were on the committee last year, something about how the program went at that time. Yes, Mr. Shank. Last year, the artists were here during the summer months, very hot summer, and almost immediately, the artists in the different categories left town to visit some of the art centers here in the east. Get out of the hot weather, too. Yes, and good thing. There were about 22 of them last year, I think, including one from Turkey, as well as the Scandinavian countries, and again, Holland and Mexico and Belgium and Luxembourg. A girl from Greece, an actress, came, and seemed to get a great deal out of it. The actors and the playwright went to Wellesley. There's a summer theater there. Spent, I think, a month and a half or so watching a summer theater at work, making money, losing it, as the case may be. The painters and sculptors went to Pittsfield, to the museum's summer school that they have there, and the writers went to Harvard for a while and then on to New Hampshire to the writer's workshop. The musicians spent their time at the Berkshire Music Center, and Dr. Kusevitsky took them under his wing very nicely there, and one of the people, of course, who was at that session is Mr. Andreessen, who we have with us here today. They came back late in August for a kind of summing up. We all got together then, talked over the program, we talked about America, about art, we talked about Mickey Mouse, and I think Mr. Andreessen will agree with me later on here that he found out that there was more in America, perhaps, than just Mickey Mouse, artistically speaking. We let him speak for himself then. We had two days of a kind of seminar group, all very informal, and people were able to say what they thought, whether the program was good, bad, what we'd like to do this year, and which we are doing this year, because the program is well underway. And we wound up things last year with a performance at a theater off-Broadway, which Miss Eronin of Finland did the Madea, and one of the gentlemen played the piano. There were exhibits of painters and sculptures, and the whole thing tied up very nicely. Just before they left, all of them, that is, except Mr. Andreessen, they made a visit to Washington, Philadelphia. They saw the Atlantic seaboard, if not the glorious desert country and the Hollywood, Los Angeles area. Mr. Andreessen remained behind, and I want to know how it happened. What brought that about, Mr. Andreessen? Why didn't you get packed up and sent home with the rest? Yes. To say first, I'm very glad I stayed behind because I love it here. But how it happened was this way, that while I was at the Berkshire Music Center, I got the commission of the Dutch government, who has the good habit to give commissions every year to, there are several composers in Holland, the commission to write a symphony. Just that. And when I came back in New York, I found some very nice friends who invited me to stay a little longer if possible. And in the meantime, I could finish that symphony here in New York that I did. But then after a while, I met the choreographer, George Balanchine, of the New York City Ballet Company, and I played the piece. And he seemed to like it at least so much that he told me he wanted to make a ballet out of it. You were produced right away. Yes. Oh, never. I was very happy, I can tell you. And indeed, it has been made in the ballet, and maybe you know the Jones Beach, which has been performed in March. Yeah, and also in England. In England, now, yes, just during the summer. Just got a letter from England that was quite a big hit in Liverpool and Manchester, so I'm very happy. The symphony has also been performed in this country, hasn't it, Mr. Andres? Yes, I conducted myself in Washington and in Tanglewood this summer where I was back again on the invitation of Dr. Kuzwitzki. And, of course, in New York and even in Michigan. But the thing is that I went to the, after a few months, I walked around with only four borrowed dollars in New York and I got quite upset, so I thought it better to go back. And I went to the institute to say goodbye and thank them for the wonderful time I had here. And then they said, why don't you go to Rockefeller Foundation and say goodbye there too because, after all, they paid the whole trip. So I went over and saw Mr. Marshall, the director of the Humanity Department there, and told him about Balanchine's plan of making my symphony in a ballet. And he said, why don't you should stay and work with Balanchine and should follow the whole setup of your ballet. And I agreed, of course, but explained that I didn't have any money, so I just couldn't. Then the Rockefeller Foundation then was so kind to offer me fellowship for the time being I needed to stay for my ballet. So, after all, here I am. Here you are. Of course, you went to the right people that have all kinds of money. And I guess the ticket you couldn't live on $4 for more than a month. No, I don't think. To get back to the program, Mr. Andreassen, what did you think of that summer interval here? I mean, what did it mean to you? Did you find out about it? Yeah, to me personally, especially first as an artist, as a composer, I was very happy to get acquainted with American music, of which we don't know too much about in Europe, and to meet American musicians. And I realized the first week I came here, I met already Copland and Kusevitsky and Bernstein, shaking hands with them, just like that. I was very proud. But besides that, I must admit that when I still was in Holland, I had a complete wrong idea of America and Americans. And the most happy of coming here was that I really started to know Americans as they were, and not only a country of superficial business people, but really very good artists and great art, and you know, you know. It's always painful to know that that idea persists, that business first, Wall Street, well, passing on to that. Were there any disappointments, personal or otherwise, in last year's program? What I'm leading up to is to find out whether you think we have maybe got off on a better foot this year or have taken a slightly different slant toward things. You may not know just what we're doing this year, but what bothered you last year about the program, if anything? Personally, me bothered, didn't bother anything. I had a very happy time. But I think that there were too many performers last year instead of creative artists. Yes. I think in this kind of program, a creative artist can get more out of it than a performer who just make all the performances here. This year, there has been an emphasis on the creative artists. For instance, in the theater field where we had two actresses last year, there are none. this year, we're sorry, but on end, we have directors, a director from Holland, a director from the United Kingdom, and we have a scene designer and playwrights. And in that respect are the creative aspects of the theater, and there will be no performances as such from them except probably exhibits of their sketches. I think the time is running very short. Mr. Schenck, I'd like to pass this back to you now to find out or let you sum up the situation. We're in full swing with the program, and the ensuing programs will tell more, I think, is what we're doing. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Lehrer, and you too, Mr. Andreessen, for coming. I'm certain that I express not only the Institute's acknowledgement, but that of WNYC and the American Arts Festival. You will be interested to know that in the four days following this first program, there will be similar discussions with some of the young artists who are now here working. The first day will be painting and sculpture, the second day, the dance, the third day, architecture, pardon me, the last day, theater. The young artists will be the first day and the last day, the young artists will be going to discuss such subjects as current trends in the art in their home countries, can art create tolerance among young people, the role of government in the art of the home country, and many other things. We believe that this discussion on WNYC will broaden the understanding of the importance of the art in international understanding and better international relations. Thank you. This has been the first in a transcribed series of programs presented by WNYC in conjunction with the Institute of International Education. Heard this afternoon were Donald Shank, Vice President of the Institute, Mr. Wilson Lehrer, Director of the Theater Workshop, College of the City, of New York, and member of the selection committee of the Institute, and Mr. Jurian Andreassen, a young Dutch composer. The next program in this series will be heard tomorrow at this same time. This has been a feature presentation of the American Art Festival Week. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. borne 활용, also to us at the示ac is true.