On the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the birth of the Kusevitsky Music Foundation and the first anniversary of the death of its distinguished creator, your city station presents a special program commemorating the achievements of one of the world's foremost orchestral conductors, Dr. Serge Kusevitsky. We are honored in having as our guest Mrs. Kusevitsky, whom many of our listeners met for the first time in February of 1952 when she awarded WNYC the first Kusevitsky Foundation Award for Music. Mrs. Kusevitsky, can you tell us something about the award? The award presented to WNYC last February by the Kusevitsky Music Foundation was by no means a usual presentation. As a matter of fact, it was the first award ever presented by the Foundation during the 10 years of its existence, and it may not readily be repeated for some time until an extraordinary occasion arises. Well, can you tell us what were the actual reasons for making such an award? This award to New York City's own radio station was an expression of appreciation and gratitude on the part of the Foundation for WNYC's pioneering spirit and its invaluable contribution to the musical life of this country through its annual festivals of American music. We regarded this presentation as a fitting event to mark the beginning of our 10th anniversary year and manifesting the live interest and concern of the Foundation for the recognition of the American composer as well as the growth of American musical art. Well, these were the very ideals of Dr. Kusevitsky himself, weren't they? Indeed, they were. He placed great hopes on the creative ability and the growth of musical standards in America. When he first came to this country in 1924, he made a search for the American composer with a lighted torch in broad daylight. It was a search which proved rewarding. Well, can you tell us something about the objectives of the Kusevitsky Foundation itself? As outlined by Dr. Kusevitsky, the objectives of the Foundation are primarily to commission works to world-known as well as young gifted composers, aiding and encouraging creative musicians, enriching the musical literature by new compositions, sponsoring performances of their works here and abroad, promoting musical talents through scholarships at the Berkshire Music Centre and contributing in general to the development of musical life and culture. Well, that covers a great deal of ground. I wonder if you could explain what role radio and possibly recordings will play in fulfilling the aims of the Foundation, Mrs. Kusevitsky. The Foundation certainly makes use of the radio through broadcast programs of commissioned contemporary works, and we hope to help disseminate new music through supplying educational radio stations with recordings and through the making of records of our commissioned compositions in cooperation with established recording companies. Well, this is quite an undertaking, and a very challenging program for your organization. Perhaps it is. Actually, though, it is only a particle of what its founder envisioned. Throughout his life, Serge Kusevitsky felt a profound sense of obligation to the composer, a sense which dominated his life and directed his activities. No matter how much we do for the composer, he said, it is not enough. We owe him everything. In line with that, if we were to delve into the background of Dr. Kusevitsky, we find that some years ago he was responsible for a publishing house in Russia. Isn't that right? It was in the very beginning of the century and the beginning of his career as conductor. At his side, he had his wife, a wise and devoted companion, Nathalie Kusevitsky, whom he lost in 1942, and in whose memory that year he established the Kusevitsky Music Foundation. In 1952, the foundation continues as a memorial for him also. In 1942, wasn't that the year the Berkshire Music Center was established by Dr. Kusevitsky? It is not quite so. It was established in 1940, but it was in 1942 that the foundation sponsored the school. I see. And no sooner was the foundation established that it had to assume a responsible and active part in the building of musical culture in America during the war and during a crucial year of the life of the Berkshire Music Center. However, its first and foremost objective remained help to composers, and Dr. Kusevitsky, wishing to protect and strengthen these grounds, permanently established his foundation at the Library of Congress in 1949. The Serge Kusevitsky Music Foundation is granting commissions to composers, whereas the earlier foundation remains to carry on musical activities on a wider basis. This would indicate that the purposes and aims of the foundation were somewhat flexible. Were they so, or were they fixed? They were certainly flexible, and nothing was static about Dr. Kusevitsky's ideals and plans. They were dynamic and always expanding, adaptable to the needs of time. Every year, he seemed to acquire a greater sense of universality. He had a plan for a composers fund, which asked for the participation of the entire musical world, artistic, professional, industrial, ranging from the common lover of music to the higher strata of state and world federations. You mentioned the building of musical culture, an expression used by Dr. Kusevitsky. Can you tell us, Mrs. Kusevitsky, what did he mean, exactly what did he mean by this phrase? He was growingly aware of the importance of musical education and deeply disturbed with its shortcomings. He was thinking of a musical institute of higher learning, a university of music, that would project rays of the highest artistic knowledge and standards from America across the seas and continents. Well, we're very fortunate that Dr. Kusevitsky considered the United States as the very source of such cultural values. He certainly did, and he would often repeat these words, we know that the cultural standing of a nation is determined and judged by the high standard of thought and art. And he wanted America to be the leading country of these musical standards. Mm-hmm. He was not a dreamer. He was a visionary and a man of action with a keen sense of perception and proportion. I feel that today, as yesterday and as tomorrow, he is intensely alive through his creative spirit. I can hear his words as he made an address at Princeton University during his closing season with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, when he already was carried away with his concept of the spirit of universality. Today, of all days, I should like to read these few sentences of his address stating his undying belief. Today, music is referred to as the universal language of mankind. This is significant. within less than half a century, the effects of two major wars, ruthless domination, and upheavals in many countries have brought disintegration in every branch of life in the world at large. Through science, man has approached the tree of knowledge and tasted its fruit, for which once before, man had lost the blessings and peace of paradise. Science realizes the dangers of knowledge and the potentialities of good and evil of the forbidden fruit. Science also knows that the good takes time to ripen while evil is quick to act and spread. In our atomic age, the world needs the alliance of constructive scientific thought and the creative spiritual aspirations of man. It needs harmony audible not only to the outer but also the inner ear. Music amidst this conflict of polarized forces remains an element of unity among men. We are deeply conscious that music can help help to create the state of harmony and unity in the world. We have to repeat that. We'll have to make a little change. Would you read this again, please? Read this again. Music amidst this conflict of polarized forces remains an element of unity among men. we are deeply conscious that music can help to create the state of harmony and unity in the world. And not