The microphones here at City Station are possibly in one of the most beautiful locations anywhere in New York City, and that location happens to be the Metropolitan Club at 60th Street and 5th Avenue. This Italian Renaissance Palace was designed and built by Stanford White of the firm of McKim, Mead and White, who are notable for many of the outstanding reproductions of great edifices of the world carried out through the success and the enterprise of American businessmen who made fortunes and a name for themselves, employment and success for the American scene in the ideas which they had and carried out so successfully. And then of course, it was necessary that a meeting place for these men who had the destinies of America in its commerce and industry so much in command that they might better coordinate their ideas and their enterprises and their social life as well. Certainly in carrying out the specifications of Mr. J.P. Morgan, Mr. Vanderbilt and all the others who were concerned in the organization of this club, the idea and the background of success through the expression of beauty in architecture was fully achieved. Now, the paradoxes of this scene are as interesting as possibly we might think the over accent on any attempt at segregation or snobbishness. Because do you know why the Metropolitan Club was formed? It was formed because an American boy who had worked up from the age of 17, going to work very early in his life, with very little education as a beginner and achieving success in the world, was refused admittance to another club in New York City because, among other catastrophes, they said he ate with his knife. Well, he didn't exactly eat with his knife, but he overcame the difficulties of Black Friday and the Erie Railroad. And that was John King, the president of the Erie Railroad in the late 80s. And because of the snob that was administered to Mr. King, in the true American fashion, those who belonged to this extremely eclectic club, who were very specific about what particular item of the silver you utilized in enjoying the meal, why, they got together, Mr. Morgan, Mr. Vanderbilt, well, the names are legions in the success of the city of New York, and they formed the idea of the Metropolitan Club in order that an American boy who had risen from the ranks should be received for his attainments as a great citizen and a man of achievement. And therefore, by the strange paradox, all that was beautiful and magnificent in the expression of life itself, as epitomized in the Italian Renaissance, was recreated here at 60th Street and 5th Avenue. Another strange commentary. Two ladies, both of them Duchesses of Marlborough, were concerned in the beginnings of this club. And may I explain to you what that is? Lily Price, who was the wife of the 8th Duke of Marlborough, was the owner of the property on which most of this club is situated. And she sold the property to the club itself. Now, the amazing fact is that it was occupied by squatters. In fact, good many of us can remember when a great deal of this territory around here was occupied by squatters. And it speaks well indeed for the tremendous and rapid advancement of the city of New York since this is only 1949, that as late as the 80s and 90s, this property was totally unimproved. And all sorts of situations, residential and otherwise, obtained at this time. Well, Lily Duchess of Marlborough sold the property to the Metropolitan Club. And Consuella, wife of the 9th Duke of Marlborough, became, was one of the Vanderbilt ladies, the very beautiful Consuel of Vanderbilt. And so, in that way, we have the ancient house of Marlborough that attained so much, what's that? Yes, I see. So much for the fact that the two Duchesses of Marlborough was concerned, were concerned rather, in the erection of this building. Now, as we look around at this very marvelous audience, right under me I see a familiar face, former Commissioner Wallander of the Police Department, who has just been assigned by the mayor to another important civic duty, our Commissioner of the Budget, Commissioner Patterson, Dr. Bernicker. Well, if I started naming names, Hugo Rogers, President of the Borough of Manhattan, in whose borough this wonderful club is located, and all the beautiful ladies who have accompanied these ladies to these festivities here, organized by Mr. Whelan for this 7th Annual Award of the American Fashion Critics. Well, it's only a few days ago that the mayor in front of City Hall had the great millinery exhibit, and he worked out a very nice idea there. The powers' models, well, it was expected they'd be beautiful and handsome and well-groomed, but the mayor, patriotic as he is in the great New Yorker, said, well, suppose we let the beautiful girls in our department model the hats. And sure enough, the girls of the city department modeled the hats in front of City Hall, and the powers' models in red tamer shatters and their real beauty, well, they acted very humbly as ushers and did their bit for their city and aggrandized the girls of the city departments, who after all are the ones that buy the hats when they're displayed in the various shops of our wondrous city. And here in the environment of the Metropolitan Club, in this magnificent great hall of the Metropolitan, 55 feet square, adjoining as it does the great Louis XV room that faces on Fifth Avenue that most of us notice as we ride up and down on the buses and see the gildings, the carvings, the paintings, and all the splendor of this club. Well, it just means that a lot of great Americans got together and wanted a nice place to meet in a nice atmosphere, invoking the art of the old world and the new, and creating this atmosphere that is so beautifully adorned by the lovely ladies here this evening who will participate in the fashion show. Well, Mr. Whelan is getting very active down there now, and it may be just a few moments before we present this gentleman who seems to know better than anyone else in the world the values of New York City and the value of every citizen to the New York scene. And when a thing is organized by Grover Whelan, it is well organized, and every element that will do credit to the City of New York and its administration is epitomized by the efforts of the Mayor's Committee, very often headed by Mr. Whelan. Yesterday in the Waldorf Astoria at the retail drug convention, a fashion show was given there, and again the ladies exhibited, as most surely they were able to, the fact that New York City is the fashion center, and if there are any more beautiful clothes that could be possibly more beautiful than those displayed at the Waldorf yesterday, well all we can say is that they'll be displayed here tonight if they are more beautiful or just as beautiful. And in a few moments, Mr. Whelan will be ready to take over here. He's spending a little time now on personal greetings, and all we can do is try and recapture the scene for you here at the Metropolitan Club. Imagine if you can this spacious hall of white marble and gilded pillars and columns, three and a half stories high, 55 feet square. We imagine indeed that we have taken one of the various means of transportation to one of the ancient palaces of Europe, and here in this magnificent environment we are to see the fashion and beauty of New York City paraded for the edification of the public who buy the items of fashion. Well, there's nothing snobbish or, might we say, uncongenial about fashion and beautiful clothes, because everything concerned with the reproduction of the fashion and mold concerns employment, fabrics, jewelry, tailors, sewers, salesmen, stores, industry, commerce, carrying the various products of these items to our shores, imported fabrics in the holes of ships, and then of course the fashioning and cutting of those fabrics by skilled workers who are all paid and who all earn money because New York wants to dress well and show the rest of the world how to dress in the best of fashion. And I'm quite sure if television was fully developed to the point where we might pick it up as casually as we do radio remotes, why the television cameras here tonight would assure you that I'm not the least bit flattering in my descriptions, that the glass of fashion and the mold of form will come down this double staircase here in the Great Hall of the Metropolitan Club, and every effort of the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, to make New York City the fashion center of the world, is indeed justified by what is on view here tonight. I talk so much about that because even though the show hasn't taken place yet, why I saw some of the fashions in a preview, in a rehearsal, and believe me they are beautiful. And now may we present the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, who is the master of ceremonies and the inspiration for this great fashion show at the Metropolitan Club, Mr. Whelan. Is Mr. Whelan allowed to speak? Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if Mr. Charles Pullman of the Metropolitan Opera is in the house. Charlie, where are you? Oh, Charlie, can you get through here? I wouldn't think of asking to rise for the national anthem unless Charles came up here and led you in song. The national anthem. Charles Pullman, good man. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Oh, only can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Till the twilight's last gleaming And by God, you're the bearer of life. And the lamb was weak, the scallops we believed. And the garden led there, the bonkers he gave. Gave proof to the night that the flag was still there. To say the last of the anger, banner yet wave. The land of the free, and the home of the brave. Thanks, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I hope that everybody in the room, adjacent to this room in which I am speaking, will realize that everything that happens here will happen in the main lounge which faces Fifth Avenue and the one that faces 60th Street, so that you will not miss any part of this very unusual and very distinguished fashion show. This is the seventh annual fashion show of the American Fashion Critics Award. It was conceived by Cotees during the war years as an inspiration to the American designer, and it has remained an inspiration through the years of peace for the American designer. The jury that chooses this award, composed of the experts, the fashion editors of the magazines, the news associations, syndicates, and newspapers. And I assure you that anybody that is selected by this distinguished jury must be worthy of a very great award. And I am going to ask that one of the co-chairmen tell you of this award, its significance, and the things that have happened since its very inception. I wonder if, uh, Hildegard Fillmore will tell you of that at this time. I must confess that if I told the whole history of this award, it would take much too long and would deprive you of the time that you should be spending looking at beautiful clothes on beautiful girls. But I should like to say that having been on the committee since its inception, I can, um, explain that it is a very serious award indeed. that each year the, um, principles that the award are based on are worked out very carefully by the committee. Fashion is a changing thing. It doesn't stand still. So that, um, we do not have rigid rules. We do not have, uh, any special thing laid down that we must follow every year, um, and not change. The Covey Company has been very wise in leaving every decision entirely to the committee. It is a committee and a jury award, and as such, it stands or falls. Now, Mr. Whalen, would you like me to, I'm sorry, I don't want to get away from this microphone, because I think we're on the air, but, uh, would you like me to start giving the citations now? Is that the next on the program? I think so. If you... We don't want to spend too much time on preliminaries, and it is a pleasure and a privilege to share with Mrs. Downey the presentation of this year's awards. May I make an explanation at the moment? Yes. His Honor, the mayor, who is, uh, going to present these awards, has, uh, a very bad cold, and is ill at the moment, and therefore will be unable to be here in order to present the awards, and he has chosen as a very poor substitute your speaker. Well, it's a disappointment to all of us. We've seen Mayor O'Dwyer present these awards for several years. He does it very graciously, and he does it with feeling, as indeed he should, the fashion business being one of the great, great pillars of New York industry. Um, before I read the citations, I should like to say a few words about the recipient of the honor this year, the honor which we call the winnings, just as Hollywood has its Oscar, so the Fashion Critics Award has its winnings. She was born and educated in Paris, the traditional cradle of fashion. In her early teens, she began to design clothes, and later assisted her father in his tailoring establishment. While still in her teens, she got her basic training in draping and in the preparation of muslin from the Parisian designers. Before she was twenty, she had her own shop on the avenue de L'Opour. In 1937, she left France with her two sons and came to this country. Here, she was associated with Ben Gershul and with Hattie Carnegie. In 1942, she opened her own establishment with her brother and a handful of workers. Today, as one of the leaders of New York's fashion creations, she puts untiring effort and great enthusiasm into the successful and distinguished business which bears her name. She's a designer who cuts her own patterns, drapes and fits her own models. Her infectious personality comes through in her designs. To women who know fine clothes, these designs are never eccentric. They have movement and line. They are always beautifully detailed and finished. The jury's citation reads, I quote, The 1949 American Fashion Critics Award is presented for this designer's high and original talent in fashion. Her 1949 collections were particularly distinguished, a culmination of many seasons in which her imaginative ideas have set major trends in the world of fashion. Her originality is notable in that it always remains within the framework of accepted style and is unfailingly complementary to the American woman figure. I will now ask Mr. Whelan to present the 1949 American Fashion Critics Award to Miss Pauline Frigia. Susan Whelan to present the Color Only One in the mid-19 Ordinary Artists... Uh. You know, I've been watching Pauline while the citation was being read, and I never knew that every part of a garment shook all at once. And all the jewels that she has on her also shook. But it's a great privilege for me to present to you Winnie, who is the wife of Oscar. They haven't been married yet, but we hope they will be someday. And also this $1,000 bond, which is a gift to the winner of this very distinguished award. Now, you can't hold Winnie. Let me do that. You take a hold of this one, will you? I'm afraid. Would you like this? This is a splendid background of the Metropolitan Club, where the award is being made at this time by Mr. Whalen, the absence of Merrill Dwyer. Mr. Whalen has just stated, because of illnesses not with us this evening here at the Metropolitan Club, in this resplendent fashion show. And now everybody's joining in on this picture. As they say, everybody's getting into the act. And all the other contributory ladies here on the platform who are doing so much for fashion are joining in. And, as Mr. Whalen said, the award has just been handed to the winner, the wife of Oscar, although they're not married yet. But the lady looks very charming with all the possibilities of matrimony. The lady, strange to say, is ungarbed. And this is a fashion show dealing with clothes. Now the cameramen, I don't know whether they're looking more at the prize or at the fashion designer who won the prize, but the cameramen just don't seem to want to let go at all. They're posing and cracking out pictures. And here's Mr. Whalen, introducing Pauline. Go ahead, Pauline. Tell us how you feel. I can't say what I feel because it's too difficult. I can just say thank you to the jury and thank you to my adopted country for what it permitted me to achieve. That's all I can say. Thank you. And now our chair lady is back again. Thank you. Thank you. With the tremendous increase of interest in young clothes, it was the belief of the jury that another special award could be made to a young designer who's made her name in the field of separates. These are the interchangeable skirts, blouses, jackets, vests, and such, which smart young things love to mix and match at will. Born and educated in the Middle West, this designer is as typically American as the college and career girls who wear her clothes. After a few short years spent in fashion merchandising, she went into business with her husband and began designing casual young clothes that were soon recognized the country over for three important qualities, originality, good taste, and moderate price. The jury's citation to her reads, quote, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now Miss Tony Owen is making... Miss Tony Owen is now making her way to the stand here, and Mr. Whalen will have the fashion award, the special award, ready for in just a moment. He's having a little difficulty with the package, but the cameramen are insisting on some preliminaries before she even reaches Mr. Whalen. Here's the girl who comes up and says, What do you got for me? Mr. Whalen says, What do you got for me? And he puts his arm around her. Oh, should I tell that? And here's a wonderful silver plaque with a properly engraved inscription, and Mr. Whalen is holding it so that the cameramen can get a proper view of it with the prize winner, Mr. Whalen. He's been hanging on to it. It's a magnificent case in which it is in scones, shall we say? We must be grand about it. White satin, red satin, red velvet, and the beautiful silver plaque in the center. My, what a beautiful item it is without any thought of what it is. The contrast, the colors, and the richness of the gift itself is truly beautiful. The lady herself is dressed in a single-strap black velvet dress over one shoulder. The other shoulder is managed. It's a bit precarious, but it's managed. And the lady's costume is beautifully in place. Thank you very much. Mr. Whalen is doing his best to hold it in place. She's not going to make a speech. The black velvet is relieved by a group of tapestry-colored roses. They're really very beautiful. They look as though they're made of chenille or velvet. And now our chair lady. This year, the jury thought that shoes made fashion history. So a special award was voted to a young man who has influenced shoe design from high style down to the least expensive footwear. From his apprenticeship as a sketcher on a shoe trade publication, he became a designer for many shoe manufacturers. Then he went into military service. After nearly four years of it, he returned to designing and began manufacturing on a custom basis under his own name. He believes that shoes should be as sensitive to fashion changes as hats or necklines. The jury's citation of this shoe designer is as follows. Quote, For his outstanding position as a shoe designer, his originality and good taste represented significantly in his shell shoes for his great contribution to America's leadership in shoe fashion throughout the world. I will now ask Mr. Whalen to present the American Fashion Critics Special Award for 1949 to David Evans. Thanks, David. Come on, David. Now it's a man's chance. Mr. Whalen's helping him up on the stand. He's not making the roundabout way that the ladies did because Mr. Evans can climb up much easier than a lady might. Mr. Whalen has assisted him at the stand and Mr. Evans is standing up there now taking his orders from the cameramen while Mr. Whalen gets another of those beautiful boxes lined with white satin and a beautiful silver plaque suitably engraved, ensconced therein. Mr. Evans poses with Mr. Whalen, a very nice, smiling type of gentleman. Mr. Evans is a little bit unconcerned about it all in a rather interesting deep blue tuxedo outfit. The tie is black, but if my eyes tell me true, the suit is a dark blue, including the reveres of satin and the suit itself. Now Mr. Evans takes the long way home and down the ramp like the ladies did. Now Mr. Whalen's coming back again for a few remarks. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. Mr. Evans. It's a great pleasure for me to acknowledge for COTI and the great organization that I represent the contribution that is made every year to the fashion and the industry which represents something in the neighborhood of between four and five million dollars in the city of New York, the needle trade industry. And I'd like particularly to mention the presentation committee. I have seen them sit here for hours upon hours and days upon days in their selection and the rehearsals which took place for this great show that you're going to see in a very few minutes. And I'd like to, you just met Hildegard Fillmore and I'm going to hold the next gal for a little special speech. Then Kay Sullivan who was one of the chairman of this group for a year. Then Olenek Cushman and Amy Larkin and Eleanor Lambert. I'd like also to thank Lester Garber, William Richardson, and Stanley Melba for their great contribution to this evening's entertainment. chairman. The next delightful and charming person I'd like you to meet is the co-chairman Betty McLaughlin Downing who has, no, no, no, no, wait till I tell you about her. I've seen her around for about four or five months working very hard and I never knew anything about it but since then she's had a baby that's ten weeks old. Betty McLaughlin Downing. I can't say anything about that but I do want the show to begin and I do want to thank the Metropolitan Club for letting us have this here. It's such a beautiful room and they've never had all these women especially in the woman's army in this room before. All right, we're going to start the show now. Is Lou ready, Lester? Miss Downing is going to be the commentator in this room. She's going to stand over there and it's great. I'm very glad she mentioned the fact that the host of the evening the Metropolitan Club has really done a progressive looking piece of work tonight by admitting so many women to these sacred portals that for many, many years they were never permitted to enter. This marvelous hall that you see here and the marvelous building is the work of Stanford White. This staircase, I doubt whether there's one like it in any other part of the world. but all of these things have been made possible by the Board of Governors and particularly Mr. Lee Warren James, President of the Club. And the veteran of Rockland Downey is going to describe the costumes here at the American Fashion Critics Award and we ask you for just a moment to make a few stage adjustments. części, in the不行 comm any reactions in the clip Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First winner, Traynor Norell, is going to walk across the stage. Joan Patterson, a Norman Rowe's beautiful costume. And here is a 1943 winner, Lily Dashe. And here is a 1943 winner, Mr. John. And another 1943 winner, John Fredericks. Then in 1944, we had Claire McArdle. And Sally Victor. And Phelps. Then in 1945, came Mr. Adrian. Was here tonight. And Tina Lessa. And Tina Lessa. Emily Wilkins. Claire Potter. Omar Khaya. Omar Khaya. Vincent Monsano, 1946. Teddy Rosenstein, 1947. Mark Mooring, 1947. Adel Simpson, 1947. Adel Simpson, 1947. Horwitz and Doobelman, 1947. And then last year, 1948. Paddy Conny. And Esther Dorothy, to share the award with Max Millian and DeLeo. This is Russian Irma. That is from Maximilian. Here is Mr. DeLeo's wonderful wild Nick. Come. We're at the Metropolitan Club with the seventh annual Fashion Critics Award. Too bad we can't bring you the picture of this magnificent staircase as these beautiful costumed ladies descend in the various garments of adornment that Betty McLaughlin is describing to you at this time. And now we're going to show why Tony Owen got the award this year if they'll start. We're just waiting for the parade. We're just waiting for the parade. We're just waiting for the parade. Tony Owen's reason for getting the award this year. We're showing a little skirt that she got a patent on, which is the first time a patent I believe has ever gotten, been gotten in the business. And she's showing it in six different fabrics and ways of tying it. I hope we start. Blue music. It's called a sorcery skirt. It's called a sorcery skirt. First time a patent has ever been applied for, for a garment. And it's really just a skirt. But it's got a long double sash that can be tied in at least six different ways, as you can see here. Here it is with a felt skirt, jersey top. Altruitype tying. Here it is with cotton. Mitt Ruffles. With a little sleeve treat. No pins. No stitches. No stitches. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Here it is in gray wool jersey. Here it is in pink, blue, and shocking net. Really, no pins and no stitches. It's all the same top. White pique. Gold lame. What the hell is she talking about? Which foot are you going to start on? What difference does it make? Honey, tell her one foot. Just make it mad. Just start on the other. And now, ladies and gentlemen and husbands, we're going to show you Mr. Evans' beautiful shoes. Now, don't look at the girls and don't look at the clothes. Just look at the shoes if you can. We can't. We can't. Here they come. They're really beautiful shoes. He did all six pairs just for tonight. You can't really see the shoes yet. I think Ruth Woods is the first one off the stairs. Yeah. I think Ruth Woods is the first one off the stairs. Here's that pair of shoes. Don't look at Ruth. Don't look at Ruth. Can you see them? Can you see them? Yes. I think Ruth Woods is the first one off the stairs. Here's that pair of shoes. Don't look at Ruth. Can you see them? They're really divine. And there's Kitty Kopack in a really crazy, wonderful pair of shoes made out of leopard and gold kid. And here's Kay Hernan. Don't look. And here's Kay Hernan. Don't look. In a wonderful pair of red leather shoes. That's the shell pump. That's the thing he won with. And here's a really nifty pair of shoes. This is black leather combined with baby seal. Half fur and half leather. Half fur and half leather. They're beautiful. And here's beautiful Vicky Lines in a pair of bronze alligator. With a belt to match. And here's a little girl in a 1920s dress that we've all been hearing about with wonderful red leather shoes. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm going to ask Pauline to come up here with me on this next routine. Come on, Pauline. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Betty McLaughlin-Downie has been describing this for you, and now she's calling Pauline up, one of the award winners, to help the description. Get this conversation over. I found it. I found it. It's back to me. Who's wrong on that? Look at him, she's unfortunate – and, I do this thing. Good thing to get you the same saying. These are the things you love the difference. Again, and I'm not thinking about them. I hear too much of him. I thought of them being a little bearing I had a valuable misfortune of the sort. So I didn't have all of hisAshley. So, I want people to see you. I heard Lucy from the Todays Conference today. That's the actual style here of your anniversary and the following year. That's what we're doing. Okay, now you're just walking out here with me on this next routine, Pauline has stage fright. I am. We can get real close together. I'm going to be in the hall. Now here come about 20 things done by Pauline. The Frigée. This year's winter. And they're all wonderful. Four hearts. It's a beautiful place. And it's such a beautiful place to show them in. Now Pauline poses a steamer costume. The first one. It's charcoal, as you can see. And it's fleece. And it's gold wool underneath. Tell them what it is. What can I tell them? It's the... Give the fabrics and the style. Come on, Pauline. Oh, I can't. We're going to get this on the radio here. This isn't the audience here. This is the radio. I can't talk. You know I can't. I've got a terrible accent. It's awful. An ensemble of steamer coat and double-faced fleece. It's reversible. You can wear it inside out if you wish to. It's a French material. You can wear it inside out if you want to. It's reversible. She tried to stay in English, but she couldn't. No. No. No. This is a material specially made for us by Paula Stout. With an ombre filling. That's pale gray to black. And a spiral skirt, buttoned on the side. It's all lined in Lutria. It's beautifully warm. Don't you love the yellow accessories? I love it. No. This is our Life Magazine girl. The tuxedo we borrowed from the men. Are they going to be very jealous? Certainly they're going to be jealous. Good, good, good, good. We took the pink shirt away. Now we're taking the cummerbund. Look, she's got a cummerbund like a tuxedo. Look at the girl. That's terrific. I've never seen the inside of her. Is that your hat? Yes. Your hat is. And all the jewelry. Describe the jewelry to match, too. This is our tubular dress. How to take the beautiful one. From Barbara Brown. Go away. I am. I am. I am. It's a wonderful dress. It's a cocktail dress. And this is a wonderful one. Because you can take that little apron off and change it completely. You see, you've got your skirt underneath. And you can take it completely away and change it. You have your brown dress and your apron on top. Very pretty. That jewelry is all yours, too, isn't it? Yes. To match. Match. Certainly. Come on. This is the same thing with a black sheet. And the top of the skirt can be removed. You take it away and you have your plate. Take it off? Yes. Norma, take off your skirt. Take off your skirt. Can you please? Norma. Norma. Take it. Can you remove your skirt? Not the belt, dear. Just the skirt. Not the belt. This is a perfectly good party. Sounds like in the showroom. It's terrible. I don't wish you can. No? Oh, never mind. Okay. It's fine. It's very easy, really. What the hell's her fault? Pauline's gonna help. The fastening was away in the back, and the lady now is going to demonstrate the fact here. Good. There was another skirt under it. No scandal. No. Francine Cunningham. Isn't she pretty? Not pink and black? Is that a cocktail dress? That's a cocktail dress. That's a tilt neckline. Is it? Is it? Is that what you call it? Yes, that's what you call it. That's what my brother Robert calls it. A tilt neckline. This little shawl is made out of swag. This is for the people who can't have Maximilian and D. Leo fur. And I said, oh, it is. I made them a little scarf. Does it mean? Out of swag. Well, that's not so cheap anyway. No, nothing is cheap, you know. Oh, boy. It's great. What do you call it? It's our little version of the cocoon. Little cocoon. Little cocoon. It's a wonderful dress. Is that your hat too, Paulie? Yes. All of them. All the girls are pink. Poor girls. Dressed and undressed by me so many times. No. The staff of them was pretty hectic. It was. And this is that famous domino coat, Pauline. This is the coat that we can put in the afternoon and in the evening, you know. Wear it all day long. And all night long. And all night long. Not in the morning. Look at Evans, what he did for my shoes. Look at this heel. And he made his beautiful black shoes with his carl heels. I wonder. Go with it. Yeah, that's right. Is that your jewelry? Yeah. Oh, it's great. Junkie, wonderful. Oh, this is a wonderful outfit. Great dress under this. And it's nice and warm. What's nice and warm dress? The coat is beautiful. It's all in velvet and very warm. You don't have to breathe in winter nights. What does that tell you back? Now, look. Let's not discuss very unpleasant things today. Let's keep it a beautiful... It's another cocoon. That's a cocoon. With a satin skirt and short cocktail dress. Velvet bean hop. It's really hot. Now, this is some foundation. Well, it's a good idea of being it... Beautiful. This is another cocoon. Black tweed this time. Dealing with red sacs. What does that mean? At least you have to do. Oh, haz Canad помог. Very sad. Black bellies. And this, I must admit, is one of my favorites. I just love it. A black jersey with fringes on carol. So beautiful. There's another one. Cat Ryan. Look at those heels. I'm sorry, Pauline. I don't think you made the heels this way. Oh, I've got the same one, too. Don't you see? I've got the same one. David made the heels. Where did I know? That's a bad little hat. Wonderful. And this is Eileen, our little English girl with my French imported lace. This in here is an English girl with a French imported lace. Beautiful. What about the big scar? This is a little important English girl. We're wearing full imported lace dress. An important girl. Thank you. Oh, and here comes... You got a name for this dress? Oh, the Maxime Lady of 1949. You know Maxime in Paris, I mean. She got ready. She got ready. There's two on a very plain. Oh, this is a silk neckline. There she is. Now wait just a second. And this is Lisa Posagreb. And this is the cover of Time. Lisa Posagreb. This gal made the cover of Time last week. A big surprise. I didn't even know she was coming. I'm looking at her. Don't you think she deserves the cover and the cover of every magazine? That's a pretty good dress. Trudy. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. I'm looking at her. Too bad you can't see the staircase here at the Metropolitan Club. Where the 7th Annual Fashion Award is in progress. And Pauline, who received the award this evening for this year. And Miss Downey are describing these costumes as they come down the stairs. Strange, myth, imported French lace dress. Which is really very beautiful. And this is the finale. Ladies and gentlemen. She looks... She looks... She looks... She looks... She looks... She looks... incarceration. This is my little red devil, Trudy Irwin. And she's almost like Mephistopheles, isn't she? She looks... She looks... She looks... She looks... Papoon again! This is my little red devil, Trudy Irwin. And she's almost like Mephistopheles, isn't she? She looks... She looks so cute. Very good. Very good. So beautiful, Trudy Irwin. How'd you get here? Hello, tous? He was soütün . She's very good. This this is a cheat. May I roll, Bella? Yes, Doctor. Yes, I said, Pauline ought to get a great big hand for all of us. And now, ladies and gentlemen, there's going to be dancing. And that's all. Thank you, Ms. Downey. Betty McLaughlin, Downey, and Pauline described to you the various costumes as they came down the staircase here at the Metropolitan Club, and possibly one of the most beautiful settings. And I won't discount the City Hall setting, because when the fashion show was given in City Hall a few weeks back, a few years back, I beg your pardon, why that beautiful building certainly showed its proportions and beauty as these lovely ladies assembled before the ladies and gentlemen of New York City and its citizenry in their best bib and tucker to watch the latest fashions parade through City Hall. And we've had another example of the splendor of building. Just a moment. Mr. Whalen? Do you want to say something? Help the men that are moving the chairs by remaining standing for a moment. We hope to move the chairs and the platforms immediately. Do you want to say it? I'd like to thank Ms. Downey for her great contribution this evening. Do you want to say a final word, Mr. Whalen? Perhaps the most fabulous fashion show that was ever given in an atmosphere of 50 years ago, a building designed by the famous architect Stanford White, one that cannot be found in any part of the world. Every piece of marble in this room was carefully chosen by the architect, and most of it comes from Italy. It's a great privilege for the American Fashion Critics Award and the COLE organization which I represent to have had this opportunity to present to the American public the fashions of today that have been designed by American fashion designers. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. Whalen, for another very fine civic event, which was covered by WNYC, AM, FM, and TV, in which you had the three coverages in the facilities of your city station in bringing you the picture here today from the Metropolitan Club when the seventh annual fashion award was made here for the outstanding fashions of the year. Mayor O'Dwyer is very anxious that New York City lead in fashions. As he emphasized just a week or so back in the matter of millinery. In fact, all the arraignment and adornment of the Fair Lady is capable of being reproduced here in this great and wonderful city of New York, one of the greatest industrial centers anywhere in the world, and one of the greatest centers of industry and commerce. And the mayor of the city of New York is most happy to think that in this beautiful building here, the Metropolitan Club, the proper background was presented for these magnificent fashions paraded by the charming ladies and the models, and the manufacturers who make up so much of the business and employment of our great and wonder city. And so we take leave of you from the Metropolitan Club with thanks to the Metropolitan Club for their beautiful environment and their excellent entertainment and their real, genuine quality as hosts here this evening. Thank you from the Metropolitan Club. This is the municipal broadcasting system.
