The first speaker today is Mr. Benjamin Thomas. There have been a number of multiple-volumed lives of Lincoln, but it was 35 years ago that Lord Charnwood published his classic one-volume biography which has long been out of print. I'm sorry, I didn't mean out of print, but it has long been for us the standard biography of Lincoln. And since that book was written, however, Lincoln's scholarship has gone on steadily finding revealing new facts. Such authorities as Sandberg and Randall and Engel and Basler, Mearns, others, have examined critically every item in the life and legend of Lincoln. And only a few years ago, the chief source materials of all the Robert Todd Lincoln archives were opened. Now we have once more a one-volume life of Lincoln. Benjamin Thomas, its author, has made use of all this wealth of modern scholarship in a biography that expands, corrects, and revitalizes our conception of one of the greatest figures in our history. Mr. Thomas has spent most of his adult years reading, studying, pondering the life and the works and the surroundings and the times of Lincoln. A teacher of history, he was made executive secretary of the Abraham Lincoln Association in Springfield. His work was to answer queries, do research, prepare a quarterly bulletin of articles, reviews, and current new information Lincoln about Lincoln. He published a little volume on Lincoln's New Salem, the story of the village where Lincoln lived from 1831 to 37 and of his development there. He followed that with an account of Lincoln from 1847 to 53. This involved long hours of poring over old ledgers and grimy newspaper files, but it had its satisfactions. For though most signed Lincoln documents had been discovered long since, Mr. Thomas was able to find a number of new ones in Lincoln's handwriting, but without his signature. Five years ago, he published Portrait for Posterity, the story behind the Lincoln books. The arguments and feuds of Lincoln biographers, as shown by their correspondents, some bitter, some humorous, some keen, some gossipy. Finally, almost inevitably, has come this one volume biography on which he spent two years of writing and 20 years of reading. In reviewing the mountains of evidence, Mr. Thomas never exaggerates, never sentimentalizes. He set straight many legends that have come to be accepted as fact. He reinterprets convincingly many mistaken stories. He writes smoothly and handles his great mass of material clearly in a narrative that flows rapidly and as simply as possible. The Ann Rutledge story, the marriage to Mary Todd, and the life Lincoln lived with her for 33 years are told from new angles and acquire new meanings. The first nomination and the first election are exciting reading. Lincoln's attitude toward his generals, particularly McClellan and Grant, toward his political opponents and his cabinet, his great loneliness and deep sorrow seem human and moving. And out of it all arises the man John Hay described as strong, merciful, and wise. I've read many books about our great civil war president, as you all have done. But that fact in no way detracted from the effect this book had on me. I finished it in tears, as I think most people will, who love the character and the mind of Lincoln. It is with real pleasure that I am able to introduce to you its author, Benjamin Thomas. Thank you, Mrs. Van Doren, for that wonderful introduction. Although I had written several Lincoln books, I must confess that I never expected to have a book of mine on the bestseller list. And I had mixed emotions about it. It was exciting, and at the same time rather embarrassing, to find myself, week after week, creeping up on Tallulah before a nationwide audience. I don't believe there was any real danger in the situation, however, because the Bible stood between us a good part of the time. And there was also the power of positive thinking. When it was suggested to me that I should write a new one-volume life of Lincoln, I hesitated, because it impressed me as an awesome undertaking. It meant the compression into some 500 pages of the enormous amount of research that had been done upon Lincoln during the past 30 years, plus all the reminiscent and factual material that had appeared before that time. It meant becoming an interpreter of this greatest of Americans to the American people. And it meant trying to put a fresh glint on a story, the essentials of which were already known to most people. Although I sometimes think maybe not quite as well known as those of us who have worked close to Lincoln had thought. But after turning over the matter in my mind, I agreed to write the book. The problem of compression proved to be not insuperable. And the interpretation seemed to come as I worked along. In fact, as I put the story together, the facts took on new meaning for me, even though I had pondered over some of them for many years. And fortunately, freshness was provided by new Lincoln material, hitherto unused. That material was chiefly in the collected works of Abraham Lincoln, which will be published on Thursday. And of which I, as an editorial advisor, was enabled to get a preview before its publication. And then there was a great amount of new material in the Lincoln papers, the so-called Robert Todd Lincoln collection, which had been impounded in the Library of Congress and was only opened to students in 1947. Only Nicolet and Hay had been permitted to use that material until that time. It was an exciting experience to go through those letters and papers in the Robert Todd Lincoln collection. They say there's some 18,000 of them, although I didn't try to make it count. And I put in a whole summer examining them. A great deal of the time it was drudgery, because there was no topical index. I had to go through them page by page, not reading everything, of course, but at least reading the first paragraph of a letter to find out what it was about. It was an application for a job, which a great many of them were. I could go on to the next item. And always, of course, I was on the lookout for significant names. It reminded me of handing for gold. I had to process a lot of earth to find the nuggets. But the nuggets are there in abundance, chiefly in the incoming letters to Lincoln. Nicolet and Hay had published most of the important letters that Lincoln himself wrote, but very few of these incoming letters had ever been seen by anyone but Nicolet and Hay. There's nothing in that collection that sensationally changes the Lincoln story. And maybe that's the reason for the disappointment when the papers were opened. But out of this welder of material comes a sharpened picture of Lincoln. Pouring through it, I found new reasons for his actions. I could feel the pressures that were put upon him more than I ever could before. I learned things about his family and his friends. And it was understandable in reading some of these letters why Robert Lincoln, who was a very sensitive man, didn't want the public to see some of them too soon. Not that there was anything disparaging to Lincoln in any of them, but some of his friends and relatives didn't come off so well. What have I accomplished in this book? That, of course, is for the reader to say. I can only tell what I tried to do. First of all, I tried to present a living Lincoln rather than a statue. I think it's a mistake to try to make Lincoln out as a perfect man. None of us are perfect. It's the fact that we can overcome our imperfections, rise above them, that makes us great. Lincoln was human, just as we are human. And I think to maintain our kinship with him, we must keep him real, a flesh and blood man. One of the most gratifying comments on the book was made by Gerald Johnson. In the New Republic. He said, here at last was a Lincoln that he could believe in. In fact, a Lincoln that he found it impossible not to believe in. I thought that was a very fine compliment. Another thing that I tried to do was to show Lincoln's amazing growth. Because he was a man of amazing growth through self-effort. For instance, as a young lawyer, he tried to write poetry. And he liked to read poetry. One of his favorite poems was called Mortality. It was written by a Scotsman, William Knox. It isn't a very good poem, but it attracted Lincoln immensely. And one time he sent a copy of it to a lawyer friend of his in Quincy, Illinois. This lawyer wrote back and asked if Lincoln had written it himself. And Lincoln replied, no, he hadn't. But he would be willing to give all he had and go in debt for the ability to write such a poem. So here you see we have a young lawyer yearning and striving for the power to coax beauty from language. So it wasn't by mere chance or sudden inspiration that later, under deep emotion, he could utter imperishable words. The roots of the Gettysburg Address and the second inaugural were in the prairie soil of Illinois. Another thing I tried to do was to relate Lincoln to his own and to our own times. And there is a close relationship between them. Because democracy was under challenge in Lincoln's day, just as it is in ours. He probably understood the true meaning of democracy better than any of our leaders. And for that reason, I think his life holds lessons for us and for the world today. In fact, I sometimes think that Lincoln's vision was so far reaching that we are just now beginning to catch up with him. And I think maybe the reason for the continuing, even increasing interest in Lincoln is a realization that there's something about this man that is very close to the heartbeat of America. Something in his life story that Americans need to know. And they have kept groping for it. And I hope that I have helped them to find it. Many gratifying things have happened since the book came out. A man here in New York wrote and asked me to autograph a copy, which he proposed to send to Lord Charnwood, the present Lord Charnwood, son of the Lord Charnwood, whose Lincoln biography has been preeminent. Carl Kroc of Kroc's Bookstore in Chicago, wrote that one of his customers had bought a copy of the limited edition to send to the Pope for the Vatican Library. Adlai Stevenson told me after a trip to Washington that he saw a copy of the book on a table beside President Truman's bed. All those things, of course, are very gratifying to an author. One man wrote to me that he became so absorbed in the book that his wife complained that she'd become a Lincoln widow. And he added, she has it now and I'm a Lincoln widower. A graduate student wrote to me, a little while ago I finished your Abraham Lincoln. I am at present working wearily toward a Ph.D. And most of the reading I must do is rather like eating shredded wheat by the bathtub full and without benefit of milk. Your book has at once aroused afresh my enthusiasm for Lincoln, enlarged my understanding of his time and thus of ours, and heartened me to continue my labors in the craft. Thanks for writing it. Well, this acclaim has left me feeling a little bit like Noah Webster, the famous dictionary man who devoted his life to the precise use of words. One day his wife came into the kitchen and found him embracing the maid. She said, Mr. Webster, I'm surprised. Oh, no, Mrs. Webster, he corrected her. I'm surprised. You're amazed. I'm both surprised and amazed. Thank you. There is one tiny incident in Mr. Thomas's book of an occasion when Lincoln was ill with a mild form of smallpox. Will you tell them that, what he said? Well, of course, he'd been pestered to death by office seekers, and he said, now I have something I can give to everybody. Ironically, when they heard he had smallpox, they'd all left. It may seem a long step from Lincoln to the movies, but I think Lincoln probably would have enjoyed movies, don't you? He certainly would have enjoyed, with his robust sense of humor, the way Mr. Mayer has written about the movies. Arthur Mayer began his career in the motion picture business 33 years ago, I believe, when he went to see Sam Goldwyn about making art pictures and was so eloquent that he was mistakenly engaged by Goldwyn as a salesman. Salesman, advertising man, theater owner, publicity director, play importer, and distributor, at once or separately, he's been all these things ever since. He knows the motion picture industry, its behind-the-scene operations, its life and its people, from its peep show and Nickelodeon beginnings to today's great palaces and auditoriums. He can tell of Hollywood's love of exaggerated effects, of the time when, after Villa had been paid $25,000 to fight only in the daytime so that a real picture of a Mexican revolution could be made, the picture was refilmed on the lot in order to add more bloodshed. That's what's been quite a funny. And of a recent occasion when pictures carefully taken of the terrible and blinding atomic explosion at Las Vegas were considered too tame and Hollywood experts contrived what they thought a more thrilling effect. He tells the bizarre history of some of the great characters in the development of motion picture theaters, of Balaban and Katz, whom he joined in the 20s, and whose growth was fabulous. They had all sorts of ingenious ways of getting people into theaters. One of their innumerable devices was that they started the service of tagging baby carriages on the sidewalk before the theater so that mothers could go in to see the show. An attendant was on hand and if the baby began to cry during the performance, a slide would be flashed on the screen. Mother, number 47, your baby is crying. He tells of the wild competition for theaters, of the spreading circuits, big ones eating up little ones, and being in turn eaten up by bigger ones. Of the enormous sums spent to buy up strategically placed groups, 15 million was spent for one chain. He tells of the three extraordinary Scurrus brothers, of Nick Skank, Sam Goldwyn, and other amazing figures in a fast-growing, amazing industry. He's had a large experience of the egotisms and the vanities of the movie world. As a publicity director, complaints poured in on him, of course, from all directions and at all hours. Once, a movie actress called him at 3 a.m. to tell him that the letters spelling her name on the marquee were one-eighth of an inch smaller than her contract called for. She had climbed a ladder and measured them. He sighed once with relief when the play to be publicized was the taming of the shrew as he realized that Shakespeare would not complain that Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks got bigger billing than he did. He pays tribute to some of the people of the movie scene, to the genuine quality of Carol Lombard and the real wit of Bob Benchley, to the generous cooperation of Marlena Dietrich, though, as he says, when she insisted on wearing slacks despite the pained protests of her studio, the publicity staff had to get hold of fashion experts and popularize slacks for women to forestall the public shock. Finally, Mr. Mayer broke loose from old associates and bought the Rialto Theater, right over here, you know, where he made an enormous success by deliberately feeding the public largely male, mystery, murder, and mayhem, ghouls, gorillas with half-naked girls in their arms, violence of all sorts. At the same time and for 15 years, he courageously imported and distributed some of the most famous foreign films we have seen, such as Open City, Pesan, The Bicycle Thief, and Seven Days to Noon. Few of these pictures were a business success, and if, as one critic said, he sold gore on one corner and art on the other, he feels justified, for he was able to import the finest only because at the Rialto he consistently showed the worst. They were profitable. During the war, Mr. Mayer helped to organize and operate the War Activities Committee for the Motion Picture Industry and served as film consultant for the Secretary of War. He dropped films high up in the Apennines, showed it on decks of transport ships, carried it deep into the jungle, in theaters dug out of hillsides, in ice-encrusted nissen huts, in caves and bombed-out monasteries. And after the war, he was decorated and returned to Germany as chief of the Motion Picture Division of Military Government. You will find Mille Colossal, a fascinating account of a side of the movie industry about which we know little, written with wit, full of amusing and revealing anecdotes by a man who has lived it all, its lean days as well as its lush. Mr. Arthur Mayer. Thank you very much, Ms. Van Doren, fellow guests and ladies and gentlemen. When I was in the Pacific during the World War, an overzealous chaplain on one occasion introduced me in the amputees ward as the man who had arranged the Motion Picture Industries great gift of all of its current films to the armed services. And then something very terrible, very horrible, happened. Men who had lost their legs in the defense of their country clapped their hands and others who had lost their arms pounded the floor with their feet. Never and never in my long, brash career as a publicist and an exploiteer have I felt so deeply humiliated, so embarrassingly overestimated. And I have somewhat the same emotion today, sharing this platform with so distinguished a historian as Mr. Thomas and with a scientist like David Lilienthal to whom all Americans owe a debt of gratitude beyond my capacity for expression. I'm only a very simple showman masquerading up here as an author and as such I will confine myself today to talking briefly about some of our motion picture problems, hoping that you will not find them entirely undivorced from the world of books. As far back as 1934 I wrote a piece in Liberty which was entitled Good Pictures are Bad Box Office and it compared in very painful detail the receipts on such mature pictures as Barclays Square and Emperor Jones with the intake of such moronic abortions as the half-naked truth and they had to get married. Well, a few weeks later I ran into Mr. Cecil DeMille and he said to me Arthur, how can you write that way? How can you say that good pictures lose money? My pictures always make money. Well, quick as a flash at this embarrassing moment I have been credited with creating that repulsive pun but yours, Cecil, are the run of DeMille pictures. Actually, I didn't think of it until about a week later. There are many who claim that there's been a marked progress in recent years in the reception of adult films but I suspect they're just victims of their own wishful thinking. Humphrey Bogart's Treasure of the Sierra Madre was received so unkindly he had to go back to smacking alluring ladies in alluring places to regain his popularity and Dory Sherry when he became head of the Metro Studio made a gallant effort to raise that studio standard of production he made it among other pictures Intruder in the Dust which Bosley Crowther of the New York Times called one of the great cinema dramas of our times. It also proved one of the great cinematic flops of all times. Mr. Sherry had to go back to the mines popular mines such as King Solomon's mines. Stanley Kramer was a zealous young crusader in his army days after he left the army devoted himself to making exactly the type of picture which I always hear my friends saying they wish were made. He turned out an epic for adults called The Men. I wonder how many of you saw it. I know that very few men and very few women either wanted to see a courageous treatment like this of a group of paraplegic victims. And if you look at the reverse side of the picture coin you're going to find a similar situation. Universal Company three years ago was deep in the red but since then it's had its red corpuscles revived by a series called Ma and Pa Kettle about which I just can't speak knowingly as I've never been able to sit through one of them. But let me tell you this, the Ma and Pa's cost about $300,000 each to make and they seldom gross less for the company than $2.5 million. As a consequence of Universal's single-minded pursuit of the meretricious it's become the most profitable company in the industry. Last year it made $2.15 a share Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer which still has a sneaking weakness for the beautiful and the uplifting only made $0.92 a share. Paramount pursues a sort of a devious flaytation with both policies and redeemed the heavy loss it suffered with Willie Wyler's exquisite The Heiress when it produced Cecil DeMille's Samson and Delilah starring Victor Mature the average picture plays to about 13 million people Samson and Delilah has already played to over 40 million and at times it seems to me as if what our industry needs is not so much mature pictures but more Victor Matures not to mention Cecil DeMille's that at least was my experience for many years at the Rialto Theatre on Broadway the major producing companies theatres had a stranglehold on exhibition in the larger cities until recently and they would give me no product except the Bared Beers so I specialized in those three M's that Mrs. Van Doren has mentioned the three M's are murder mayhem and mystery I played these formula products so consistently so profitably with slogans like gorifying the American ghoul or even a better one you might like better not such a good picture but only one I eventually became known to the post office officials letters reached me marked Merchant of Menace New York I think it was the Tribune that described my policy as no hits no runs just terrors but my conscience you know even an exhibitor has a conscience began to hit me so I started to import these unusual foreign films in a short time I was using all the money I made on Bared films to finance all the losses I was suffering on good ones actually in the many years it must be now about 20 years in which I've been importing foreign films incidentally the longest period anyone has ever survived the hazards of supplying mature films to immature American audiences our only success were with pictures whose artistic and whose ideological merits were aided and abetted at the box office by a very frank straightforward sex approach for instance take Open City which I assume many of you have seen the great Russelini picture it opened up very poorly here didn't do much business until it was advertised by the exhibitors with a misquotation from life carefully adjusted so as to read as if life had said sexier than Hollywood ever dared to be and take the great picture Pison it was advertised with a picture showing a young lady disrobing herself with a very attentive male reclining by her side on what was all too obviously not a nuptial couch now these were superb pictures better pictures have never been made but they weren't successful until they were merchandised in a low and a degrading fashion and for this I don't blame the exhibitors of this country at all as is the prevalent fad among the so-called better people I blame the so-called better people themselves let me assure you that every progressive producer every big company will annually make one or two prestige pictures of what they regard as prestige pictures but they will not they just can't afford to make more unless they are extended more substantial support not at your dinner tables but at the box office most movies this may be news to you most movies are not sold to an exhibitor at a flat price they are rented to the theaters on the basis of a percentage of their receipts the daily income reported by these theaters to the companies ranging all the way from a catastrophe like the red badge of courage to a colossal 14 million dollar bonanza like the greatest show on earth these figures afford a delicately adjusted constant barometer of what American audiences want and what they reject of course errors in merchandising may distort that barometer but all reports that you may have heard to the contrary I doubt if any other industry is in closer or more immediate touch than the movie makers with the shifting tastes and preferences of their public if the American people really want better pictures than they are receiving they can get them they can get them promptly they can get them in large quantities in the fashion that every industry if it's peanuts or pictures or publishing every industry recognizes all it has to do is to make them profitable and they'll get them but to get good pictures we cannot continue to function in our present atmosphere of fear and panic when I was in India we were constructing the Burma Road the height of the war and our main danger at that time was not from marauding Japs or wild beasts it was from the malarial mosquitoes and to instruct the natives in a few elementary precautions I made some film slides naturally these film slides had to greatly magnify the size of the mosquito so as to illustrate clearly how the deadly parasite was transmitted at the face showing the audience to my dismay faced into peals and peals of laughter so I asked the little Chinese boy sitting next to me what was so funny and he said in America maybe you have such big mosquitoes and they can be very very dangerous but here here on the Burma Road we only have the little bits of ones and they can only give you a tiny itch now to be serious with you in my last few minutes I believe that we are also grossly overestimating this so called communist threat in Hollywood don't misunderstand me I pray I'm not suggesting to you for one moment that the communists be given a free hand to insert their poisonous propaganda into American films we would be just insane to permit them to utilize a medium which speaks every week to some 60 million people and realizing the importance of that medium the Politburo made a huge effort to infiltrate into our picture business but although for my sins I have to see practically every picture released I have never I assure you I have never detected in any of them the faintest trace of any communist slime that is unless we have drifted so far from the American tradition of poking fun at stuffed shaped politicians or mortgage closing bankers that we regard such time hallowed irreverence as part of some subtle plot to undermine our institutions we must not confuse criticism with disloyalty or satire with subversion those who do so are with rare exceptions animated by no vicious or unworthy motives they are patriotic Americans so deeply shocked by the threat of totalitarianism that they are prepared to descend to totalitarian methods to defeat it they have forgotten the wonderful thing that Gandhi once said the means must be good or the end will be meaningless a genius like Charlie Chaplin can't show his pictures in a large portion of the United States of the present time although Chaplin whatever is false I think there are very many he is eccentric and highly egotistical but with all of these faults I assure you and I know he is no communist and his current picture you haven't seen it I tell you you've got to see it because it carries a heartwarming message of faith and love of all mankind and the films of fine democratic artists today like Jose Ferrer and Stanley Kramer and Dory Sherry are being picketed they denounced as communists no basis whatsoever except that they've expressed comparatively mild liberal opinions or take a distinguished script writer such as Carl Foreman author of High Noon probably the best picture of the year a fine democratic picture Foreman has been silenced and driven abroad because at one time very very long before the infamy of communism was apparent he suffered from the delusion that it might offer some relief to the needy and the downtrodden but I tell you that it is exactly those who in their youth question economic and political institutions who idealistically seek to build a more equitable society those are the men who in their maturity are the most apt to examine reappraise orthodox picture making procedures who seek to advance and readjust them to meet our new needs our new standards our new issues in any creative industry that permits pressure groups however well intentioned to drive such experimental and questioning minds from its ranks is imperiling its future health its future usefulness now many of you are interested primarily in books rather than in movies you may regard yourself as unconcerned with these pressures but as lovers of literature you are whether you realize it or not deeply involved in any artificial restrictions on the freedom of thought or expression of artists in any field the springs from which good books flow can't remain undefiled if those from which movies good or bad emanate are damned or deflected if a rising spirit of suspicion and distrust is throttling men's speech and their scripts if gossip rather than evidence can blight a promising career if orthodoxy rather than an open and searching mind is the open sesame to success then the entire fabric of our cultural and our social life is endangered you're not going to have my good pictures or your good books or Mr. Lillianthor's great science or Mr. Thomas's great history you're not going to have a good government or a good world in which to rear your children and in the fullness of time for them to be queer to their children the powers of intolerance of misunderstanding threaten to crucify every art and every media of communication unless we all all of us join hands and unite in our common defense newspapers radio television theater movies books not only all of us who work in these media but all of you who cannot lead a rich life without them as long as we are as industries as crafts as individuals interested only in our own security we shall all remain insecure singly we are vulnerable but collectively we're a mighty bulwark of that faith and confidence and the decency and the dignity of our fellow men upon which our western culture is dread let's return to that good old fashioned Americanism of our youth where no man was guilty until he was proved guilty let's say to the witch hunters we value freedom of thought and of speech too highly not to speak for the freedom and thought of all even those with whom we differ we cherish our traditions too deeply to abandon them in the battle for their preservation applauded of the nation thank you Thank you, Arthur May. Mr. Lillianthal's choice of subject, Big Business, A New Era, could hardly have been made with any reference to the recent election and its aftermath. He must have written it before November 4th, and he couldn't have known that General Eisenhower would be elected or that, as president, he would people his cabinet largely with big businessmen and form an administration that is already being called a business administration. But certainly, the coincidence of the publication of his book, little less than a month after President Eisenhower and his business cabinet were installed in office, is a happy one. The circumstances and the timing add importance to his thesis. For this thesis is a plea for a reconsideration of the American attitude of suspicion and distrust of big business. Mr. Lillianthal does not condone the ignoble past history of big business in the robber baron era, or many of its equally deplorable acts later. He thinks the Sherman Antitrust Act in its time was a brilliant piece of legislation. He believes that big business deserved the doghouse into which Franklin Roosevelt put it in 1933. But times have changed, and the conditions of our lives and our relation to the world have changed with them. Business itself has changed, and Mr. Lillianthal asks us to take a fresh, realistic look at the dangers and advantages of bigness. His own background he regards as fairly illustrative of the average citizen's experience. Like most men and women of his generation, he was brought up to suspect and distrust things that are big. His father was a small businessman in an Indiana town, and with other small business friends, was greatly distressed when a five and ten bought out an old individual family business and began a chain store invasion of the town. They all feared bigness. But by the time Mr. Lillianthal was 40, he was directing the biggest integrated power system of the world, the TVA. For over 13 years in the course of that job, he helped develop as a unit a region geographically larger than Great Britain that embraced parts of seven southern states. And in 1946, he was made head of the largest industrial monopoly of history, the Atomic Energy Commission of the United States. He has since added to his public big business experience three years of private business as chairman and chief executive officer of the Atapulgus Minerals and Chemicals Corporation and as consultant in various large business enterprises. So he can now look at the problem of business with an early awareness of the antagonism that most Americans have felt toward it since the trust-busting days of Theodore Roosevelt and with a later first-hand knowledge of its operation in our world today. He presents the case largely for big business. Though he admits that there are some dangers inherent in it which should be watched. His yardstick is the public interest. Is business good, bigness good, or bad for it? His conclusion is that big business can be made the means of promoting not only the nation's productivity, but also, and more important, the freedom and well-being of its individual citizens. A very comforting conclusion as we enter four years of business administration of the biggest business in the world, the United States. I take great pleasure in introducing to you the author of Big Business, A New Era, who has some fresh and thoughtful things to say that are of importance to us all. David Lillian. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Van Dorn, guests, and ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs. Van Dorn has suggested, and as you all know, the term, the very term, big business, has become over the years a term of a program, by which I mean a cuss word. The plea of this book, which is based on my own experience, principally a stint of some 20 years in the public service, is that we develop some perspective about this enormously important and peculiarly American institution of large-scale enterprise. It sounds very easy, at least it always did to me, to be urged to have perspective on something. I find that this is a very difficult thing, and I was taught how difficult it is by a wonderfully sweet old lady in the mountains of western North Carolina. A group of engineers, myself, had taken off an automobile to the site, or the proposed site, of a new dam in those mountains, and we knew we had to cross a river by an old-fashioned ferry. We had a late start, and we got very much absorbed in what we were doing. It became dark, and the first thing we knew, we had run plumb into the river, and we had an awful time. We were clear up to the hubcaps, and we cussed around, and engineers are singularly helpless in the face of a crisis like that. We finally got out, and I noticed a little house up on a hill where the ferry keeper and his wife lived, and I stormed up to the door and knocked very firmly like an indignant customer, and this old lady stuck her head out, and I said, you know, we just had a terrible experience. That's no way to do things. We were coming along this road looking for the ferry, and we ran right into the river. Now, why don't you put up a sign that says you're approaching the ferry so a fellow can see? She smiled at me. She said, God Almighty, mister, if you couldn't see the river, you couldn't see the signs. So I don't delude myself into thinking that when I enjoin upon you as I try to enjoin upon myself the necessity for perspective about this terribly important social and economic institution of our later years, large-scale enterprise, that it's an easy thing. This book arose out of a series of personal experiences over many years, and let me refer to one or two of them to illustrate what I have in mind. When the Atomic Energy Commission, the Civilian Atomic Energy Commission, came into office in October or early November of 1947, this country was largely disarmed in every way but one, so we assume. The high military, the Atomic Energy Commission itself, and the public generally assumed that this country had an ace in the hole in the form of a stockpile of workable atomic weapons. My colleagues and I went out into the West, into the secret storage areas, to take account of this comforting stockpile of weapons and found that no such stockpile existed. This was the greatest shock, of course, that we had ever received, and we set about it once to do something about this. We concluded, after a good deal of work, that what was needed was not the handicraft manufacturer of these important weapons, important to the defense of the free world, but to put them on a mass production basis so that it wouldn't, and to re-engineer them so it wouldn't take a PhD in physics, but only a sergeant to operate them. We found this required a unique combination of talents, a team. Part of that team had to be as able in scientific fields as any university department of physics or mathematics. Part of the team had to be adept in the manufacture of these complex instruments and understand the scientific problems involved and the rest, and the third part of the team had to be experienced in industrial operations. There was such an organization in existence, the AT&T, the Bell System. One arm of that system is the Bell Laboratories. Another, the Western Electric Company, which is its manufacturing department, and the third, the AT&T itself, an operating organization. I went to the president, the then president of the Bell System, Mr. Leroy Wilson, and told him what the president and the Atomic Energy Commission wanted the Bell System to undertake and why that this team, this large organization, represented a unique combination of the qualities needed for the defense of this country. He said they would accept this very onerous responsibility, and they did, and a great deal of the progress that has been affected in the years intervening have been due to the genius of this great organization. But he went on to say, I think I ought to say to you, but apparently you don't know, that six months ago, the same government that you are representing here on this Memorial Day filed a suit against the Bell System to break it up, that it was too big, and more particularly, that the Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of this system, should be separated from the rest of the system, that what we had was a team that was against the public interest. That suit is still pending. A great deal of the energies of the Bell System are still being devoted to preparing for defense of that suit. This illustrates, in one case, this curious division in our minds between a need for size in these days, and for great size often, and yet a suspicion and fear of it, and even to the point where our government frequently, with the best intentions in the world, I have no doubt, seeks to break up the very thing we need the most. And so it has been with experiences I've had in respect to small business. As I try to say in this book, by cases and what I think most people's observation would indicate, the greatest opportunity for small business in the history of the country has been as a result of the operation of big business. And this, again, is a curious contradiction which troubled me for years. And so it is with the problem of conserving natural resources. We found in the Tennessee Valley that in order that small farmers should have a better chance to save the soil for which they were trustees from their maker, it was necessary to have large laboratories and large chemical plants in order to provide those materials without which the small man cannot fight the ravages of nature. I have found in traveling all over the world in recent years since I've been out of the government that in such a country as India, for example, or other so-called backward and underdeveloped countries, the thing that marks their systems of distribution and production and credit are smallness. That the mark of an underdeveloped and backward country is not large-scale enterprise, but smallness. This all runs contrary to much of the feeling and the emotion of the American people over the last 35 or 40 years for reasons which were clear historically, but which for the most part no longer exist in fact. And so, this book urges all of us to take the same kind of new look, new, fresh, relaxed look at these things that I've tried to take over the last 15 years. To take a look at the facts of today as to what bigness has done, not simply for productivity, but for freedom. There's nothing so important as that. Not only the facts about efficiency, but something far more important, what bigness has done to further the freedom of choice by individuals. What it has done for individualism itself. What it has done for the security of this nation and of those peoples in the world who look to this country as their last best hope of freedom. My own conclusions are optimistic and sanguine. But I don't kid myself at all. In the first place, I am not a worshiper of bigness as such, and I don't think most Americans are. And I hope we never shall do. I know that there are business leaders who will fail to come up to the great responsibilities they carry. I know that there are still abuses and dangers. And I know this book, or any number of books, won't end the kind of emotionalism about this highly controversial subject. We're going to hear plenty about big business in the coming months and years. But we must, I hope, and we shall, distinguish between big business and large-scale enterprise as an economic and social institution upon which we depend, and upon the separate question of whether men who have made a success in business, especially in large business, make good governors. Now, the fact of the business is, I think, from my own experience, men with that kind of business background, some of them make and will make in the coming months and years, superb public service. And some of them will be the world's most colossal flops. That there is nothing peculiar to business experience or to non-business experience so far as qualifying men for this important kind of undertaking we call a public service. But the two issues of big business as an economic institution and the qualifications of men from that background to govern are interrelated. Because to understand and fairly to judge a businessman's administration, which is what we shall have and shall have, we must understand the soil, the background of modern business. We hear it said that business now is on trial. Every institution that has great responsibility is on trial every day in this country. And I am sure if anyone thinks that an election decides anything more than a day at a time, they're going to be sorely mistaken. Every institution, business along with it, is on trial before you and myself, all of us, as the jury. What I hope is that we will, this trial will be conducted on the basis of the works that men do. That it will not be a smearing bee of big business, nor will it, on the other hand, be a soap-selling campaign of advertising slogans. We're in the presence of what I believe to be one of the great geographers of Lincoln. And two days from now, the day after tomorrow, is Lincoln's birthday. The other day, I ran across in one of the messages of Lincoln familiar words that seem to me pertain to our feeling about big business and largeness in a country that has always felt emotionally tied to smallness and suspicious of bigness. Lincoln said, the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves. And so we must disenthrall ourselves of our old prejudgments and our old fears of bigness and look at this distinctively American institution as it is today, not as it was 50 or 40 years ago and as it could be tomorrow. This, then, is the burden of what I'm trying to say in this book. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.