Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Colonel John Haskell, Chairman of the New York Chapter Disaster Relief Committee of the American Red Cross. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. I'm happy to welcome you to this program, Colonel Haskell. I don't believe there's a person who doesn't know the slogan of your organization, When Disaster Strikes, Red Cross is always there. I think that's fine. And so it becomes important to let the residents of this area know that Red Cross has also worked with civil defense officials in planning its preparation for disaster. At this point, I would like to say that I am a member of the Red Cross Disaster Committee, but let me ask you, Colonel Haskell, to begin at the beginning and tell us just how long this planning has been in progress. Oh, since about a year ago, Commissioner, you remember. You recall at that time the Red Cross, being charged by its responsibility for assisting in disaster relief by Congress, decided to anticipate the civil defense emphasis. And for that reason, we were in a fairly good position to begin coordinated planning when you were appointed director. This responsibility for disaster has been shared by the national organization for almost half a century. And civil defense was a new angle. Then, of course, the Office of Civil Defense indicated that it would request Red Cross to perform certain tasks in connection with the city's overall plan. So the Central Disaster Committee was formed. This committee, a group of men like yourself, specialists in various associated fields, is charged with determining how Red Cross can best assist civil defense in preparedness for war-caused and peacetime disaster. And the committee was formed in order to assure that the role of the Red Cross in disaster be effectively performed to the limit of its resources and capability. Is that right, Colonel? That is true. I'm chairman of the New York Chapter Committee, but our committee really represents all five Red Cross chapters in the greater New York area. Of course, Brooklyn, Central Queens, North Shore, and the Staten Island chapters have appointed to the committee members who also represent those chapters on matters pertaining to disaster preparedness and relief that require coordination so that we can have the proper concentration and uniformity of effort. And now, Colonel Haskell, suppose we list the major responsibilities that OCD has laid on the Red Cross. Very well, Commissioner. First, let me say that we realize that civil defense is a responsibility of government. And that in all of its civil defense functions, the Red Cross works under the direction of the Office of Civil Defense and its authorized divisions. Your office has requested that we instruct all civil defense personnel in Red Cross aid. And this includes air and fire wardens, of course. That's a big job. We are to help recruit and train nurses' aides for service in hospitals. And we will provide special training for volunteers that will help man the casualty aid stations and rest centers. And don't forget, Colonel, the Red Cross home nursing instruction given to the public free of charge. No. The five Red Cross chapters in New York have set up more than 300 classes in home nursing since last September. And we're starting additional classes right now. Dr. Koval, New York director of Civil Defense Medical Emergency Division, has said that one in every New York family should have Red Cross home nursing training. There's a fact that an individual in an area affected by disaster can be of greatest assistance by being able to take care of himself. And he can assist others about him only when he is reasonably self-sufficient. We in Civil Defense feel that the public should make maximum use of all facilities and information available for their training and education in disaster preparedness and safety. Certainly the disaster we are fearing, if it happens, will create an immediate shortage of doctors and nurses and Red Cross home nursing techniques will go a long way toward making an individual reasonably self-sufficient in that case. Along the nursing line, we know that Commissioner Kogel has organized the enrollment of all available trained nurses for emergency service. The National Red Cross Registry of Nurses available for disaster duty from all over the country is a resource which may be tapped for additional help. Again, the Emergency Welfare Division of OCD is responsible for the registration of disaster sufferers, and the Red Cross is preparing to assist with the handling of welfare inquiries in cooperation with the Central Registration Bureau. We are to staff and operate emergency rest centers where aged, infirm, and children may be fed, clothed, and sheltered while awaiting transportation to more permanent housing. I see. Well, Red Cross will also assign trained personnel to assist in the operation of the welfare, feeding, and shelter installations that are administered for the Office of Civil Offense by the Emergency Welfare Division. Isn't that true, Colonel? Yes, Commissioner, that's true. These workers will include professional staff and Red Cross trained volunteers, staff aides, canteen workers, motor drivers, nurses aides, and social welfare aides. And again, probably one of the most important responsibilities is to furnish blood and blood derivatives and other medical supplies. A very vital part of our program, every medical authority in the nation has warned that in the event of an atomic attack upon us, a vast supply of blood and plasma, as much as was used in the whole year in World War II, will be the only hope of the thousands of victims of atomic burns. That's really something, isn't it, Colonel? It certainly is. And that's one reason why three years ago, Red Cross inaugurated its national blood program, calling for a nationwide system of regional blood banks. It was realized even then that in the event of war, the United States could not hope to mobilize its armed might in less than two years, nor to build up a blood program such as that which saved so many thousands of lives during World War II. Mr. Commissioner, I have a very keen personal interest in the blood program, but as you know, it was whole blood and plasma that saved my own life when I was wounded in Germany in 1945. Well, that's interesting, Colonel. I'm sure you have a fine appreciation of what this whole blood can do and the blood plasma as well. That is more apparent to us today than we like to believe. Certainly in this era of atomic bombs and guided missiles, long-range planes and submarines capable of delivering attack far from home bases, we may be thankful that Red Cross had the wisdom and the vision to inaugurate such a program. I personally think it's a fine thing, Colonel, and I hope you go a long ways with it. Well, they're working hard, not only in New York but in the other chapters. Together, the five chapters have built a strong blood program which is now serving more than 750 business, fraternal, union, church and other groups, representing about two million people. The program is now making available more than 7,000 pints of blood for our own ill and injured each month. You'll recall, Commissioner, that last July the Secretary of Defense called upon Red Cross to collect whole blood and blood derivatives for the armed forces. I might add at this point that we were able to meet every request for whole blood to be thrown from LaGuardia Field to Korea. In fact, every request was exceeded leaving a generous surplus to be turned into plasma for reserve use. That's interesting. Yes, and of course, this was followed in August by the further request of the National Resources Board that Red Cross collect vast quantities of blood for stockpiling for civil defense. What is the status of collections for civil defense at this time, Colonel? All surplus blood is already being sent to laboratories for processing and stockpiling. But we expect shortly that the National Resources Board will set a national quota of which New York will be asked to provide its share. It's anticipated this quota will make it necessary for us to double or possibly triple our present monthly collections. Well, Colonel Haskell, your organization is really shouldering grave responsibilities. Tell us some more, will you? Indeed it is. We're very conscious of them. However, it should be pointed out that Red Cross does not assume responsibility for civil defense. That's your responsibility. But we will assist in the discharge of these duties when called upon to do so by you and your designated proper authorities. I feel I can honestly state that Red Cross and Greater New York is undertaking in every possible way to assist the city's civil defense. Well, that's good to know. And are you doing a good job? One to be proud of? Well, I'm sure you are. Thank you very much, Commissioner. I'd like to add that while we in New York are doing our best to cooperate with you in every possible way, we're also prepared to bring to bear the entire resources of the Red Cross, national as well as local, to assist your office in carrying out its duties. Well, Colonel Haskell, whenever the natural disaster strikes, such as floods or tornadoes, one hears a great deal about Red Cross, furnishing food and clothing to the victims. You are finding that your plans in the event of war-caused disaster are running along somewhat the same lines, aren't you? To a certain extent, that's true. Any calamity that devastates the personal resources of a part of our population calls for remedies that are similar in scope, although sometimes dissimilar in application. But here in New York, we've already set up several subcommittees, which include clothing, food and canteen, registration information, shelter, transportation, medical, nursing, communications. You recall that organization? Yes, I do. For war-caused disaster, these traditional Red Cross functions are supplementary to the equivalent divisions of the OCD. Well, Colonel Haskell, I wish you'd explain to our listeners the workings of two or three of these committees. I think they'd like to hear about it. Be glad to. Let's review the food and canteen subcommittee first, which is planning to assist in the procurement, preparation, and serving of food for sufferers in disasters. And in accordance with standard Red Cross practice, existing business facilities such as restaurants, food distributors, et cetera, will be utilized. This subcommittee will also assist and coordinate the activities of the Red Cross canteen service in order to help meet any special requirements for emergency feeding of police, firemen and other rescue workers. Isn't that so, Colonel? Yes, Mr. Commissioner, it is. The subcommittee is also developing plans for mutual assistance with the food committees of the other New York City and the nearby chapters in New York State, New Jersey, and Connecticut. It will maintain close liaison through our disaster committee with city and state authorities and other agencies concerned with the supply and distribution of food. Well, there really is a lot more to it than just coffee and donuts. Isn't that true? Yes, and I think people are beginning to realize that there is now. No doubt about it. How about the Medical and Nursing subcommittee? How about explaining that one, Colonel? Well, this subcommittee is preparing a plan to assist the Office of Civil Defense, Medical Emergency Division, with Red Cross medical resources and material, blood, blood derivatives, biologicals, medicines, emergency ambulances, personnel, nurses, nurses' aides, first aid personnel, hospital and clerical aides, and it will be made available promptly and effectively. It is engaged right now in developing plans for mutual assistance with the medical and nursing aid committees of other New York City and nearby chapters in New York State, Jersey, and Connecticut, and maintaining at the same time liaison with the city, state, and hospital health authorities, medical societies, and all the other agencies which are concerned with the medical aspects of disaster. Another thing I wanted to ask you, Colonel Haskell, I happen to know that whenever there is a major disaster anywhere in America, like the Texas City explosion, for instance, your chapter house in New York is almost overwhelmed with telephone and telegraph messages from folks in this territory asking Red Cross to find out about the safety of family members or friends in the stricken area. Can you tell us about that? Well, it's certainly true. Earlier I mentioned that Red Cross would assist the Central Registration Bureau of the Office of Civil Defense in handling welfare increase. You've anticipated that by having that registration bureau. Now, in peacetime disasters, this is a basic Red Cross function in most places throughout the country because Red Cross has this nationwide intercommunication system. Also, there are Red Cross staff personnel attached to our troops all over the world, and that would be the channels backwards from which men in our armed forces would make increase of how their families were doing in disaster-struck areas. I think that's very important. I should say so. In fact, we know from past experience that were in New York to have an atomic disaster, the number of calls, increase, that Red Cross all over the nation would receive would be in the hundreds of thousands from people all over America and outside wanting to know about the welfare of their relatives and loved ones. We would look to the Office of Civil Defense Registration Bureau as the principal source for answering such increase. Well, communications is a very real part of Red Cross responsibility. It's been very fun of you to come here, Colonel, and we certainly appreciate your presence and hearing from you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner. You've been listening to another broadcast in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City civil defense. Also presenting his report this evening was Colonel John Haskell, Chairman of the New York Chapter Disaster Relief Committee of the American Red Cross. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.