This evening we are going to present to you our fifth, our fourth subject of the series, and that is tuberculosis. This is, as most of you will realize, a disease that has been a plague of the human race as far as history runs. Fortunately, in more modern times, this disease has lessened in severity. In New York City, the death rate from tuberculosis, the average death rate between 1930 and 1939, was about 62. In 1948, it was under 39. Now you see that in itself is a tremendous betterment. There is, however, one consideration concerning tuberculosis at the present time that is not so favorable. And that is, in New York City and apparently in other places, this disease is showing an increase in the number of new cases. So that while we are having a reduction in the death rate, the number of new cases has been gradually rising. Now this holds also of the two districts which we are particularly interested in, that is Mott Haven and Morrissey. In 1947, New York City as a whole had a death rate from tuberculosis of all forms, about 40. For the Bronx, it was 30. Now for Mott Haven, it was 36. And for Morrissey, it was 42. And I may say to you that in Mott Haven and Morrissey, these rates do not pertain equally in all parts of the two districts. There are certain parts of Mott Haven and Morrissey, which are actually sore spots in the two districts. For instance, south of 149th Street has a good deal of tuberculosis. The central portion of Morrissey also has a good deal of tuberculosis. So that we have with us constantly this problem of tuberculosis, which not only attacks persons at all ages, it particularly attacks their certain age groups. Now this evening, we're going to present this problem in three different ways. And the first speaker is Ms. Gratis Adams, who is the Executive Secretary of the Bronx Tuberculosis and Health Committee. Ms. Adams has had a very long and wide experience in community work in tuberculosis. And it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present Ms. Adams. Thank you very much, Dr. Meyer. And Dr. Meyer says I've had a long experience. I have. And perhaps the present part of that experience has been my association, one of the present parts has been my association with Dr. Meyer. He's asked me to talk on occurrence of tuberculosis in these two areas. And I begged him to tell you himself much more about it than I can give you. Because my interest lies mostly in the whole of the Bronx. Whereas Dr. Meyer has taken great trouble, worked very hard to find out just where the sore spots that he speaks of are. And the question is, how are we going further to reduce tuberculosis, which has, as you told you, been reduced so marvelously, and continue in doing so, unless we look at these so-called black spots on the map where you have tuberculosis. And where perhaps someday we will find some particular reason why it remains in those particular spots. Dr. Meyer pointed out the various areas in the, uh, uh, which have remained, uh, almost static. That is the improvement that you see in other areas in New York does not seem to take place in health areas number 47, 40, and 37 in, uh, Mott Haven. Um, 47 is the lower end of the Bronx. And for years, all the years I've been here, we have looked at 47 and said, why do we have more tuberculosis there? Why do we have more infant mortality there? What are the conditions that exist in that area that seem to maintain that bad situation down there? Now, uh, area, I've had to look these up because I wasn't too conscious of them. Area 47 is from the Harlem River up to, uh, 141st Street, West Alexander and East St. Anne's Avenue. 40 is, um, 161st Street to 149, West Chester and St. Anne's on the East, and West 3rd Avenue. Those of you who know the areas perhaps can answer it. Health Area 37 is North Kelly Street and 163rd and South Longwood Avenue, East Whitlock and Tiffany and West West Chester. Now, I'm not going into these, um, geographical areas too definitely because they won't mean too much to you. It remains for us to know, however, that in these two areas, two health centers, Morrisania and Montt Haven, Dr. Myers feels that there is very distinctly a problem in the fact that we are not showing any reduction in, uh, those particular areas in the death rates. And, unfortunately, that those same areas are showing what has been found to be true all over the United States within the last few years. And that is an increasing number of people who are, who are tuberculosis. That is, comparing, comparing year by year, for the last two years, we have had a rise in new cases of tuberculosis. Now, all of us have said, why should that be? Big. If that's true here, and if it's true in New York City, is it equally true all over the United States? Two years ago, um, a study was made by our own statistician in the New York office, Mr. Grohe, who got from the health officers all over the country the rates of mortality and the rates of incidence. Now, when we speak of a rate in relation to tuberculosis, we say, so many cases per 100,000 population. Um, Dr. Myers spoke of the general incidence, foreign so dramatically. When you stop and think that, um, a little less than four years ago, the Bronx had a rate of 200, 100,000 population. That has now dropped to 34. You can see what great strides have been made. And you may say to yourself, why? Well, first we found out that tuberculosis was a germ. That it was infectious. People gave it one to another. But the best thing that could happen to a gnome tuberculosis case was to get it in a hospital, away from his family, away from the possibility of infecting others. Then we had the development of the x-rays, which isn't nearly as old as one might think. Twenty years ago, these centers didn't have x-rays. The patients came in and had a clinical examination. They did not have an x-ray. That's true, that's where. Now all centers have x-rays. A great many doctors have put x-rays in their offices. Uh, today we are thinking in terms of the general hospital. Should every general hospital have an x-ray? And one of the interesting things that has been done in the last few years is a demonstration of what an x-ray in a general hospital will find. We find that three or four times more patients with tuberculosis are found in admitting those patients to wards in the general hospitals than you will find in the usual community survey. So, the result of that is that all the superintendents of all the general hospitals in New York now want an admitting x-ray service. What that means is much more than appears on the surface. First, your patient is found before he goes into the ward. Then, if he is a tuberculosis case, he is put into tuberculosis service. He is not put into the general wards. He is not in danger of infecting others. The doctors and nurses and those in the wards who take care of him recognize that he is an infectious case and take the desirable precaution. The nurses and the interns and the residents and the staff in that hospital are much more aware of tuberculosis as it's popular. Uh, all those are really great advantages in finding those cases before they get into the general wards. Now, these are steps, that are the later steps that we are taking in the finding of tuberculosis, in the effort finding. Let us look at the United States as a whole. When this study that I spoke of was made as to the mortality rates and the death rates, and the new cases of tuberculosis, which we call, um, morbidity rates, we found the mortality rates for the last eight years had gone down, according to these health officers, 20%. That sounded very wonderful. But when we looked at the number of new cases registered by these health officers all over the United States, we found an increase of 33%. So our gains were more or less lost in that rising tide of new cases. Now why are we having so many new cases? Nobody knows the answer. That is going to take careful research and study to find out. But there are certain things that appear to us as perhaps indicative of reasons that might be true. You know during the war we had, during the war and during the depression, we had practically no new hospital beds in New York City. Yet in that time our population increased a million. We are now an eight million population according to, uh, estimates. Our census will be taken next year. And in every million population you have a large amount of citizens. So we are short of hospital beds. Very distinctly so. And very short of tuberculosis beds, because some have had to be reduced because of the old buildings in condition they were in. Another situation that we've had is overcrowding in homes. Most of us know that during the depression and during the war, no new buildings were going up. And you all know, I'm sure, from the newspaper reading how short housing has been. And you know families have doubled up. They haven't had space no longer. That we fear is perhaps one of the reasons. There is another condition. That is during the war, any patient who was able to, or any person who was able to, took a job. We're quite convinced a number of people shouldn't have been working during that time, and probably are suffering as a result. These are all, what shall I call, logical reasons. We have no proof that those are the things that are the cause. But people who are concerned with tuberculosis and its increase consider that undoubtedly those have some contributory causes to the general situation. Now, according to the Commissioner of Hospitals, we are going to have additional hospital beds. You probably read, and I hope voted, for the Amendment 7 on the last election, which, by which the City of New York can increase its bed capacity up to a hundred million, up to the cost, that is limited by 150 million. That sounds like an awful lot of money. But hospital beds today are expensive. We used to think we could get a hospital bed for $10,000. Now it's $20,000 or $25,000. And a hospital bed doesn't mean the bed, but it means the building that has the bed, all the facilities that go with it. So that if you take a 500-bed hospital, you say your approximate cost is 500 times $25,000. So you see that it's not going to go very far. Furthermore, we do know that there are a great many new facilities, it would be very helpful, which are not available at the present time, again, because it costs. And that, again, has to be taken care of. Reconstruction in some of the hospitals, new facilities, all of that will be taken out of that 150, which will go very short, very quickly. The Commissioner says, however, it will take about five years to really get going the number of beds they want for additional tuberculous patients. Perhaps by that time, we will have learned what the cause of this new incidence is, this rise in incidence, and again feel that we are making headway in the control of tuberculosis. Now, I think we might speak a little bit about, we've talked about reasons for the rise in tuberculosis, the fall in the decline in death rate. What we now want to talk a little bit about is the patient himself. I told Dr. Myers when he asked me to speak on this that I was much more interested in the individual patient. He is a person just as you and I. And the man who learns that he has tuberculosis suffers a shock that perhaps most of us don't really appreciate. He has a blur at the moment he is told about it. It's almost as though he was told he was going to die. That is the way many people feel. And they just don't know how to face it or what to say or what to do. Many of them have come to us at such a time and, um, say, I can't give up my job. My family won't have anything to live on. I can't go into a hospital. I don't know how long I'll be there. Well, I'm not sick. Without a cyst, I've got a reason in my chest. I don't feel bad at all. I don't see any reason why I should do this. There is a revolt, a very strong revolt against it. Um, you see them come in time after time at that period. I can't do it. Who's going to take care of my family? How are they going to live? They have no savings. What about my children? What are we going to do? Now, those are the personal things. They have no savings. But as you talk to patients, you realize, are they great difficulties? How are you going to, what are you going to do for that patient? How are you going to ease his agony? Because that's what it is. Uh, if you, uh, you can tell the patient where your family will be supported by welfare. That's pretty bitter for many families who have never had to go to anyone for help. It's a very bitter thing, it's a very hard thing. Then there's a man who's a great fellow's wife, because he knows his wife may not be able to accept it. And if you knew patients, as I do in hospitals, who will love them to you, you know, pay you, if their wives or their husbands have left them. Because of what can I have to be serious? You see what a serious problem it is for you. Uh, the fear is great. Much greater than we all realize. It's a hidden fear. You've got to bring it out. You've got to say to this man, there's no reason why you think you're going to die. You have a chance, and the reason why you shouldn't have a chance. It depends on you. Your attitude. Your willingness to work with the doctor. Your willingness to do what he says. Your willingness to have hope and not fear it. Your willingness to do what he says. Those are the personal tragedies that come to you, and make you realize that a thousand controversialist cases sound like nothing. One man will sound like the zenith of the tragedy. And that is why any of us who are working in that field feel so strongly, that what we must regard is the individual, and the individual difference. There's a man who has a certain amount of providence. Oh no, he's alright, he's going to be alright. Underneath that, my theory is perhaps much greater than the man who chose it. The same as school for women. I've gone into the hospital and talked to young girls. They don't want any of their friends to know they have tuberculosis. They think there is a social stigma. Now tuberculosis is a germ, a disease. No one is responsible for getting it. It's just unfortunate that he is, that he has gotten it. And therefore, he has as much right to his own life, to what he can do if it has anyone, and should not suffer a social stigma in any way. And the person who fears that famine makes him feel just about an outcome. So this matter of educating the man himself, his family, what they must do to protect themselves during the time he waits for hospitalization. And I think the more of us who work, the longer we work with these people, the more we realize how very important the mental attitude of a patient suffering with tuberculosis is. It's a chronic disease, yes. It's a long disease, yes. It's a disease that is liable to relapse, yes. But we must give him hope. We must tell him that it is his own attitude, his own willingness to do what the doctor advises, that it's going to be of the greatest possible help to him. Thank you very much, Ms. Adams. One of the pleasant experiences with this panel is that we have associated with the Department of Health in this project. The Bronx County Medical Society. This society has sponsored and helped us in a previous panel of this type, and is doing so again in this one. It is a great pleasure to have the medical cooperation of this very well-known society. We have drawn in this panel again from the society. And the society is represented here tonight by Dr. Charles Kastenbaum, who is a visiting physician at Fordham Hospital. And Dr. Charles Kastenbaum will speak to us on the early symptoms and treatment of this disease. Dr. Charles Kastenbaum. I really think that some of the things I was going to say, some of the thunder was already stolen, first by Dr. Myers, and secondly by Ms. Adams. Dr. Charles Kastenbaum, as Dr. Myers told you, that pulmonary tuberculosis is an old disease. It's as old as history. And it's described in Greek literature. However, in spite of the fact that it's an old disease centuries old, it was only in 1882, just at the turn of the century, I mean just at the end, almost the end of the 19th century, that it was actually discovered that pulmonary tuberculosis was caused by a germ, the tubercle bacillus. And that, you know, was Robert Koch in 1882, who definitely proved that a germ caused the disease and that the germ could be recovered from the diseased patient and that the germ recovered from the diseased patient could reproduce the disease again in an animal. And that took up to 1882. Now, if we discuss the diagnosis and early treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis, we must understand that a great trend and a great change that has taken place since the old concepts of the disease. If you pick up some of the literature by eminent medical authorities in the year 1900 or so, or even later on, in the medical textbooks, they will describe to you the early diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis. And they'll start off by giving you what they called at that particular time, the early diagnosis of tuberculosis. And they describe what is called the hectic flush, fever, night sweats, and loss of weight. That is not the early diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. Those are the late symptoms of the disease after the disease is thoroughly active and has gone on for a long time. The early diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis sometimes is just purely accidental. That is, in mass surveys, just as it was done during the war in the induction center when a large group of youngsters seemingly in good health were x-rayed, and pulmonary tuberculosis were discovered without them knowing about it. Also, in industries, factories, large concerns and banks who take routine x-rays of the chest, a certain percentage of seemingly healthy people are very much amazed when a diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis is made just purely on an x-ray accidental diagnosis. Therefore, when we discuss what's called the early diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, its disease is so protein in nature, in other ways so bizarre in its nature, that there isn't one particular symptom that one can hang his hat on and say that's an early symptom of tuberculosis. Because today we know that the real recognition of early symptoms of tuberculosis is really the x-ray itself. And that explains, as Ms. Adams tried to point out to you, the difference between the mortality rate and the morbidity. The reason why we have a lower mortality rate and a higher morbidity, that is, a higher incidence in the number of tuberculosis, because more cases are detected earlier, long before the patient is actually sick today than it was 10 or 15 years ago. And, of course, the earlier the diagnosis, the better the outcome. That can be very easily demonstrated if one gets a panorama or a picture of the type of patients that used to go to sanatoria 15 or 20 years ago, and the type of patients that go to sanatoria today. If you make rounds in a tuberculosis hospital and patients are admitted for the first time with their first knowledge of the disease today, the type of patient that you see is altogether different than the type of patient that you saw 15 or 20 years ago. As Ms. Adams pointed out, in one of the institutions where I've been working, the x-ray is only comparatively, from a relative point of view, a recent innovation. And a large number of these institutions that treated tuberculosis, let's say 25 years ago or even a little earlier than that, were really what's called custodial hospitals. They were hospitals who put a patient who was hopelessly ill and just keeping them there for two reasons. Number one, to keep them away so they wouldn't spread the disease to others. And number two, just to give them medical treatment purely symptomatically until probably he improved and most times he didn't. Now, the tubercle bacillus, as I told you, was the germ, which was only discovered as the active positive agent, is found wherever civilized human beings congregate. Of course, the breakless individuals expectorate the sputum containing these bacilli in large numbers. Also, there are domestic animals affected with this disease. Investigations have shown conclusively that these organisms can enter the body through the respiratory tract, digestive tract, and through wounds into the bloodstream. Of course, as you know, there isn't only a type of tuberculosis that's called human tuberculosis. There's also a type of tuberculosis that's called bovine tuberculosis, and that's a tuberculosis in cattle. There is a tubercle bacillus called the bovine bacillus. Before the days of pasteurization, when milk was distributed and sold, unpasteurized in cans, the, the, well, that type of tuberculosis was more prevalent than today. But that type of tuberculosis sometimes, or most of the times, manifests itself in other ways. In other ways, these patients would get what is called tuberculosis glands. That's because they swallowed the sputum and then filtered through the lymphatics into the glands of the neck. And while it is true that bovine tuberculosis is more common in European countries because of the lack of pasteurization, and although it does occur in this country, it is not so common as a matter of fact, practically rare. As I said before, the treatment of tuberculosis, or the successful treatment of tuberculosis, basically depends upon early diagnosis. A case diagnosed early has a very excellent prognosis. Contrary to what you read in the magazines, and contrary to what you read in periodicals, streptomycin, which is a, a drug that's used in tuberculosis, is not necessary in the treatment of early tuberculosis unless there are certain specific complications present. Of course, I don't want to go into any technical detail from a medical point of view of which type of case needs streptomycin, and which type of case does not need streptomycin. But usually, in the early cases of uncomplicated tuberculosis, bed rest and, and, uh, segregation of the individual, uh, and follow-up is the course of treatment. As I said before, case finding in tuberculosis has been the basis of the anti-tuberculosis campaign for the past generation. This involves examining the contacts of known cases, which is our best source so far developed for case finding. These recent methods and survey systems have greatly increased the number of diagnosed minimal cases of tuberculosis, which under proper treatment can be treated with greater success. Preventive medicine is the remaining hope in attacking this disease. While it is true that a great deal of work has been done in the field of treatment, including all types of therapy from bed rest, and what is called chemotherapy, that is the, the new medicine that we use, and all the psychical procedures that are used in tuberculosis, the, uh, the, the percentage of advanced cases, nevertheless, coming to our attention for the first time, still does remain very unpleasantly high. Please remember that a cure in an advanced stage is, is somewhat problematic. It's a medical profession and the public. Definitely because of tuberculosis minded, many cases will be discovered before they can infect others, before the progress of the disease renders the individual non-responsive to all our accepted forms of treatment. In spite of the fact that puberary tuberculosis is a chronic disease, you can always be optimistic about tuberculosis, because it is the most curable of all chronic diseases. In other words, the man has chronic heart disease, or chronic arthritis, and, uh, and while it is true that pulmonary tuberculosis is a chronic disease, uh, as Adam told you that it's a, it's a, a question of overall picture for quite a while, still it's, the outlook is, is much more favorable. To sum up, I would venture to offer for consideration the following suggestion. Place a measure for the control of all known contacts and examination. Supervision of, of the tuberculosis patient as long as she is at large. A perfection of our system of notification and registration. Health authorities should be notified whenever possible regarding the whereabouts of tuberculosis patients. Then also, the regulation of hazardous occupations because of the dusty trade such as mining, stone cutting, pottery making, land grinding, rock drilling, seem to favor the development of the disease. And also, it is very vital to spread the knowledge about tuberculosis. This has done a great deal to lessen its tragic results and to awaken the public to a realization of what it means, not only to the individual, but to the state as well. Also, no infant should be allowed to remain in a home in which a tuberculous person resides. This is the point which is often overlooked. An infection in infants under two years of age is very likely to prove fatal. This, the child of course is, is born free of tuberculosis, even if the parents of tuberculosis at the time of conception of birth. After passing, at age of it, to see, uh, where the infection takes place. The cause of its tendency to, uh, as I said, to contact. Uh, in outlining any treatment to be followed, you can't just, uh, be specific. For the simple reason that the social and economic conditions of every individual patient must always be borne in mind. It makes a difference how you're going to advise, uh, a Negro who, uh, there are nine other children in the family, and they live in two rooms, and you tell them to stay at home and rest. And, uh, if you meet a, if you're in a family or, or, or, or is an illness in a family where, for instance, as you see very often, one only child, say, living in five rooms under, under good modern circumstances. I, I've always, uh, followed the plan that if the, uh, home conditions were acceptable and, and the patient could have bed rest, and a definite understanding of what the disease is all about, is, they very often do better at home. But not, under, under the, uh, the conditions of, of, of poverty. We have pursued a persistent and, and relentless site for a specific chemical remedy, which will destroy the tubercle bacillus, harbored within the body. Uh, we, uh, we have, well, we have found very definite drugs, as I told you before, such as the, uh, cell phone drugs, streptomycin, uh, paramilosalicylic acid, and they are used, uh, in certain indicated cases with excellent results. Uh, I, I could go on and speak for quite a while, but, uh, I, I'd like to sum up, extemporaneously, and say, that the, uh, early diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, uh, is usually an x-ray diagnosis. And when certain suspicious symptoms, without the patient being extremely ill, and, uh, an, an x-ray is taken, and the treatment, in an early case, is very favorable. There are pros and cons about what to do under certain individual situations, but I think that covers the subject. Thank you, Dr. Kastenbaum. We have heard something about the occurrence, and the discussion of the early symptoms, and treatment. And now we come to an important consideration in tuberculosis, that is the control, uh, in the community. Uh, the speaker who will, uh, present this part of our discussion is Dr. Sidney R. Goldberg, who is chief of the chest clinic of the Monterhaven-Morrisenia Health Center. That is this health center here. Dr. Goldberg has had a very extensive experience, both clinical and in public health considerations of tuberculosis. And it gives me a great little pleasure to present Dr. Goldberg. Dr. Goldberg. Dr. Andalian, Dr.rick Mora, Ms. Rogers, Ladies and Gentlemen. Dr. Bloom. I ve been with the health department about 25 years in the field of tuberculosis. in the field of tuberculosis. I can honestly say that when I entered the Department of Health in this field, that the relationship between the private physician and that of the Bureau of Tuberculosis of the Department of Health were not what I would consider on a most cordial basis. And yet, I wouldn't hesitate to say today that the relationship is quite cordial. Although, of course, there is plenty of, shall we say, caustic criticism, on the part of some doctors who feel, not only in this field of health, but in other fields, the same criticism that occurs, that we are encroaching upon their medical pheromacy. And yet, I must say that there is a most, and certainly a completely different and cordial relationship that was present 25 years ago. Now, that's a little extraordinary when you come to think that during that 25 years, the Department of Health has control over a huge number of cases of tuberculosis, which we didn't have at that time, and therefore the opportunity for differences of opinion would be greater. Now, there are several reasons for the establishment of this better relationship between the doctors and the Department. I think one of them is due to the Department of the District Health Administration and its establishment of health centers, which have been placed in strategic centers throughout Greater New York. Each health center, as you know, should take care of the health needs of about a quarter of a million population. It happens that right here, I think I'm right in saying this, Dr. Myers, we take care of a population of over half of them. Which brings up, of course, a very moot point which I don't want to discuss. These health centers have been staffed, and it sounds like patting myself on the back, and I don't intend to really, to really, by very competent health administrators, district health officers, and physicians in charge of tuberculosis clinics, fine nursing personnel, clerical personnel, etc. They've worked as a fine team, and in this particular clinic, health center I should say, we've tried to establish this rapport by various methods, such as the sending out of literature, the establishment of what we call the consultation service for physicians, which means that they're most welcome to send at no expense to the patient, any patient who they feel it is advised them to take a chest x-ray. We send a report back to the doctor. No names, a mention of the clinic physicians, and the patient-physician relationship continues, as it was before the patient came to the clinic. Then in this particular health center, for about three years, I've personally met with as many doctors who are able to attend once a month, physicians who are interested in clinical aspects and the public health aspects of pulmonary tuberculosis, and we meet once a month, at which time I present cases, and we have a nice round table conference, which is most congenial and most fruitful. then furthermore, the arrangement of such panel meetings as the one Dr. Myers has established in this series, is also a basis for a cordial relationship between the physicians, and of course here I must also include the community, as represented by you people who are here tonight. It has been brought out before, and I'd like to repeat it again. We physician administrators in the health department of this center, and it is common practice healthcare, and I'd like to work through the county medical society, and its established representatives. In that manner, the county medical society act as a catalytic agent between the health department and the physicians of the community. the community. Now, the community, through its separate individuals, and through various organizations, that's teachers, associations, foreign language group associations, unions, church organizations, functions by sending representatives to the health officer, and also via the Mount Haven Health Council, which is a part of a greater New York health council. This, this Mount Haven Health Council has its offices located in this building. very important indeed, is the function of the health education division, which is centrally located downtown at 125 West Street, and who, through the agency of Mrs. Berkeley, its functioning secretary here, does most splendid work in establishing an esprit of core between the community and the health center. this is done in many ways. press releases, moving pictures, the arranging for, arranging of meetings where speakers of experiences can talk, the hall, the, um, the, um, placing of, splendid displays, such as you see, today, when you come into the health center. the health education division, also, in, uh, conjunction with the health officer, and the chief of the test clinic, arranging for certain surveys, what is called mass surveys, what is called mass surveys, to be carried out in the neighborhood which this health center takes care of. Now, if, uh, you want to have a good program to eradicate tuberculosis, you've got to have cooperation on part of the community, and certainly on part of the physicians in the community. I was very glad to hear the clinician and Dr. Caston Brown who preceded me touch upon this aspect. Certainly goes to show that our, uh, our health education, Dr. Mark, has borne through. Because wherever I go to hospitals, to conferences, the public health aspects of the problems in deciding what types of surgery, or to do any surgery, plays an important part in making a decision. You often hear discussed, is the patient married? Are there any children's homes? All those things are important to know. You sometimes take a chance on doing different types of treatment. It certainly is most important, I must repeat that, for the private physicians to report the cases of tuberculosis, as soon as they diagnose them. If they don't do that, we often get dispersion of the family, and then the important point of follow-up of the contacts, gets lost. and we have a very difficult job, indeed, in assembling the contacts, and get them to have their periodic x-rays. in return, to have their periodic x-rays. in return, not for the cooperation, because we want to do it, but for the contacts, the contacts, gets lost. We have a very difficult job, indeed, in assembling the contacts, and get them to have their periodic x-rays. in return, not for the cooperation, because we want to do it. We offer all facilities that we can to the private physicians. I have mentioned free x-rays. The Department of Health, not necessarily this, but the public health, the public health, the public health, the public health, not necessarily this, health center alone, offers all kinds of lavatory facilities, for the examination of the scuter, the gastric contents, various fluids in the body, smears examination, cultures, animal inoculation. Not only that, once the diagnosis is established, we are very glad, indeed, to help the doctor send his patients away. Various institutions take various types of cases. We are more liable to direct the doctor correctly with our vast experience in sending his patients to the correct institution, and he is allowed to do it by himself. Although, of course, he can quite easily do it himself through the tuberculosis of the vision bureau downtown. But we are here to help him. That's the point. The health officer, and myself, have at our fingertips. Well, I'll say we should have at our fingertips. A complete knowledge, of the complete roster, of tuberculosis cases in this district. We ought to know the names, addresses, age, sex, whether the spirit is positive or negative. whether the contacts are being examined or not. We should periodize this and we should have a complete knowledge, a complete knowledge, of the complete roster, of tuberculosis cases in this district. We ought to know the names, addresses, age, sex, whether the spirit is positive or negative, whether the contacts are being examined or not. We should periodically go through this roster in such a fashion we can find out whether Jane Doe or John Doe is lapsing attention, the medical attention that he should get, and not only should get, but is required by the Sanitary Code of the city of New York. If such lapsing is going on, if such lapsing is going on, we know how to remedy the situation. I'd like to point out an important function of the Bronx TV and Health Committee, located up here in Fordham Road, that cooperates with us, and I'm interested in this problem particularly, in the rehabilitation of these patients. And, in person I would like to say that we like to help the five adopters, help his patients to get rehabilitated. They've been, and I'm referring to the Bronx TV and Health Committee, of the National Health Committee, of inestimable value in coordinating this aspect of tuberculosis. When the patient leaves a sanatorium, only half the battle, maybe even less of that, is done. he wants to get back to being as normal a citizen, or as nearly normal a citizen, as he was before he was struck down with this disease. And while I don't want to go into details, you can understand how important the rehabilitation of these arrested cases are. I'd like to also put out, and explain, to you the function of the public health nurse here. We have well-trained nurses, who are trained specially in tuberculosis, but this special training is integrated as part of a generalized training. Although we have no special TB nurses, when they are working in tuberculosis, they know the subject quite thoroughly and competently. The district supervising nurses, sees that these nurses are kept acquainted with up-to-date information. I think I've summarized the situation. And, I'd like to say one word to the physicians of the community. They are our friends and colleagues. And please, remember that we here are likewise there. And to the individual members of the community, and the organizations that represent them, remember, we are your servants. Bring your complaints, if any, to us. feel at liberty to ask us to clarify situations whenever you want to. And all together as a team, I'm sure that a further panel on tuberculosis in a few years will bring out a very startling revelation that tuberculosis is still at a lower F. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Goldberg. Thank you, Dr. Goldberg. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, as you know, we've come to the end of our individual presentation of the subject, and as usual, we open it for discussion to the audience. And we should be very glad to present any questions anyone will ask to the members of this evening's panel. We have here a traveling mic, and we would ask you if you want to present a question to speak into the mic. Now, that mic does not magnify or amplify your voice, but it will be recorded on the tape, and if this discussion is broadcast at a later date, your voice will be heard over the radio. Are there any questions anybody would like to ask? Dr. Kastenbaum, will you please explain what is a tubercular lesion of the lungs? The question asks, what is a tubercular lesion of the lungs? The word lesion, L-E-S-I-O-N, is a very generic term. It's a general term. And the way lesion means, any abnormality in any part of the body is called a lesion. For instance, if you have a scar on your face, you call it a lesion. Naturally, there are all kinds of lesions. There are syphilitic lesions, rheumatic lesions, neurosclerotic lesions, and whatnot. Now, a tubercular lesion in the lungs would be some abnormal shadow in the chest field, which is interpreted by the retinologist and the clinician as a spot of tuberculosis. Now, if you want me to amplify, you see, the word tuberculosis was derived from the fact that the tubercle bacillus, as it causes an inflammation in the lungs, forms like a little seed, and the way tubercle means seed. And the earliest seeding in the lungs, if you are sure, by actual clinical tests, that is, if it's like when the sputum is positive, therefore you infer that that lesion is a tuberculous lesion. Because the lesion may also be a non-tuberculous lesion. It could be something else. But if it's, if this shadow is due to tuberculosis, it's called a tuberculous lesion. Can you ask for a question that you're going to call them in the chest? Shall I answer? The question is, does the x-ray show that it's tuberculosis, or does the sputum show? When we see an abnormal shadow in the chest, sometimes we are pretty sure that this is an active lesion in the lungs. But we are not always sure. Therefore, further tests have to be made. And to test our examination of the sputum. We even go further than that. Sometimes a person doesn't even have too much of a cough. So you can't take the sputum. So we have to do what we call a gastric. We have to put a tube down his stomach and see whether he swallows sputum. And sometimes that may be negative. So we have to take that gastric specimen and inject it into a guinea pig. Or culture it on a certain media, a certain thing where the germ grows, and wait four or six weeks to see whether the germ is growing. Dr. Kastenbaum, is it true that tuberculosis is not hereditary? And if that be so, what's the difference between heredity and predisposition toward it? One hears a lot about that. I explain in the original, the question is, is it true that tuberculosis is not hereditary? And if that is true, what, what, how would you explain predisposition? Basically, tuberculosis is not hereditary. You see, when we use the word hereditary, we mean born with a disease. If a woman has a positive wassing, if she has syphilis, she will give birth to a syphilitic child. If a woman has tuberculosis, the baby at birth has no tuberculosis. Although every once in a while there are certain cases on record, which just a pure academic theoretical interest, are what we call tuberculosis of the percentile cause. But that is not the point. The point is this, that the baby contracts tuberculosis from the tuberculosis mother by the constant impact and the contact of the tubercle bacillus invading this baby. When we talk about predisposition, I will have to knock that into a cock hat. It has been definitely shown that there is no such thing as predisposition to tuberculosis. Although it is true that poverty and crowding and inanition and starvation and poor economic conditions, and if this particular patient is invaded with a tubercle bacillus, it might wreak greater havoc than on a patient who has a better physical constitution. But the cause of tuberculosis is the tubercle bacillus. It's a germ that hits you. And what we're trying to do is to prevent this particular tubercle bacillus from spreading around. And, uh, well, I have to just go ahead and answer the question. We talked a lot about the prevention of the spreading, but how does the germ itself originate, if it's known? So, you know, why do you want to do this in two years? No. And how many, uh, very much works if it wereless. No. And they, uh, very quickly around the埞� of the dust. Unless we had seen our better catalysis. As I understand your question is as follows. You talk a lot about prevention of spreading and how does the joint originate. Is that your question? You know, ever since the first day of genesis, we haven't solved the problem of what came first, the chicken or the egg, you see? And we know as to how it started and where it started. We know that it grows in the human body. We know that it grows in cattle. We know that it grows in birds. And we know its characteristics, in other words, what its habits are. But as to where it came from, where it started from, it's hard to say. But if you, peculiarly enough, if you transplant a gene from one media to another and let it get older, it gets fatter and grows more and multiplies faster. So it may have been weak at the very beginning. As soon as it found itself a host, that is the human body, and fed on the host, it got stronger, it multiplied, it spread. But where it started from, I don't know. Tab pres trucks忙ates. Once I've never went there, I was worried about some people. I am very glad you asked that question. I am very glad you asked that question. The question was that a patient after passing a CITES and AID is not susceptible to the bycalosis, definitely. So not affect anyone else. That's a good question because it's a nonsensical question. I'll tell you why. Every time you see a little baby, that's been my experience, with tuberculosis meningitis, that's an ailment usually in very early life, although can a current adults. Always examine the grandmother and the grandfather who's home because there are a large number of people who live with the tuberculosis their entire life. They are clinically unaffected by the germ and they die of another ailment. They can die at 88 or 90. But in the process of spreading the tuberculosis, although the tuberculosis has not killed them, it has wreaked havoc and destruction by killing his children, his grandchildren, his cousins, his uncles, and his aunts, although he may live to be 90. Dr. Kastenbaum, if one has recovered from tuberculosis, does that give him any immunity toward any of the other attacks upon the lungs, say pneumonia or pleurisy or anything of that sort? Does he, in other words, does he acquire an immunity? If a patient recovers from tuberculosis, does that confer any immunity to other ailments? Is that the question of the lungs, like pneumonia and other ailments? Ordinarily, no. No. It so happens, without being technical, that very often a large group of people who have been suffering from tuberculosis over a long period of time and have healed in the sense that they have no longer a positive sputum, certain changes as a result of healing have occurred in their lungs, which may render them susceptible to other respiratory infections. Just like what we call bronchiectasis and bronchitis, but it has nothing to do. In other words, an immunity, I mean a person cured from tuberculosis can just as well contract pneumonia or any other ailment like anybody else. Because if you want to consider the study of immunity, the word immunity, in answer to one of the other questions, the word immunity is different than the word resistance. The word immunity is something specific to a certain specific organism. So, the word immunity is different than the word immunity is different than the word immunity. Not necessarily so, but in a chronic fibroid condition, in other words where a patient has had tuberculosis over a long period of years and has no longer the truplical bacillus in his in his futip. And the x-ray shows a lot of fibrosis, which means scar tissue. The structure of the lung may so be changed that he can have a chronic cough, just to say, and be susceptible to what we call secondary bronchial infections. It is a well known thing that the lower economic classes suffer the most from the tuberculosis. Because the medical science really expects to abolish the disease as long as there is overcrowding and lack of food, lack of nourishment, and bad housing facilities and other things that cause the disease and spread it. Just kill the germ and get, so to speak, and say it no longer exists. Is that how they go about it? Is that how they tend to do it? No, not in the least. Not in the least. Of course, the bad economic conditions and overcrowding and housing is not only a medical problem, it's also a problem of the entire community. But the overcrowding will cause greater incidence of infection. And of course, we know by statistics, which there is no question, that in the areas of lower economic conditions, the proportion and percentage of briculosis is higher than in those of better. But that's not our program to say that we can at this is a medical meeting. But however, if you feel, I mean, well, the other part is a is a fewer social problem where the entire public is involved. If I understand your question, you want us also to feel that we should take care of the economic conditions, the crowding, the housing? It's your job and my job both. I don't think you can take care of it as a doctor. I don't mean that you should go and give me money and say, if I am hungry, I should go and eat or give me enough money to move into a better apartment. But I think in your speech and in your lectures, you should always emphasize the fact that the people should be aware of it so that they would know themselves just what is causing it and become, in a sense, innocent enough to demand in one way. or another whatever social, economical, political status, maybe to do something about it, to pressure the health authorities, to pressure those who are responsible for their troubles and become a little more social conscious about the things. We are here tonight for that reason. And when the utopia comes, I suppose we'll get around to it. But I can't answer that question anymore unless we've got them. Yes. I might like to add this. You know, right here to your west, there will be... I might like to add this. You know, right here to your west, there will be... within the next few months completed a great housing development. the Paterson houses. They will house approximately 9,000 persons. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... few cases were found. In girls, after they reach the age of 15, and in boys, after they reach the age of 17, then we are more apt to find cases of tuberculosis. Up to the age of one year, you have to find considerable tuberculosis, particularly what Dr. Kastenbaum has spoken about, that is tuberculosis meningitis. But after the age of one or five and up to 15, comparatively, little tuberculosis is found. Are there any other questions? I want to draw your attention to our meeting next, the next meeting, that is on the 15th of December, and that will be on infant mortality. Now, that's a very important public consideration. It deals with the number of children who die under one year of age. And among, in public health work, it is very often felt that the index of the level of public safety, health safety, is best expressed by infant mortality. Now, infant mortality in these two districts, in some particular, in certain parts of it, is very hard. And it's an important matter, which I think the entire community should take to heart, and consider, and come and hear this very fine discussion on this serious problem. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.