There are hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands to whom this sound can mean nothing, to whom the words we say here now can have no meaning. They have died because of something which may someday menace you. They might not have died if they had heard the story you're about to hear. It's too late for them now, but remember it's not too late for you. It's not too late for the living. For the Living with Edward G. Robinson and Ann Revere. If you had been watching the nurses' entrance of a certain large hospital in a Midwestern city on a spring afternoon not long ago, you might have noticed a well-dressed young man in a camel's hair coat. If you'd lived in this particular city, you would have recognized him as Gerald Tarlin, a wealthy and eligible young bachelor and a lair of one of the famous families. And if you'd wondered why he was nervously waiting there for over half an hour, you would soon have had your answer. Suddenly, a young and pretty nurse came through that door and... Ann! Jerry! I've been waiting for you, Ann. You're off now, aren't you? Yes, Jerry. But I thought we'd decided... You decided we shouldn't see each other again. I didn't. Three months of this nonsense of not seeing each other. I want to marry you. You love me and I love you and still... Jerry! Jerry, I don't want to discuss it again. I can't marry you... Because my grandmother doesn't approve of you. Because she'll throw me out without a cent if I go against her wishes and marry you. And I keep telling you I don't care. I want to marry you anyway. Here, get in my car. I'm not going to talk about it anymore, Jerry. I'm not going to split up your family. Women. Ann, you just don't understand, grandmother. You forget that I took care of her for three months in that mansion of yours. How can I forget it? I loved you the first moment I saw you. And you said you liked grandmother then. I do understand her, Jerry. She's been a dictator all her life. She has a certain code. And it doesn't include young women who work for a living. She's stubborn. All right, all right. But you could break her down. No, Jerry. I absolutely will not. I have some pride. Ann, she needs you. She's always said you were a good nurse. What does that have to do with it? Well, Ann, I have a feeling something's wrong with her. She should go see a doctor, but she won't. Jerry, if you're telling me this... No, Ann, honestly. What seems to be wrong? Her neck. She has a sore on her neck that hasn't healed for months. It's under that choker thing she wears with all her dresses, so you... Jerry, is this true? It's true is that I love you, Ann. I've tried to get her to go to the doctor. I think you could convince her. Will you come with me now to see her? Well, I... Don't forget, you're a nurse. Well, I don't believe you. But I'll go. Well, my dear Miss Willard. Graham? How do you do, Mrs. Tarleton? It's a pleasure to see you again, Miss Willard, though I must say rather unexpected. Unexpected for me, too, Mrs. Tarleton. But you see, Jerry asked me to... Graham, I brought Ann home because I want you to like her. Well, I like Miss Willard very much. I've always thought she was a very capable young woman. No, that's not what I mean. I want to marry her, and you know it. And she won't marry me because you'll disown me. Which convinces me that she's being a very wise and very practical young woman. There's nothing quite so burdensome as a spoiled, disinherited young man. Now, listen, Graham. I'm getting sick and tired of two women kicking my life, Laura. Gerald, this matter was settled once before. We won't speak of it further. It was my understanding that you were not to see Miss Willard again. Miss Willard, I expected more strength of character from you. I can assure you, Mrs. Tarleton, that Jerry got me here under false pretenses. He told me he was worried about some kind of lesion on your neck. He wanted me to convince you to see a doctor about it. Gerald. But, Graham, you won't listen to me. And I thought if Anne saw it, it's been there for weeks. Just because it's under that choker you wear. This choker, as you call it, is a shimosette. And I've told you before, Gerald, that this slight inconvenience is nothing to worry about. Well, since I'm here, Mrs. Tarleton, why not let me look at it? I assure you, Miss Willard, that Gerald has grasped at the first thing he could think of to get you up here. Let me look at it anyway. It's a lot of nonsense, but if you choose to finish out this farce which Gerald has started, very well. Just face toward the light, please. Mrs. Tarleton, was this caused by some injury? No, my dear. I simply noticed a small nodule there some weeks ago, which finally became an open sore. It doesn't bother me. I see it now. And it started as a small nodule. Yes, I put my sarve on it to dry it out, but it hasn't somehow. Mrs. Tarleton, I really think you should see a doctor about this. Miss Willard, are you trying to impress me? See, I told you, Graham. I would like very much to have Dr. Hanson at my hospital see it. From all I've heard, Dr. Hanson is a very busy man. I'm not going to have him laugh in my face. I assure you, Mrs. Tarleton, please go to see him at once. At once? Why so urgent, young woman? What is it? I'd rather not say. Dr. Hanson will tell you what he thinks. Hey, what's going on here? Miss Willard, are you really taking this seriously? I think it can be very serious unless you do something about it immediately. Young woman, do you have the courage of your convictions? I think I do. Then I'll make a bargain with you. I will go to see your Dr. Hanson. You will tell him why you think this trifling thing is serious. If he agrees, fine. If not, you will promise me never to see Gerald again. Oh, Graham, what kind of nonsense. I think that will teach you, Gerald, not to play games with your grandmother. Miss Willard? All right, I promise. Yes. So, Mrs. Tarleton, I think a few radium treatments are indicated for that neck of yours. Now, I have here a schedule... Dr. Hanson, I don't want you to be angry with her, but I insisted that Miss Willard tell me what she suspected before I'd come to you. Was she right? She was. Microscopic examination of bits of the lesion I took from your neck the other day confirms it definitely. But I think radium treatments will take care of the matter easily. You can be thankful Miss Willard got you to us in time. In time? Young man, I'm not a fainting female. You tell me what I've got and tell me at once. All right, Mrs. Tarleton, you have cancer. Cancer of the skin. Cancer? Then that young woman has probably saved my life by bringing me to you. I believe she has. I see. Mrs. Tarleton, this particular kind of skin cancer is quite malignant. Cancer, you see, is a wild, uncontrolled growth of the cells of the body. It happens like this. One cell there in the skin of your neck suddenly started to grow with no relation to the job it has to do as part of the body. It multiplies as time goes on until the day comes when it invades the body, is carried by the bloodstream, all lymph glands, to other locations where it continues to grow. Now as long as these cells are confined to local growth, we can kill them with radium treatment. Once they have spread, the case is hopeless. Hopeless? You mean death? Yes, Mrs. Tarleton. Wasted time can mean death from skin cancer. Then that young woman has gotten me here in time. I'm confident she has. And she did it even though if I die, my nephew inherits... Dr. Hanson, I should like to speak to Miss Williard. You have the opportunity. She'll be assisting me with your radium treatments, and you're going to start those treatments today. And so through the kindness of an unpredictable fate, Mrs. Tarleton was given the chance to discover the enemy within her, an enemy which only wanted time to destroy her life. She was lucky. But are you going to depend on luck or fate? Or are you going to recognize the symptoms of skin cancer when they occur? A small, pearly, white, elevated growth, an open sore that doesn't heal, or a mold which suddenly begins to change its shape. Will you recognize these deadly warnings and go to your doctor at once? Will you give them the chance to use one of the three great weapons against cancer? An x-ray, surgery, or radium, as Mrs. Tarleton did that day when, dressed in a hospital gown, she walked into a clean, unlithered room of the hospital. An operating table, a few instruments, and a box, small, made of lead. Now, if you'll just lie down here, Mrs. Tarleton, on your side, please. Let me help you. Thank you, Miss Williard. Is this going to be painful, doctor? Not at all. Forceps nurse. Yes, doctor. You see, Mrs. Tarleton, we've gone a long way in the use of radium in the last five years. You see? These platinum tubes contain the radium. Platinum filters out certain caustic rays we don't need. They seem to be fastened to a piece of wood. Balsa wood, to keep them from direct contact with the skin. Adhesiveness. Yes, doctor. Now, if you'll lie very quietly, Mrs. Tarleton. That's it. You place the balsa on that lesion. Good. Now, we stick it on with adhesive. Let it go to work for a few minutes. Time nurse. I've started the timer, doctor. And with every tick of the clock, death strikes. These invading cells of cancer have met their master in the death-dealing rays of radium. Here is the paradox of cancer. Man's use of radium. A death-dealing weapon to save life. Mrs. Tarleton comes back several times for treatments until one day... I believe that's enough, Miss Riddick. Forceps. Here you are, Dr. Hanson. Adhesive hurt when I pull it off, Mrs. Tarleton. Oh, I've almost become used to it, doctor. There we are. Now, don't get up. Let me put this radium away, and I want to look at that lesion once more. Let's see now. You said, doctor, that this would be the last time. Yes, yes, it will be. Lesion dried up completely. I think we can say we've been successful, Mrs. Tarleton. How do you feel? I feel a great sense of relief, doctor. Contemplating death at such close quarters, it changes one's perspective. You're very lucky. This bit of adhesive should be changed every day until the lesion is completely healed. I'd be glad to do it for you. Would Miss Williard do it, doctor? Certainly. Anne? Yes, Mrs. Tarleton. Tomorrow, then. I'll have Jerry call for you, my dear. There you are, Mrs. Tarleton, all fixed up. Shall I fasten your yoke in the back for you? Yes, if you would, please, my dear. Graham, I haven't wanted to bring this up while you've been going through so much. Oh, be quiet, Gerald. Anne? I'll come back tomorrow at the same time, Mrs. Tarleton, if you'd like. Anne, I have a little speech to make. I think I shall make it now, if you don't mind. I know. Anne, there's no fool like an old fool. In the past few weeks, I've been foolish about many things. Oh, if you're speaking about your cancer of the skin, Mrs. Tarleton, there are thousands of people who don't realize the symptoms. Yes, if they're like I am, they think that if they feel well, they must be well. It's ignoring those early symptoms. That's what gives cancer the time that it needs to kill. Anne, you saved my life. I'm glad I could do something. You've done more than saved my life. You've restored to me values that I lost somewhere along the road of life. I told you, Graham, that she's a woman. Be quiet, Gerald. Now, listen here. I've had enough of this. I'm going to marry Anne, and nobody's going to stop me. Grandmother or no... Good, good, good, good, good. You have my blessings, Gerald. What? Anne, this young man is not worthy of you. He's too wealthy to do much good in the world, but if anyone can straighten him out, you can. It would make me very happy if you would consent to become a member of this family. Mrs. Tarleton... No, you don't. I'm going to do my own proposing. Anne, darling, will you marry me? Yes, Terry, I will. Well, then what are we waiting for? What are we waiting for? Cancer is no respecter of persons, but it does respect the three great weapons which science and medicine have given us against it. Surgery, x-ray, and radium. Today, our doctors know how to use these weapons to save your life when cancer strikes. Notice I say, when cancer strikes. Delay in diagnosis of cancer makes the only weapons against it powerless. Give your doctor a chance to save your life by bringing every warning symptom to his attention the moment you notice it. And be on your guard constantly for those warnings. Cancer can be cured. But in the final analysis, you are the one who makes it possible. Constant vigilance is the only hope for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Anne Revere, was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Franklin Marks, conducted by Lynn Murray. This series of programs is being presented by the American Cancer Society to show you how to protect yourself from the killing power of cancer. How science and medicine can help you if you're prepared with knowledge to help yourself. Your local cancer committee can give you more information. Do you hear the sound? Does it vibrate the tiny drums within your head? Translate itself into an impulse which reaches the understanding centers of the brain? And this is a tale you're qualified to hear. This is a tale that can help you stay alive. This is a story for the living. For the living, with Edward G. Robinson. It all begins simply enough. A man sits at home one evening in his easy chair reading his newspaper. We'll call him Robert Watson. But his name might be Brown or Smith or what's your name? Might be you. Your wife sits beside you sewing and suddenly you clear your throat. That's all. A simple, natural thing to do. You've done it before, you'll do it again. But this time your wife looks up. Bob. Hmm? Anything wrong, dear? What do you mean? I mean your throat. You've been clearing it all evening. And your horse again. Sounds worse to me. Bob, this has been going on for weeks now. Now, don't you think you ought to go... Oh, nonsense. It's just a cold, Lou. Noticed here in the paper that there... Bob, it's not a cold. Colds get better. And this hasn't. And you don't look well. Feel all right. Feel perfectly all right. Except... Except what? The cord in the lip side of my neck right here. It's been aching the last few days. Makes my ear ache. Bob, I insist that you go see Dr. Lasseter tomorrow. The first thing... Lou, I don't see any sense in... This is the moment that can mean life or death to you. This is that tiny segment of time in which you are deciding much more than you realize. One road is a throw of the dice. The other road, the odds are better. Much better. And yet you know none of these things when some small instinct makes you say... Oh, all right, Lou. I'll drop in and see Dr. Lasseter tomorrow. And so you find yourself in Dr. Lasseter's office. Here again, you're pretty lucky for Dr. Lasseter is a specialist. He gives you a thorough examination. A little too thorough, you think, for the importance of your ailments. And then he says one word. Biopsy. Bob, there seems to be a slight obstruction in your throat. Obstruction? What kind of obstruction? Can't tell yet. I want you to come into the hospital for a day or so. I can take a good look at your larynx, do a biopsy. That is, snip a piece off that obstruction and find out what it is. Microscopic examination will tell us. I see. Well, you're the doctor. I suppose I could find time to go in, say, two weeks. Bob, I think you'd better go in tomorrow. Tomorrow? Tomorrow. The process of doing the biopsy is neither difficult or painful. But while you lie in that hospital bed waiting for Dr. Lasseter to come back with his report, some fears begin to grow. What is all this? Bob, this is going to take an operation. Operation? An operation to remove that obstruction in your throat. I've known you for a long time, doctor. You're trying to spare me something. Trying to spare Lou. What have I got? Well... Tell me. Cancer of the larynx. Cancer? Now, Louise and Bob, listen to me. I'm not trying to spare you when I say that an operation now will take care of the situation nicely. People die of cancer. Most people who die of cancer today, Bob, die because of their own neglect. Die because they don't give us doctors a chance to use the weapons we know can cure them. Or they come to us too late for those weapons to do any good. After their cancer has invaded vital parts of their body. That's why I said you're lucky, Bob. We can cut your cancer out now and stop it cold. But what about x-ray? We have three great weapons against cancer, Bob. X-ray, radium. They work wonders in killing certain types of cancer cells. But in your particular case, surgery is definitely indicated. We can't take a chance. We've got to get every one of those wild cells out of your body. Remove it. Remove it? And when you take out the cancer, what comes with it? We have to remove your larynx too, Bob. It's the only way. You mean... You mean you won't be able to speak again? I didn't say that, Louise. How could you mean anything else? Without vocal cords? Bob, don't think you're the only one who's gone through this. Others have faced it before you and conquered the problem. Excuse me, Dr. Lasseter. Oh, Mr. Mack, come in. This is Mr. and Mrs. Watson. Mr. Mack. How do you do? How do you do? Hello there. Louise and I will run along, Bob. Get some rest after Mr. Mack goes. And by the way, there'll be moving an old patient of mine in here later on. His name is Parson. I'll be back, dear. Don't worry. Goodbye, Louise. Mr. Watson. I'm not going to stay long. I know what Dr. Lasseter has told you, and I know how you feel. You know? Yes. I speak to everyone in this hospital who's facing a laryngectomy to prove something to them all. I can only tell you that five years ago, I had cancer of the larynx. I'm alive today because Dr. Lasseter removed the cancer and my larynx with it. I feel fine. You... You... You... But you're speaking without a larynx. Yes, I speak. And when you've had your operation, I'm going to teach you to speak again, too. Now it's up to you. You know the facts, and still you can't quite believe that this is happening. Your conscious mind rejects the whole thing. But finally, when you go to sleep after Mr. Mac is gone, the thoughts you've suppressed comes rushing into your dreams. Hello, Lou? Hello? Hello? Hello? I can't hear you. It's me, Bob. I'm calling to tell you that I'll be... There's no one there. No one on the telephone. Lou! Lou! No one there. No one. Why, hello. Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Bob. I don't think you've met them. Mr. and Mrs. Smith, this is my husband. Hello there. Glad to meet you. He's glad to meet you, too, only... Only he doesn't speak. He doesn't speak. He doesn't speak. Lou, there's a fire. A fire. Don't you hear me? Let me go. I've got to wake Lou up. There's a fire. Lou, can't you hear me? Fire. Fire. Fire. Fire. Where? What? Oh. Oh, I guess I was dreaming. Oh, did I... Did I wake you? My name's Watson. Can't you speak? Name is Parsons. Oh, yes. Dr. Lasseter said you'd be in the next bed. Told me about you, too. What, uh... What's the matter with you? I mean, why... Cancer? Of larynx? You have... But I have the same thing. Only difference between you and me is time. Time? No, I had it four years ago. Dr. Lasseter told me... I wouldn't have the operation. No... No chance now. Don't forget what I say. Nurse gave me hypo. Going to sleep now. But don't forget what I say. Parsons. Parsons, I... Hello, Bob. I see you're awake. Dropped in before, but... Yeah. I'm awake now, Doctor. Did you have a chance to meet... He suffered much, Doc? Nearly every hour of the past three years, Bob. Doctor, I believe a man can do something about his life. I believe you can save mine, Dr. Lasseter. I want that operation. And the sooner the better. Three days later, this thing that has been growing within you... Choking out your very life... This part of yourself turned outlaw... Has been cut out. This is the miracle of surgery against cancer... That has saved your life. That can save the lives of thousands of cancer sufferers... If they will but give it a chance. Now you can't speak. But soon you leave the hospital a well man. In the weeks and months that follow, you work... And you work hard. And it doesn't seem as if you get anywhere. First, you have to know the principle of the thing you're trying to do. Now let's try again. Swallow air. That's right. Form a word. Bring the air up in a sound. I can't do it. I can't. Once more. Try again. Swallow air. I've tried. I've tried. I can't. Form the word. Me. Bring it up. Me. You did it. You've done it once. And if you can do it once, you can do it again. I did it. I did it. And I can do it again. Me. Now you are well. But still you cannot speak as normal people do. You're afraid to meet people. To have them know your disability. To have them misunderstand your single word conversations. You hide in the house. You become irritable. Well, the wife you love suffers under the strain perhaps even more than you do. Things have reached the breaking point when one day... Please, Bob. You've got to get out of the house. Meet people again. Can't talk. But your friends, they'll understand. Oh, please. You're living so much within yourself, you're driving yourself crazy. You shouldn't leave me. Oh, don't. After what we've been through. Should have jumped out of the window long ago. Maybe do a chance. Bob, I can't stand it. I can't stand it any longer. I feel faint. I... Lou. What have I done to her? Lou. Lou, she's fainted. I've got to get a doctor. Dr. Lasseter. I'm on the telephone. Nobody won't understand me. Dr. Lasseter. Dr. Lasseter. Dr. Lasseter. Hello. Dr. Lasseter speaking. Dr. Lasseter. This is Bob. Good boy, Bob. Anything the matter? You understand me? Perfectly. What's the trouble? It's Lou. She's fainted. Well... She's fainted and I don't know what to do. At least, I didn't know what to do. And now, suddenly I do. Did she fall? Did she hit her head? Oh, she'll be all right. I'll take care of her. Bob. What? She's coming too, doctor. We'll be down to see you later. Goodbye. Lou. Lou, are you all right? You're not hurt. You're talking. I... I talked on the telephone to Dr. Lasseter, Lou. He understood me. Every word I said. I forgot myself. Long enough to think about you. And it happened. We're going to begin to live again. Both of us. Are you all right, Lou? Yes, dear. I'm all right. I'm fine. Fine. Today, through this land of ours, the specter of cancer is striking down, taking the life of one out of every eight of us. One hundred and eighty thousand Americans died of this anarchy of the cells last year. And yet thousands of these human beings need not have died. Knowledge. Their own understanding of how this terrible disease works, how it begins, its symptoms, its causes, could have saved many of these people. Knowledge could have saved them by taking them to their doctors in time for successful treatment by the three great weapons we have against cancer. Radium, the x-ray, and surgery. Remember, wasted time is the greatest ally of this deadly disease. Discovered early, most cancer can be cured. Constant vigilance is the one way all of us can meet the constant threat of cancer, the one hope for the future, the one hope for the living. Narrated by Edward G. Robinson, written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Nathan Van Cleve, conducted by Lynn Murray, this program was presented by the American Cancer Society to bring you facts about cancer that can save your life. For more information about this second worst disease enemy of mankind, call your local cancer committee and support your field army against cancer. John Van Cleve, the master, the mass AIDS Romeo, the 43. Select the spot for CHAMPT or CHAMPT, Ça mater Hmm. Her name is Chris Patterson, Mr. Rick M Nichol, whoever has ever agreed on this know that señor Van Cleve is ever been quite a duringesser has made �она of & Pardon it to another find because there is always parameter there is also encontrar Thank you.