The boys and girls, and we will soon hear in a discussion program, are members of Youth Builders Clubs, conducted in many of our New York City schools under the direction of trained and capable teachers. These groups are devoted to the important objective of learning how to be active instead of passive Americans. They realize that an understanding of how our governmental machinery operates is not possible without their becoming well informed on the public questions of the day. Good, responsible citizenship is not achieved in a vacuum. A patriotic American student who regularly recites in school the Pledge of Allegiance to our flag, and who believes fervently in what he says, knows that our worst national enemy is ignorance, first cousin of bias, and older brother of disloyalty. Members of Youth Builders Clubs want to know the facts behind the problems confronting all of us as Americans. They make sure that the information they get is accurate by consulting authoritative books and magazines, also experts in the fields of their investigation. It is part of their approach, whenever possible, to hear both sides of controversial issues. Genuine democracy, they believe, is a slower but surer process than either communism or fascism. In the long run, it develops the resourcefulness of citizens, as well as a staunch patriotism possible only among free men and women. Youth Builders members are fully aware that sensible action and support of good government must follow thinking and discussion. I am sure that our listeners will agree, after hearing the voice of young America this evening, that Jefferson was right when he said, I know of no way in which a nation can be ignorant and yet be free. As long as our young people have faith in God, love for our nation, understanding of the great principles upon which it was founded, and directed intelligence based upon knowledge, our country will be safe. To this worthy ideal, the members of Youth Builders and the boys and girls in our schools are sincerely dedicated. Thank you.