I present His Honor, Mayor O'Dwyer. Commander, Reverend Terji, distinguished visitors and officers and personnel and friends of the Jewish war veterans of the United States of America, today we are combining two things. The memory of those who fought for the liberties that we enjoy, especially those who died, that we might have this liberty. It is good that today we set ourselves apart for a portion of the proceedings to take the memory of those who died and keep it warm and keep it fresh and keep it in our hearts and in our souls so that we can say to them in spirit, that beauty for which you paid the full sacrifice that we might have, that beauty is something that we will protect, that beauty we will dedicate ourselves to saving so that we, when our day comes, may be sure that those who follow have the same privilege. Today is a day also dedicated to the privileged. Today is the United States of America Day. Today is the United States of America Day. Today is the United States of America Day. Thank you for taking the memory, today in warmth and friendship of those who died and keeping in mind our obligations to a glorious land that was conceived in liberty and to a great proposal that we, today and tomorrow and while we live, will dedicate ourselves to its protection. Thank you. Please, you will not applaud here in the temple. As soldiers, we fought the war to obtain a better democracy, a world where we and our children and our children's children could live in peace and happiness. As veterans, we must continue the fight to fight the battle of peace. We must be vigilant in defense of the principles of world cooperation as enunciated by the charter of the United Nations. That is our job. We must constantly build the spirit of cooperation and understanding among nations, the bedrock upon which the United Nations rests. In the words of an American statesman, one threat to the United Nations will be the relentless and insidious attempts by the enemies of real democracy to drive wedges of suspicion and distrust into the ranks of the United Nations. Suspicion, fear, and distrust have already arisen. We must not be misled by these inflammable emotions, for they can blast the high road of peace and forces into the tortuous bypass of rivalry and power politics that lead to war. Another great statesman, a former Secretary of State, put it this way, we must not allow the human race to commit suicide through lack of vision or through selfishness, impatience, and provocation. Let us heed those words. Let us make every effort to find our common interests with other nations. Let our leaders know that our faith is in the United Nations, our trust in world cooperation, our deepest prayers for peace. The freedom-loving peoples of the world, marching side by side to greater freedoms, to peace and prosperity for all. That will be our greatest war memorial, a monument to the heroes of all American wars that will endure through the aging. As our guest speaker at this 52nd annual memorial service, we have present a distinguished American statesman. He is a veteran of service during World War I and is universally recognized today as one of the great humanitarians of the world. The Honorable Owen Brewster, Mr. Brewster. So we meet here in the shadow of the memory of all the comrades, 500,000 of Jewish faith, who assemble with all the other millions of those who are proud to call themselves Americans, to redeem those ideals for which through ten generations upon these formerly sheltered shores, men have sacrificed and died. There is no need for words of mine to pay tribute to their faith. The more than 10,000 who gave their lives, the 40,000 of the casualties, their blood mingling with the men and women of every faith and creed, who went forth in this mighty army that has so recently returned. The 50,000 who were decorated for their services upon the field of honor, adding glory to the memory of those who throughout our history have been happy to mingle their sacrifices with all the other fellow Americans, in this great seeking for a world that shall endure. And so we assemble here today in this great temple, in this great temple, yet realizing that this temple too shall turn to death, even as the other temples through which during this past month it was my privilege to wander, the mighty tablets in the temple of Karnak at Luxor on the Nile, stand upon the Acropolis through the ruins of the Parthenon, gaze out upon agonized Athens, or in the Colosseum and the Forum. See how those mighty civilizations had perished, because they were built primarily upon material power and worship. And then go on to the little land of Palestine, less than 10,000 square miles of what we are privileged to call the earth. To see the ruins there also of the temples that have been, but to realize that in that sacred soil there had been reared those spiritual ideals, large measure by those of Jewish blood that have for 3,000 years of recorded history, guided mankind in its weary march from sense to soul, and from the material sense of life up to the spiritual, which we gather here today in this temple appropriately to revere. And so we gather, turning aside from the preoccupations of the passing day for this sacred hour in this great temple, realizing that upon us in this present time that upon us in this time, rests a responsibility as great as any that has been known by the fears of all the past. And yet realizing that in the Testament and in the lesson of their lives and of their sacrifice, we find the principles that may guide us through all the despair and dismay of the present, resting not our faith upon human minds, but on an understanding of those profound spiritual truths that are uttered each week here in this great forum, and which alone can enable mankind to justify those who have laid down their lives. And here in particular, we may associate with those of Jewish faith and blood, the six million upon whose melancholy, nameless grave, and the seven million upon whose lives in this country. It was my grim responsibility to look in a journey through Central Europe within the past two years, and to realize that their blood will be upon our hands unless we shall see to it that their sacrifice shall not have been in vain. All right.