All right. One step forward brings history one step forward right up into the present. Play historical detective with us tonight as we tell the story of man whose character and ideals were modeled after a famous man of another day. Watch him in tonight's play and see if you can tell which famous man he represents. For example, you'll remember that some weeks ago, the small town cracker barrel philosopher of Athens County turned out in the end to be Socrates. The young Broadway playwright whose play opened at the Avon Theatre was really Shakespeare. And last week, of course, you guessed that the bearded Brooklyn poet who wrote, Oh Captain, My Captain, when he heard of the president's death, was really Walt Whitman. Tonight's play is the story of a man who lived 2,500 years ago, acting today as he might have had he lived today. Your job as historical detective while you listen to tonight's story will be to watch for clues. Watch carefully. They might come anywhere. And see if you can guess who tonight's character really represents. Now, one step forward, written by David Karp, featuring Stratton Walling. Hello? Who? Yes, this is Mr. Jaws speaking. What? My name and address. Are you sure? Yes, that's right, but... Just a minute, darling. Hello? Yes, yes, that's my name and address, but... But it's three o'clock in the morning. Yes, I see. Very well. Just a minute, please. But, Jean, please, get me a pencil. Well, of course. Here you are. Thank you. What's wrong, dear? I'll tell you a minute. Yes, yes, go ahead. Carter General Hospital. Right. Well, I'll try to be there tomorrow morning. Yes. Good night. Ben, what's wrong? I can't understand it. I just don't understand it. Understand what? Well, that was the state police. I was the police. I was the police. I was the police. I was the police. I was the police. They found a middle-aged man on the road this afternoon, beaten almost to the point of death. The only identification they could find on his body was a slip of paper hidden in his shoe, with my name and address on it. Why? Who could it be, then? I haven't the slightest idea. Well, what do they want you to do? Well, they want me to come out there and identify him if I can. No, don't go, Ben. For heaven's sake, Jean, I have to. I promised I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. I would. Now, stop being frightened and pack an overnight bag for me. I'll call the station and see what train schedules they have. Now, go ahead, darling. What do you expect? You've been expecting me, Mr. Jowett? Well, I got here as fast as I could. I'm Lieutenant Cole of State Police. This is Dr. Wallace. How do you do to do? Mr. Jowett, have you any idea who this man might be? Well, I'm not the slightest, Lieutenant. Well, have you any idea how your name and address might have gotten into his possession? No, I haven't. Let's go and take a look at him. He's under sedative now. Bad beating. Several broken ribs, a broken back, and possible spinal injury. We can't tell you. Poor man. That was a bad beating, Mr. Jowett. The kind people get for a reason. My guess is that they plan to kill him. They must have been scared off by something or somebody. Would you mind taking a look at him? Oh, of course not. Good heavens. What is it, Mr. Jowett? Do you recognize him? It doesn't seem possible. I haven't seen him for 15 years. But, yes, it's him. Who is he, Mr. Jowett? An ex-colleague of mine. Professor John Rust. A professor? Yes, a philosophy professor. Has an enormous reputation. We taught college together many years ago. Now, let me get this straight. You say his name is Professor John Rust. Now, he used to teach in your college. That's right. We were very close friends. He was terribly brilliant young man. Wrote a book called New Democracy. Took most philosophers by stone. Hmm. I see. And, uh, when was the last time you saw him? Oh, about 15 years ago. He came and told me that he had a job doing some sort of work for a wealthy man. He was very mysterious about him. Said it would take him years. Then he just disappeared and I never heard from him or about him again. Well, who was this man he went to work for? I don't know to this day, Lieutenant. He was very secretive about it. Where did he go? Oh, he wouldn't say it. He took most philosophers by stone. Took most philosophers by stone. Hmm. I see. And, uh, when was the last time you saw him? Oh, about 15 years ago. He came and told me that he had a job doing some sort of work for a wealthy man. He was very mysterious about him. Said it would take him years. Then he just disappeared and I... I've never heard from him or about him again. Well, who was this man he went to work for? I don't know to this day, Lieutenant. He was very secretive about it. Where did he go? Well, he wouldn't say it. All I know is that he had a brilliant future cut out for him when he went away. And I hadn't heard about him until you called last night. Any idea what he might have been doing for the last 15 years? Oh, teaching, perhaps. Writing. Those are only guesses, you know, I'm sad. Hmm, well, I see. You mean he can talk now, Doc? Yes, I can't be strange. It would be bad for him. He seems very anxious to talk. Good. I'm afraid he only wants to talk to Mr. Jowett. Oh? That kind of a deal, huh? He's very explicit. How is he, Doctor? Weak but quite lucid now. I told him you were here. He didn't seem surprised. All right, all right. Go ahead, Mr. Jowett. But I want to talk to him when you're finished. Go right in, Mr. Jowett. Call me if he begins to sweat or feel dizzy. Yes, Doctor. I will. Is... is that you, Ben? Yes, John. I'm glad. Very glad to see you. How did this happen to you? I'll tell you in a little while. Sit down. I have a lot to tell you. Don't you think you'd better rest? You've had a terrible experience. No, I can't take a chance on dying now. You've got to hear the whole story. It... it mustn't die with me. You'll have to go there and see. Go where? Listen, 15 years ago. When I told you I had a job to do. A thing that would take years. What did you think? I don't know. I don't really remember, John. I just thought you were being mysterious. John, just tell me the names of the men who did this to you and we'll make them suffer for it. Those lackeys. Shirties. Pired thugs, I suppose. They don't matter. I don't know them anyway. But they missed your address in my shoe. That was what they overlooked. That was where they slipped from. What is all this, John? Yes. Yes, I'm sorry. I want to tell you the whole story. The whole incredible story. Someone else was told about it. Otherwise all the work is gone for nothing. But I must read the word of it unless I die. Stop talking such nonsense, John. You're not going to die. Listen. Listen to the whole story. The whole wonderful business. Do you remember when my book came out? Not the dialogues. The new democracy. Of course. It was my dream. My central theme. To the pivot on which my life turned for years. But you understand that the book wasn't the end of that dream. It was a blueprint. A blueprint for an ideal society. A brave new society. Without all the political muck and disease. Without all the political muck and disease of our own world. Can you imagine my joy when... Well, I am getting ahead of myself. First of all, soon after my book was published, I received a letter from a man named Edward Dalton. He invited me to be guest at his home. He said that he had a plan that would interest me. I had worked hard, so I liked the idea of a short vacation. And the letter seemed to promise something interesting. So I answered and said I would come up. When I arrived, when I arrived, Dalton met me at the train. He drove me through town himself. He was an enormous man. How did you enjoy your trip, Professor? Wonderful, Mr. Dalton. I haven't had a vacation in a long time. I am glad to see you in good spirit. Well, what do you think of my town, Professor? Yes, sir. Lovely, Mr. Dalton. I take it when you say my town, you mean it more than most people. The town's named after you. My father. Yes, it's my town. Down to the last human soul. Uh, yes. I see they're fairly well provided for. Nice broad streets, clean-looking homes. I've built them two elementary schools and a high school. And I've been thinking of founding a college here. Oh, that's wonderful, Mr. Dalton. I've just spent $100,000 for a new community center. Well, everyone who lives in this town either works for my factory or works for people who work in my plant. There's not an idler, a loafer, a thief, or a drunkard in town. I regulate the amount of liquor that's drunk. I determine who's settled here. I own the daily paper and the weekly paper. I own the only radio station. I elect whoever I like. I pretty well am this town. Rather absolute, isn't it? It is. And I'm not ashamed of it. Nor frightened. Do any of these people look sick or unhappy? On the contrary. What I see from here looks quite pleasant. Exactly. None of them are unionized. They get the prevailing scale and a little over. I see to it that the prices of things are kept within their reach. A sort of controlled test tube community, eh? Yeah, that's right. If they're sick, they go to the Dalton hospital. It doesn't cost them a cent. If they die, they're buried in Dalton view, free. Almost every penny they earn, they spend in a Dalton store, and the money they save, they save in a Dalton bank. Their taxes are the lowest in the state, and their benefits are the greatest. They haven't a thing to worry about. The plant is bulging with orders. It seems perfect. Now? It is perfect. Almost as perfect as that new democracy you wrote about. Now that's a horse of another color, Mr. Dalton. A new democracy doesn't depend upon a benevolent despot. Huh? Is, uh, is that what I am? Oh, certainly. But, uh, the most benevolent despot I've ever known. He was the most benevolent despot I ever knew. That's what I said then. In his own way, he loved that town. The way one might love a perfect thing one had made. It was a complicated, wonderful, toy point. After dinner, in the baronial hall, we sat down in an immense library for a smoker. Hmm. He still hadn't said what he'd called me to Dalton for. But I was feeling too expensive and unbreasted to care. Ah. Forgive me, Mr. Dalton, but that meal. And the luxury. Frankly, I'm overwhelmed. Good. I'm glad to hear that. I don't trust a man who can't enjoy the good things in life. You're an Epicurean, Mr. Dalton. What's that? An Epicurean is a person who thinks pleasure is the highest good. Hmm. Is there more of that old Greek philosophy, Professor? Some of it. Not the best, though. This morning, Professor, when I was showing you about town, you said something about things seeming perfect. I had the feeling that you were holding back. Well, I... There's a fly in the ointment, isn't there? There always is, in communities like this. What is it? The fly in the ointment, as you say, is the very thing that makes it all possible. What's that? The plant bulging with orders. If that plant weren't thriving, the town would starve. Well, wouldn't that be true of any place? Yes, but people wouldn't have to give up their personal liberty for such haphazard security. Oh. Dalton's a lot better than anything you ever saw outside of it, isn't it, Professor? Well, I wouldn't say... Now, look, Professor. Take your book now, The New Democracy. What's they've got that Dalton hasn't? For one thing, the New Democracy will have no political corruption. Why won't it? Because in the New Democracy, only the graduates of the political schools will be candidates for elections. Do you call that democratic? Why not? There's no choice. My friend, if you had cancer, would you look for a man who was eloquent or handsome or popular to treat you? Why, certainly not. I'd want a doctor. That's right. A specialist. If we go to specialists for the small things, even things as small as the mending of a pair of shoes, then why do we trust so important a thing as the state and the government to men whose only qualifications are that they can get votes? I see what you mean. But how would you pick the candidates for your political schools? From the best of the other schools. All right. Now suppose Dalton had that. Then it would be as good as your New Democracy? It would not. For one thing, not everyone in Dalton is doing what he's best suited for. The rich man's son might be adult, but he has more opportunity than the poor man's son. Oh, I don't like them. Those who need it, go to the next town. There's your answer. Those who need it. There would be no need for it in the New Democracy. How about persons born in San Francisco? Eugenics, Mr. Dalton. Eugenics. Have you got an answer for every question? Most of them, Mr. Dalton. Don't forget, I've spent most of my life thinking and devising the New Democracy. Where does the whole thing begin? Through education. The schools that would have to be set up. Do you know what kind you'd need? Down to the last scrap of paper. Would it take a lot? A lot of what? Time, money, brains. What else is there? Time? About three generations. Too slow. If I could have the children from the moment they're born, it would take perhaps one generation. That's more like it. How much brains? All I have and at least two hundred more teachers, depending on how big a community it would be. Money, how much? A great deal. Oh, be specific. A million. Oh, you talk like a government employee. Ten million dollars. Oh, now that's more like it. Uh, not all at once though. Oh, over a period of fifteen to twenty years. That isn't so bad. Guaranteed results? Guaranteed results? Mr. Dalton. Mr. Dalton, I'm only a professor. Yes. If I run it my way, yes. Unconditional. I see. Professor, could you turn Dalton into a new democracy? I could. That was what he had in mind from the moment he read my book. We sat up the whole night, planning, talking, getting things down. He was to supply the money I needed. He was to see to it that I had got the children shortly after birth. Oh, we planned an enormous camp to be built in the mountains. A thousand four hundred acres. Nurseries for the babies. Lodges, hut, trails, stables, gymnasia. Enough room for two thousand boys and girls. I left two days later, wound up all my fares and said goodbye to my few friends. We had to keep the entire matter a secret as much as we could. I spent a whole year finding teachers and training them. The first ten years of the children's education was to be entirely physical. Didn't you have any trouble getting the children away from the parents? At first we were afraid of that. It seemed an enormous obstacle, but the parents were delighted. They were certain that the children who went to the camp would become the favorite nephews, so to speak, of Dalton. And if there was one thing that those people of that town worshipped, it was Dalton. Some parents, of course, didn't want to. We didn't force the issue, but we let the schools in the town run down. Dalton arranged to put the economic squeeze on the parents who resisted. They finally gave in. At the end of two years we had a full enrollment. We were in complete operation. What was the curriculum? Almost an entirely physical training for the first ten years. At the age of ten they were, they were all splendid healthy animals. Didn't the parents ever visit? Oh yes, we had to submit that. Only on occasions and, and only in, in carefully selected groups. The children gave mass calisthetic drills in our central field. We built a stadium for the parents to come to. It was tremendously impressive. I remember how one parent spoke to... Professor, oh Professor, I think it's wonderful what you've done with these children. They're so brown and healthy. That's the result of the complete outdoor life they lead. I think Mr. Dalton has done a marvelous thing here for the children. Oh, but I, I wonder if perhaps some sort of furlough system could be sent up. So that the children could come home once in a while. Every day up here is so dreadfully important, madam. To send them home would be criminal. And would be cheating. We believe in free will care, madam. If the child chooses to go home, there's nothing to prevent him or her from going. However, we feel that once the child has made that choice, then there is a core of bad feeling at work in him, so that we cannot permit the child to return to the camp again. Oh, I see. You see, they have complete liberty. Did you really allow the children to leave? Of course we did. But after having spent ten years of their lives at the camp, do you think any of them wanted to leave? I see. We took in some children of five and six to the camp when we began, so, so we might have some completed results to show at the end of ten years. After the first ten years of physical training, we gave them musical training to develop their inner resources. You see, then, we were making philosophers, guardians for the new democracy, rulers. And rulers had to be perfect. I taught them eugenics myself. Only the fit and healthy should have children, since it is in this way that the society, the new democracy, can be kept alive and sound. Excellent, Melvin. And how will the guardians of these societies act towards one another? The guardians shall be as brother to brother. Each guardian father will be a father to all. The first roots were appearing. We were preparing for the first huge selections of those who would attend the special schools when Dalton called me in for a concert. Sit down, Professor. Thank you, Mr. Dalton. What is it you wanted? I've been told that you're ready to run a few of the boys in the political schools for election in town. Yes, at least three of the boys are ready. Of course, they're only going for minor positions, clerkships, but I'm completely satisfied with their progress. But they're too young. Oh, not too young. All three of them are 22. We've been preparing them for 15 years now. It's time for the experiment to begin producing leaders, guardians. Perhaps we can hold off a little while on these boys. Why? Maybe they're not ready for politics right now. They hardly pull any votes. They would with your election machine behind them. We'd have to depend on that for a while. That is, until we got started. Then, when we released the 2,000 graduates of the school in the next five years, we wouldn't have to worry about the parting machine. Our own boys and girls would form an election block to elect any political school graduates. Yes, I know. But right now, it doesn't look right. Why not? Well, listen, Professor. I have certain political connections here and in Washington. They've been complaining the past few years. I haven't been contributing the way I should be. The camp's been pretty expensive. That's exactly it, Dalton. Can't you see that? I've bought 15 years into this camp and you've spent millions. Now's our chance. Oh, hang it, Professor. Those jobs are political plums. They're only little ones, but they belong to the machine. I can't play with them. Don't you understand that much? But this is what we've worked for, dreamed about. The new democracy. Don't you remember, Dalton? What we were going to do with our town down there? Our town? Dalton's as much my town now as it is yours. Oh, you've gotten that idea in your head, have you? I suspected something like that. You've got 2,000 young hoodlums up here trained to jump when you crack the whip. So you've planned on taking over my town. Don't be ridiculous, Dalton. Those boys and girls are the products of our experiment. Well, the experiment is almost done. In fact, it is done. They're emancipated citizens. They are ready to take over the town. I've suspected it. For years, I've suspected that you had a scheme like this in mind. Don't be insane, Dalton. There's no such scheme and there never has been such a scheme in my mind. You have too much power up here, Professor. It's gone to your head. Well, these kids aren't yours anymore, see? They're mine. They're mine because I educated them. I paid for all this. Where would you be if I hadn't paid for it? Where? You're gone on the same, Dalton. Insane with the same. I should have been. You're no longer the same man who planned a need of democracy with me. You're old and frightened now. Frightened of a puny political machine. Terrified at their displeasure. But I'm frightened. Those boys and girls will make a new world. And you can't stand in front of them with a few feeble politicians. You can't. Do you understand? You can't. I knew it. Get out, Brut. Get out of this place. I don't want you in this camp a minute longer. Try to put me in. I'm not. I'm not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. You're not. Get out, Brut. Get out of this place. I don't want you in this camp a minute longer. Try to put me. Put. I have two thousands with me. Try and put me out, Dalton. What happened then, Brut? Dalton left. Dalton left. And food left to me. How horrible. What happened to the children? I don't know. Perhaps Dalton decided to release them one of the times in his town. Perhaps he'd arranged to send them to different parts of the world. He might have done a dozen things. He surely destroyed their unity. That's a certainty, and he'd done it twice. Well, at any rate, the worthless weight was done. No. No, it wasn't the biggest. Do you hear? Possibly. The world must know that it was a success. No one will believe you. They must. When Dalton thinks you're dead, if you speak out, he'll surely kill you. Do you hear, Penny? I don't care. I'm going to find the children as soon as I'm able to get up. All right, John. Try to rest now. Please. Please. If I should die, you will find the children. And tell the world what's happened. Try to get to sleep, John. Ben. Please. All right. You've been there a long time, Mr. Jowett. What did he say? The poor man, he's insane. Completely, unutterably insane. Come on up. Professor John Ruff's New Democracy was the modern enactment of the utopia Plato wrote about in his book The Republic. For 2,500 years ago, Plato, the Greek philosopher, author of The Republic, was given the chance to change a country into the utopia he wrote about. King Dionysius, wealthy and powerful ruler, offered Plato his kingdom so that the philosopher might change it into the utopia he described in his book. Plato accepted the offer, but when the king discovered that the rulers of such utopias had to be philosophers, the legend goes that he sold Plato into slavery, for which he was ransomed later by his friends. For more than 2,000 years, Plato's republic has stood as the giant work of philosophic thought about utopia. This was the book of which Emerson once said, burn the libraries, for their value is in this book. Each week, One Step Forward brings you the story of famous men and women of the past, who by their words and actions have brought the world one step forward. We tell you their stories in terms of here and now, how they might act if they were here now. For these great men and women are forever our contemporaries. One Step Forward is written by David Kark. Tonight's program featured Stratton Wally. Others in the cast were Al Riley, Marty Ryan, Betty Morrow, Jerry Esco, Al Malasse, Bob Osmers, Carol Kaiser, and Jack Lazar. Music and sound was by Marvin Lee. One Step Forward is produced and directed by Raymond Lehrer. This is the municipal broadcasting system. America서 Group of resStill, which means he is a state of fondo, parents at SC miel entitledgebra, and Gil on Polski. We give combat historic changes and focused on these other parts, according to the centimeters after the civilisation bosco veins. That maybe he has to thank him, folks. How do you celebrate that? That maybe he is a tenhae of a large month and half of 2020? sparked a big emphasize, the steel assembly of theotic race of the Denver water.