It seems only a few weeks ago that we broke ground here when Mayor O'Dwyer and Commissioner Moses and a group of distinguished citizens, Borough President Lyons and all those concerned with this great borough of the Bronx here in St. Mary's Park at St. Ann's Avenue on 143rd Street for what was then to be a recreational center. With just a few thousand dollars less than a million, this magnificent building is now completed. And we have been here a little time and have had a chance to walk around and see it. And it really is remarkable. There's an indoor pool of 40 by 75 yards, and it really is a beautiful piece of work. There'll be an outside pool that will be part of the second stage of this project. And when the open weather comes, of course, work will be started on that. And it will augment the indoor pool when that situation prevails. It's a very beautiful building. We're here in the gymnasium, which is an extremely huge building, a huge room rather, and has every facility for recreational purposes, especially for the youngsters that are going to have advantage of this wonderful recreational center here in the Bronx. There's going to be a life-saving demonstration down in the pool a little later. And everybody's invited down to see it, but I don't know how they're all going to fit in the pool because the pool room is not quite as big as the gymnasium here. But the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeliteri, is just taking a few preliminary inspections before he goes on the roster in here with Commissioner Moses, Councilman Keegan, Borough President of the Lyons, and other distinguished citizens of this great borough. And people are now taking their seats, and we're just getting to that expectant stage, you know, where the company has arrived, and everybody's saying hello, and they're adjusting their hats and coats and making themselves comfortable for the program that will follow. Well, this is the second trip over the radio today with Mayor Vincent Impeliteri, because earlier in the day, a little after 11 this morning, at City Hall, he made the awards to the civilians and the hack drivers of our city who have rendered in the near past such valuable assistance to the police department of the city of New York in emergency situations. Police Commissioner Murphy presided at that ceremony in City Hall and presented the awards after the mayor, as Commissioner Murphy said, went about his other work. And now the mayor is up here in the Bronx, just having a few final words with Commissioner Moses and discussing this great recreational project here. And we're just waiting for the moment when they'll be ready to go. The mayor is very happy at the sight of all these youngsters, and my, they seem to be anticipating every possible advantage of this great and wonderful building. It has a unique situation in that you mount from one floor to the other by ramps, and there are no staircases. And of course, that gives a great deal of facility and, I might say, a different kind, a better kind of exercise. Now, we're just waiting for such time as Commissioner Moses is ready. And as soon as he is, we'll turn the microphone over to Commissioner Moses. He's having a few final words with Mayor Impeleteri, and there's still a lot of greeting and shaking hands. Bobby White, my own godchild and a resident of the Bronx, in the eyesight of his own dear father, Joe White, the Silver Mask tenor, one of the great names of the early days of radio, will sing the Star Spangled Banner with the Fire Department Band under the direction of Bandmaster George Briegel. And, well, you always know those little last-minute conferences and ideas that are being exchanged. Well, that's just what they're doing here. In the meantime, Mayor Impeleteri and Commissioner Moses serenely discuss situations that seem pertinent to each other at the time. We're just waiting now for Commissioner Moses, and whenever he's ready, we'll turn the mic over to him. We're up here in the Bronx for the benefit of the late tuners in, if that's a good word. Thank you. The occasion is the dedication and the turning over now to the youngsters of this congested district, the recreational center at 143rd Street and St. Anne's Avenue in a corner of St. Mary's Park. Another very interesting factor of this neighborhood is just a few blocks below, and St. Anne's Cemetery is the family plot of Governor Amaris, who wrote the Declaration of Independence. That very interesting relic of the American Revolution and the assertion by our founders of man's inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness seems epitomized just these few blocks above the place where Governor Amaris rests. And we see this tremendous advance and consideration for the factor of the youngster and his development into a good physical citizen, which of course should contribute greatly to his mental capacities and his general comfort. A good mind should have a good house, and with the possibilities of the development here for good health, everything ought to be just fine. And now we're ready to proceed with the program, and here's your chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is my pleasure and honor to introduce the Park Commissioner, the Honorable Robert Moses. We begin the proceedings with the singing of the Star Spangled Banner by Bobby White. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Still there Oh say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave That was Bobby White who sang the National Anthem and now Commissioner Moses, your chairman. The Recreational Center at St. Ann's Avenue on 143rd Street in the Borough of the Bronx. As you will see, if you look at the program, a little booklet we distributed. There are eight of these indoor recreation centers planned for the entire city. The purpose is also described in the booklet. The purpose is to provide for all year-round recreation. We have a pretty good outdoor park plant today, but it fails us in the wintertime. A great many days when the parks are not exactly unusable, but they're certainly not fully usable, and we must have indoor centers open the year-round. So we had eight of these fully designed, and then we had the trouble of getting funds and getting support. And the first project to be built in the city of New York is this one. And one of the reasons why we have it is because of the support of the first speaker, Colonel Keegan. Commissioner Moses, Mr. Mayor, Mr. President, and my neighbors, my function in this program this afternoon is a very brief one. 1935, 16 years ago, as a young alderman representing this neighborhood, I sought something of this type in this particular park. I struggled through a great many years, and it wasn't until we got a very able park commissioner, a gentleman with foresight and, of course, the highest kind of integrity, that we were able to convince the officials of the city that this was the place to start this great experiment. When we broke ground here a little over a year ago for this program, we had this kind of a day. And the then mayor, Bill O'Dwyer, and Commissioner Moses were amazed to see the great number of men and women of the neighborhood who turned out in the inclement weather to participate in the groundbreaking ceremonies. And they expressed their delight and amazement at our turnout. I said to both those officials, as I say now to His Honor, the mayor and the commissioner, that we are the kind of people who appreciate services rendered by our public agencies. And we're not afraid to show our appreciation, and the weather does not deter us. And I assure His Honor, the mayor and Commissioner Moses and Borough President Clines and all the other officials who have helped us by voting the appropriations for this project and for the money that we'll need for the new outdoor pool and for the maintenance of this great institution, that the people of our neighborhood here will ever be grateful to them and will show our appreciation at all times for the nice thing they've done for us. And for them, I think that they're doing a service for the community too, because with what will go from this building in the way of recreation value and instruction, I think we'll make a large contribution not only to the welfare of the people of this area, but toward the program that is underway all over the city and possibly all over the country for the reduction of delinquencies, both parental and juvenile. I know you will help, and I know I'm safe in expressing to these public officials the appreciation of my neighbors in this area for what they're giving us here today. Thank you very much. The department heads under the mayor, if they expect to get anything done in this town, have to get along with the borough presidents. As far as I'm concerned, I've never had any trouble with the president of this borough. We've seen eye to eye on our entire program. The relations could not be more cordial and more cooperative. And I therefore have the greatest pleasure in introducing Borough President Lyons. Commissioner Moses, Mr. Mayor, Councilman Keegan, other distinguished guests and neighbors. I must agree with what Commissioner Moses says. He's very easy to get along with, as long as you agree with him. The first difference I had was just outside a little while ago when I asked him, transmitted a message from one of the judges in the court. Oh, he says, that can't be done. But I know Bob. He said that this afternoon. Tomorrow he'll call me up and tell me to tell the judge it's all right. I want to pay my respects to Councilman of this district, that vigorous, energetic representative who left nothing undone to bring about this project in this neighborhood. It was not in the budget. First came to the Borough President and said Commissioner Moses will go along if you'll sponsor it. Of course, Commissioner Moses is always ready to go along on improvements in the park if he can get the money. Then he went to the mayor. Then he got the controller who happens to be from the Bronx. And the first thing you know, he was ready to take anything and everything else out of the budget as long as we put in the money for this St. Mary Park improvement. I had the privilege of offering the resolution naming the airport in Queens LaGuardia Airport in honor of the mayor at that time. And I'm going to hear today suggest to Commissioner Moses that he consider the matter of changing the name of this park to Keegan Park. I want to also tell the commissioner and the mayor that the Bronx is a very appreciative people, made up of very appreciative people. And in this particular neighborhood, that is always evidence. They're grateful for all these public improvements. And I think the mayor may have observed their appreciation in an election that took place about a little over a year ago, where the people of this district registered their votes as a sign of appreciation to our guest here today, who was the mayor of this great city. of course, I don't want you to think, well, I know he don't, that I supported him. He knows that. But I was not very much disappointed when the result was announced because we've been great friends since he's been in the Board of Estimates. And I think the people made a very wise decision. And he has had the cooperation of every member of the Board since he took office. And we've gone along wholeheartedly just like one team. And I'm sure that's going to continue on his part and on the part of the members of the Board of Estimates. Sorry the controller is not here today because he too was very helpful in getting the funds for this park. And Commissioner Moses, I haven't looked at the booklet, but I hope this is in the group that you are going to construct that there will be others in other sections of the Bronx. But this here is located perfectly. Couldn't be located better. And I am sure it is a practical way of combating juvenile delinquency and crime. And more of these recreation centers we build, the more we're doing for the people of this great city. Thank you. I've only one quarrel with Jim. I never much liked those words juvenile delinquency. I don't know what it is. I don't follow some of the social workers and uplifters into that field. This place is dedicated to good, clean, wholesome exercise and competition for young people. That's what it's for. I wish that instead of paying so much attention over the television, the radio, the press, to the criticisms of public officials and programs of administration and public improvement stimulated by the congressional, the senatorial committee, I wish that more time were given to thinking about the constructive things that are going on, of which this is merely one. There's a lot being done here in this city for the people, a lot that they want done, more than I see being done in any other city here or in any other part of this hemisphere, and I get around quite a little. One of the men who has a great responsibility for this and ought to get a great deal of credit for it is the present and new mayor of New York whom I now give you, Vincent Impilateri. Bob Moses, Burrow President Jim Lyons, Councilman Charlie Keegan, Councilman Ed Cunningham, Ladies and Gentlemen, it's always a great pleasure for those of us who are members of the Board of Estimate on an occasion like this, when one of these wholesome things that happens in our city are brought to a happy conclusion, to be invited to come up and participate with the residents of the particular community that's affected. those of us who serve you in governing the city structure are very happy when these occasions arise, because you'd be amazed what this means to our city. As Commissioner Moses so very properly told you, these are things that your city government, represented on the legislative side by the Council, represented on the governmental side by the Board of Estimate, and acting through their agent, the Park Commissioner of the City of New York, insist that projects like this progress. Sometimes people will see a public official cutting a ribbon. They might see him doing it this place, this place, that place, Brooklyn one day, Bronx another day, Manhattan another day, and they say to themselves, what a soft job that fellow's got. All he does is going around having his picture-taking cutting ribbons. work. But when you analyze it, you know what it means actually to the people of the City of New York? When one of those ribbons is cut, sometimes means the opening of a new hospital. Another time it might mean a groundbreaking ceremony for a new school. On another occasion, it might represent a wonderful recreation center such as this. But you don't see that, you see, when the public official is there cutting a ribbon. But in actual evolution of what it means, this represents the thinking of the men that you elect to serve you and city government. I'm not going to take time out to quote figures from this very beautiful pamphlet and brochure that has been presented to you and that each and every one of you can read. The statistics are there. As Commissioner Moses told you, this is one of eight similar projects that are planned for not only Bronx County but for other areas in the five boroughs where we feel that projects like this can do a lot of good for the people of the particular community affected and when you translate that in terms of what we think is best for our people, that means better citizens not only for your community, not only for our city, not only for our state, but in terms of what makes for the wonderful citizens of tomorrow, the boys and girls of today. All of these things naturally cost money. Some people, some people who don't think too far, they like to have these things. They think that they're wonderful, but they don't like to look at the debit side of the ledger. Of course they say that these things are important. We know that they're important. We know that hospitals are important. We know that schools are important and when you consider that for a long period of almost six years prior to 1946, all of these activities were very seriously curtailed. Some of them were stopped completely, and properly so, because in those days the first job was to win the war so that things of this nature could proceed in an orderly way, so that we could continue to enjoy the form of democracy we enjoy in America, so that for six years any plans that Commissioner Moses had in his great number of fields of public endeavor could not progress at all. They came to a complete stop. Any plans that your borough president had for Bronx County could not go forward, and that applies equally to all five boroughs of the city. So all of a sudden, 1946, the war was over, we moved in the city hall, and all of a sudden people wanted everything at the same time. People wanted new schools. They were entitled to it. Mind you, for six years no new schools were built, and when you multiply ten by six you get sixty. That was our actual backlog because normally your city builds approximately ten new schools a year. So as of January 1, 1946, we were actually behind sixty new schools. Multiply that by what we needed in hospitals. Multiply that by what we needed in parks. Multiply that by what we needed in new arterial highways. Multiply that by what we needed in sorely needed in new rapid transit facilities. Rehabilitation of all transit facilities. And you will realize that we were confronted with a great number of problems added by the increased cost of everything. When you plan your budget in your own home, you find exactly the same problem that we find in city governments. No difference. When the husband goes out in the morning, his wife knows approximately what it's going to cost her to feed her children that day, to prepare the kind of a dinner her husband would like, to buy the school supplies and clothes for her children. She knows exactly all of those items. She knows approximately how much it's going to cost. We're in exactly the same predicament. We know, for instance, that in normal times, and I'll only cite you one illustration, might cost a million or a million and a half to build a new school. That very same school today will cost not a million or a million and a half. We're very fortunate if that same school with the same materials, the same kind of labor, would cost today less than three million. Why, only two weeks ago, at one of our Board of Estimate meetings, we had plans for a hospital. That hospital had been planned several years ago, when prices were fairly stable. At that time, that hospital hospital was estimated to cost approximately five or six million dollars. Today, present day prices, that hospital will cost approximately 18 to 20 million dollars. So that, I merely refer to that in letting you know that in our housekeeping problems, we have exactly the same difficulties that the average housewife has. She knows her problems, and we try to know the basis for our increased costs. We know that it's important, for instance, that city employees be paid a proper amount of salary to offset the tremendous cost and the price of living. Those are subjects that perhaps are not too interesting, Bob, in the opening of a recreation center. But the same problem exists. You know that this particular recreation center cost the people of the city of New York approximately one million dollars, as of today. And that doesn't include the outdoor swimming pool that will come along later on. Commissioner Moses will tell you, and he's had a lot of experience that this same recreation center built several years ago would have undoubtedly cost not more than $500,000. And I think I'm putting in a little on the over-conservative side. But in spite of those costs, we of your city government feel feel that where the need is urgent, where new hospitals are required, where recreation centers such as this are required, where other vital essential services are required, we feel that it's our obligation to go forward with those improvements and not backwards, and that's our pledge to you. That's our policy, and we intend to stick to it. Of course, at times, you're bound to get criticism. We expect it. We don't mind honest criticism. We do resent dishonest criticism, unfair criticism, criticism that says, oh, sure, you can do all these things, but the way to do it is to tighten your belt. Now, exactly what they mean by that, nobody will ever understand. I know that I cannot understand it, because if you took some of these programs, they would tell you that one way to do it is to not fill any vacancies that might occur in city offices for a period of 18 months. and when you translate that in the terms of what that would mean to your city, I'm satisfied beyond any question that vital services would necessarily have to be cut down, and I pointed that out. It would mean that in your police department over the next 18-month period, you could not fill approximately 2,000 police vacancies, not in the same ratio, but perhaps about 1,000 fire vacancies, a great number of vacancies in the sanitation department, a great number of vacancies in your teaching staffs. I don't subscribe to that theory. I know that my colleagues in the Board of Estimate do not subscribe to that theory. We intend to provide the people of the City of New York with the kind of service they expect from us. So on this occasion, and I'm sorry if I digress, but occasionally, perhaps it's a good thing for the people of the City of New York to know something of the problems that goes into the making of a budget, and I took time out, Bob, today, to leave a big sheet of papers on my desk, which is called the budget, to come up here and participate in this ceremony because I think it's important for all of us who started in with this project in the early days, to actually come up here, see it, see what the people in the community think of it, and that, in turn, gives us courage to go on with these improvements, in spite of the fact that it might cost the average citizen just a few more dollars. But in the long run, we feel that these are the kind of things things that make New York stand out preeminent, not only in this field, but in a great many others. So today, as your mayor, I want to congratulate Commissioner Moses. I want to congratulate Charlie Keegan, who served in the council with me when I at one time was its presiding officer. I also want to congratulate my friend Jim Lyons, in spite of what he said about the last election, don't believe it. I want to thank particularly all you people who took time out from your own busy schedules to come up here and join with us today in opening up this perfectly beautiful recreation center. I know that it's this kind of a reaction, this kind of an attendance, that makes us feel certain that when we voted for this project, when we appropriated the money, we know from your expressions, from your attendance here today, that we did the right thing for all the people of the city of New York. Thank you very much. We've just heard the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent and Pelletieri at the dedication of the recreational center in St. Mary's Park, St. Anne's Avenue in the Bronx. Commissioner Moses has just concluded the ceremony and invited all the company for an inspection. The fire department band, under the splendid leadership of bandmaster George Briegel, was the musical feature of the program, and Bobby White, the distinguished young voice of radio and television, sang the Star Spangled Banner with the artistic assistance of the band. And now the party is breaking up for an inspection of this beautiful building. I say beautiful, its utilitarian factor is very plain and simple, but what it means to the structure, the health, and the building of bodies in this neighborhood, where the congestion is so great that this physical development is possible here in this magnificent gymnasium, that wonderful pool, 40 feet wide and 75 feet long, inside the building, in the basement, that is only a feature of the pool that will be augmenting the features here at the recreational center, when the outdoor pool is completed in the second stage of this project. Even the project as it stands is a magnificent physical development for the youngsters of this immediate neighborhood. And we're going down to the swimming pool now to watch a demonstration of life-saving and all the other factors under the Department of Parks. That is all from the Borough of the Bronx at St. Anne's Avenue on 143rd Street in St. Mary's Park, and its recreational center. We return you now to the studios and join with the program now in progress. When an old friend I had a... lady is a big fan of the supernatural Meine's even close to the Beatles on 540óc okay there's some questions now decent and then you many come to us display together in here at the