This is London Phone. The British Broadcasting Corporation presents Radio Newsreel. In this edition, we review British press reaction to the report of the Anglo-American Palestine Committee, and Audrey Russell reports an old traditional May Day ceremony from Magdalen College, Oxford. This is Jack Peach speaking for Radio Newsreel from London. The Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry into Conditions in Palestine has revealed its findings in a lengthy document published today. The Committee recommends that the British mandate for Palestine should be maintained while the present hostilities continue between Jews and Arabs. The Committee, having decided that Palestine must not become either a Jewish or an Arab state, believes that eventually the mandate should be replaced by a trusteeship agreement under the United Nations in the interest of avoiding future world strike. Also, the Committee urges that 100,000 Jewish victims of Axis persecution should be admitted into Palestine, if possible, this year. Palestine alone cannot meet the immigration needs of these Jewish victims, states the document, in urging that the world shares responsibility for them and for their fellow refugees. Therefore, it further recommends that all governments should immediately establish new homes for them, irrespective of their race or creed. One of the most important statements regarding the recommendations of the Committee was made by Mr. Aftley in the House of Commons this afternoon. This is what he said. Good. The British government is now studying the report and will consult with the United States government as soon as possible. The report must be considered as a whole in all its implications. Execution of its recommendations will entail heavy, immediate and long-term commitments. His Majesty's government wishes to be satisfied that it will not be called upon to implement a policy which will involve it single-handed in such commitments. It wishes to ascertain to what extent the governments of the United States will be prepared to share the resultant military and financial responsibilities. It is clear from the facts presented in the report regarding the illegal army in Palestine and their recent activities, that it will not be possible for the government of Palestine to admit so large a body of immigrants unless and until these formations have been disbanded and were armed surrendered. Jews and Arabs in Palestine alike must disarm. The report has made headline news in all the papers here and evoked immediate comment from the Arab office in London and the Jewish Agency. The Arab office says, It is an outrage. We oppose it absolutely. The recommendations mean the complete and everlasting subjection of the Palestine Arabs to foreign interests. Speaking for the opposing faction, the Jewish Agency says this. The central problem of the stateless Jews is untouched. The national home cannot be really secured except within the framework of the Jewish state. Certainly there is no disposition on the part of the British press to underestimate the difficulties of the situation. That consciousness is deepened here because Britain holds the mandate for Palestine and must continue as the really responsible power until this report, if accepted, is implemented. The Labour newspaper, the Daily Heron, finds comfort in the fact that the report of the committee is unanimous. And the conservative Daily Express also stresses this point. The Palestine problem has now been studied and redefined by a committee fully representative of a great neutral nation as well as of Great Britain. Therefore, the publication of the report should put an end to the many unjustified criticisms which have been made of Britain's policy in the past. There is universal satisfaction in the press on the recommendation for granting the 100,000 visas at once to the Axis persecuted Jews. This is the comment in the news article. As a result of Hitler's war, more than half the 10 million Jews of Europe have been wiped out. The survivors are gripped by a desperate anxiety about their future. Nearly 400,000 of them are still classed as refugees or displaced persons. The commission has rightly directed its main thoughts to the problem of the Jewish survivors. And it has produced practical and sympathetic recommendations. It urges the immediate admission of 100,000 Jews into Palestine. It calls upon the nations to adjust their immigration policy temporarily to the exceptional need of the moment. On the subject of the proposed solution of the Palestine question itself, there is less agreement in the press. And on that subject, the Chronicle goes on to say this. Provided that the government of Palestine is strong enough materially and morally to guarantee a framework of order, and is backed by the full weight of international opinion, it is conceivable that over a long period the present political feud, class is sustained on both sides, will die away. In the immediate future, however, it is likely to be aggravated. Another conservative newspaper, The Telegraph, reluctantly concludes that the issue is still unsolved. To the average British and American mind, the common sense solution of a Palestinian problem they will seem to be that to which the committee reverts. Namely, the creation of a sort of Switzerland in Palestine, with different nationalities working harmoniously together. Unfortunately, experience and a massive evidence, including that falsely reproduced in the report, suggests that what is common sense in Brooklyn or America is not practical common sense in Palestine. The committee would doubtless rejoin, not yet, and nobody should wantonly cast groundwater upon their ideals. The report cannot be lightly rejected, but it ought not to be likely accepted. To conclude this round-up of press opinions, here is part of the editorial reaction of the Times. It is to be hoped that the opportunity, afforded by the presence of Mr. Bevin and Mr. Burns in Paris, will be utilized to secure American support and cooperation for the measures which Britain, as the mandator at power, could initiate without delay. Arabs and Jews are offered a new opportunity, the cooperation and advancement of both communities. And they are effortless in a report that are likely to represent the predominant part of interested opinions throughout the world. And that is our survey of British reaction to the Anglo-American report on Palestine. In many of the capitals and big cities of Europe, May the first, May Day, has been celebrated with speeches and processions. One of the biggest celebrations has been in Moscow, where tanks, artillery, and cavalry, led by famous Soviet generals, opened a huge six-hour parade in the Red Square. In Paris, famous for its May Day parades, millions of people fanned the streets. In the crowd was BBC correspondent Thomas Cadet. And here is his description of the commissioner's May Day parade in Paris. Thomas Cadet. And this is Thomas Cadet calling the radio newsreel from Paris. That's a glory one, he's wearing a spig of wild lilies of the valley. It's something that's supposed in France to bring good luck. If you wear it on May Day, it's supposed to bring you good luck for the rest of the year. And the summons of the Mid-Lay, as it's called in France, will keep the pulse on the stingy or the forgetful ones who haven't yet bought the spray. And I noticed that few people were strong-minded enough to resist these enterprising salesmen. All the delegations in the position were carrying some sort of flag or banner, and in addition there were all sorts of displays on lorries. Some merely symbolical things of large old custom, others the real things, such as aeroplane engines or legs, made by the body's concern. These banners and flags and displays gave just the right touch of vivid and varied colour to save the procession from being entirely a drab-coloured stream of humanity. Though some of the women, and there were plenty of them in the march, some of the women helped too with bright scarves and hats. Apart from the normal human interest of such a huge mass of people, one thing struck me particularly. Before the war, the slogans of the banners that they carried carried carried to two classes. Those dealing with home affairs and particularly working conditions, and those dealing with foreign affairs. Usually, of course, carrying slogans against fascism. Well, the slogans against fascism in the person of Joe Franco were very... ...fascial rights this time too, and very blunt some of them were. But the home runs were entirely different. No complaints about working conditions or wicked bosses. Or if there were an idea, you'll see them all out. Instead, the stress was all on one thing. Production, production, production. And it's no accident that this happens to be the communist slogan here at the moment too. There were a lot of danners urging people to vote for the new constitution at the coming referendum as well. But it was this production drive that stood out above everything else. And of course, a good thing for France too, if production does go up as a result. But I couldn't help out wondering that in Russia, workers aren't encouraged to grumble about working conditions. And it makes me wonder how much those French learners were assigned and apportioned. Thank you, Thomas Gaudet in Paris. Now we turn to a picturesque May Day scene in the British University town of Oxford. It is a 400-year-old ceremony taking place in the bell tower of Oxford's Magdalen College. There, the rising sun was saluted with voices and church bells on this May Day morning. Radio Newsreel observer Audrey Russell was there at dawn today. And this is the scene as she saw it. This is Audrey Russell calling Radio Newsreel on May Day morning from the top of the bell tower of Magdalen College, Oxford. We're standing really on what is the roof of the belfry with the high carved bafflements of this ancient square tower walling its end. There's no roof above us, none of the sky, which at the moment is a pale, luminous oyster grey. Oxford lies below in the list. And the traditional ceremony is soon to begin. The choir are already up here in the tower, and the young choristers with their white surfaces strapping the wind are peering through the gaps in the battlemen, looking out for the familiar landmarks of Oxford below. In a short time, the clock will strike six. And at the end of the last stroke, the choir will sing in Latin a short May Day hymn. It was written by Ben Rogers, a college organist in the 17th century. And at the close of the hymn, the bells in the belfry below will ring out to salute, if not the rising sun, which we may not see, but to salute May Day in Oxford. I'm standing now, looking towards the east, and I can see the people walking along Addison's walk towards Magdalen Bridge. Filing along, people arriving, the air quarters on bicycles and on foot. It's just six o'clock. It's like a long Between Well, all tendency members. Anyway! And an urban disaster is нужен another town for the rest of the crowds should begin. That is quite challenging. Enumerated between thegies of the flowers. Except this is how the farm one probiotics is filled with little diamonds and crowds of our partners. We have severalanges. All poids an open for the fields. If you don't, the forest ones don't hold for a week-to-day tree, If you don't have 26 feet anymore, because your seldom is an open, But the forest This edition, an official of the British Ministry of Food outlines the measures announced tonight by the minister, Sir Ben Smith, by which Britain is to help to meet the world's food shortage. You will hear Sir Ben Smith himself opening a battle for bread in London. And we reconstruct the House of Commons debate on the National Health Bill concluded this evening. This is Robert Beatty speaking for Radio Newsreel from London. Britain is still a country of restrictions, and that's a subject you will hear more of in a moment. But the end of the war removed one restriction which we in this studio were particularly glad to say goodbye to. A year ago, the first item you will hear tonight would have had to be vaguely placed as somewhere in London. But now, you've no idea what a pleasure it is to be able to say that it was just a few blocks along the road from 200 Oxford Street, the address from which I'm speaking to you. Anyway, affronting on Oxford Street in an area of some acres obligingly cleared by the Luftwaffe during the Blitz, and nowadays frequently used as an official exhibition ground, what is described as the Battle for Bread exhibition has just been opened. The opening ceremony is performed by the Minister of Food, Sir Ben Smith, and we invite you now to listen to part of his speech. It is because of today's need and the crime of wasting food that this exhibition has been saved. It is to tell the people of London why I am asking them to cooperate with me in saving food in order that our fellow human beings overseas may be saved. Nor is it only London that this message will, in London will this message be told. This morning, as I open this exhibition in Oxford Street, I am opening at the same time similar exhibitions in seven other cities. Each citizen, if each citizen, if each citizen realises, as he must realise, if he visits this exhibition, how serious the food position is, he will spare no effort to limit his purchases to food, what is strictly necessary, and at all costs avoid the unforgivable crime of wasting bread. But the avoidance of bread wastage is only a small part of Britain's contribution to the alleviation of the world food shortage. This evening, shortly after the Cabinet meeting at which the matter had been considered, Sir Ben Smith announced further reductions of Britain's diet in order to save wheat. He made the announcement at a special press conference, and one of his lieutenants, who was there, makes this report for Radio Newsreel. Listen to Sheldon Smith of the Ministry of Food on tonight's announcement by the Minister Sir Ben Smith. He made no attempt to soften the blow. He spoke as if he felt that the time for anything like that had passed. The new measures amount to this. First, the extraction rate of flour, 73% before the war, is to go up to 90% in a few days' time. So, British people will have to eat the darkest bread they've had for many years, far darker than during the worst days of the war. It will be darker than the wheat and bread of any country of Western Europe except France and Portugal. Second, the output of biscuits, cakes and flour confectionery is to be reduced forthwith by 25%. Now, this is a greater hardship than people not living here may think. The output of biscuits and cakes is already far below what it was before the war, and because the diet generally is so monotonous, there's already a constant shortage. So, this further cut will be felt very keenly indeed. Sir Ben Smith reminded his press conference that these new cuts were in addition to those announced in the last few days. The lighter standard low and the reduction of the brewing of beer by 15%. I hope, he said somberly, that these drastic steps will enable the most stringent period between now and the gathering of the next harvest to be bridged. Someone asked, can you give us some consolation by saying that these cuts are the last? But all Sir Ben Smith could be persuaded to say was this. I can only go on hoping. That was Sheldon Smith on tonight's announcement by Britain's Minister of Food. If Britain is tightening its belt for the good of humanity, the government has also far-reaching, not to say revolutionary, plans for the National Health Service. The Labour government's National Health Bill has been the subject of a debate in the House of Commons for the last three days. It was opened on Monday by the Minister of Health, Mr. Neuron Bevin, not to be confused by the way with Mr. Ernest Bevin, the Foreign Secretary. And it was continued yesterday and today. In the press gallery for Radio Newsreel was our parliamentary observer, Valentine Celci, who now gives you a reconstruction of the debate. He begins his report with Mr. Bevin's speech yesterday morning. The Minister began by examining our present National Health Insurance. What was wrong with it? Well, the National Insurance Scheme does not provide for the self-employed, nor for the families of dependents. It depends on insurance qualification, and no matter how old you are, if you cease to be insured, you cease to have free doctoring. And free doctoring is what everyone must have in Great Britain. And what was wrong with our hospital organisation? It has grown up with no plan, with no system. It is unevenly distributed over the country. And indeed, very often the best hospital facilities are available where they are least needed. The hospitals are in many ways the vertebrae of the health system. Voluntary hospitals of Great Britain have done invaluable work, but they have been established often by the caprice of private charity. These bear no relationship to each other. And Mr. Bevin continued speaking very earnestly. I want to be quite frank with the house. I believe it to be repugnant to a civilised community for hospitals to have to rely on private charity. And so I decided that voluntary hospitals must be taken over. I knew very well that this would give rise to considerable resentment in many quarters. But I am not concerned with that. I am concerned with the people whom the hospitals are supposed to serve. The only thing to do is to create an entirely new hospital service. And to organise all the hospitals in the country under a single authority. Which led Mr. Bevin to say that all hospitals would become the property of the Ministry of Health. That they would be grouped in about 16 to 20 regions around the medical schools. That they would be controlled by regional boards appointed by the Minister. On which there would be representatives of the medical profession, major public health authorities, and people with experience of voluntary hospital administration. Mr. Bevin then spoke of the general practitioner in the newsfeed. One great problem was the distribution of the general practitioner's service throughout the country. The present distribution is most uneven. It is most hurtful to the health of our people. It is entirely unfair. And if the health services are to be carried out properly, there must be redistribution of the general practitioners throughout the country. Finally, Mr. Bevin spoke of the projected health centres. We attach a very great importance to these health centres. Doctors will be encouraged to practice there, where they'll have great facilities. Though, of course, it will be some time before these centres can be established everywhere. Well, there you have the three main instruments through which the Labour government proposes to articulate the public health services. Hospitals, doctors and health centres. Mr. Bevin concluded with these words. I take very great pride and pleasure in being able to introduce a bill of this comprehensiveness and value. I believe it will lift the shadow from millions of holes. It will keep very many people alive who might otherwise be dead. It will relieve suffering. It will produce higher standards for the medical profession. When it is carried out, it will place this country in the forefront of all countries of the world in medical services. It will be a great contribution towards the well-being of the common people of Great Britain. Mr. Bevin sat down to the chairs of his supporters. The first opposition speaker, Richard Law, Conservative, started off badly. He was rash enough to misquote a document of which he hadn't copied, but which a government supporter was able to supply. But then Mr. Law took up the question of the sale of practices. The minister knows perfectly well that it is humbug to say that the sale of a practice means the sale of patients. He knows perfectly well that when a doctor buys a practice, he is not buying patients. If he has been a diligent doctor, if he has worked his hardest in the interest of his patients, the value of that goodwill will be high. If he has been a bad doctor, the value of that goodwill will be low. What the minister is doing is to remove one more material inducement which a doctor has to give the best service to his patients. On Tuesday, there was very little serious opposition to the bill. It was not until Wednesday that Mr. Willink, the Minister of Health in Mr. Churchill's caretaker government, removed the opposition amendment, refusing to support the bill. He went on. The socialist ministers in the coalition government have declared themselves in favour of the principle of personal association in the family-doctor relationship, and in favour of retaining the voluntary hospital. But now, thanks to the baleful influence of the present Minister of Health, the judgement of those as more experienced ministers has been overthrown. Mr. Clement Davis, Liberal, described the bill as one of the greatest steps forward this country could take. He went on. The opposition have expressed themselves in favour of a comprehensive national health service. Why then did they put down an amendment to wreck the bill? The extraordinary thing is that this amendment is almost exactly in the same terms as the motion against the third reading of the National Insurance Bill of 1911. History has a habit of repeating itself in the Conservative Party. That brought yesterday's debate to a close. And by this afternoon the opposition had rallied somewhat, and were in distinctly better form. A Mr. Williams, Conservative, spoke of the bill as a dictatorship from White Hall, and as for endowments... It is immoral to the highest degree to use this money for any other purpose than that for which it was left. Many people were stirred on to greater efforts in order to provide these benefits. They must be turning in their graves at the thought of the socialist government administering their money. And the dead are unable to come here and defend themselves. Finally, Mr. Arthur Greenwood, Lord Pervis Seal, got up to speak. The speeches I have heard from the opposition benches are an insult to the medical profession. What they say in effect is that unless doctors are allowed to buy and sell practices like hudsters in a marketplace, unless they can keep their private enterprise, they are not going to be good public servants. I did neither. I would say that younger doctors, many of them having served in the forces, are public-spirited men. They are prepared to serve the public without having to run around with a good bedside manner to collect more and more patients. And it was at this point that the vote took place. The opposition amendment to the National Health Service Board was defeated by 359 votes to 172, a Labour majority of 187, and the House passed to other business. And with that reconstruction by Valentine Seltsie of the House of Commons debate on the National Health Bill, we end this edition of Radio Newsreel. This has been the BBC's Radio Newsreel, broadcast nightly for 2,126 nights. And so until our next edition, we say good night from London, England. Closed Captioning, see you all on the pod there. Please look up and help me and see you in English. Come back who we win on the side and still to make a great Ave ...fat 물, pe d板, snorting, aussie-sanちゃんns. We're allowed for two ninety- konnten consultation Robo. There were lots and leaks into those areas, but we did not pass以前 theory. It has no effect on the trial and now. And we're up at the summit's threshold where you came before vaccine. Of course we came from England, England.蛋 rendezvous and dejaurdays it was a special, But hace mad. Go on!