We shall now have the national anthem by the Department of Sanitation Band. The End The End I will now introduce the Honorable John Cashmore, President Bauer of Brooklyn. Thank you, Commissioner. Reverend clergy, I was going to say Mayor O'Dwyer, but I won't. I'll just say Bill O'Dwyer, distinguished guests and neighbors and friends. This afternoon, we're here to lay a cornerstone for a sub-health center. You and I have been neighbors and friends a great many years. And I'd like to digress just for a moment because I see some signs over there. And I'm a member of the Board of Estimate. We have a mayor here. He's an intense Brooklynite. He's been more than helpful to me. And we've gotten our share. Now, when you talk of schools, there was nothing done during the war years. We don't blame anybody for that. Because the most important thing was the winning of the war. And we had to lay aside all other building activities. But on January the 1st, 1946, when this present administration took office, it was also confronted with a shortage of critical materials such as brick, lime, lumber, cement, and steel. We were also confronted with the fact that there was a terrific housing shortage. And you and I know, being fair, that you don't build schools where you'd like to build them. You build them where children are. And in most instances, you would find that that was in a very thickly populated area. And it meant relocating families, which cost this administration from $3,000 to $4,000 to relocate a family. We also were confronted with the high cost of construction. And a school that should have been built in 1939 that would have cost $1 million, today's prices was two and a half times as much, or $2.5 million for the same school. And I can remember what the mayor said in the executive session. Children won't wait. They'll grow up. They're entitled on the American form of government to the best schooling that this great city of ours can give them. And here in our borough, since January 1st, 1946, we have built and under construction 15 new schools, one-third of the total of the schools for the whole city of New York. Bill, I want to say this to you. We know we're not stopping. We're going ahead as fast as we can. You're building one school a month, which is a record that has never even been talked of or attempted before. We know your intense love for youngsters. And I'll never forget that saying, children won't wait. They're going to grow up. Let's give them a hand for that. I'm not going to be long, because we're having two occasions similar to this here in the greatest city's greatest borough, the borough of Brooklyn. We're going to lay a cornerstone here. What for? So that the youth of today, the man and the girl of tomorrow, will never be able to say they didn't have a chance when they were young. And in this building, you will find practically every facility for taking care of the health of this community. Every dollar that was allocated in the Department of Health for the entire city of New York, Brooklyn, your borough, received 55.5% of it. I can't ask for more than that. As your borough president, use it wisely, use it well. And remember this. We're in there punching. There isn't one man of the eight in the board of estimate that doesn't love his work. We want to work, and we know that you're in back of us. Thank you again. I have been so busy introducing other people that I have failed to introduce myself, and some of you may wonder what I am doing up here. I am Dr. Mustard, your Commissioner of Health. I tell you this because the speaker who follows me will proceed to introduce his Honour the Mayor, so that I shall have no other opportunity to say to you one or two things that I want to say from the standpoint of public health. First, let me say to you that I have served in a good many city and state health departments. I know from experience what is being done for the public health of people over the United States, not on the basis of heresy, but on the basis of having participated in work in a great many states and cities. That isn't important, or rather, it is important only because I can testify to you that what is now being done for the health of the people of New York City is greater than that which is being done in any city or state in this country. And it is not that I am doing it, but it is rather that in the past four years his honor, the mayor, has gone to the support of health and the health of the people in a manner that might well serve as a model to other mayors and governors in these United States. if all chief executives give to the health of the people the attention and interest that your mayor has given, the health of the United States would be a great deal better than it did. I emphasize to you then I speak not in theory, not in one who has worked only in this health department, but I am able to make a comparison of the services that you get through the support of Mr. O'Dwyer with the services that a great many other places do not get. It is now my very great pleasure to present the Honorable Frederick H. de Mullen Commissioner, Department of Public Works who is responsible for the prosecution and development of this substation for health. I would encourage you, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Borough President, Dr. Mustard, ladies and gentlemen, this program of ours for the last several weeks and months of continuous groundbreaking cornerstone laying is getting me down a bit, but I am proud to be able to come here and say to you that I, together with Dr. Mustard, am a outside, as you might call it, professional man who has taken the position of Public Works Commissioner for the purpose of doing a job. And I want to tell you something of my own reaction to the help that has been given to me by my own department, members of my own department, but more by the members of the Board of Estimate who must understand all of the projects that are asked for by the people to spread monies that are scarce to the best advantage of the people. And I want to say this to you, I have the honor today of introducing the main speaker for the afternoon. I want to say that when I was introduced to him only two days before I was sworn in as Public Works Commissioner, I was impressed by two things about the man. I was impressed by his utmost sincerity of purpose. He impressed, he told me of how important it was that if I undertook the job that he was offering me, that I do a good job, that I must be qualified for the job. He investigated every nook of my record. I was impressed by that sincerity, but more impressed by his knowledge. It's surprising and startling when you talk with him, when you have conferences with him, to find that he knows so much of the detail, the detail that you would not expect the executive of the greatest city in the world to know. The very detail of what is needed in each section of this city. He knew the problems of the Department of Public Works. He knew the problems of every city department of which he leads. That, ladies and gentlemen, is my tribute to the mayor of the city of New York, who I have only known two days longer than I've been a public official, and that is just two years the day before yesterday. I don't know of any greater privilege that a man in my profession can have than to come and see the work of his organization actually realized in the construction of buildings and structures. We are privileged to serve the people of the city in the design and supervision of the construction of public structures. If you don't think that means something, let me tell you some of the statistics. We have 350 projects going on at this minute, some of them small and some of them very large. Only the day before yesterday, we let contract, took bids for, and will let contract for, another sewer disposal plant. You have already in Brooklyn, Owl's Head sewer disposal plant under construction. These projects are in the tens of millions of dollars. So the one I say to you that I have the honor to introduce to you the mayor of this greatest city in the world, the Honorable William Hervais. Thank you. Mr. Murem, Dr. Mustard, Borough President Cashmore, Councilman Vogel, distinguished Reverend guests and ladies and gentlemen and children. This function here today is just one of the many. We have a large city, but it's true what John Cashmore said. I came from Brooklyn, my heart's in it, but I'm now the mayor of a whole city with eight million people in it scattered in the five various boroughs. Every one of them needs something. The point is, what is the important thing? That has to be attacked first. If we had all the money at our command, it would be an easy thing. not to waste time and priorities, but since we haven't, and since construction prices are high, there's only one thing to do, and you do it in your own housekeeping. You'd say, what do I need most? I'll allocate a certain amount of my budgetary money for that, and that, and that, and the rest we'll have to wait for. Now, we came into City Hall in 1946. Actually, following the war, just as John Cashmore says, we're not fighting fault with anybody, we're not throwing rocks at anyone, we just found a condition that was there because of the war. No buildings had been done for several years. Our population had been growing. our ladies over here on that school deal. You want a new school down here, do you? I'll tell you how to handle that. You'd be surprised how many people want new schools in the city. You go over here to East 23rd Street, you see Matt Kaplan over there, the secretary to the Board of Education. Education. You go to work on that and you get a hold of Maximilian Moss, the president of the Board of Education, a neighbor of yours down here. You get a hold of a few more of the people, friends of mine for 30 years that I've appointed to the Board of Education and let them decide for us based upon the actual need of the children which schools should be built first. I'll tell you frankly, I won't say yes to you and I won't say no to you because I don't know. But when Matt Kaplan and Max Moss reported to me, then if they say it's okay, it's all right with Johnny Cashmore and it's all right with me and with the boy. Remember, ladies, we have built 58 new schools in three and a half years at a cost of about two million dollars a copy. And while we were doing that, we had to also in the priorities consider the health of the people. Do you know that this function here today is one of just 59 plans for the next administration throughout the city. This is not a major health center. This is a substation, but this is a place where the children can be brought to. This is a case where, this is a place where any serious condition can be attended to. And if they haven't got the setup in this one in the major health station nearby, they have, of the 59, 29 will be subs and 30 will be major health stations. That's because we think health is the point of beginning for the children, for mother, for dad, for grandmother, for granddad, and for the people generally. Now, if you think for a minute that this business of health is isolated and it just depends on building the station, you haven't got the right idea at all. Our health department examines the milk that you drink. Our health department examines the food that you eat. You have any idea how much food comes into New York in a day? You can't grow a great of grass in New York. everything that we eat, that 8 million people consume, comes in from the outside. 22,500 tons a day come into New York to feed our city. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a colossal job. Now, take, in addition to what you see here, our health department supervisors, the general setup of our hospitals, of our nurseries, takes care of the prenatal care of mothers, takes care of the postnatal care of children and mothers, always available for that purpose. There are matters of vaccination, prevention of disease, spread of disease, and venereal disease, all of them, together with tuberculosis, actually taking care in every one of these substations, let alone the large ones. Many times, I've been asked what we did with some of the money from the five cent fare, the new fare. Two million five hundred thousand dollars of that money was turned over to the health department to set up the kind of technicians, the kind of equipment that any one of you, only healthy people, thank God, to walk in, have ourselves examined for heart, tuberculosis, diabetes, cancer, or any one of the chronic diseases in the cases that afflict the agent. Now, we hope to be able to establish that kind of service throughout the city. The first pilot station will be set up in the near future. We hope to set it up in such a way that any doctor that you know, that you go to, who is not able to properly diagnose your case, and who would have to have forty or fifty dollars worth of pictures, blood analysis, and other tests which you couldn't afford to pay, if the doctor will certify it to us, to our health department. we hope to fix it so that that doctor will not make a mistake in his diagnosis, that he will send you to our health center, that that diagnosis will be made, that that doctor will get the diagnosis, and if he's not able from our examination records to make up his mind, then he's free to call in a consultant. At any rate, we want to help the doctor to get away from guessing what's wrong with you, just because you haven't got the money for a lot of pictures and a lot of tests and analysis. The least we can do is to provide that service to the doctor in the interest of the patient. So it is, ladies and gentlemen, today, we're going to begin something here that will be good for you. Those little babies, God bless them as they grow up, you never can tell what will happen to one of them. We want you to have a place where you can brew it. We want to have experts here to advise you what to do. We can't do any more than that. If we do that, we feel that we have to start on the way to take the children today and give the city a healthier tomorrow. There are many other health things that we've done and we're proposing to do. one of them you'll be glad to know is this. There's been a lot of talk about our beaches that they're not clean. A lot of talk. Well, there's no question about it. They need attention. A hot day like this reminds you of the day when the temperature was 20 degrees higher and when you wanted to go to the beach and you weren't too sure whether you'd take the children with you or not. You thought maybe better off stay home, take a shower, just because we're worried. We have a plan to take that worry out of your minds. The plan is, first of all, to admit that our harbor waters are polluted. Why wouldn't they be polluted? the sewage of almost two-thirds of eight million people are pouring day and night into our waters. You couldn't expect them to be other than polluted. Now, of course, I'll tell you it's a rather disgusting thing to talk about, but I have seen one sewage plant over in Queens where the man in charge, after all the treatment had taken place and the water passed through to go into the bay, picked up a glass of water and drank it. I think it couldn't be done. It is true. The analysis of that water shows that it's as pure as the water you drink. But we don't want you to drink it. Now, I can be wrong. I'm not suggesting that. I'm suggesting that the sewage that goes into our bay can be pure water when we've got finished treatment. How will this be done and how long will it take? It will take us about four years to complete the whole job, taking in Orchard Beach and Furry Point in the Bronx, Coney Island, the Staten Island beaches, Graves Inn. To complete the whole job will take us about four years. And ladies and gentlemen, it will cost this city $98 million. dollars. But if it gives this city, our New York, the queen of the eastern ocean, if it gives it the cleanest beaches in all the world, from here to the end of time, then $98 million is mighty little for all the pleasure and the help that you'll get from our beaches and we're going to do just that, as a matter of fact. Down here at this park, you want to go down 6th foot of 69th Street, you'll see the first of them, practically finished. John Cashmore, Phil Farley, and I'm trying to have been working on it for years. A lot of local opposition to it. But we have surmounted everything and now it is one-third finished. The cost of that service disposal plant alone will be $23 million. It will be finished by the end of next year, a year from, two years from this present summer. That will have taken care, that together with the 26th War plant, will have taken care of South Beach, the Staten Island beaches, Graves End, and Coney Island. And after that, you in your lifetime will never again hear of a polluted beach in Coney Island. I talked too long to you. Dr. Mustard has done us all in this city of great failure. I begged Columbia University to permit him to take over the responsibility of the health department. He's done, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most beautiful jobs that was ever done in health in the city. We are going to lose Dr. Mustard the first of the year. That is one of the greatest regrets I have, but the conditions are such that I must say I have to go along with Dr. Mustard. But I'm very grateful to Dr. Rafferty and to Dr. Mustard and that the faculty and the Board of Management of Columbia University for having let us have him until we got the kind of a plan for public health of which you and I can be proud. And it's our job from herein to carry that plan through. One thing I'm pleased to tell you, that in his new post, Dr. Mustard will be available to us, and I have his absolute promise that every time we meet him for consultation, he'll be with us, with just as great a heart, with as greater mind, and as greater dedication to the public health as he has been in his commission. That one is the one redeeming thing about his leading. God bless you, everyone. Thank you.