New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, in place of our dramatization, we will feature a question and answer session based on past programs in the series. Our moderator is Miss Edith McGinnis, Manhattan Borough historian, Aunt Edith on the Know Your City program, and Executive Secretary of the City History Club of New York. And now, here is Miss McGinnis. Thank you, Martin Waldman. And good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Our guests are Young City History Club historians from PS8 in Manhattan. They are... John Riccoboni, Angela Privatali, Jean Squary, Barbara Coopersmith, Linda Sistola, Charles Peruzzi, Charles Peruzzi, Ricky Black, Frank Rogers. Now, I wonder if you boys and girls can tell us the name of the first explorer to visit New York Bay. How about it, John? Do you know the name of the first explorer? Giovanni D. Verrazano. Yes. Now, do you happen to know when he got over here? 1524. Yes. Now, what did Henry Hudson... Why, I should say, why did Henry Hudson visit our harbor in 1609? Angela? To find a Northwest Passage. Yes, he did. And what happened? He discovered what? He discovered that... What river? He discovered the Hudson River. The Hudson River, yes. Now, who was the first European trader to enter New York Harbor? Can you tell us that, Jean? Captain Adrian Block. And do you know about when he got here? 1614. Yes. Now, why do we remember Captain Block, Roberta? Because Captain Block discovered Black Island. He established that Manhattan was an island. He built the first ship on Manhattan Island after his ship, the Tiger, was burned. Good. And he also established that Long Island was an island. Now, Linda, I wonder if you can tell us what product was very important in the early trade between New Netherlands and Europe. Beaver fur pelts. Yes. Now, what did the people use for money in those days? How did they buy their products? Charles? They used Indian wampum and beaver fur pelts. Yes. Now, what were some of the first industries to be established on Manhattan Island after the Dutch lived here? Ricky? Well, trading animal hides, brewing beer, and milling flour. Mm-hmm. Now, what other trading posts, besides the trading posts on New Amsterdam or at New Amsterdam, what other trading posts was established in New Netherland? Who can tell us that? Could you tell us that, Frank? Yes. At Fort Orange, now Albany, in New York State. Yes. Now, I wonder if you can tell us who bought Manhattan Island, John. Peter Minuit. Yes. Do you know when he bought Manhattan Island? 1626. Mm-hmm. Do you know how much he paid for it? $24. Yes, he did. Now, when did New Amsterdam become a real city? Can you tell us that, Angela? On February 2nd, 1653. Mm-hmm. About 300 years ago next month. Yes, and we hope to celebrate it next year. Now, when did... Or rather, this year. When did New Amsterdam surrender to the English? Can you tell us that, Jean? On November 10th, 1664. Mm-hmm. Now, Roberta, what cities were more important than New York before the Revolution? Philadelphia, Boston, and Charleston, South Carolina. All right. Now, where was the New York Chamber... When was the New York Chamber of Commerce organized? Linda, do you know in what year the Chamber of Commerce was organized? In 1768. Yes. And where was it organized? In Francis Tavern at Broad and Pearl Street. Mm-hmm. Now, do you know... Can we visit Francis Tavern today? Yes. Do you know why else we remember Francis Tavern, by any chance? How about... It's connected with George Washington. Can you guess? George Washington said farewell to his offices in the long room at Francis Tavern, and we may go down there and see mementos of it today. Now, I wonder if you boys and girls can tell us what British tax led to the Revolution. Charles? The Tea Tax. Yes, but what's the name of the act that placed this tax on tea? The Stamp Act of 1764. Yes. Now, we've all heard of the New York Stock Exchange, I know. Can you tell us where the first stock exchange met? Uh, who can tell us that? Ricky? Yeah. The buttonwood tree, near Water Street and on Wall Street. Yes. Do you know about when it was organized? Can you tell us the year? 1790. Hmm, that's good. Now, I wonder, Frank, can you tell us what a guild is? Yes. A guild is an organization of tradesmen working for their own benefit. Mm-hmm. Now, I wonder, can you tell us the name of some guilds that existed in New York at the time of the Revolution, John? Coppettons Guild, Blacksmiths Guild, and Watchmakers Guild. All right. Could you think of any others? What kind of a guild would you find in those days that you don't hear too much about, although they make these things? What's something every... We don't use every day now. Only actors and actresses might use this. Certain product, but, uh, or television actors and so forth. What did people wear a lot of in those days? Wigmakers Guild. Yes, Wigmakers Guild, and also they had Wheelwrights or Wagonmakers Guilds. And, of course, they still have Watchmakers, so we have the Watchmakers Guild. Now, I wonder, Angela, can you tell us the name of a famous society of guildmen that was organized in 1785? A General Society of Mechanics and Trademen of the city of New York. Yes. Now, I wonder who can tell us the first... the name of the first trading ship to visit China from our country, and it left New York. Who can tell us the name of that? Jean? The Empress of China. Do you know when the Empress of China reached China? In 1785. Yes. Now, Roberta, can you tell us what industries made New York the nation's largest city after the Revolution? Yes. Shipbuilding and sea trade. Yes. Now, Linda, can you tell us what business was started at the Tontine Coffee House? The business of marine and fire insurance on Wall Street. Yes. Now, do you know where this coffee house was located? Oh, on Wall Street, you said. Yes. About what year? About 1790. Was it organized? Mm-hmm. Now, Charles, can you tell us how George Washington studied the conditions of our nation in 1789? He toured the country on horseback. Yes. Now, does our president have to tour the country on horseback today after he's elected? No. Why not? Well, before he goes into office, as he's the president-elect, he tours the country to find out all his information before he goes into office. Well, that's one way. Now, how else does the president know what's going on in the country besides touring it while he's running for election? How else? Would anyone like to tell us? By... How else does the president know what's going on in the world? By radio, television, and telephone. Mm-hmm. And, of course, he has experts from all over the country reporting to him. That's right. Now, Ricky, I wonder if you can tell us what Washington's report to the Congress was about the condition of the country. Well, he said we need good roads to speed travel and trades. Yes. And do you know when he made this report? In the... 1790. All right. Now, what act of the Continental Congress began this great westward movement that we hear about in the history of our country? Frank? The Ordinance of 1787. Yes. And what happened after that ordinance was passed? Settlers moved... Settlers moved westward. Yes. And many of them went or left by covered wagon from New York City here. Now, John, I wonder if you can tell us the nickname of the Erie Canal. Clinton's Ditch. Mm-hmm. Now, what bodies of water did Clinton's Ditch connect? Can you tell us that? Hmm? Uh, it connected New York with what lake? Lake Erie. Mm-hmm. And, um, why was Erie's... the Erie Canal known as Clinton's Ditch? Any guess? Angela? Governor David Clinton of New York's bonds, the Erie Canal. Yes, it was his baby, wasn't it? Now, what was the Wedding of the Waters? Who can tell us what that means when we hear of the Wedding of the Waters that was brought about by the Erie Canal, the completion of the Erie Canal? Hmm? What was the Wedding of the Waters? Jean? A barrel of water from Lake Erie was poured into New York Bay in 1825. All right. Very good. Now, uh, I think, uh, Martin Waldman is signaling... I thought perhaps we might, uh, discuss something else about this. You know, we've been talking about New York's commerce and so on, and I know the boys and girls have gone around the city they live in, and I was wondering if any of the boys and girls could tell us some of the places they've seen in New York City that they found interesting. I wonder if any of them have taken the boat trip around Manhattan Island. Have you? Well, what impressed you most about that boat trip around Manhattan Island? Yes, dear? Well, when we were coming back, the... when we were coming back from... we were on the boat, and, uh, the ship was rocking back and forth, and, uh, everybody was getting scared. Most of the children were getting seasick. But going, we took some pictures of the Queen Mary, we saw the Statue of Liberty, and... moving on to the George Washington Bridge. Good. And what else? Who would like to tell us something else that impressed him? Yes, dear? Well, uh, I went to visit the Statue of Liberty on Bedloe's Island, and, uh, we got there, and, uh, I went up with my friend, my elevator, to, I think, the 22nd floor, and then the elevator man told him he had to walk up another 22, uh, floors to get to the top. So, at first, my friend didn't want to go, but later I convinced him, and, uh, we walked up, and, uh, we looked out on the Hudson River and saw New York and Ellis Island and, uh, Governor's Island, and, uh, ferry boats coming back from, uh, Staten Island. It's really a thrilling view, isn't it? Yes. Yes, Dan? I, I found the most interesting thing was when I went up on top of the Empire State Building, you can see everything around, and they have little slots up there that you can, uh, look through a little telescope, and you can see all around, and it was very interesting. You could see, I think, the George Washington Bridge, and you can see all the cars going across, and you could, it's something like, uh, on a submarine, you can see everything around you. Mm-hmm. Wonderful. Who else would like to tell us about the thing that he or she liked most on the trip around Manhattan Island, or what place of interest do you like best in New York? Do you have any favorites? How about the Bronx Zoo? How many of you enjoyed the zoo a great deal? Would you like to tell us what you like about the zoo? Well, I like to see many of the animals. It interests me to go there in the summertime because most of the animals are outside, and, um, when we went to the monkey's cage, it wasn't so nice in there. Mm-hmm. We went to, we saw the big hippopotamus. Do you have a favorite animal? Hmm? Who has a favorite animal? What animal do you like? I like the seal. You like the seal? I like the dog. The what, dear? The dog. The dog? I like the snake. The snake? Oh, golly. All right. Are you ready for us, Martin? I am indeed, and I found it very interesting, too. You've been listening to a question-and-answer session based on your city station's dramatic series, New York Queen of Commerce. Our moderator has been Miss Edith McGinnis, Manhattan Borough Historian, Aunt Edith on the New York City Program, and Executive Secretary of the City History Club of New York. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal, American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week at the same time for New York Queen of Commerce, presented over the Municipal Broadcasting System. Brewing of Commerce, New York City re-