Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, Can unity be achieved in Europe? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the proposed European defense community and the European political community, their aims and their chances of achieving effective unity in Europe. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Paul Gore Booth, Director General of the British Information Services and Counselor to the British Embassy. K. Heinrich Knappstein, German Consul General in Chicago. And Irving Flom, Foreign Editor of the Chicago Sun-Times and Professor of Journalism in the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. Now, as you have just heard, we are to discuss unity for Europe. I think it is relevant to note that considerable progress has been made towards such unity. The Organization for European Economic Cooperation came about through the impetus of the Marshall Plan. Then the Council for Europe, providing a conference of ministers and a consultative assembly. Then the Schumann Plan, established the European Coal and Steel Community, a broad plan for economic cooperation. And now the European Defense Community is under consideration, as is the European political community. And all this unifying organization has come since 1947. Now, I think it might be helpful if you men would open the discussion by telling us a bit about this so-called European defense community. What is it, Flom? What are its purposes? Well, to begin with, I think the word community may mislead a good many people. It's more nearly a federation. It's a federation. It's something new, as far as Europe goes, and setting up an army that would be an army of six nations rather than one nation. And it would comprise approximately a half a million men. They would all wear the same uniform, and they would have a single command. Although, at the divisional level, they would still be national commanders. What six countries are involved? Well, Germany, France, and Italy are the three largest. And then the Benelux countries, that's Belgium, Luxembourg, and Holland, the Netherlands. Well, now, I referred to this European defense community, and I take it there's a European political community in Appstein. What is that, and how are these two related? Well, you see, the two first steps toward unification in Europe were the Schumann Plan, in other words, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Defense Community. And the Council of the European Coal and Steel Community organized a special committee to draft a European Constitution. And that is the European political community that's coming out of that. It was a so-called ad hoc committee, which drafted the European Constitution, which is now going before the different parliaments of the six member nations. And as soon as that constitution has been accepted by the parliaments, we have the European political community. So to say, an organization over both the Schumann Plan and the European defense community. Well, now, what positions are being taken on these communities or federations, Flamme? What's the American position? We're in favor of them. We promoted the defense community, the army, because it is one way, we and the French started it, because it's one way of getting Germany rearmed, and getting a German army back on its feet and accepted in Europe. Getting a national German army started seemed impossible. There was too much opposition from the other countries who remembered what happened in the last two wars. So to overcome that opposition and to still accomplish our military purposes, we thought of this defense unified army, unified community, as a way out. Do you encounter or run into any serious opposition in this country to such a unified army? I don't know whether it's serious. There's certainly as opposition as there is in France and in Europe in general to the prospects of a militarized Germany. To the possibility not of the present German government, which people now have learned to trust to some extent, although there are suspicions about it, but to some future German government that might use its armed forces for selfish national purposes, perhaps even to dominate Europe or to make a treaty with the Russians again and thus bring on another war. Those fears exist and there are groups that express those fears, both in Europe and in this country. Do you share those fears, Flam? I'm afraid I share some of them. Looking back into recent history, you can't help yet but being somewhat suspicious of re-armed Germany. And I suppose that is the great weakness in all these unification schemes, because without faith and understanding, real faith and understanding in each other, the partners can hardly form a lasting union. And that faith and understanding is undermined by the past, let us put it that way. This is a heroic effort to overcome these old fears and suspicions, and everybody should applaud it, but at the same time, not close your eyes to the fact that they exist, that they exist in this country as well as in Europe. How has this program been received in your country in Amsterdam? Well, there is opposition, of course, against it, but the majority, I can't even express the majority in figures, it's 224 against 165. That's in your parliament? In the parliament. There is opposition, as I said. It's a reluctance to bear arms at all after the war again, especially among the young people who are supposed to bear arms again. They are somewhat reluctant. But on the other hand, the majority is of the opinion that it is necessary in order to strengthen the West as a whole. It's necessary to join the European army. And coming back to what Mr. Flom said just before, I understand that there is a certain mistrust and so on, but the treaty itself practically makes it impossible for one member nation to dominate the others. How does it do that? Well, for instance, by exchanging all the military secrets. Everybody knows about the other nations' military secrets. This is to be a genuine international army. International army with one command and one general staff and the same uniform and, what is very important, the same weapons. Everybody knows the weapons of the others or even has them. They have the same type of arms. And all these things make it very difficult for one member nation to dominate the others. I think also one might say that because the European defence community is included in the framework of NATO, there is also the help which the United States and Britain can give in preventing any one member of this community from trying to dominate the rest. It is not just only the weight of the other members of the European defence community. How many divisions would Germany have in this? Well, I think it provides for 14, doesn't it? Or 12. 12 for Germany and 14 for France and 12 for Italy. And the rest is to the Benelux countries, Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg. I don't want to emphasise the suspicions and fears that I was talking about, but I think the French and other people constantly rethink in terms of the treaty being broken rather than the treaty being carried out. I mean, they think in terms of a government which does not carry out its obligations and does not obey the treaty. The treaty itself is very good. If it works out and everybody hopes it will, then it would, I think, help to bury these old fears. Well, in that case, imagine the German government or the coming German government would break the rules. Then there, number one, is an overwhelming majority of the others who stand to the treaty. I said 12 divisions are German and all the others, that's about 32, are French, Italian and Benelux. And number two is what you, Mr. Borgooth said, that is a kind of guarantee by Great Britain and by the United States. Great Britain has given a guarantee already to any member nation that is attacked, regardless by whom. I'm going to present the French position here, if I can. Maybe the extreme French position. I'm not sure that it's not a little too extreme. But I'm sure they must be thinking of the day when the Germans marched into the Rhineland, breaking a treaty. And when they said, well, now this is breaking our treaty of peace after the end of World War I. Our former allies are bound to prevent this from happening and we asked you to join with us in preventing it. And there was no response from their former allies. That is to say that nobody came forward and said, we'll use force to stop this from happening. At any rate, it didn't, it wasn't stopped. Now the French, I think, must have in the back of their minds and expressing it privately, that something like that could happen again. And despite NATO, that is a North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and despite all these promises, there would still be a reluctance on the part of France's allies, the members of NATO, to go to war to enforce these agreements. And therefore, they wouldn't be enforced. I think that must be the fear. What's your opinion on that, Gore Booth? I would say that the situation is radically different in this way, that in that period of the 1930s, there was no solemn obligation on the part of Britain, and much less on the part of the United States, to do anything in such circumstances. This time, there is already a guarantee offered to the EDC, as soon as it comes into existence, that the United States and Britain will regard any threat to the integrity or unity, those are the words, integrity or unity of the EDC, as a threat to their own security. And that is already there as a guarantee waiting, so to speak, for the EDC to begin. That makes a very great difference. And on the general point, I do think that we have in these days to take something of a risk on behalf of faith in the future. And the kind of risk I mean is that we have offered in recent months to give training facilities to what would be the European successor of the German Luftwaffe. And that, after all, is an act of faith, and it's a very proper one. I wonder if the French would feel differently about this European defence community, if the British were to come into it. I know that the French have suggested that at intervals, but I think it is founded partly on a misunderstanding. The military effect of Britain coming in would not be all that different in respect of Europe, because, of course, we have a strong military force in Europe already. And that will remain there under the North Atlantic Treaty, four and a half divisions in Germany as part of the shield behind which all these preparations for a European defence community can go on. Now, I can develop a little other reasons why I think in the interests of the free world, it is really better that we should take our present line. I wish you would. What's your thinking on that? Well, my thinking on that is something like this, that we are the member of another very vital and functioning organisation, namely the British Commonwealth of Nations. Now, as a member of that organisation, we have a very close association arising out of past history with countries such as India, Pakistan and Ceylon, countries who are thinking very carefully about their world policy and are not altogether sure whether they belong on one side or another or in the middle in this struggle against communist aggression. And we feel that this existing membership of the Commonwealth gives us a position with them which enables us to help the free world in a way that we couldn't possibly do if we integrated ourselves right into Europe, because it would not be an honest position to say that we integrated ourselves into Europe and at the same time try to preserve these other connections in the way they exist now. I think everybody would agree, Gore Booth, with that presentation of the British position, but again taking the French case, cannot the French say the same thing or something like the same thing? They have obligations in Asia and in Africa and they are being asked to pin themselves down in Europe and if they have to move their forces into Asia and Africa, as they have been doing, that will leave Germany as a dominant power in Europe. Whether it's dominant within the treaty or without, the fact remains that the German forces would be the strongest forces in Europe unless British and American forces were there and pledged to stay there and within this organization. So the French are, I think, rightfully fearful of that situation. I don't think that that altogether works. I think there is some force to that argument. But, of course, the partnership in the British Commonwealth is rather different from the formation, the constitution of the French Union and the basis of the French position surely must be something we haven't yet mentioned, that there is a basic objective and ideal of all this movement, which is the healing of the century-old breach between France and Germany. And France and Germany are absolutely central to this whole development in the way that Britain is not. And, therefore, it is not surprising that the initiative for all this should have come out of France, but at the same time it is understandable that France should ask for certain minor modifications in her favor to meet the situation which you mentioned. To put it really very baldly, aren't the French really fearful of their own weakness, economic and military weakness? And aren't they, therefore, hesitant about entering into an organization where they might be the weak partner and, therefore, want Britain to be a fellow partner because Britain and France together would be stronger than the others? Well, one must be very careful when one starts speaking on behalf of a different government, however one's friendly and intimate one's relations are. And I mustn't usurp the functions of my French colleague. But I think I would say, just in comment on that, that, of course, what you have been saying is not the line that has been taken by the French government. And we hope the majority of the French people, the French government, are prepared to go on with this great plan on the present basis and on the present understanding of our relationship with it. And they are ready to go ahead. So I think that what you represent is perhaps a more extreme and a more anxious view than that of the majority of the French people. I would agree with that. In your terms, Napstein, would it make more sense were Britain a member of this defense community? I don't think so. I have full understanding for the attitude and position of Britain. It's very difficult for her to join the European defense community because of the member nations of the Commonwealth of Nations. But on the other hand, I don't think it's necessary at all because all the safeguards and guarantees are in existence immediately after the treaties will have been signed. The same, the potential, so to say, of the West will be absolutely the same regardless whether Great Britain joins the European defense community or not. I even believe that the potential is greater if Great Britain does not join the European defense community. I wonder if you would spell out those relationships, Gore Booth, a little more carefully. Specifically, how does this affect the NATO plan and organization? The relationship of the European defense community, I understand, is this, that the army, the European army which will be set up under it, is under the general umbrella of NATO. And therefore, the European defense community does two things. It both helps to reconcile these previous difficulties between European countries by putting the whole thing on a new basis, but it also strengthens the NATO operation of defense of the free world against communist aggression, because you have then under the supreme commander, under General Ridgway, an army consisting of a large American contingent, a large British contingent, both of which are already there, and this unified European force. And it really brings about the kind of NATO which we have all been looking for since its beginning. We haven't mentioned, by the way, how long this is going to take. I think the most optimistic estimate would be two years, don't you think? I should think that was right. Would you think that? Yeah, I think so too. It's about two years, yes. And is, in your judgment, an optimistic forecast in order? I would say so, yes. Do you agree with that? Yes. Yes, I think so. But on the other hand, this is the kind of thing on which one can afford oneself a little leeway of optimism, I hope. Well, now, we are discussing today unity for Europe. And up to this point, we've confined our attention very largely to this European defense community. Does this really mean unity for Europe? How does it affect the sovereignty of these nations? Are you talking here about a genuine federation of these European states? Could we call it the United States of Europe when it all goes through? Well, maybe in the long run. That's the goal which we try to reach. You see, one cannot start unification by putting six nations together and have them give up all their sovereignty and so on. But one has to start from the bottom, so to say. The six nations have given up part of their sovereignty in the field of coal and steel, which is very important in Western Europe. What kind of sovereignty have they given up? Maybe you ought to explain. Well, the legislation on coal and steel matters. Cannot be passed. In their own country. All questions of coal and steel production and prices and wages and customs and everything else is now up to the European coal and steel community government, if I may say so. Yes. Headed by a Frenchman, isn't it? Headed by a Frenchman, yes, Monsieur Monet. And that is one step. The other step is the European defence community. And now the, what I call the government of the European coal and steel community of the Schumann Plan, has by a, ad hoc committee created or drafted a European constitution to be accepted by the six member nations, the parliaments of the six member nations. That will be a political step further. So that practically you have three things in the make now. That is the Schumann Plan, which is in operation. The European defence community, the treaties of which have been, have been signed and initialed and partly ratified. And number three, the European political community. I wonder though if these ultimate goals, which you seem to, to anticipate, are, are fully understood and fully embraced by the countries that are party to this. Well, I think this is a case where the leaders are ahead of the people. I don't know whether you would agree with me. No, I don't. I think just the other way around. The people are ahead of the leaders. The, the union movements, the civic movements in the different countries are far ahead. For instance, the, uh, Europe Union, that's a civic movement, uh, in both France and, and in France, Italy and Germany. Uh, they have great support. And, uh, uh, I would say that the leaders are a little behind them. Well, I'm glad to hear that because that really gives you a full, uh, foundation for these. Certainly. And one thing I would like to emphasize is that the idea of a unification of Europe is a special, is especially popular among the youth of all the European countries. Uh, that is a hopeful sign. And I believe it's about the only political idea, uh, which makes the youth of Europe enthusiastic. Well, then you say that this is not necessarily or even primarily an anti-communist movement. It is, it is not devoted to stopping the Russians. It's devoted to something else. No, I don't think so. Of course, uh, the Russians are, uh, uh, help us to get forward with it. By opposing it. Even though, by opposing, certainly. Even, uh, if there was no danger or threat from the East, I believe the time has come to integrate Europe into, uh, a federation. Yes, President Junot. This kind of, of talk is, is most interesting to me because I, I can't, you checked me on this, uh, Flam, uh, possibly conceive of, of this country, uh, surrendering sovereignty in the way that we're apparently asking Germany, France, and the low countries to surrender their sovereignty. No, I think you're right. We're not ready for that at all. We wouldn't give up our national armies and put them under the command of an international army body to the, to the same extent that we're asking them to do it. I believe that there is a rather deep reason for that. And it applies also to my own country. That's why I mentioned it, that, uh, during the ordeals of this half century that we've just been through, uh, American democracy and British democracy have somehow got through without people's confidence in them being radically upset. And therefore, there isn't quite the same feeling that we've got to do something radically different, as I think you find a good deal on the continent of Europe. Am I right in that? Yes, I'm sure you are right. Yes, I think so. And the whole idea is very revolutionary. And for that reason, one must not be impatient. Uh, it's a revolution in Europe that is going on. Uh, giving up national sovereignty is an idea which, uh, 10 or 20 years ago, nobody, everybody would have rejected. But, uh, the time has come now, uh, to make a revolutionary step. And, uh, abolishing a national army, for instance, as the countries are supposed to do, is a very difficult task. And for that reason, we should be patient and, uh, look forward. Well, now, would the formation of an international army of the magnitude that is contemplated here hasten the day, you think, when American troops could be pulled out of Europe? I suppose you'd say it hastens the day, but I would, uh, certainly hesitate to say that the day is in sight. Even after the army is formed, the presence of American troops, uh, in some number is required for psychological reasons, if for no other. That the Europeans must feel that we are in the same boat with them, and if they see us pulling out of that boat, uh, their fears will increase to such an extent that, uh, their defense system might fall apart. And, uh, another question before we move on. Do you think this, uh, this international defense community, uh, Knappstein, would really prevent the use of these, uh, of national armies independently? It is good that the German army pull out of this thing and act independently or the French army? No, no army practically, practically could pull out, except for reasons, for instance, as an emergency case in a French colony, for instance. You know, the, uh, uh, an agreement has been reached just a few days ago that the French can pull out part of their army if there arises an emergency somewhere in the world. And the other people, the other countries would agree. If they don't agree, it's up to NATO to decide. But, uh, I believe that, uh, no country can act by itself within the European army because that's practically impossible by the clauses of the treaty. They've thrown up safeguards. There are safeguards in the treaty and it cannot be done practically. Uh, Gaurab Ruth, what is Russia's attitude toward this unification of Western Europe? Well, it is, uh, naturally suspicious, uh, to the point of hostility. I think, uh, Russian policy has, as always, had an element of caution in dealing with this situation. Uh, but, uh, we have fortunately so far been able in the West to profit from that caution in gradually building up not only our military, but what is also very important, our economic strength. Because quite clearly, although we have naturally devoted this talk largely to defence, it is very important that the building of economic strength and defence strength should go side by side and they should not be allowed to, to wreck each other. We must always keep the balance. And that is one of the very great problems of this whole endeavour. Is there any, any evidence, uh, Natstein, of, uh, of, uh, Russian opposition? Well, they do what they can to, uh, stop the development toward the unification of Europe. Uh, as we see it in Germany every day. The influx of refugees, for instance, from the Soviet zone has to do with that. And I think the phony peace campaign was another weapon. Yes, certainly. Peace campaign or the other way around. To do everything to prohibit the development. They are the great nationalists, aren't they, of the present day, the Russians? One can say so, yes. And aren't they also frightened, uh, perhaps, that their satellite countries will begin to desire to enter this union if the union works? Well, I think so. If the union works, in other words, if we are going to have a strong Western Europe, strong not only militarily, but economically, socially, and politically, then that becomes a great attraction for the neighbouring satellite countries to join Western Europe. And that's the main purpose of the entire unification policy, that is, to make the West as strong as possible. Not only militarily, as I'd like to emphasise, but also politically and economically. If you have a prosperity, uh, area in the West, then that becomes very attractive for the satellite countries. Uh, this unhappy thought occurs to me, Flam, is there any possibility that Russia might welcome a, a rearming of Germany? There is that possibility. I mean, I think we have to face up to the possibility of another Hitler and another Stalin shaking hands someday, uh, over the booty that they both hope to get. But it's a remote possibility, something that is in the future. Well, after all that we have experienced, I don't even believe in the possibility in the future. No, and I think that, uh, we in Britain have always been greatly in favour of this movement to unity, even if because of our particular position we can't go right in politically. I know we welcome it and we'll do everything we can to support it. Well, can unity be achieved in Europe? How do you answer the question, Napstein? Well, I would say yes, and it cannot only be achieved, but it is being achieved already. Flam? Well, I hope Mr. Napstein is right. I, I can only say that I have my doubts and I hate to express them because I want to see unity created. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Can Unity Be Achieved in Europe? We'd like to thank our guests for today. Paul Gore Booth, Director General of the British Information Services and Councillor to the British Embassy. Kay Heinrich Knapstein, German Consul General in Chicago. And Irving Flam, Foreign Editor for the Chicago Sun-Times and Professor of Journalism at the Medill School of Journalism Northwestern University. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the New Bible. Our guests will be John Evans, Religious Editor for the Chicago Tribune. Floyd V. Filson, Professor of New Testament Literature and History at the McCormick Theological Seminary and member of the Standard Bible Committee. Charles F. Craft, Professor of Old Testament Interpretation at Garrett Biblical Institute. And Alan Wickwin, Associate Professor of New Testament Language and Literature in the Divinity School at the University of Chicago. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion of the New Bible. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.