The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Natural or synthetic rubber, which do we want? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the problem of rubber in peace and war. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around natural and synthetic rubber, the sources, the supply, and commercial uses. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Carl S. Marvell, Professor of Organic Chemistry at the University of Illinois, and winner of the 1950 Willard Gibbs Medal in Chemistry, presented by the Chicago section of the American Chemical Society. I'm sure Dr. Marvell's colleagues in Chemistry at Northwestern University would wish me to congratulate him on this distinction. Thank you. Joining Dr. Marvell are James P. McKenzie, Technical Director of the Copolymer Corporation at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and H. A. Winkleman, Technical Director of the Dryden Rubber Division in the Scheller Manufacturing Company. In peace or war, industry, business, the home, and transportation on land, sea, and air cannot function without rubber. Today we tell the story of rubber, discuss the relative merits of natural and synthetic rubber, and consider programs for the development of reliable sources of supply. Now, gentlemen, we all remember the rubber shortage during the last war. What is the story behind this? Did we face a serious rubber crisis, Winkleman? In spite of the fact that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation started building a stockpile of natural rubber in 1939, when the outbreak of the war occurred in 1941, we found that we only had a stockpile of 533,000 long tons of natural rubber. That was less than a year's supply. For this reason, we did find ourselves in a very critical situation, and attempts that were made to control the usage and the manufacturing of products from natural rubber were most necessary. As a matter of fact, we probably were not stringent enough. What effect did the war have on the sources and supply of natural rubber, the marble? I assume they dried up almost completely. Yes, the natural rubber comes from the Far East in general. That's the major place of production. And as soon as Pearl Harbor came, we had no way of getting rubber from that part of the world here. I believe we did manage to get almost another 100,000 long tons in after this amount that was in the stockpile was counted, before we actually began to produce synthetic rubber. But still, we were very short, and during the war, our stockpile got to a very critical stage. I think probably our biggest stockpile was not that the government had saved, but what we had in the tires and the cars running on the road in this country. And that's one reason why we had to curtail the use of cars. I think it's interesting to point out, Marvel, that the low point of our rubber stockpile was about 93,000 tons as published. How prepared were we with the synthetic rubber, McKinsey? Well, we didn't have very much synthetic. In fact, we didn't have any general purpose synthetic when the war broke out. And we had neoprene, which is a special oil-resistant synthetic, but nothing to make tires out of in any volume whatsoever. Did we have the plants? We had no plants. There was a projected 10,000-ton plant to go in at Nogatuck, Connecticut, by U.S. Rubber, which the government was going to help finance. And then that was rapidly increased to approximately 800,000 tons within the next year after Pearl Harbor. Marvel? We did have one other synthetic in small volume. I believe there was a synthetic rubber made by Goodrich. And a few tires were produced from that before war broke. Before the war was over, how far did we carry this synthetic rubber production? Do you men know? Marvel? We had, at one time, produced as much as a million tons of synthetic rubber in a year. I believe that was 1945, which was practically the full amount that it was. Amount that we needed to keep our tires on our cars and the other rubber uses that we had to fulfill. About how many tons of rubber do we use in a normal year, Winkleman? I'd like a comparison with this figure that Marvel just gave. As projected for this year, it would be about 600,000 tons of natural rubber and 460,000 tons of all synthetics combined. Of course, this discussion naturally raises the question, to what extent should we try to depend on natural rubber in our plans for the future? Well, we can get enough natural rubber for the critical uses, and we can make enough synthetic rubber to get that out so that we'll probably continue for a while at least to produce about one part of synthetic to two parts of natural that we use in this country. We could increase that if we need to. The important thing is that we, at all times, be alert in building and keeping a stockpile of natural rubber. Well, do you mean by that that we have to have natural rubber? Can we get along without it? We have to have natural rubber for the construction of truck tires, airplane tires, foam sponge rubber, drug sundries, and rubber bands. Do you all agree with that? Well, I'd say, he said truck tires, I would say heavy duty truck tires. The smaller truck tires, I think we could get by without natural rubber. In fact, I'm sure of it. How about the automobile tires, general passenger tires? What kind of rubber do you use in your tires, for example, Marl? I use synthetic if I can get it. You think it's superior? I think the tread is certainly superior, and the others as good as natural rubber, so that in passenger car tires the synthetic is performing as well, I think, as any other. The synthetic, and by that I mean either standard GRS or the cold rubber, processes more uniformly. Natural rubber disaggregates on processing in Millie, which GRS does not. You can build your products, therefore, much more easily in the factory. You can handle it with greater precision than you can natural rubber. I use synthetic tires on my car entirely. I have synthetic, all synthetic treads at least. There may be a little natural rubber in the carcass, but not very much. Why won't synthetic rubber work in these heavy-duty truck tires? You build up an enormous amount of heat in running heavy-duty truck tires at high speeds, and the internal friction of the molecules of synthetic rubber are just a little higher than that of natural rubber. And, uh, we just haven't got around that yet. Dr. Marvel has developed some at, uh, experimentally at Illinois, which is now in pilot stage, which may get around most of that. Dr. I think it should be pointed out that rubber is a very poor conductor. In a small passenger car, the heat can get out. In a large truck tire, it can't get out, and it begins to build up enough heat to affect the cords that are put in the tire. Dr. And, uh, that's one of the things that gives us trouble in big tires, where in little tires we have satisfactory performance. The reason for that heat buildup is the nature of the compounding that is necessary in making a GRS tire. In the case of natural rubber, you can make a good carcass stock, either from a pure gum compound or one containing whiting or zinc oxide. In the case of GRS, the maximum physical properties can only be developed by the use of carbon black, which increases the heat generation in the tire. What do you mean by this GRS, this term you're using so frequently here? GRS means government rubber styrene. That's the government terminology for the general purpose synthetic. It's a general utility synthetic, is that the point? It is a specialty, or it's a general rubber, whereas the butyl rubber and neoprene and acrylonitrile rubber are more specialty rubbers. They are also synthetics and are used. But the general purpose rubber is the GRS, that is government rubber styrene type. Why is it on these synthetic rubber tires, if I may ask a personal question, that you have to let a little air in the air in the air? What's the answer to that one, Mackenzie? Well, that's because most of the new tires have butyl rubber tubes in them, and the air retention of butyl rubber is approximately ten times as good as that of natural rubber, so that they don't leak air. The old natural rubber tubes leaked enough air so that you didn't get near the build-up that you do with. Do you think we're going to have to get accustomed to these synthetic inner tubes? Do you think they're here to stay? I think they're here to stay? I think they're here to stay, and I think that we're not only going to have to get accustomed to them, we're going to find that we get a lot longer tire life because we don't run our tires half flat. Well, now, let me ask you a bit about the pricing on these rubbers we're talking about. Is synthetic rubber cheaper than natural rubber? What is the price comparison there, Winkleman? Today, natural rubber is considerably higher than synthetic rubber. In December, natural rubber was 17 cents a pound, a spot. Today, it is about 28 cents. So that there's been a considerable increase in the price of the product. I might point out, along with that, that synthetic has stayed at 18 and a half cents a pound during that time. Now, how have subsidies affected these prices, gentlemen? Is there a concealed subsidy in that price of synthetic rubber? Marvel? I would say not, although I'm not an accountant, and some people might disagree. Who's producing the synthetic rubber? The synthetic rubber is all produced by the government in one sense. That is, the government owns the plants, but they're leased to commercial companies who actually operate the plants. I think McKenzie, perhaps, can tell more about that. How about that subsidy? Well, according to the President's report on synthetic rubber, the overall cost of producing synthetic, general purpose synthetic rubber is 15.32 cents a pound. That includes amortization of the plants and interest on the money. And it's selling at 18 and a half cents. The rubber reserve, which is the agency of the government that operates the synthetic plants, has made money every year since 1945. Well, that's a great comfort, Mr. McKenzie, to know that we have a government function that's making some money. Winkelman, what do you have to say about this? Prior to the World War, crude rubber could be profitably made and sold at from six to eight cents. The present estimated cost is around 16 to 18 cents, so that the two, GRS, and natural rubber are not very far apart on actual costs. Your natural rubber prices, apparently, have gone up rather precipitously. They've gone up due to the unsettled economic conditions in Indonesia and Malaya. Would it be economically sound to increase the production of plantation rubber, do you think? Not at the present time with the unsettled conditions. For example, we understand that it would cost about $56 million to build a GRS plant with a capacity of 100,000 tons. That's a synthetic rubber plant. Yes. It would cost $80 million to build plantations for an equivalent amount of rubber. That would require 270,000 acres of land, 24 million trees, and would require about 90,000 people to man that plantation. There certainly isn't going to be any enthusiasm for capital to go out and invest in a plantation that would require seven years to mature. It should be pointed out that that planting will have to be done a long ways from home. And if anything goes wrong, we won't have any way to get the rubber back here when we need it. That's another disadvantage to increasing the natural rubber plantations. Well, now, apart from your enthusiasm for natural rubber for certain commercial uses, this discussion would seem to indicate that we might well expand our synthetic production. Indeed, we might even consider getting out of the natural rubber market altogether. Is that a conclusion we're supposed to draw, Mackenzie? No, I don't think so. I think there's a place for both. Our present production of synthetic rubber could be increased, say, 20% more without increasing our costs. But if we go above that, our costs will probably go up some because we have to get our raw materials from uneconomical sources. And I think there's a place for both. We've got to import natural rubber, or we've got to import something to pay for our exports, or we're not going to export anything. And natural rubber is one thing that we can use economically. Of course, that's putting it on a different basis, isn't it? You say that we need imports to give people money to buy our exports. We need natural rubber, too, at the present time. Well, that's what I wanted to point out, that while we can make tires, even truck tires, out of synthetic rubber that will operate, the truck tires will not last as long. Even if we build them from 18 and a half cents a pound rubber, and make them cheaper than from 30 cent or 28 cent natural rubber, they wear out faster. And it would not be economical to make those truck tires out of cheaper rubber if we don't get the wear from them. So we have to solve that heat buildup problem before we can say we're entirely free from natural rubber. Now, of course, if you're not going to worry about cost, such as the situation when the war develops and you have to live on what you can produce, then we're free of natural rubber supplies. We don't need them. But when you have to figure out what things cost, we're not ready to give up natural rubber. Who would be hurt if we were to gradually move out of this natural rubber market? Malaya and Indonesia. That would be the Dutch East Indies and the British in Malaya. They would suffer most. In French Indochina and Thailand, Ceylon, are the other smaller producers. How are those plantations affected by the war? Are they in a thriving condition now or do you know, Winkleman? The collecting equipment was destroyed to a large extent, but the trees themselves were not harmed. There were a few chopped down, but you cannot destroy a forest very easily. And so, as a matter of fact, after the four or five years of rest, the trees gave more rubber for a while than they had ever given before. So that there was not a great deal of damage done in the long run. Apparently, there's a, judging from what Mackenzie said earlier, there's a social problem here as well as an economic problem. Let's talk a bit more about these rubber plantations. What kind of wages do they pay? Are you, is, is natural rubber a result of exploitation of natives? What do you, what do you think of that? I think it definitely has been in the past, but I don't think you're going to kid those guys over there too much longer because there are too many GIs over there that had automobiles and so on. There's 65% of all the rubber that is grown in Indonesia and Malaya is grown by people, little farmers, who have less than a hundred acres. So, you can't exploit them too much. There might be some exploitation in the larger estates. But these little fellows, that's their livelihood. It's the same as the farmlands here in this country. Of course, in comparing prices on natural and synthetic rubber, it would be interesting to inquire into the wages paid in a synthetic rubber plant. Compare those with the wages paid on these plantations. I don't know that we're prepared to do that. Do you have any comment on that, Mackenzie? I don't know what the wages paid on the plantations are. No, I know they're considerably higher than they were before the war. The wages in the synthetic rubber plant for operators and so on will average around $2 an hour. Well, it seems completely clear that we stand to place considerable reliance on synthetic rubber. That's clear from what has been said. I'd like to ask you, Dr. Marvel, about the status of research in synthetic rubber. You've been in that field, I know. Yes, I've been in that field since about 42 when we started the government program of research. The research is financed, particularly by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, through the Office of Rubber Reserve. And it's carried out in a number of all of the major rubber companies are in the pool. And in addition to that, there are about seven or eight universities that are cooperating in this research group. I believe the budget in 1949 was about $7 million. And the budget has been adjusted to the amount of rubber that the government is producing so that the expense for research is part of the cost of rubber in a good business fashion, as I understand it. I believe this last year there was a little added expense due to military requirements, which went beyond what might be considered good business to invest back in the business and research. But outside of that, the research has been adequately supported by this Office of Rubber Reserve. And the program is very well coordinated. We work together very closely. It's impossible, I think, to say that any major development has come from any one laboratory. They've all shared their ideas, worked together in a very satisfactory manner. McKenzie's had a little foot in that, too. He can tell, I think, the same thing. Don't you think that it would be better to release that research to private industry and private initiative? Do you think that it would probably get a little bit further than to the government-controlled cooperative effort? I definitely don't think so. As far as fundamental research is concerned, on a long-range basis, I think that the private industry would do the same thing this time as they did after the 30s. As soon as natural rubber gets cheap enough, they'll quit, like they did before. And I think on a long-range basis, and most of the people in Washington agree, that the fundamental research is a function of the government. The development research, which we do in these various plants and pilot plants, should be a function of the private industry. Well, I think even private industry, once this industry is established, would be willing to do a considerable amount of fundamental work. But I think the rubber industry particularly is an uncertain industry. We have not only to produce rubber, but we have to think about the security of the country. We have to worry about whether someone is going to decide that we should buy all of the natural rubber in order to keep us from having to spend more money and lend-lease, things of that sort. It doesn't lend-lease now, it's other ways of helping. It's for that reason that we haven't had a chance to evaluate the position of GRS against natural rubber. It's so intimately tied up with the national security problem. It probably will be some time before we can actually reach a place where we can settle this thing on a pure business basis. We are to conclude then that in your judgment, the government ought to stay in the rubber business for a while. In fundamental research, certainly. In, what shall I call it, applied research, probably. And in production, less probably. Well, I would certainly say in fundamental research, the government should stay in the field. In the other two, I would like to let somebody else settle that. I would like to see the research continued, but I would like to see controls reduced to the minimum to see how much voluntary usage we can actually establish for the GRS synthetic. I would say the government proposed to do some of that, and some of the bigger companies said they didn't want it, but they would rather have the government run the plants, so that it's pretty hard to tell, well, which way we should go. I agree with Dr. Marvell on the fundamental research. I think it's going to have to be a function of the government because it's of the national security that's tied in with it. What do you think would happen to synthetic rubber on the open market if the government were to withdraw completely? Well, I don't think that right now the amount required to be used is affecting the amount of synthetic that is made. I believe we've been increasing the amount of synthetic made above that that's actually required because of the price differential. How long that would last if we took off the requirements is another thing. We will be using over twice the amount of synthetic rubber that is required by law. And in addition to that, I think it's interesting to ask the question once, how would we have won the last war without synthetic rubber? Considering the airplane cells, fuel cells, gasoline, oil, solvents, ozone resistance that was required to make products of that kind. I think that you'll find that there's a very definite place for the synthetics. We definitely wouldn't have won the last war without rubber. And even last year when for the full 12 months the price of synthetic rubber was under that of natural by a considerable margin, the usage of synthetic was at least 50% over the mandatory usage. Do you, John, would recommend any elaborate extension of our production facilities in synthetic rubber? How about that, Marble? Well, my recommendation would be to increase our production of synthetic rubber to the maximum that we can carry it, keeping the price where it is. If we have to introduce new sources of raw material that are going to make it more expensive, then I would hesitate increasing production of synthetic rubber. I think we've got to keep it in the competitive field. The price of GRS has had a marked stabilizing influence. If it weren't for the price of GRS at 18.5 FOB plants, we'd be having a dollar natural rubber today. Do we have the raw materials in this country for the production of GRS and these other synthetic rubbers? Well, I think very definitely we have. Most of them come from petroleum, and the petroleum industry, if it's called upon, can make almost anything, depending on what you want. For instance, the Japanese used natural rubber during the war to make gasoline out of it, when we went the other way. These, we've talked about these synthetic rubbers, Winkleman, and you refer repeatedly to this GRS. Now, that's a general utility synthetic rubber. I take it that we're dealing with varieties of synthetic rubber, and that any comparison between natural rubber and synthetic rubber must consider those different types. Yes, there are other synthetic rubbers. For example, there is a synthetic rubber that will do a job functionally that known natural rubber compound could do. And so you would select whether it's for ozone, oil resistance, solvents, and chemical resistance. There is a synthetic that will do a job that natural rubber can't do. The only place is probably in the carcass of a truck tire that we would have difficulty today. Which is, I take it, a pretty important place. Well, now, very briefly in conclusion, gentlemen, what policies do you recommend for the development of an adequate rubber supply? What would you say, Marble? I should say continue fundamental research until we can find the rubber that we can use in carcass stock. It's one of the needed things. In the heavy-duty tire? I would say continue government operation of the synthetic rubber plants, the idea of releasing controls and turning them over to private industry so that it can find its own level against natural rubber. McKenzie? I would say that my personal opinion that they ought to change as soon as possible to turn the plants over to private industry, but keep the fundamental research as a function of the government. Well, thank you, gentlemen. This, I think, has been an interesting discussion of a problem which could easily become critical in an international crisis and is one, I take it, of considerable importance in times of peace. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. We invite you to listen to the question, can we maintain our bipartisan foreign policy? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Bill Oliver, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. so
