Well, the Police Glee Club is singing, and I wouldn't like to talk against that, just to say very quickly and a little more formal later, that the Mayor's official reception in honor of the 20th anniversary of the 99s, the International Organization of Women's Pilots, is in progress here. The Mayor is coming up the staircase of City Hall now, and in a few moments we'll have the program for the air as the Police Glee Club finish off the George M. Cohen medley. The Mayor of the City of New York is now coming into the Council Chamber. The Mayor of the City of New York. The Mayor of the Gallant Irishman is stopping to shake hands with a few of the Lady Pilots here in the Council Chamber. Now he's taking his place on the rostrum with the ladies of the committee, and in a few moments you'll hear Mr. Whelan's familiar voice introducing the Guest of Honor at City Hall today. And now the sanitation band has gone to aviation. No, now they've stopped. They've made a safe landing, and in just a few moments you'll hear Mr. Whelan introducing the Guest to the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. There's just a few moments now for personal introductions and friendly exchange before Mr. Whelan takes over as chairman of the Mayor's reception committee. We all know the wonderful work that the women pilots have done, not only in the war days, but wherever the art of flying is a requirement, the women have made good and done their part to prove that there's no difference in gender when it comes to being an expert. And under these circumstances, these ladies are being welcomed here at City Hall today by the Mayor of the City of New York as a tribute to their valour and their efficiency. Mr. Whelan. We will open the ceremonies with the national anthem. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night, Gave proof through the night, That our flag was still there. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free, Home of the brave Now, Mr. Whelan. The presence here, the mayor at this time, is a great compliment to the International Organization of Licensed Women Pilots. If you knew what the mayor had on his mind today, you know the terrific sacrifices he's made to come down here. He shall have to leave very shortly, but I'm going to call on Mrs. Blanche Noyes, the president of the organization, to present you officially to Mayor O'Dwyer. Mrs. Noyes. Thank you, Grover Whelan. Honorable Mayor O'Dwyer, it is a privilege and a pleasure for us to bring you greetings from all over the country, and to thank you for the wonderful reception that we have received here in New York City. The organization of 99 Club is a group of women pilots who are certificated and licensed women pilots from all over the world, not only the United States, but the entire world. The 99 Club got its name because there were 99 charter members. The club was organized in 1929, and this is our 20th anniversary celebration. At this time, I would like to bring to you a few of the girls from throughout the country who have brought greetings to you from their cities. I would like to first call on or ask her to stand. I would like to ask Arlene Davis. Is she in the room? I'd like Arlene to stand up. She brought the Powderpuff Derby in from Cleveland, Ohio. Thirty-six girls came into your wonderful city in that Powderpuff Derby from Cleveland, Ohio. Thank you. Irene couldn't get her glove off quick enough, so the mayor says, take your time, and he stood up to Galant and shook hands with Irene Davis. Thank you. She forgot her fur. Did she? Now I'd like to have Dorothy Grevy stand up and come forward. This little girl, the whole city of Hawthorne, Nevada, sent this little girl to New York City. So, Dorothy Grevy, I want to introduce you. Now, Dorothy is being conducted to the rostrum, and the police glee club has to move over because she's coming in from this side, and the police are proving that they can be very galant, too. And now she's shaking hands with Mary O'Keefe. From one of the smallest towns in Nevada. And Betty Gillies, one of our charter members. I would like Betty to step forward, please. And Teddy Kenyon. Teddy, would you please come up? Mary Von Ma, would you come up, please? Because Mary's one of our oldest charter members and was on the first woman's era derby back in 29. I'd like to bring one of our latest girls who has just set an altitude record in Reading, Pennsylvania. Will you come up, please? Where are you? Are you? She's gone. I'm sorry she isn't here. I would like to introduce everyone, but I know the time won't permit. And last but not least, while you have met her, is Jackie Cochran, who is the first lady in aviation, not only in the United States, but in the world. Jackie Cochran. Mayor O'Dwyer, we thank you for the wonderful reception you have given us. Thank you, Mr. Noyes. Thank you, Mr. Noyes. And now the mayor. Thank you, Jackie. Thank you, lovely ladies that have come up. And thank you, pretty pilots. All of you that have had patience enough to remain on the ground long enough to have me get down here to welcome you. And thanks to the little one who flew up so high that I suppose we couldn't see her now with a telescope. And this, ladies and gentlemen who are listening in here, is one of the most unusual conventions that we have ever had in the city. And that is the convention of women pilots. and here they are. This is no fooling. When you take off from the ground and you're alone with God, how to get back again and land right is a big problem. Men have solved it, but right in this room are the ladies who solved it too, and they've done just as well as the men. I'm talking to those of you who couldn't have the opportunity to be in this room listening to us, those that are listening to me on the outside. If you were here in this room looking at what I'm seeing, you'd see ladylike, lovely girls who have the kind of traditional courage to face this new medium that their grandmothers, their great-great-great-grandmothers had, when they got into that old covered wagon and trekked over mountain and plain and river and pushed a frontier back against all the troubles, dangers that beset them. It was said of their forebears that the cowards never started and the weaklings died on the way. Well, in this new medium, we've had a new frontier to conquer, and that was the frontier of the air. I remember as a lawyer 25 years ago actually flying over New York Bay with a man who was charged with homicide. He was the 11th licensed pilot in the United States. His name was Bill Alexander, one of the top flight men of his day. An accident happened, and he came down in the fog on the island, and something happened to the wing of the plane. It turned over, and a child was killed. He was charged with criminal offense. I defended him, and I prevailed upon the judge and the prosecutor to join with me on a flight with him over New York Bay 25 years ago so that we could explain to the judge at first hand how these things happened, so that we could explain to the judge in writing his opinion that aviation was here to stay. Even such a short time ago as that, people were not sure that aviation was any more than a freak. The flight took place. An opinion was written which all the aviation journals carried in which it was laid down that aviation as a method of modern transportation was here to stay, and that local communities should be prepared to meet the test that aviation would bring. That test has been met by many communities. LaGuardia Field has been only partially New York City's contribution to meeting that need. Our new international airport we know as Idlewild, the one over at Newark, is our metropolitan answer to the question. The other question is the great factors of safety, of know-how, in construction, in engineering, and the great factors of safety, know-how, in handling the plane. Ladies and gentlemen who are listening to me, I am inviting here, I am welcoming here, a convention of pioneers from the woman's world, which, strangely enough, high up in the air is no different from a man's world. When you're up there playing around with those clouds, you're alone with God. It's on your know-how, on your knowledge of aerodynamics, on your knowledge of controls, on your general knowledge of what to do with that powerful new instrument that has come into our lives, that is the thing upon which depends whether or not you come down right or wrong. To this convention of pioneers, of lovely pioneers, I have a great honor to give you the hearty welcome of New York City. Thank you. Mr. Whelan. Before we allow the Glee Club to salute you, the Police Glee Club, and it isn't here in the same capacity that the mayor just described the police a moment ago when the accident happened. The Police Glee Club is here to add to your very cordial welcome. Mrs. Noyes confesses to leaving out a very important person who should like to stand and take a bow, Miss Marta Crane of Los Angeles. Police Glee Club. The mayor stands and gallantly bows to the lady from Los Angeles. Now the Glee Club. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, grandest honor. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the bold, for this is my country, to hand and to hold. What difference if I hail from north or south, oh, from the east or west? My heart is filled with love for all of these. I only know I swell with pride and deep within my breast. I thrill to see, O glory paint the breeze. O glory paint the breeze. This is my country, land of my birth. this is my country. The great with hope I pledge thee my allegiance, America, the home. For this is my country to have and go home. I wish I had patience enough to remain on the ground long enough to have me get down here to welcome you. And thanks to the little one who flew up so high that I suppose we couldn't see her now with a telescope. This, ladies and gentlemen who are listening in here, is one of the most unusual conventions that we've ever had in the city. That is the convention of women pilots. And here they are. This is no fooling. When you take off from the ground and you're alone with God, how to get back again and land right is a big problem. Men have solved it, but right in this room are the ladies who solved it too. And they've done just as well as the men. I'm talking to those of you who couldn't have the opportunity to be in this room listening to us. Those who are listening to me on the outside. If you were here in this room looking at what I'm seeing, you'd see ladylike, lovely girls who have the kind of traditional courage to face this new medium that their grandmothers, their great, great, great grandmothers had when they got into that old covered wagon and trekked over mountain and plain and river and pushed a frontier back against all the troubles, dangers that beset them. It was said of their forebears that the cowards never started and the weaklings died on the way. Well, in this new medium, we've had a new frontier to conquer. And that was the frontier of the air. I remember as a lawyer 25 years ago, actually flying over New York Bay with a man who was charged with homicide. He was the 11th licensed pilot in the United States. His name was Bill Alexander, one of the top flight men of his day. An accident happened and he came down on the fog on the island. And something happened to the wing of the plane. It turned over and the child was killed. He was charged with criminal offense. I defended him and I prevailed upon the judge and the prosecutor to join with me on a flight with him over New York Bay 25 years ago so that we could explain to the judge firsthand how these things happened. So that we could explain to the judge in writing his opinion that aviation was here to stay. Even such a short time ago as that, people were not sure that aviation was any more than a freak. The flight took place. An opinion was written which all the aviation journals carried and which it was laid down. And that aviation was a method of modern transportation was here to stay. And that local communities should be prepared to meet the test that aviation would bring. That test has been met by many communities. LaGuardia Field has been only partially New York City's contribution to meeting that need. Our new international airport, we know as Idlewild, the one over at Newark, is our metropolitan answer to the question. The other question is the great factors of safety, of know-how in construction, in engineering, and the great factors of safety, of know-how in handling the plane. Ladies and gentlemen who are listening to me, I am inviting here, I am welcoming here, a convention of pioneers from the woman's world, which strangely enough, high up in the air, is no different from a man's world. When you're up there playing around with those clouds, you're alone with God. It's on your know-how, on your knowledge of aerodynamics, on your knowledge of controls, on your general knowledge of what to do with that powerful new instrument that has come into our lives. That is the thing upon which depends whether or not you come down right or wrong. To this convention of pioneers, of lovely pioneers, I have a great honor to give you the hearty welcome of New York City. Mr. Whelan. Before we allow the Glee Club to salute you, the Police Glee Club. And it isn't here in the same capacity that the mayor just described the police a moment ago when the accident happened. The Police Glee Club is here to add to your very cordial welcome. Mrs. Noyes confesses to leaving out a very important person who should like to stand and take a bow, Mrs. Marta Crane of Los Angeles. The mayor stands and gallantly bows to the lady from Los Angeles. Now the Glee Club. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, grandest honor. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the whole. For this is my country, to have the world. And to hold. What difference if I hail from north or south, from east or west. My heart is filled with love for all of these. I only know I swell with pride and deep within my breast. I thrill to see, oh glory, faint the breeze. Oh glory, faint the breeze. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, grandest honor. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the whole. For this is my country, grandest honor. The police bleak pub entertained while the mayor was on his way to City Hall. Now Mr. Whalen. As the sanitation band plays the recessional, will the pilots, 99 International Organization, follow the mayor from the room so that pictures may be taken at the steps of City Hall? And now the mayor of the city of New York, surrounded by the charming young ladies who have come here today in the mayor's official reception in honor of the 20th anniversary of the 99's, the International Organization of Licensed Women Pilots. And as Mr. Whalen has just explained, the mayor is conducting the 99 down to City Hall steps for the traditional photograph. And the mayor is very happy, smiling and shaking hands with the various delegations who now have surrounded him. And the formation has kind of lost itself, but they're heading for City Hall steps. So with this picture from the council chamber, we take Leaverview from City Hall and return you to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Well, the police glee club is singing and I wouldn't like to talk against that just to say very quickly and a little more formal later that the mayor's official reception in honor of the 20th anniversary of the 99's, the International Organization of Women's Pilots is in progress here. The mayor is coming up the staircase of City Hall now and in a few moments we'll have the program for the air as the police glee club finish off the George M. Cohen medley. That I'll be there at all. The mayor of the city of New York is now coming into the council chamber. The mayor of the city of New York. The mayor of the gallant Irishman is stopping to shake hands with a few of the lady pilots here in the council chamber. Now he's taking his place on the rostrum with the ladies of the committee. And in a few moments you'll hear Mr. Whelan's familiar voice introducing the guests of honor at City Hall today. And now the sanitation band has gone to aviation. No, now they've stopped. They've made a safe landing. And in just a few moments you'll hear Mr. Whelan introducing the guests to the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. There's just a few moments now for personal introductions and friendly exchange before Mr. Whelan takes over as chairman of the mayor's reception committee. We all know the wonderful work that the women pilots have done, not only in the war days, but wherever the art of flying is a requirement, the women have made good and done their part to prove that there's no difference in gender when it comes to being an expert. And under these circumstances, these ladies are being welcomed here at City Hall today by the mayor of the city of New York as a tribute to their valor and their efficiency. Mr. Whelan. We will open the ceremonies with the national anthem. The National Anthem! The National Anthem! The National Anthem! Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly behailed that the twilight's flashed gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare of the bursting in air Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave And now, Mr. Whelan. The presence here, the mayor at this time, is a great compliment To the international organization of licensed women pilots If you knew what the mayor had on his mind today You'd know the terrific sacrifices he's made to come down here He shall have to leave very shortly But I'm going to call on Mrs. Blanche Noyes, the president of the organization To present you officially to Mayor O'Dwyer Thank you, Grover Whelan Honorable Mayor O'Dwyer It is a privilege and a pleasure for us to bring you greetings from all over the country And to thank you for the wonderful reception that we have received here in New York City The organization of 99 Club is a group of women pilots Who are certificated and licensed women pilots from all over the world Not only the United States, but the entire world The 99 Club got its name because there were 99 charter members The club was organized in 1929 And this is our 20th anniversary celebration At this time, I would like to bring to you A few of the girls from throughout the country Who have brought greetings to you from their cities I would like to first call on Or ask her to stand I would like to ask Arlene Davis Is she in the room? I'd like Arlene to stand up She brought the Powderpuff Derby in from Cleveland, Ohio Thirty-six girls came into your wonderful city In that Powderpuff Derby from Cleveland, Ohio Irene couldn't get her glove off quick enough So the mayor says, take your time And he stood up to galant She came in with our... North Horn, Nevada Sent this little girl to New York City So, Dorothy Grevy I want to introduce you Now Dorothy is being conducted to the rostrum And the police glee club has to move over Because she's coming in from this side And the police are proving that they can be very galant too And now she's shaking hands with Mayor O'Glaya From one of the smallest towns in Nevada And Betty Gillies, one of our charter members I would like Betty to step forward, please And Teddy Canyon Teddy, would you please come up? Thank you Mary Vaughn I'd like to bring one of our latest girls Who has just set an altitude record In Reading, Pennsylvania Will you come up, please? Where are you? Are you? She's gone I'm sorry she isn't here I would like to introduce everyone But I know that time won't commit And last but not least While you have met her Is Jackie Cochran Who is the first lady in aviation Not only in the United States But in the world Jackie Cochran Thank you, Mrs. Noyes And now the mayor Thank you, Jackie Thank you, lovely ladies That have come up And thank you, pretty pilots All of you That have come up Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you