The Northwestern University reviewing stand. How does cancer affect your life? There is one very direct answer to that question. Cancer will end your life if you ignore the presence of this disease. Fifty percent of the cases of cancer occur in those people who are the middle life and the most valuable citizens we have. Cancer means that much expensive research work is necessary. Even though none of us here gets a cancer, nevertheless, we will all profit from this research. The Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand. A program in its 15th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand turns to discussion of a disease which affects us all, whether we contact the ailment or whether we aid in the fight against it. Cancer and your life. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the prevalence of cancer, its cost to the public, and the extensive research now being conducted on this baffling and vital problem. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. To many of us, cancer is a mysterious, unexplained disease which we read or hear about. To others, cancer has a more personal meaning, for it has attacked some member of their families or perhaps themselves. Cancer, however, is of vital importance to everyone. To talk about cancer and explain its significance, the reviewing stand today welcomes Dr. Dainley P. Slaughter, assistant professor of surgery in the College of Medicine at the University of Illinois, and director of the tumor clinic at Research Hospital. Dr. William B. Wortman, chairman of the Department of Pathology in the Medical School of Northwestern University, and Dr. John A. Wolfer, director of the Patterson Tumor Clinic, and professor emeritus of surgery at the Northwestern University Medical School. Now, Dr. Slaughter, is your view of cancer as pessimistic as it sounds to me? Is cancer as dangerous as you suggest? Well, Mr. Buchanan, cancer is one of the only 100% fatal diseases that the medical profession has to treat. Any uncontrolled cancer will kill that individual. However, early diagnosis and adequate, responsible treatment gives a very high cure rate in today's treatment. Well, that would certainly tie in with what we said otherwise. The incidence of cancer at a particular age, Dr. Wolfer, which seems to interest you especially, is it limited to that particular age? Is that the only place we can apply these curative treatments? No, not at all. The reason I'm interested in that age group is because it affects and destroys some of the most valuable citizens we have. The executive, the professional man, the mother that's much needed in her home. On the other hand, we know that cancer can occur in all ages. Children, babes have been known to be born with cancer of certain types. And it can affect all ages. The only thing that impresses me is that this age group of between 38 and 48 and 50 takes away our most important and most valuable citizens. Well, that certainly emphasizes your particular interest in research, Dr. Wortman. How widespread is this research you speak of and what is going on in it today? Well, it's extremely widespread, Mr. Buchanan. Research work on cancer is conducted throughout the world. A great deal of money is spent on it because, along with heart disease, it ranks as one of the great killers of the human race. Now, perhaps we're putting the cart before the horse. We're talking about research and what we might do. Well, actually, I don't know what cancer is. Why is cancer such a problem today, Dr. Slaughter? Well, cancer is a whole group of diseases, contrary to usual thought. There is no single disease of cancer. This group of diseases have certain things in common, and that is why they are grouped together under the term cancer. Cancer actually is an abnormal or uncontrolled growth of tissue. This uncontrolled growth of tissue destroys normal tissue. It spreads to other parts of the body by cells getting into the bloodstream, and wherever these cells light, they again grow and destroy tissue until a vital function or a vital organ necessary to life is destroyed. Now, when you say that this one sort of tissue destroys the other, is it inherently bad in itself or does it just crowd the other out? It does both, actually. It's an irreversible form of growth which has to be... will not stop of itself. It has to be treated, either removed or destroyed by various methods of treatment. Perhaps I'm not talking at all in medical language, but is it similar to a fungus growth on a tree? It's very like that. That's why we call them tumors. It forms a growth which can be seen or palpated as a... felt as a mass in the body. It's a problem because it is so widespread and its incidence rate is so high. It's also a problem because it takes teamwork to find this disease, to diagnose it correctly, and to treat it adequately. There is no one man, one individual, who can do the whole job by himself. Now, I've asked several questions of particular interest to me. I suppose every patient is interested in cancer. if he thinks he might have a disease, what sort of questions do they ask Dr. Wolfer? What are they most concerned about? May I make a comment on one thing that Dr. Slaughter said? I've been impressed with the fact, he speaks as 100% fatal and compares it to heart disease or has been compared to heart disease, that cancer is a disease which you can recognize early if you go to the trouble. And if you recognize it early, you can cure it. On the other hand, I think it's definitely different than heart disease because it means death in cancer if you don't recognize it early. Heart disease doesn't make so much difference. It's better to recognize it early, but I think it's a vast difference. But coming back to your question, I think one of the most common questions is still, what is the cause of cancer? That is a thing, of course, that has intrigued the medical profession for many, many years. Now, there are many causes, direct and indirect. The doctors recognize that low-grade chronic irritation over a period of time may produce cancer in a place. Now, I'd like to interrupt. Low-grade chronic irritation loses me a little bit. What does that mean? Well, let's exemplify it by a person having a rough, ragged tooth rubbing against their tongue or against their cheek. Now, that rubs day and night. And over a period of time, that may develop into a cancer, providing that patient is susceptible to the disease. Now, that susceptibility is one of the things we know very little about. But it is a fact that the susceptible person will develop cancer when the person who is not susceptible will not develop. Now, another factor that's been stressed, and that is sunlight, extensive sunlight, as to producing cancer of the skin. The rain driders or those people who work out in the sun and wind are very likely to develop cancer of the skin. And another interesting thing is that the blonde person will develop cancer much more readily than the brunette. It appears that... Cancer of the skin, you mean, Dr. Wolfe? Oh, the cancer of the skin, yes. Apparently, the pigment in the skin in the dark-complected person has some protective power in that individual. What relation does that have to our addiction to sunbathing today? Well, the average doctor who has studied this feels that some of these people are just letting themselves in for trouble in the future. This present age of sun worshipers has produced far more skin cancer in young individuals than we've ever seen before. Another place where we find skin tumors of that sort is in people who are exposed to the weather and to the sun in their occupation, such as farmers and the ranchers in the West. Well, I suppose we don't want to create an unnecessary fear here. We're speaking of excess of all these things. Certainly, people wouldn't stay indoors to avoid cancer. Oh, that's true. I must be counting the more complete or further answer to your original question, the cause. We know that there are a great many causes for cancer. We can reproduce cancer in animals at will, and we know certain drugs and chemicals that in a human being will produce cancer. We know that the cause of a fair number of human cancers, we suspect, and I think pretty accurately, the causes of others. Now, these causes are not related. Again, it goes back to my point that cancer is a group of diseases. It acts differently and has different causes, and each must be treated differently. Are there other questions that come up then, too, with the people who come to see you, Dr. Whartland? Or Dr. Wolfer, excuse me. Yes, the question still comes, is the disease hereditary? In other words, a person comes in and says, my mother or father died of cancer. What are my chances of dying of cancer? Well, I think it's been definitely proven in a human being that, definitely speaking, cancer is not hereditary. There is a so-called susceptibility which may have a hereditary factor and may not have, but I think it's been pretty definitely proven that cancer is not hereditary. Now, yet there are some factors in that that are open to question even today yet. I think we can have proved very well in animals that there's an hereditary factor. However, human genetics are so mixed up that we cannot trace it in any given family to any point of great importance. Well, of course, the inbreeding in animals in 20 or 30 generations would take 300, 200, 300, 400 years in the human being. And therefore, there's very little chance, I'm told, that such inbreeding will take place and that the susceptibility or the hereditary factors ever come to the foreground. I think the point Dr. Wolfer's just made is worth emphasizing that in humans, the hereditary factor operates over a very long time and that probably it's not nearly as important as it is in some of the animal experiments. What about the possibility of transferring this disease through silverware, plates, something of that sort? Well, of course, that, Mr. Buchanan, is entirely ridiculous. It is not contagious. I think Dr. Wharton will bear me out. There has never been a case reported, an authentic case in where cancer has taken place due to contagion or contact. I think that's correct. It's also extraordinarily difficult to even do it deliberately in the experimental laboratory. Well, now, we've talked a little bit about the questions that are asked. What does a person do if he might fear cancer? What was the diagnosis, the treatment of cancer? You mentioned the work of a team there, Dr. Slaughter. Do you mean it takes several people? As a rule, it does, Mr. Buchanan. Cancer starts as a very subtle tissue change without dramatic symptoms. If cancer started like appendicitis or pneumonia, there would be no question about it. But if the early changes are so subtle, cause so few symptoms, that it's very difficult to diagnose for the patient to realize if it's anything serious. May I interrupt? Yes. Again, and emphasize the fact, I think Dr. Slaughter would agree with me, that pain, in most instances, is rarely ever present in the early stage of cancer. It's rarely ever present, and that's why it's a dangerous disease. The teamwork would go somewhat as follows. The patient would realize or feel that there's perhaps something wrong. He sees his family physician. That physician must do, must make his physical examination complete if he finds in any area of the body a tissue change that may be suspicious for cancer. You may take a piece of that tissue, what we call a biopsy, which is a harmless procedure, and send it to a laboratory or hospital. There, the pathologist looks at that tissue under the microscope, and the pathologist is the one who makes the final clinching diagnosis of yes or no in cancer. Now, how can the pathologist do that, Dr. Wartman? What means do you have of determining whether cancer is present or not? Well, as Dr. Slaughter mentioned, a piece of tissue is taken out of the suspicious area, which is called a biopsy, and this is prepared in a special way, and then we look at it through the microscope. And that, I suppose, is part of the art and skill of our profession is learning to recognize the cancer under the microscope. It takes a great deal of training, and as has been mentioned, is an essential part of the hospital laboratory. And with the aid of the microscope and special methods, it is usually possible to arrive at a correct diagnosis as to whether or not that tissue biopsy represents cancer. I think, Mr. Buchanan, Dr. Slaughter's statement should be amplified somewhat. He speaks of those tumors, or whatever you may call them, ulcers, in which you can take out a piece for microscopical study. Now, there are many places where you can't do that. For instance, in the intestinal tract. It means there that you have to make extensive studies otherwise, on physical examination, x-ray studies, and other special instrument observations to come to a pretty definite conclusion. It may only be until some surgical procedure is done, until you can make the absolute diagnosis. That emphasizes, again, the point that we've been stressing, that the diagnosis of cancer is a teamwork proposition. It takes more than one person in many cases. In other words, you move from the general practitioner, whom a person may go to with a general complaint, to the diagnostician, to the pathologist, moving up the ladder until you get a definite diagnosis. Is that a correct interpretation? More or less, yes. The first doctor may suspect it. A clinician or a diagnostician will then examine the patient more thoroughly. If x-ray studies are indicated for the stomach or the intestinal tract, then a specialist, again, is called in, the radiologist, who makes the special examinations. And then perhaps the surgeon or the radiologist decide whether the lesion is or is not cancer, depending on biopsy or x-ray findings. And then they decide which is the proper treatment, whether it is surgical or radiation. I want to emphasize this point, that in the detection, in the early detection of cancer, we've got to depend upon the suspicion of the general practitioner. The general practitioner, I think Dr. Slaughter, will see probably 90% of the early cases of cancer. And if they're going to be recognized early and cured, he has to be the one that's on the alert. And he has to be the one that suspects it. And he may suspect 20 and only have one positive, but it's worthwhile suspecting them all. Well, he may suspect these different kinds. Apparently, it's a difficult job from what you mentioned, Dr. Slaughter, the fact that it's a group of diseases. I'm not quite sure I understand what you mean by that. Well, cancer of the skin, for instance, has no relationship to cancer of the stomach. It has a different cause. It acts differently. It looks differently under the microscope. And both of these types of cancer have no relationship to cancer of the lower intestinal tract or cancer of the kidney or cancer of the lung. They all have different causes. They act differently. They look differently. They require different diagnostic approaches. Well, is the group of diseases increasing, Dr. Wolfer? Do we have more cancer today than we had in the past? Well, that is open to a good deal of question. Is there...we know we see more, or there are more cases of cancer recognized today than there were years ago. Now we must recognize that more skill is being used. There are more autopsies being done. There are more thorough autopsies being done. There are more suspicions aroused in the man who does the autopsy to look at places where cancer may be found. Now, another factor is that more people are living into and past the cancer age. There are statistics which show that in 1940, for instance, in the United States, there were 9 million people 65 years of age or older. And it's been estimated that by 1980, that's in 40 years, there will be 22 million people 65 and older. Now there's a larger number of people in the cancer age. There are going to be more people die of cancer, and there are going to be more people die of degenerative heart disease, too. Now that may be a factor. Well, now, in other words, with twice as many people, the incidence of cancer would, of course, be twice as great. Now there's one form of cancer, though, that I'm suspicious about, and that's cancer of the lung. It's shown today that about 8% of the deaths in males are due to cancer of the lung. Now, I know Dr. Workman has some definite ideas on that, and yet, clinically, the cases are diagnosed in rather annoying frequencies. And I'd like to hear what Dr. Workman has to say about that. Well, the only remark I have to make about that is the inadequacy of our statistics. We don't have the information on which to base judgment. And I think the only statistics which are really valid in answering a question of that sort are based, as you said, on autopsy examination. And it's extremely important that the bodies of persons who have died of cancer be thoroughly examined so that we can get this necessary information in order to treat other people in the future. Well, don't you believe, Dr. Workman, I think I've heard you say this, that you may find an autopsy, a cancer of the lung, but you don't know whether it was primary there. It may not have been primary somewhere else, and that it was a spread in which the spread is more pronounced than the primary tumor. I know we find that in, for instance, cancer of the prostate. The bone tumors would be much more obvious, and the prostatic tumor may be so small you can hardly find it. Isn't that true? Well, I think that this discussion is getting a little complicated for me, and if I might suggest, the possibility of undiscovered cancer. Now, Dr. Slaughter mentions the fact, which annoys me a little bit as I think of it, that there's no pain in the early stages. How then does one detect that he possibly might have a cancer? The only way a patient can recognize that there's anything wrong is simply dysfunction of an organ, some vague persistent indigestion, or a mass appearing anywhere in the body, or an ulcer in the mouth, or bleeding from any of the body orifices. These aren't painful, and they may be rather inconsequential signs, but if they persist, they must be investigated. Is that true of internal cancer, too? That is true. Cancer gives no typical symptoms, such as a duodenal ulcer will give. It simply gives a symptom of dysfunction of the organ in which it arises, whether it's upper digestion, or in the liver, or in the esophagus, through which our food passes. The symptom there is simply difficulty in swallowing, which is not a painful symptom at all. Well, then following our process of moving from diagnosis up to actual curative process, we've mentioned two here. that surgery and radiology. What are each of those, Dr. Wolfer, and how are they used? Well, I want to press this upon you, that there are forms of cancer which we feel are only amenable to surgical eradication or excision. that x-ray or radium will do absolutely no good for. In fact, it will just seem to make the patient sick and get him doing no good. While there are other forms in which irradiation, either x-ray or radium, is the treatment of choice. They have to be divided into the two groups, and it is the only form of treatment that we know today, either surgery or radiation, which has any curative, positive curative effects. I would like to impress upon you, though, that when we speak of irradiation, x-ray and radium, that x-ray and radium are very potential and very dangerous means that we have, that a person can have unsurmountable damage done to them, unnecessary by the injudicious use of either radium or x-ray. It is a dangerous weapon that we have. Don't you agree, Dr. Slaughter? Certainly, and it should be given only, used only by a specialist. I think people tend to feel that a tumor can be treated either by radiation or surgery, and that they would rather have radiation because it doesn't hurt in this simpler form of treatment. That is by no means true. Radiation can be one of the most damaging things and far more damaging than a cleanly healed surgical wound. Yes, and then it takes a much longer time also. Yes, I was going to say, for instance, in a lip, the surgical removal of the cancer of the lip will be all healed up, based on how it without addressing before the irradiation really begins to take effect. That's right, of course, the cancer of the lip can be treated and cured in five days surgically, and it takes six to eight weeks by radiation methods. Doesn't the radiation do the same thing that surgery does, except in what you might say a clumsier fashion? It actually destroys the cancer tissue, and the healing process is slower than if you make a clean surgical incision in many cases. That's correct, and it also destroys normal tissue in the path of the beam of radiation. Well, using either of these two curative processes, what are results, Dr. Wolfer? Are they growing? Are we having a better control of the disease? I don't think there's any question about that, that we are getting a very high percentage of cures. And the most important factor is the early recognition of it. In other words, an early recognition of cancer of the breast, very early we should get up to 80% cure. While it was recognized sometime later, maybe not so often much later, the percentages are reversed. You get 80% of failures. I think the crux of the treatment is that we have to have early recognition, as Dr. Slaughter brings out, we must have accurate, approved, and scientific treatment. But the cure rate is gradually going up all over the country. And of course, it depends upon the type, too. There are certain types, and apparently very little can be done to it. They're very rapidly growing. Well, to reverse my opening remarks, I would say that the outlook in cancer today, when diagnosed early, is very, very favorable. Skin cancer is being cured in 95 to 98% of cases. Lip cancer in 85 to 90%. In certain selected cases of cancer of the intestine, in certain clinics, in early diagnosed and adequately treated groups, we have an 80% absolute cure rate. Breast cancer, cancer of the uterus, and other organs. The cure rate is going up day by day. And we are improving it very much with research, which is then the big problem from now on. I think we have definitely moved into research and what it can do. You spoke a little bit, Dr. Wartman, about what is being done. Can you follow through a bit of the history of research, some of the things that have been discovered? Yes. Some of the good results that Dr. Slaughter has been mentioning in this discussion are due directly to research work. For instance, we know the hazards now of X-ray in producing tumors, and radium also, and so that those causes of tumors are nowadays usually avoided. Certainly the industrial tumors are prevented before they ever take a hold by the use of proper hygiene. It is also possible nowadays to produce tumors experimentally in animals by injecting certain chemicals or to observe the naturally growing tumors in animals. And this has given us a very important tool so that we can now make further advance and try out the effects of various curative agents on these tumors as they grow in animals. Where is this research being done? Being done all over the United States and all over the world, Chicago has several very important cancer research foundations and projects on hand and is more or less a center. I think one of the biggest fields in research in the last 10 years is the approach in chemotherapy or drug therapy of cancer. We have no cure as yet, but we have been able to produce some very surprising effects on tumors. We're using hormones, various hormones of the body, radioactive isotopes are being used, and drugs are being worked on every day which have very definite effects on cancer tissue. This is the most hopeful thing that I see at the present time. Now, these isotopes that you mentioned, are radioactive, are those the ones which move through the body and you can follow them, therefore actually giving you a look inside the body? Yes, they are radioactive substances. The iodine is the one that's most commonly used, the radioactive iodine, that can be given to the patient and with the Geiger counter, it can be picked up in any portion of the body. Even, not only that it's there, but to the quantitative estimation of it. And there are great hopes that this will help very much, not only in the diagnosis, but probably in the therapy of the disease, especially thyroid. As a matter of fact, almost all biological research bears on the cancer problem. Part of the increasing cure rate in surgery is due to advances in anesthesia and understanding of shock and other physiologic problems. Almost any biologic research contributes to this problem. I think the work in blood transfusions has been a great asset because we can supply to a patient undergoing a severe surgical procedure any amount of blood. One, two, three quarts at a time. Well, we've made surgery so much safer for the individual today. We can extend the limits of surgery and have a live patient. Not only is the biologist brought into the problem, but we also have to call very heavily on the help of the physicist and the chemist. in order to advance our knowledge of cancer. Well, you certainly have emphasized the importance of teamwork. And I would like to ask just one more thing, and that is, what can any individual do, Dr. Whartman, to help with this research in cancer? Of course, the most obvious answer to that question is to help by contributions of money. It's very expensive to conduct this research. The contributions of time and assistance in pursuing the research are also a great help. And it's also necessary to encourage people to go into this very important part of our life. Well, your discussion, gentlemen, certainly emphasizes the importance of cancer to the lives of each of us. And you suggest we can be interested in many factors, but we should respect the teamwork necessary. We can contribute time or money to research, but above all, we can know about cancer and help in the fight against it. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Cancer and Your Life. Probably you're interested in other medical problems as well as cancer. In the past two years, the reviewing stand has discussed heart disease, tuberculosis, alcoholism, and American surgery. You can get word-for-word copies of all these discussions as well as today's program for just 10 cents each. These booklets also contain a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Or a subscription which brings you a new reviewing stand discussion each week is $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Dainley P. Slaughter, Assistant Professor of Surgery at the University of Illinois College of Medicine and Director of the Tumor Clinic at Research Hospital. Dr. William P. Wortman, Chairman of the Department of Pathology at the Northwestern University Medical School. And Dr. John A. Wolfer, Director of the Patterson Tumor Clinic and Professor Emeritus of Surgery at Northwestern University. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand takes a look at the position of labor and management in today's economy. As we discuss labor, management, and the law. Our guests will be Daniel D. Carmel, Attorney for the Chicago and Illinois Federations of Labor, and DeWitt Emery, President of the National Small Businessman's Association. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.