From Washington, D.C., your city station brings you an address by Mr. Charles E. Wilson on the state of mobilization. Mr. Wilson is the director of the principal policymaking and coordinating agency of the government, the Office of Defense Mobilization. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Wilson. Fellow Americans, this is my first report to you on the progress of our mobilization to defend America. I am going to talk about some temporary sacrifices, but I am also going to tell you that this nation of ours is in a sound position and to talk about a great future that lies within our reach. In all its parts, this talk is about the American people, their future and their children's future. My greatest hope is that you will come to share with me my own profound confidence in our ability to take a storm, to weather it, and to come out with strength and vigor. On our side, we have many assets. We have material resources, intelligent and industrious people, a strong economy, and a magnificent production machine. These are tangible. Even more important are our spiritual values. We have the vision of a world at peace. We believe in peace through strength. Only fear and failure to be true to the values of American life can throw us for a loss. In the present crisis, it is our people, you and I, who must do what we must do. Let it be said of us, never before did so many people of their own free will provide so much so quickly to build the strength of their nation and thus ensure the peace of the world. Our sacrifices will be nothing compared with those of our fighting men and women in Korea. Our living and working conditions, under any foreseeable restrictions, will be enviable compared with those in any other country and superb when compared with those in Soviet Russia. So our picture tonight is not one of gloom or pessimism. Our basic economy has never been more healthy. More than 60 million civilians are gainfully employed. A figure that sounded fantastic only a few years ago. This figure should rise to 65 million by 1954. Incomes average higher than ever before. Our factories are turning out a torrent of products to make our living standard the highest in all history. We have doubled our productive capacity since 1939 with a population increase of only 15%. These figures tell the story of a dynamic economy. They show our future possibilities. The American people do not believe that we live in a matured, established, limited, and satiated economy. We are a pioneer nation. With the progress of science, our reliance on technological progress, and our increasing productivity per worker, we can look forward to capacity unlimited. Unlimited unless we tarnish our destiny by fear, disunity, and improvidence. Unlimited unless we tarnish our destiny by our lives. This is an age which again calls for bold minds and not for little men. What is the job? First, to preserve peace by rapidly building up our own defense forces and those of other free nations to such a height that Russia will refrain from attack. Second, to expand our capacity for producing military supplies so that we may swing rapidly into full-scale war production if, in spite of our efforts for peace, a major war should come. Third, to maintain and expand our basic economic strength, the strength of our farms and factories and natural resources so that we can sustain a defense effort for a number of years if that should be necessary, and at the same time make our whole economy stronger and more productive. But while we have vision, we also are a practical people. What are we getting for our effort, our sacrifices, our taxes? First, we are by no means powerless at this moment. I can tell you confidently that in our first stage of mobilization, we shall produce enough war materials to train and equip our military forces so that they will be prepared to fight in a major combat. In the second stage, we shall have all the necessary facilities to supply the mightiest and best military equipment in all the world to our armed forces. We shall be ready for all-out war or all-out peace. We are establishing a production capacity of 35,000 tanks a year and intend to be able to produce 18,000 jet engines a month. These are only examples of a productive capacity that will be our best guarantee of lasting peace or a final victory. Under this plan, we are going to ask the most abundant economy in the world to produce in the next two or three years an extra 150 billions for defense. This amount includes the finest weapons, equipment, and facilities for their production that the skills of our people can produce. These same facilities and skills can be turned progressively back to the job of building a better nation and a better world. Obviously, the effort to achieve these goals can't be run like a popularity contest. I've never found any honest way to please everybody. There will be higher taxes. There will be price and wage controls and further credit restrictions. It is just common sense to build this American might with sound money. We, here in the Office of Defense Mobilization, are trying to calculate intelligently and fairly, as any of you would do, the risks and benefits of this balanced plan to the whole people. We're searching the country for the best talent available to help in this national effort. We seek no economy of scarcity. We don't believe in controls for their own sake. We want the fewest possible dislocations of people's lives. Right now, expenditures for defense purposes represent about 7% of our national output. By the end of this year, the figure may rise to 15%. Obviously, in some areas, like metals, the percentage will be greater. Let's look at the meaning of our defense effort in terms of materials. Before Korea, we were using roughly 1 million tons of aluminum per year for non-defense purposes. This will have to be cut to 750,000 tons and perhaps more. In the meantime, however, we are increasing our available supplies of aluminum by more than 50%. Don't forget that much of this added aluminum will be available if needed for your civilian use when our rearming job is done. What is true of aluminum will be true of other basic commodities. By 1953, barring all-out war, we will be able not only to take care of our continuing military needs, but to have at least as much aluminum for civilian use as we did in 1950. We are planning on growth. Before Korea, we were producing 90 million tons of steel for peacetime purposes. That amount won't be available for non-defense purposes in 1951 or in 1952. But by 1953, we will be producing 117 million tons. So, barring all-out war, more than 90 million tons should be available for non-defense uses. Again, we are planning on growth for a sound defense and a sound economy. Our policy is the same with regard to other materials vital to our economy. that will not be enough to go around this year or next. Part of our problem will be to reach our target in expanded facilities without retarding current defense production and without curtailing too drastically our output of consumer goods. as an inevitable result of transferring metals to defense materials, we are cutting down the quantities of basic metals that are going into durable consumer goods such as automobiles, refrigerators, washing machines, radios, and television sets. Americans can hardly look on this temporary curtailment as a calamity. After all, we built nearly 8 million motor vehicles in 1950 and our streets are filled with shiny new cars. Automobiles take a great deal of many strategic materials. They are heavy users of steel and copper. Barring all-out war, we still will be producing more cars in 1951 than we turned out in 1948 and that is a lot of cars. Remember that automobile plants and automobile workers are being called on as in World War II to do a major job in national defense. In this entire program, small business will play a very important role. When my associate, Bill Harrison, administrator for defense production, told me of his plans to appoint an assistant administrator for small business, business, I asked him to be sure to get a man who has his heart in this cause. He did. The whole economy has a stake in the welfare of small business. To enable the small manufacturer to join more fully in the defense program, National Production Authority's Office of Small Business makes available a regular listing of contracts to 5,000 cooperating officers in the country, such as chambers of commerce, trade organizations, and the like. In these places, a manufacturer can examine the listings and find out what kind of subcontracts or prime contracts are available and whether he has or can develop the right facilities for them. General Harrison is acting to use small business to the fullest practicable extent. Procurement programs are being examined to determine those items particularly adaptable to small business. The Defense Production Administration is making special provision to the maximum degree possible for getting materials in short supply to small businesses so that they may continue to produce. The government is giving help and encouragement to needed expansion by making loans and by providing special tax provisions to ease the financial risk of producing defense goods that may have little peacetime value. But let me say right here that your government will do its best to see that no one is going to profiteer out of taxpayers' money in this defense effort. order. Nobody, I said nobody, is going to profiteer in this period of emergency without suffering the consequences of law. One of the responsibilities of the Office of Defense Mobilization is to suggest legislation to this end. We will meet this responsibility. There is a place for the economics of the legitimate marketplace. There is no place for the phony economics of the chiseler and the speculator. we are going to try to make the life of the chiseler unprofitable and downright painful. The changeover to defense production may have one kind of dislocation which we all deplore. As plants are retooled for defense, some men will temporarily lose jobs. This is a serious problem. We will do everything we can to keep this dislocation as slight as possible. On these and other problems in the manpower field, we are going to establish policies only after consultation with outstanding representatives in the field of labor, business, and agriculture. The final decision, however, must be consistent with our basic objective to add to America's might now. The American worker and the American farmer have each made and will continue to make a great contribution contribution to the fabulous productive system that is part of our national strength. Both their effort and their point of view must be represented in meeting national problems. We are pushing on in other fields at the same time. Science and research developed great weapons of victory during World War II. The mobilization efforts of science and research will be centered in an advisory committee on defense scientific research to be created by the president. I am confident that the group of scientists already set up to do this work will be as successful as they have been in the past. On the farms, we are taking steps to encourage increased food and fiber production in this year's crops. We shall see that new workers are adequately trained to take care of increased production and to replace those who are called into service. As to scarce materials, substitutes for some critical materials are being devised. Importations from abroad are being encouraged. New domestic sources of supply are being developed. In transportation, we are taking steps to ensure that no transportation shortages hamper our mobilization efforts. no resource or technique which can make us a stronger and sounder nation will be neglected. now I come to the most vexing and most dangerous of all our domestic problems, inflation. If we do not attack inflation on all fronts and if all of our citizens do not join in this attack, the country risks great catastrophe. economy, if we permit prices to rise, followed by higher wages, followed by still higher prices and still higher wages, we permit a spiral of untold hardship on the American people. Danger signals began to go up during the month following Korea. As time went by, the storm got worse. In his speech of December 15th, the president announced that the government was going to impose price and wage controls. On January 26th, the first steps designed to halt price and wage increases were taken. These were at best stopgap controls. rules. They were the quickest relief we could find, and certainly speed was necessary. Of course there are inequities, but the freeze did put the brakes on. Already, some of the inequities in the price and wage freeze orders have been softened by modifications. Some prices have risen slightly. some wages have been unfrozen. As quickly as possible, individual price programs by commodities will be set up. These will be established with the best interest of both the buyer and the seller in mind. They will be established within the broad anti-inflation program, on which Eric Johnston's staff is now hard at work. Wage policies, too, are being modified again to conform with the best interest of the entire economy. You ask, why were wage and price freezes followed by immediate thaws? dollars? What good is a system of ceilings if we are going to have holes in the roof? These are fair questions. To begin with, the word freeze is unfortunate. We put the brakes on a car that was traveling dangerously fast. We couldn't stop it dead. We'll run for a little while, even with the brakes on. I wonder whether you realize how complex wage and price stabilization really is. it sounds both easy and attractive. There are several million individual businesses in this country and many million wage earners. All are immediately affected by ceilings on prices and wages. All of these people deserve to be treated fairly. The vast job of compiling just the information needed to deal fairly with all of them would have taken so much effort that the government could not have physically completed the job within a reasonable time. In the meantime, inflation was rushing on. Therefore, the time came when it was more important to put on a so-called freeze with all of its possible inequities than it was to make all the detailed studies in advance. That is what was done. You might look at it this way. For the common good, it seemed better to put some control system into effect and then make exceptions to it than to have no system at all. Of all the problems involved in price and wage stabilization, one of the most difficult is control of food prices. We can hardly expect a worker to see his wages frozen without complaint when his wife tells him that the food bill is going up each week. But no matter how difficult the problem, it must be solved. It must be solved with justice to consumers, wage earners, and farmers alike. let me say here that stabilization of prices and wages is only one of the weapons against the paralysis of inflation. It must also be accompanied by increased taxes. The president has wisely asked Congress to levy such taxes. They must come from the incomes and payrolls of an economy swollen by defense production. Congress cannot act too soon. I don't believe in sacrifices if they are only for the other fellow. There are other necessary weapons in the fight against inflation. For instance, stricter credit controls and a fiscal policy that discourages inflation. The Office of Defense Mobilization will do its best to destroy inflation, this enemy of homes, families, and living standards. We will oppose every source of inflationary pressure equally and across the board. What I have said to you tonight is based above all else on a desire for a kind of national unity that comes only from people who are working of a team of their own free will in our joint effort. That kind of unity is the priceless asset of a democratic people in a time of trouble. In carrying out its task, the Office of Defense Mobilization is getting a lot of criticism. Criticism is a part of the democratic process. We expect it, profit by it, and are doing everything possible to translate constructive criticism into sound national policy. You, the citizens of America, through your Congress, have decided to increase the strength of free people. We believe you mean it. We are acting on that belief. We are dedicated to a task that transcends all parties and all factions maintaining the security of the United States. I hope that each of you will think it appropriate, as I do, to conclude this report by acknowledging that in our task, we need the help that comes from our faith in almighty God and wisdom beyond our own. Let's bow our heads in humble supplication for his help and guidance and then do the job to be done. You have just heard Mr. Charles E. Wilson, director of the Office of Defense Mobilization. Mr. Wilson spoke to you from Washington, D.C. in a report to the American people on the state of mobilization. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.