This is John Golden speaking. In my long career in the theater, I have presented many successful dramas by famous authors played by great stars. But never before have I had so proud a privilege as comes to me now. For today, in my capacity as New York City chairman for United Nations, I am about to present a new poetic and appealing script by an author whose good words have long been a source of inspiration to millions of people. And my star? My star is beyond question the number one citizen of our country. I have felt that the proceedings would be given a greater, a world significance, if I might add to the dignity of this occasion the beloved figure of Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. She will introduce our star, who in turn will offer an answer to those insisting that we want war by a prayer to God Almighty to bring us peace. Mrs. Roosevelt. In my capacity as general chairman of the National Citizens Committee for United Nations Day, I'm happy to take part in these ceremonies. The script that has been referred to is a beautiful prayer poem. The author is Cardinal Spellman. Incidentally, a precedent is being established in that this is the first prayer ever offered from the headquarters of the United Nations. The star to whom Mr. John Golden referred is that great American gentleman, Mr. Bernard Baruch. Mr. Golden tells me that it is at his eminence's personal request that his poem is being delivered by Mr. Baruch. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bernard Baruch. Father of heaven, God of all nations, bless thou America, bless thou the world. Bless thy peoples whose representatives here will assemble. Bless them with thy truth that they may be all truthful. Bless them with thy spirit of peace that they may know peace and foster peace upon the earth for the sake of thy glory. In these years of dark confusion, wild winds carry hisses of hate. Wars grow deadlier with the decades. Lands lie blasted and famines rage. Peoples lie helpless before thee, longing for the peace that does not come. In this hour of the world's extremity, thou dost call thy a family of nations, gathering them together in this land of liberty, in this land of peace and plenty. America is thine, O God of nations, thine to use for all nations' sake. Thou hast spirited this land with love of liberty, making her a sanctuary of freedom, a temple for the council chambers of the nations, where the spirit of thy peace shall dwell. Nurtured by America's love for humanity, served by America's passion for justice, guarded by America's might and genius. O God of history, ceaselessly weaving thy ordained design upon the timeless loom of time, grant that all nations may follow thy holy purposes. Long centuries look down upon this hopeful hour. Hosts of all dead stand sapience beside us. Myriads of faces seem with want, woe, and fear. Scarred faces, marked by man's struggle through the ages, turned beseeching, begging us remember, yearning for the peace that they have won. They watch us now, the dead and the half dead. They watch and wander. Into man's hands, O God, thou hast placed power for self-salvation or destruction. Seek man peace, life grows abundant. Seek man war, death dooms the world. Merciful God of nations, merciful God of nations, spirit of peace, thou must conquer. Reign thou supreme among all nations. Banish hates from peoples, perish wars from earth. Amen.