I do want to make it clear from the very start that I'm going to try and give you facts as I know them. I'm going to give you the facts even though you may not like them in some cases. And also I want you to know that I give them to you without my necessarily liking them. But if they're facts, I'll try and give them to you. And if I understand my assignment correctly, it is to talk about racial conflicts and whatnot in the political and governmental field. Which naturally leads up to the question of is there racial voting? How much of it? Why? What are the major groups that figure in it? The latter one is sometimes a tough question, especially as to how many people there are in a particular group. I remember the true story, there's a true story, of a friend of mine in the city government who put out some figures on relief recipients. And he divided them, in this case, by religious affiliation. And there was an immediate squawk from what is loosely known as the powerhouse on 50th Street. The figures weren't right. He said, of course they were right. So they sent down one of the very dignified and very competent Catholic laymen to discuss the matter with him. And this layman, a knight of St. Gregory, looked over the figures and said, Oh, I see where the discrepancy is. He said, you've counted in the Italians. Well, anyhow, politically speaking, there are four groups, and I would list them in this order. That one time or another, do vote long racial lines in New York City. I would list probably an order of numbers. The Jews first, the Italians second, the Negroes third, and the Irish now in fourth place. At one time, we can recall, the Irish were predominant in politics in New York City. Up to very recently, no leader of Tammany Hall had ever been anything but an Irishman. Then we got Hugo Rogers, who was Jewish with an Irish name. And then after that interim, well, we got Carmine DeSappio, an Italian. At the present moment, for example, Tammany Hall is run loosely by a group, loosely referred to as the Italian group. That group is no more Italian than I am. It is partly Italian, partly Jewish, partly Negro, and one or two Irishmen are allowed to hover around the edges. The rest of them are off in a corner in the minority in Tammany Hall. And you can look through the other county organizations and find the same thing. But that doesn't mean that our voting follows those lines. In my honest opinion, there is no consistent trend of racial voting in New York. There are individual elections that produce those trends because of issues, usually, rather than candidates. I can just barely remember, I've read more about it than I knew at the time, of the election of 1919, when New York City went Republican. Fiorello Lagardia was elected president of the Board of Aldermen on the Republican ticket. Henry Curran was elected borough president of Manhattan. On no issue other than Woodrow Wilson had failed to act to free Ireland. And the Irish were definitely off the reservation. They voted Republican that year and the city went Republican. I think that when Herbert Lehman began running on the Democratic ticket, that candidacy has attracted almost consistently about 99% of the Jewish vote. I don't think the Jews were voting there, except on the theory that Herbert Lehman was the best qualified Jew ever to run for public office, and they were going to give him his united support. Even Republican Jews who went into the polling places intending to vote for his opponent, when they got to the point of pulling down the lever, they just couldn't do it. And they voted for Lehman. In this last election, there were just two districts I picked out to illustrate the kind of voting that went on. I picked the 9th Assembly district over in Brooklyn. That's Bay Ridge, district predominantly Irish. Figures on that showed that Dulles got 28,000 votes, and Lehman got 18,000 votes. In the same district, Morris got 19,000, and O'Dwyer got 26,000. There was a shift there of 8,000 or 9,000 votes either way. In other words, Dulles and O'Dwyer carried that district by approximately the same margin. The second assembly district in Brooklyn, which is predominantly Jewish, it's the Sheepshead Bay, Coney Island section, takes in part both, that gave Lehman 48,000 votes and Dulles only 9,000. When it came to the mayoralty, Morris carried it, 27,000 to 25,000, 7,000 for Mark Antonio. I think those two districts are so predominantly Irish and Jewish respectively that you can't attribute that shift to anything but racial factors. But what was the racial factor that figured in this last campaign? The Irish, as far as I know, were not against Herbert Lehman because he was a Jew. There was an issue there, as far as they could see it. As they saw the picture, there was a pattern of anti-Catholic thinking in Lehman. He vetoed a Catholic bus bill in 1935, later signed it, but was declared unconstitutional. Then he had been on the committee which was seeking to get the nation back into the school system, and that was a hostile act, and then he, as I heard the phrase used during the campaign, had no business butting into the fight between Mrs. Roosevelt and the Cardinal. Well, I express no approval or disapproval of that line of thinking. I'm simply reporting it. And in that case, there was definite Irish racial voting. The Jews, on the other hand, listened to Mr. Dulles' speech up at Geneseo, which was very widely publicized by the Democrats. It was a campaign boner, there was no question of it, in which Dulles said to the people upstate, if you could see the type of people who were voting for my opponent down in New York, every one of you would be out on election day. That statement was viewed as anti-Semitic. The Democratic argument was you couldn't tell a communist by looking at him. And I think that brought to Mr. Lehman that last 1% of the Jewish vote that possibly he hadn't been getting in other elections. Now we take the Negroes. The Negroes in this city were predominantly Republican in their voting all through the years. From Lincoln's time on, it's easy enough to understand why they wouldn't vote Democratic, great majorities, with the South, the political organism that it is. On the other hand, along came the administration of Roosevelt with its concern for the underdog. And certainly in this city, the Negro was the underdog. And the Negro came along, made great strides economically, less a stride socially, but the two run kind of hand in hand. And there was a great turnover of the Negro vote in New York, probably the greatest mass turnover there has been of any vote in this city at any time. The districts that once selected Negro Republican aldermen went 5 and 6 to 1 Democratic at the end of a dozen years of Roosevelt. We've had other turnovers, too. The Jewish businessman who once voted for the Republicans in the nation and the Democrats in the city and state, because they were good for business, began voting pretty solidly Democratic, or rather for Roosevelt, during the Roosevelt era, on the theory that too many people he didn't like were on the other side, and Roosevelt was the outstanding foe of Hitlerism. The Italian vote in New York is probably, it's generally regarded as the most clannish of all votes. Most politicians feel that the Italians will vote for one of their own whether they agree with them or not. And, of course, there's the very stiff upper crust of the Gene Pope band of Italian who votes his politics straight depending on what particular affiliation he has. I'm talking of the Italians at the lower economic level, Tony the pushcart peddler. A lot of them didn't like LaGuardia. They voted for him every time. It showed up in the election returns. And I think that's being handled now by the major parties concentrating on getting an Italian of some kind on their major tickets. That's another factor in the voting situation which is sometimes misunderstood. the parties try and apportion their candidacies not for the sake of attracting votes of those particular racial groups, I don't think, but to prevent the opposition from saying either out loud or undercover, you see what they did? They didn't. Nominated Negroes. They're anti-Negro. There's no Jew on their ticket. There's no Irishman on their ticket, you see. And so the tickets are balanced racially that way. I think more is a defensive mechanism than anything else because, as I said earlier, I find no pattern, no general pattern of solid block voting. We had very serious signs of it under proportional representation. I used to handle those tallies when they came into the Times office. And, of course, what we published was only the completion of the tally at the end of a day. So it didn't tell the whole story. We didn't print the line-by-line transfer of votes. But in going over that transfer, it was very easy to see that first and second and third, not first choices, but second and third and fourth choices were dictated by a similarity of racial name and proximity on the ballot. The votes for Schwartz went to Sokalski whether they had anything in common or not. The votes for O'Brien went to O'Malley whether they had anything in common. And sometimes they were at opposite ends of the economic and political rainbows. You could just see those transfers being made of a man going in and he knew one candidate and he voted for him and was struck by the next name of similar racial strain. That's one reason I was so bitterly anti-PR, my own personal feelings about it. It's too bad that we have now practically unanimous city council of one party. But I do think it was better than deliberately electing people to the council on the basis of representation of groups. We've been fortunate in this country in having our two major parties so closely close to being equal in strength that both major parties have to bid for the votes of all of the voters. No one party dares be anti-Negro or dares be anti-Catholic or dares be anti-Jew without danger of throwing that entire minority into the other camp. If we ever reach the stage where we have a Jewish party, a Negro party, an Italian party, or a Labour party, we'll find the other parties saying, what's the use of bidding for their support? Why give them anything? Either in jobs or, more important, in legislation and consideration from the community. We can't get their votes anyhow. The Republican Party today is almost facing that situation in regard to Labour. A lot of people in the Republican Party are reaching the conclusion that no matter what they do, they can't get the Labour vote. I don't agree with them. But, again, I'm just reporting. Now, in the parties themselves, there has been practically no friction of any kind on representation in the parties where the nominations are made. Oh, there's been some griping in Tammany, for example, because the Irish judgeship that was vacated by the death or retirement of this Irishman has now gone to a Jew. But that's a purely patronage proposition, very much on the same idea of, well, we're entitled to that job but it went to the next county. And, of course, in Tammany there's been a reason for that and the increased political consciousness and numbers of the non-Irish members of the Democratic Party in New York County. Ed Flynn in the Bronx has been extremely successful in riding herd on an Italian, Jewish, Negro, Irish organization without any friction. What will happen up there when Flynn retires or dies, I don't know. We've had more in Queens. It's been tougher in Queens. Queens, because of its basic economic structure, I guess, was the last stronghold of the Ku Klux Klan, in this area. I remember covering a Klan meeting in Queens not much later than 1928. And where you have that sort of background, you're bound to have more racial tension. Now, I would really like now to throw this open to questions because I think that we can get more that way. I've just about ambled along far enough. If Dr. Merton has one ready, why, I'd love to answer it or try to. Well, there is one which occurs to anyone who's heard your talk, and that would be along these lines. Do you have any impressions of when other factors than race or nationality or religion become more important in deciding to vote? For example, economic position. Are there cases when these groups, which as you point out, don't always vote in a block, shift their vote for reasons that have nothing to do with race, nationality, or religion? Well, I think economics is the overall governing consideration in nine elections out of ten. Even in this election in this state, this past year, I regard New York State as primarily a New Deal state. Even in the 48 election, if you added the Truman and Wallace votes together, you had a 450,000 majority over the Dewey theory of government. In this last election, that majority was cut to roughly 200,000. But it means that the majority of the people in my opinion voted on their economic lines, on their social convictions. And I was talking simply of the fringe that cuts down a majority or increases one. It cuts down a majority to the point of vanishing or builds a minority up to the point of increasing. I don't honestly know of an election in this state, or in this city for that matter, that was actually won on the basis of a racial issue. the nearest thing I can think of is the 1933 mayoralty election when Joe McKee might have been elected mayor in that three man race between himself, Fiorello LaGuardia, and John P. O'Brien, if it hadn't been that an article he wrote in a Fordham University journal, I think it was, back 20 years before, had come up to plague him. Joe had written something about the Catholic students should work harder or the Jews should get ahead of them, and phraseology was apparently unfortunate, and that was used as an issue to try and convince the people that McKee was anti-Semitic. I don't know whether that actually affected the result. It threw the McKee campaign off stride, and he was on the defensive from that time on, and lost the election to LaGuardia by something like 150,000 votes, in a much smaller vote than there is today. There's another type of question that's been suggested that runs something like this. Would you care to give your impression of how the present racial, religious, nationality differences in the city complicate politics if they do, or do they make them simpler? Now, that's an iffy question. In other words, if New York's population were not cosmopolitan, but were all one overall racial, national, religious group, do you think that politics would be simpler, less, involve less tension, more effective, or what? Do you care to say anything about that big if? Well, I'll talk about it. I think that it's complicated only to the extent that before a candidate is nominated in this city, you have to make sure that he is not regarded with basic antagonism by one of the major racial groups. It boils down to that. It is almost impossible in this state, for example, to nominate successfully a known anti-Semite. Our conception of civil rights is strong enough so that no candidate known as a white supremacist will be nominated, and there are other things. For example, it's considered dangerous to nominate a divorced Catholic on the theory that the loyal followers of the Catholic Church would not accept him and be thrown over into the other camp. That has come up a number of times. It doesn't ever seem to affect any appointment to office, but, for example, Jimmy Forrestal, the late Jimmy Forrestal, was being seriously considered for governor of New York in 1946 when it was brought out that Forrestal had originally been a Catholic and had left the church and joined another church, the name of which escapes me at the moment, and that was considered by, well, Forrestal's name wasn't discussed seriously anymore because they felt that was a handicap. And you just don't nominate a candidate with obvious handicaps, that's all. Lehman, of course, now is an exception. In the period earlier this year, it was a period when the leaders of the Democratic Party in the state went to Lehman and asked him to run, and they did so publicly, and he said he would take the matter under advisement. Well, once they asked him to run, they were committed. Then came the unfortunate controversy in which the Cardinal and Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Lehman were involved, and those same leaders got an awful case of cold feet. They didn't like the situation at all. They knew they faced with the Lehman candidacy the possible loss of a large number of Irish Catholic votes. I might add that that did not extend to the Italians. And at the same time, they knew if they turned Lehman down after having committed themselves, they would face the loss of almost the entire Jewish vote. And I think that they probably weighed them and they nominated Lehman. Another question which has come to the floor reads as follows. In his election campaign speeches, it says here, O'Dwyer made no positive intelligence to me. That's the speaker from the floor speaking. Why was he voted into office with such an overwhelming majority in spite of the lack of newspaper and radio support? Well, I would say offhand and quickly that the questioner happened to be in the minority. But actually, O'Dwyer was voted in because in a period of four years, he had created, generally, a good impression on the people of the city of New York. The newspapers had been forum. There had been little bits of praise here and there. The civic organizations were for him and it's impossible in the short space of a campaign to knock down the impression, justified or unjustified, of a man's record that has been built up during that time. So the people just regarded this campaign oratory, whether it's true or not. O'Dwyer had the very strong support of organized labor. He had the support of city employees. He had the votes of a number of Republicans who didn't want to vote for Newbold Morris and a number of other people who didn't regard Morris qualified for the job. And I don't imagine there was any great enthusiasm for O'Dwyer on the part of the people who voted for him, but he looked apparently to them like the best man in the race. There's still another type of question that's been raised. Could you tell us something about the difference in the voting behavior among Irish Catholics, Italian Catholics, and Polish Catholics in New York City? I would say that the Irish Catholics, as far as I know, have shown a greater tendency to be governed by the stand of the church or what they might feel, or how they might feel the standing of the church was affected. The Italian Catholics have shown a greater, well, not greater, less close tie to the church at all, and the Polish Catholics, I don't know an awful lot about them in New York. They're not concentrated in any one or two large neighborhoods so that you can really take the vote apart. In Buffalo, of course, we saw I was up in Buffalo during the campaign, made one of my few right predictions, which was that the city would go for Lehman and also elect a Republican mayor. It was perfectly obvious. There were four or five Polish wards in Buffalo. The registration for the city as a whole was down 22,000 from the presidential year figures, but the registration in those Polish wards was up above the presidential year figures. Those people weren't coming out to vote against a member of their own race. It was obvious. And, of course, Mr. Mruck was elected mayor of Buffalo. So, apparently, at least in Buffalo, where we had the largest concentration of Polish Catholics, the accent was more on race, I guess, than on religion there, because the opponent was also a Catholic, an Irish Catholic, Mr. Hillary. This interesting question comes now. You've been talking about the various so-called minority groups in New York City, and one member in the audience wants to know, is there anything like a Protestant vote in New York City? If so, are there any illustrations of a so-called Protestant vote? There's practically no Protestant vote in New York City. There's a considerable one upstate. Murphy of Tammany Hall, who was before my time, was always on the lookout for a Protestant to run for public office because he just thought, well, we have to find one. It was very difficult to find a Protestant in the Democratic Party, particularly at that time. And he's standing, a fair number in the Republican Party, but there's no indication in this city of a Protestant vote cast for a Protestant against a Catholic or a Jew or any other group, with the possible exception, again, of Queens. And I temper that because most of your racial tension in Queens, not most, but some of it, at least, comes from the Irish who formerly lived in Manhattan. Some of it, of course, is Protestant. Upstate, we've had several examples of it. The Dewey vote in 1938, the Dulles vote in 1949, were far larger upstate than they should have been on the basis of the New York City vote cast for the opposing candidates, which means that they came out of the hills, northern New York, and I saw the returns that came in election night, and some of those counties that should go three and four to one Republican were going five to one Republican. That's an indication of a Protestant vote to me. I see none in New York City, probably the vanishing American here. This may be a question just hot enough for you to want to drop it. If so, don't hesitate to say so. Can you speak with complete candor about the power of the powerhouse? I think I can speak with candor within my knowledge. I am not a Catholic, and I am not privy to the goings-on within that church or any other church, but I think it would be generally conceded that the powerhouse, if we want to use the short term, has a great deal of influence with public officials in connection particularly with the things that the church is interested in, welfare, education, and also seeing that policies hostile to the church are not adopted. I am very much amused by the story of 1946 when Tom Dewey was worried stiff because he didn't have a Catholic on his state ticket. He was concerned, and he finally accepted Ives as a candidate for senator, and they had himself and Joe Hanley and Frank Moore, not a Catholic in carload. So finally, someone called up the cardinal and explained the dilemma, and the cardinal said, why, you do too have a Catholic on your ticket? And they said, we do? Who? And this cardinal or his representative, I'm not sure which, said, why, Judge Lauren. Judge Lauren was the Democrat who was being nominated by the Republicans for the Court of Appeals on a bipartisan nomination, which, of course, was very significant of the attitude of the church in that election. It was not concerned with any man, didn't care whether it was a Catholic running for statewide office at all. It was concerned with taking a crack at the alliance between the Democrats and left-wing forces. And, of course, after the 1946 vote, there was a very sharp shift to the right by the Truman administration, and the purge of communists began in Washington, and there was a general reorientation of the Truman Line whole. And I think that could be attributed definitely to the votes in the 46th election that were cast in the urban, industrial, Catholic centers such as New York City. Now, I would not for a moment suggest that the votes for the Republican ticket had been urged from Catholic pulpits. It wasn't a necessity for that the issues, the trends, the moral theme was there, and any intelligent Catholic could decide for himself which way his church felt he should be. Part of what you've just said leads to another question which has just been raised, namely, to what extent is communist propaganda a factor in local politics? And, in your opinion, will it be more or less important in the future? Well, I question the word propaganda. I don't quite know how that fits in. Do you mean the Communist Party and their fellow travelers? If you mean that, I would say the influence has gone steadily down since the change in Russia's foreign policy in 1945. It was perfectly possible for people to accept the communists as exponents of another economic theory as long as they were our allies and were not bothering us. When they changed their foreign policy in 1945 and adopted a get-tough-with-the- capitalists theory, that immediately began to lessen the influence of the communists, the American scene. And, of course, there is no communist party in existence politically in New York City or state. All the communists and their leaders are enrolled in the American Labor Party. We had an interesting guide as to the number of communists there are actually enrolled in the party or active party members in a minor primary fight here this spring. King Connolly and Mark Antonio had a falling out over the control of the American Labor Party in Manhattan. There was a primary fight in which Connolly was a candidate against Ewert Guineer, a Negro communist put up by Mark Antonio. And I'm pretty sure that every communist in Manhattan voted in that primary contest. There's no reason why they shouldn't. They would have been out. The total vote was 13,000. If he ran for governor this fall, he'd be out of office again by 54, even if he won. This fall, I'm fall 50. He'd be out of office again by 54, even if he won. He has no talent for and no desire to go to the United States Senate. Though Dewey's prestige at the moment is very low, in my opinion. He's still a man to be reckoned with in the gubernatorial campaign if he decides to run. And it would take an outstanding Democratic candidate to beat him. Mostly, I think, because there can't be any Democratic ALP alliance. You see, the ALP drew those votes out of the Democratic Party. There can be no ALP Democratic alliance in 1950. First place, the Democrats couldn't afford to take it. And second place, the ALP has to nominate a candidate for governor under the law to maintain its position as a political party. a party has to nominate a candidate for governor and poll 50,000 votes for him to maintain its automatic place on the ballot. This is a question about quite a different kind of figure. It reads, what is generally felt with regard to the political influence of Paul Blanchard? Does he have any? I've known Mr. Blanchard for many years, but I don't think that he's ever pretended to any personal political influence. I think he's undoubtedly had influence as a publicist and a writer, and he did in his days as commissioner of investigation in New York City. He certainly furnished a campaign issue this last fall with the nation proposition. There's a case of not a man involved there. That's an issue with a certain group of our population saying we have no right to be assessed taxes, to have our people to buy magazines which insult our religion. There's an argument on both sides. As a matter of fact, I wasn't asked, but I lean very much to the theory that it was proper to exclude those issues of the nation from the public schools and then readmit the nation after those issues were excluded. I would not want my children to go to a school and have in the library available for them publications that were anti-Semitic. Well, that gives rise to a question you may not want to deal with either. Could you offhand list some of the issues that have become political issues simply because New York City is a variegated population? Rummaging through your memory, could you just run through a list of them? I can't recall any time that the national platforms of our political parties haven't had a Puerto Rican plank written in there by the, at the request of the delegations from New York, plank for Puerto Rican independence or something like that. That is not really an issue between the two parties. It was just put in for fear that one party would put it in for fear the other would. Then among the Puerto Ricans, the Democrats could go around yelling, we're for the Puerto Ricans and you aren't. And I think the civil rights question, which has no place in politics, has become one. The Palestine question in 1948, Dewey and Truman were euchering each other further and further along the line until finally Truman came out. Week before election, there's Madison Square Garden speech here. He went further on Palestine than the State Department had permitted him to go up to that time. He had gone. And there's a case of issues being stressed for the sake of votes in the election. You may say that's wrong. I don't think it is. I think that if the thing is right or even if it's wrong, if it's going to attract the votes of the majority of the people on that issue, that's the kind of government we're living in. I don't know offhand of any others. I don't know whether that answered or not. The question I had in mind was whether in your judgment, this apparent trading back and forth between racial, national, religious groups, along the lines you described, whether that's really, if anything, improved relations between these groups or whether, in your opinion, it's made for more intergroup conflict. I'm not enough of a sociologist to answer that question. We'll wait for next week on that. I wish you would. Well, I guess we're pretty close to the deadline. Well, I do want to thank Mr. Moscow for the extraordinary array of information he's put before us. we're hoping, as you know, to have questions of this sort, reviewed periodically, and perhaps in the course of years, we'll have even more information than we could manage today. I want to thank Mr. Moscow very deeply in the name of the Institute. Thank you.
