On this rare and beautiful June day, the mayor of the city of New York has an exciting job, an inspirational job, and one that aside from its inspirational qualities also has its factor of deep pathos and sympathy. And we're speaking today in front of City Hall to tell you that the presentation of medals by the Honorable William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, to the members of the police department of the city of New York, who during the year 1949 performed conspicuous acts of bravery and to the next of kin, to those who made the supreme sacrifice in the performance of duty and carrying out their oath. The mayor of the city of New York has just come out of City Hall and is descending now to the rostrum. The Mounted Police, which is always the prelude to a pageant of any kind here in City Hall, have just come into the plaza. They present the usual interesting and parade effect as those splendid horses, capably ridden by the men of the Mounted Force, their banners flying, and the colors of the city and our nation as part of the pageant as well. The police band is just about ready to swing in from Broadway. One of the horses has gotten a little bit temperamental, but his rider, who is also carrying the flag of the city, has a difficult time managing both the horse and the flag. But with his expert control of the horse, he's gotten back into step, he's right in line again, and the colors of the city fly with those of the stars and stripes and everything is back in shape again. Pretty much the same as the police department meet any situation and return it to normal as quickly as possible because of their expert training in the various fields of police work. And we have an excellent opportunity through the medium of these broadcasts, through television, movies, and all the other means of communication, to understand how thoroughly scientific now the life of a policeman really is. Watching those helicopters at Pier 41 East River last Thursday gave us some idea of the type of work that has come into police work in the pace with scientific development, whereby the helicopters, establishing the heliport number one there at Pier 41 East River, demonstrated the use of the helicopter in police work, not only in the matter of running down complaints, but also in the matter of life saving, which was demonstrated at that time. There's the police band. The police glee club has entertained, previous to the broadcast, the large audiences of relatives and friends who are seated here in front of City Hall. The men who are to receive the medals now, accompanied by members of their department as an escort, are parading into the plaza and will in a few moments be lined up in dress parade before the mayor of the city of New York, Police Commissioner O'Brien, and the distinguished guests who are participating today to honor these men of the police department. This yearly event in front of City Hall is a recapture of the headlines throughout the year. How often we pick up our morning papers. Only yesterday, there was a shooting match in East 2nd Street, where a man in an unfortunate mental state went berserk with a gun, and several policemen took their lives in their hands. Fortunately, one policeman was only slightly wounded, but they all stood an excellent chance of meeting the same fate of the victim who was actually shot by the man who was later taken in a wounded condition to the prison ward of Bellevue Hospital. A mental case, but unfortunately, possible of dealing out death and destruction, a situation which the police department has to meet at all times. When the call comes, they never know what they're going to face. In fact, our two great armies of blue, the police and the fire department, answer the alarm, and when they go out, as they say in the Coast Guard, you must go out, but you may not come back. Now the anthem in just a moment. Everyone is coming to attention. The square is dressed. We hear the anthem in just a second. Now the mayor takes the salute. Police Commissioner O'Brien. And now the anthem by the band of the police department of the City of New York. As soon as the dressing and the flags are in full salute. Police Commissioner O'Brien. The след of. Now in just a moment you'll hear the familiar voice of Police Commissioner William P. O'Brien who will act as chairman, read the citations, and make the necessary presentations in this august ceremony here at City Hall, where the presentation of medals by the Mayor to the members of the Police Department who during the year 1949 performed conspicuous acts of bravery. Commissioner O'Brien. Mr. Mayor McCaffrey, chaplain of the Police Department. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen. Oh, almighty and eternal God who has dominion over all mankind, look down with favor upon these heroes of our department. Consider how in their actions they were unselfish and brave and did thy will and bidding in all things. Grant that their example of courage and devotion to duty may be an inspiration to the fellow members of this department. Raise up in this department, oh almighty and eternal God, a stalwart body of men, consecrated to what is right and just and fearing thee alone. May all that we do or ever hope to accomplish as a police department redound to the greater honor and glory of God. Amen. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen. Police Commissioner O'Brien. Your Honor Mayor O'Dwyer, Reverend Clergy, medal winners for 1950, ladies and gentlemen of the police department, family and friends. Once again, we are gathered in this very famous City Hall Park to pay tribute to men of the police department who have acquitted themselves nobly during the year of 1949. And to pay tribute to those of our group who have passed on in the performance of their police duty. I stand here today with mixed emotions. Sorrow for those that have passed on to their reward. Nevertheless, grateful to them that they have contributed so much to the heritage of this department. And congratulations to you men of the department who are here to receive your medals. Each and every one of you have performed some great deed in the interest of the people of this city. Some more conspicuous than others. But each and every one of you have performed some great deed for the people of this city. And you only represent what the entire department stands for. The only reason that every man in the department is not being decorated is that he hasn't had that opportunity, the opportunity that came to you to demonstrate your courage and your devotion to duty. As I stand here and look back through the years at my association with members of this department, I am certain that each and every man, if called upon, would do what you have done. That is one of the great things about this department. And it is the one thing that our critics have never dared to assail us on. Our courage in the face of danger. You are noted for it. You are noted for it. The department is proud of you for what you have done. And we look forward to many years of other valued acts in taking care of the life and property of the people of this great city. My sincere congratulations. I also want to take this opportunity of thanking his honor, the mayor, for giving us the personnel, the equipment to make it possible for us to do a better job. On July the 1st, this department will be increased by 500 men. The mayor has so informed me through his Board of Estimate and Budget Director, that 500 men will be added to the roles to take up the heavy burden that you men have been doing. I'm sure that that is a step in the right direction. We'll be very happy over it. You will to have additional side partners. And the people in this city will be glad that they're getting the extra protection that they so justly deserve. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to ask his honor, the mayor, to make the awards for the honor men of the year 1949-1950. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, now steps down to the curry curb there where the honored men will step forward. And now, Commissioner. To Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Othheimer, father and mother of Patrolman Othheimer, while on radio patrol, Patrolman Othheimer, in response to a radio signal, proceeded to a liquor store where an armed robbery had occurred. After obtaining a description of the perpetrator and while searching a subway station in the vicinity, Patrolman Othheimer was shot and mortally wounded by the gunman who had been hiding in a recess in the wall of the station. The mayor of the city of New York has just pinned the medal on the breast of Mrs. Othheimer, and the tribute to Officer Othheimer was the first page in the program preceding everything else. Commissioner O'Brien. Patrolman Othheimer, patrolman Edward J. Kavanaugh, shield 1274 of the 2-0 precinct. Patrolman James B. Williams, 2317 of the 2-0 precinct. In response to a radio message of an armed robbery in a liquor store, they entered the premises and were fired upon by the perpetrators. An exchange of shots ensued during which Officer Kavanaugh pulled to safety his partner, Officer Williams, who had been felled by a bullet in the chest. Patrolman Kavanaugh killed one of the bandits and subdued and arrested the others in the store. It's interesting to note that these men are already covered with citations by the mayor of the city of New York, and he very kindly turned them around so the camera could get a better shot. And now he's just making a readjustment on patrolman Kavanaugh's coat. Seems the pin was a little loose, but he's making sure that it doesn't drop off. It's there to stay on the lapel of a brave officer. Now the mayor shakes hands, and the next citation by Commissioner O'Brien. Police combat cross to patrolman Edward Rewain, shield 8778, and patrolman William Ruisi, shield number 7765, 4th of the 72nd Precinct. While on radio patrol, these patrolmen proceeded in response to a radio signal to a location where a man had fatally shot another during an altercation. Upon being pursued and overtaken, the perpetrator fired a shot at the officers. However, he was quickly overpowered, disarmed, and placed under arrest. The prisoner had a previous criminal record. Patrolman Rewain already has several citations on his breast as the mayor adds this other one along with patrolman Ruisi. The mayor now shakes hands with both men. Commissioner O'Brien reads the next citation. Police combat cross to patrolman Edward Burban, shield number 15705 of the 11th Precinct. This officer, upon attempting to enter an apartment wherein a woman about to be evicted and barricaded herself and her blind mother, the woman fired several shots at the officer with a rifle and attempted to assault him with a hammer. The woman was disarmed by Officer Burban and with the assistance of other patrolmen was finally subdued. Police combat cross to patrolman Basil C. Hackett and Edward C. Burns, both of the 24th Precinct. These officers, while on radio motor patrol, were informed that an armed holdup was in progress. Immediately proceeding to the location, the officers disarmed and arrested the criminals after an exchange of shots and a violent struggle. Three of the four men arrested had previous criminal records. If the stupid crooks could see the marksman's chevrons on the lapels of these officers, they'd know very well that they're pretty stupid going out with a gun. If the policeman gets the opportunity first, well, you know what happens. The policeman wins, and the law always will. Commissioner O'Brien reads the next citation. Police combat cross to Patrolman John A. Powers of the 10th Precinct, and the James R. Murphy Memorial Medal of the Grand Jurors Association of Bronx County, New York, presented to Patrolman Eugene E. McAndrew of the 44th Precinct. While off duty and in civilian clothes, Patrolman Powers pursued and exchanged shots with a gunman who had previously attempted to hold up a liquor store. Officer McAndrew, also off duty, attracted to the scene of the sound by shots joined in the chase. The officers successfully cornered the criminal in a parked car, whereupon being ordered to surrender, he feigned compliance and then attempted to shoot the officers. He was overpowered and placed under arrest. Police combat cross to Patrolman Edward Giannatascio and Nicholas Maggio, both of the 110th Precinct, and the Police Square Club Medal for Valor to Detective Joseph B. Tracy of the 112th Detective Squad. Detective Stein. Patrolman Giannatascio and Maggio, upon locating the bandit who had mortally wounded Patrolman Othammer, were also wounded by the Desperado when they closed in to make the arrest after he had signified his intention of surrendering. Patrolman Giannatascio, although suffering from gunshot wounds in both legs, managed to crawl back to his radio car and notify the communications division. Detective Tracy, upon receipt of this information, located the criminal in the subway station, disarming him of a loaded revolver and placing him under arrest. Police two-way communication was the great triumph of this arrest because this handsome young officer, Othammer, whose beloved and handsome parents received the medal for him here today, it was the intercommunication with the police headquarters by Giannatascio after he was wounded into headquarters, and then to Detective Tracy, who was able to scan the elevated stations and finally pick up the miserable wretch who caused the death of this splendid young officer. It was a triumph for police communications and the immediacy of the service by police communications. The Patronald Dwyer Medal for life saving. To Patrolman Robert R. Stewart, Shield 16823 of the 28th Precinct. Patrolman Stewart discovered smoke in the apartment of his residence, aroused the occupants and led them to safety. After sending in an alarm and returning to the building now filled with smoke and flame, succeeded in getting other tenants to the street, among whom were his own wife and two children. Upon being informed that others were still within the building, the officer, by intelligent and courageous action, was able to effect their rescue. Patrolman Stewart was on sick report for a considerable time due to smoke poisoning. WNYC has a personal interest in the Patrolman Maggio since his niece is in our office in the radio station. And now Commissioner O'Brien. The radio New York Police Post number 1999 Veterans of Foreign Wars Medal for valor. Patrolman Edward Kiyawicki of the 30th Precinct and Patrolman Alfred Anger. Patrolman George F. Roach of the 30th Precinct presented by Patrolman Alfred Anger. Patrolman, while investigating the scene of an armed robbery where one of the victims was wounded and two others assaulted, the officers observed one of the perpetrators. The criminal opened fire, which was returned by the officers, with Patrolman Kiyawicki mortally wounding the man. The man. The man. The man. The man. We're taking a few moments for photographs now. The mayor has a busy time down there, getting everybody straightened out. For the cameras, the mayor is very cooperative with the cameramen, because he realizes, of course, the importance of having these historical pictures whenever you want to refer back. And nothing tells a story like a picture. Words can say a lot of things and mean a lot of things, but the picture shows you exactly what happened. And the mayor is most cooperative with the cameramen. To Sergeant Harold J. Hartmire of the 25th Precinct, the Traffic Squad Benevolent Association Medal, to Patrolman Louis Yahr of the 25th Precinct, the Commerce and Industry Association Medal for Valor, the Patrolman Wilbur H. Mulligan of the 25th Precinct. These officers, in response to a radio signal, entered a grocery store where an apparently demented man had barricaded himself. And were met with a barrage of bottles. Officer Mulligan, after firing shots into the partition behind where the man was hiding, was struck in the face by a bottle and lost consciousness. Officer Yahr, with Sergeant Hartmire, who had arrived on the scene, discharged their revolvers into the partition, mortally wounding the man. Patrolman Mulligan suffered the loss of his eye as a result of his injuries. And Patrolman Yahr received serious injuries at the skull. Some day, someone will invent a pin that can go on easily. The mayor and everybody seems to have difficulty with these pins. Photographers have had their innings, and now the next citation by Commissioner O'Brien. The mayor came up with a demand for another picture. And they're lined up again for a repeat picture. It's interesting to think that the mayor is the chief magistrate of the city, but the cameramen tell everybody what to do. They're generally glad enough to do it because, as I said before, we need these pictures. The Dennis J. Mahoney Medal for Valor of the Detectives Endowment Association. To Detective Joseph H. Motley, number 1909 of the 18th Detective Squad. The National Surety Medal for Valor. To Detective John C. Kenney of the 19th Detective Squad, presented by Mr. Ellis Garson. The Daniel B. Friedman Medal for Valor. To Detective Charles D. Watkins of the 19th Detective Squad. The William McLean Freeman Medal for Valor. To Detective Patrick J. Kerens of the 46th Detective Squad. After an intensive investigation, they located a man who was apparently demented, who had shot and wounded a priest. As the officers approached the apartment, the individual discharged 15 shots at the officers from an automatic rifle. The detectives returned the fire, seriously wounding their assailant, and destarmed and placed him under arrest. As we said before, these awards in front of City Hall are a recapture of last year's headlines, and how often we pick up our daily papers as we did this morning, to find that a man had gone berserk and created havoc and death in a neighborhood, in this case a demented case. One officer was wounded, and several others took the chance of their lives in subduing the man. One man was killed. Patrolman's Benevolent Association Medal for Valor. Presented by Patrolman Carton, the President. The Patrolman James J. McDermott, shield 4707 of the 76th Precinct, was temporarily assigned to the 28th Precinct at the time of the occurrence. While on foot patrol, the officer's attention was attracted to the hallway of a building, where he observed two men in a violent altercation, one armed with a revolver, the other with a knife. Both refused the officer's order to drop their weapons, whereupon a struggle ensued, during which the officer disarmed both masks. Patrolman James J. McDermott. The New York City Police Post, American Legion Medal for Valor. Presented by Acting Lieutenant Jerome J. O'Neil. The Patrolman Eugene R. Bain, of the 10th Precinct. Patrolman Bain, upon arrival at a location where it was reported a man had fired several shots at another, officer observed a suspicious-looking individual, seated in a cab, and about to proceed. When Patrolman Bain opened the door to investigate, the occupant fired a shot at the officer who returned the fire, wounded his assailant, and placed him under arrest. The Police Anchor Club Medal for Valor. Presented by Acting Lieutenant John J. Boyle. To Patrolman Robert M. Puget, of the 14th Precinct. The Columbia Association Medal for Valor. Presented by Detective Mauro Constance Thano. To Patrolman James B. Rath, of the 14th Precinct. These officers, upon entering a darkened office in a loft building, in which a burglary was in progress, were assaulted by the criminals. One of whom was armed with a knife, and another with a three-foot pinch bar. During the struggle, the officers discharged numerous shots, wounding two of their assailants, and subduing the other. Patrolman Rath received stye. All the prisoners had previous records. Both these officers are wearing decorations and citations. To Detective James Toll, Jr., of the 17th Detective Squad. And the Michael J. Delahanty Medal for Valor. Presented by Mr. Kenneth Delahanty, Mike Delahanty's son. To Detective James J. O'Connor, of the 17th Detective Squad. These officers, after keeping three suspicious-looking men under surveillance for a period of time, observed them enter a pharmacy. Upon entering the store, the officers were attacked by two of the men, both armed. Whereupon, Detective O'Connor opened fire, wounding both men. The third man, emerging from the rear of the store with guns drawn, was fired upon by the detectives, causing him to drop his weapon and surrender. The second man, Mike Delahanty, who is the first to be? Just a few moments for pictures before Commissioner O'Brien leads the next citation. The Rhinelander Medal for Valor and the Isaac Bell Medal for Valor. In the next award. The Rhinelander Medal for Valor presented to Detective Peter J. McGowan of the 23rd Detective Squad. The Isaac Bell Medal for Valor presented to Patrolman Francis W. Otto of the 23rd Precinct. Patrolman Otto accompanied by another officer pursued and apprehended one of three men who had committed a new disarming him of a loaded pistol. Later Officer Otto with Detective McGowan located the accomplices and when fired upon by one of the men returned the shots wounding the culprit in the leg and placed them both under arrest. The prisoners have previous criminal records and admitted committing many other crimes. The Sherman Day Medal for Valor. The Patrolman Francis R. Mamarella, the 43rd Precinct. And the Ernest Faunstock Medal for Valor to Patrolman Raymond J. Connolly of the 43rd Precinct. These officers, while on radio motor patrol and responding to an alarm of an armed robbery, observed a taxi cab occupied by three men and a driver, answering the description of the vehicle used by the perpetrators of another holder. During the ensuing chase, numerous shots were fired. The officers were successful in apprehending these criminals, disarming them of pistols and blackjack. The prisoners were implicated in two other armed robberies. The prisoners were implicated in two other armed robberies. The prisoners were implicated in one of the officers. The officers were implicated in one of the officers. Apparently, one of these officers had one of the family with a camera, the mayor spotted the family who's represented trying to get a picture, and he kindly turned the two officers around so that they would get, that he would get their picture. Mr. Russell Irish here. Mr. Irish. The Brooklyn Citizens Medal for Valor presented to Sergeant James J. Kiernan of the 77th Bracing, and the Martin J. Sheridan Medal for Valor, and Patrolman John F. Reilly of the 84th Bracing. Upon receiving the receipt of a radio message, the officers proceeded to the East River, where they observed a man in the water a considerable distance from the shore. They swam to his assistance, and after a hard struggle with the tides and the benumbing effects of the freezing water, brought the man to safety. With the helicopters that were inaugurated in the service last Thursday, the helicopter would get out there in no time and pick these men out of the water, or this man out of the water, rather, and the officer would not have to take the difficulty of submersion and cold temperatures such as these two men had to do. The Peter F. Meyer Medal for Valor, presented by Patrolman David Salter, the President of the Adelagian, who is custodian of the funds of this medal. To Patrolman Philip H. Volz, of the 41st Precinct. The Charles H. Sabin Medal for Valor, presented to Patrolman Milton Altmyer, of the 41st Precinct. These officers arriving at the scene of a fire, entered the building and aroused the occupants. When informed that a woman was trapped in an apartment, now a mass of flames, crawled in and succeeded in rescuing the woman. Both officers were hospitalized for smoke poisoning and burns, and subsequently, Patrolman Altmyer was obliged to undergo surgery for one of his eyes. It looks as both these officers had ladies in the family who have cameras, and the mayor is seeing that they get their pictures too. The mayor's lined up. He's asked the other lady to come over and take her place so they get the same focus. And these two ladies, they might be the wives of these two officers, they're busy with those cameras taking pictures with the mayor's assistance. The mayor's doing the production on the job. That's the conclusion of the awarding of the medals. No doubt Commissioner O'Brien will make an announcement now. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have the reading of a psalm by our chaplain, the Reverend Isidore Frank, chaplain of the police department. O Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell on thy holy mountain? He that walketh without blame, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh with proof with his heart. He that hath never uttered slander with his tongue, nor done evil to his neighbor, nor taken up a reproach against his fellow man. In whose eyes the vile man is despised. But he honoureth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not. Not out his money to usury, nor taketh a bribe against the innocent. He that doeth, nor doeth he that will never be moved. Not out his money to his own hurt, nor doeth he that will never be moved. Not out his money to his own hurt, nor doeth he that will never be moved. Not out his money to his own hurt, nor doeth he that will never be moved. Not out his money to his own hurt, nor doeth he that will never be moved. Not out his money to his own hurt, nor doeth he that will never be moved. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me a great pleasure to introduce to you a man who is one of us. A former policeman who never lost contact with the police department of this city. A former policeman who has never lost his touch of police work. Who has never lost interest in the police department or its members. I think we can be very happy to say that we are his favorite department because of the fact that he has been so long associated with us. And because he has gotten to know us so well. I present to you the man who has been very friendly to this department down through the years. And has shown his friendship in every manner and means. And at every opportunity. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Commissioner O'Brien, the Reverend Chaplains, Deputy and Honoring Commissioners, Officer of the Senators, officers and men in the police department, ladies and gentlemen, families and friends. At this noon, once a year, the city of New York, through its elected officials and through its police commissioner, has the honor to thank again for a year's work the Bayer Police Department. Today's ceremony, as all such ceremonies in the past, will be divided into three parts. One will be those who are honored and who, because of God's will, and due to their own courage and sacrifice, cannot be here personally to hear the words of praise. The day he represents the ultimate and personal sacrifice. He stood in the hour of danger for the protection of those he had sworn to protect. He did everything that he said he would do the day he first wore that shield. He made good every promise to the mass of people that make up this city, to his family, and to his God. And we ask God today to take him as a favored one and hold him close to his heart. And there are the others who might well have been in his place. Others who might well not be here. Of you gentlemen, of all of you who came forth to receive a physical notation of your courage, the same can be said of every one of you. And it was God's will that made it possible for you to be here. Each one of you were called upon, each one was called separately to stand in that same position at that same tragic moment. Each one of you took his life in his hands, stood up without any selfish consideration before the enemy. Each one of you are lucky to be here. That doesn't mean that we should be less in our gratitude to the God who sent us here, but more. And then there is this day that because of you, we take advantage of the occasion. I, in my representative capacity, speaking for the people of this city, to thank every member of this police department, for the splendid police department that you are. Not only a credit to yourselves and to your families and to your friends, a credit to a great city that couldn't function without a first-class police department. A credit to your nation, because as it appears here today, your example is one that a whole nation might well follow. Commissioner O'Brien mentioned casually that you are an answer to those who would detract from the great name of our police department. Well, I don't blame you or the commissioner when you read headlines that the police are this and the police are that. And when you see the actions that make this day possible, it printed it all in a one paragraph in the same newspaper. However, Commissioner O'Brien, commissioners, men, families, you have your babies here today. Some of your children are in the schoolroom. The headline denounces a whole police department. Your children are blushing in the schools. Other children are pointing to them. And it is not fair. And I thoroughly understand the resentment of the police department and Commissioner O'Brien. It is not fair to their children or to their families, let alone not fair to men who stand before the world as you stand today, heroic in the performance of a harsh duty. However, I'm coming almost to the end of my 40th year as a resident of this city. Some of you weren't born in 1910 when I came to this town first. I had the privilege seven years later of being a member of a New York police department. I have received no higher honor from that day to this than I've had a few. It would be pride that I stand here as a mayor of this city. To say what most people think, but few have had the opportunities to know that I have had. And what it means to leave the home. To go out into a tour of duty. To leave your wife and your little ones at home. When all of you know that it's only by the grace of God that you'll ever see one another again. When all of you know that the work of a policeman is something that every second of his tour of duty, on his way home, on his way to work, even when he is home, that there never is a moment that he's off duty if the call to serve has come. That there never is a moment when his life isn't in danger. Nor should the record be silent, but we have yet to find when that hour of danger came, that any policeman ever backed away from his sworn duty. That should be a headline at least today. That should be an answer to those that will tear you and your families down. God bless you, every one of you. And keep you safe for you and your families and friends. I can say no more than that. It expresses every gratitude of my heart to the police department. Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer, for that very inspiring address. If the men of this department need inspiration, they must have gotten it from those words that came right from your heart. In the name of the police department, I want to express our deep appreciation and thanks. And now the ladies and gentlemen will have the benediction by another of our chaplains, the Reverend Caleb Moore. And now may the blessing of God our Father, of Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer, the Holy Spirit, the Comforter and our Guide, abide with us this day and forever. Amen . Amen . Amen . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. ceremony, we had some idea of the tragedy that the police department, the man in blue, faces every day as new every day begins. There was one posthumous award that went to patrolman Aufheimer's mother and father. Then there was one department medal of honor. There were nine combat crosses and 25 donated medals by public spirited citizens and police line organizations in carrying through today's ceremonies. And so with the stars and stripes flying in the breeze of this beautiful June day, the flag of the city of New York and the flag of the police department, the colors to which these men have always been true, these men of the army of blue of our own city of New York who face the tragedy of life and death, even if every emergency of war and every other tragedy passed out of the life of the city itself through created exigency, well, the emergency situation would still prevail and the tragedy of death might enter into their lives. And so with colors flying and the band playing, we take another lease on the life of our city, knowing it is guarded by these great men of blue. And that is all now from City Hall Plaza. We return you to the studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.