This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beast. What is the world's best buy for 10 cents? A candy bar? A few shine? A cup of coffee? No, the world's best buy is what the 2 billion people on earth are getting for an average of 10 cents per person each year. That's what it costs to run the United Nations and its 12 specialized agencies. This is a quotation from an advertisement appearing in many newspapers throughout the country under the auspices of the American Association for the United Nations. That's what we want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. One of the most important jobs of every General Assembly is the adoption of the United Nations budget. And of course, to most people, the budget dealing with figures is a very dull proposition. But I think that there is courage and imagination and a great challenge to be found in the UN budget. And so does my privilege to present as my guest this evening, Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky, a new member of the United Nations delegation to the General Assembly. Senator Cooper has had a varied career, a lawyer in his own state of Kentucky, one time a member of the legislature, circuit judge, active in civic affairs, a United States Senator, and with a distinguished military record. And it was his tough assignment to serve on the Fifth Committee of the United Nations, which deals with the budget. And the Fifth Committee is composed of 59 people, with one representing each member state. And so, Senator Cooper, we want to thank you for being with us on our association program. We'll start logically, and so I'll ask what I think everyone would say should be the first question. What is the total budget of the United Nations? Well, Mr. Eichelberger, first I would just like to say that I'm grateful for having the opportunity to be with you tonight. And thank you and the great organization that you represent. You've asked me what is the total budget of the United Nations. It's rather appropriate that you could ask me this question tonight because today the Fifth Committee made its final adoption of the budget and its gross sum amounting to $42,352,000. That's interesting. You just had time to get to the studio from Lake Seagest. I just got here. This budget covers the main organizations of the United Nations. That is, the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Trusteeship Council, the Economic and Social Council, and the International Court of Justice, and the activities that they perform. Of course, I know, Mr. Eichelberger, with your own experience in this field, you know that of all the affiliated organizations, such as the International Relief Organization, the World Health Organization, and others, their budgets are prepared by themselves, and contributions are made to their budgets by the United States and other members. Yes, I understand. We do not consider their budgets in the Fifth Committee. I understand. Well, I'm going to ask another question, Senator. How is this budget developed? I know you've been going to like success almost every day for three months. What's the procedure of building up the budget? Yes. As I say, the Fifth Committee begins its work first and is the last to end because it must consider every activity in the light of financial implications. I suppose every new act of this assembly adds something to your final figures. Is that... Almost everything. We will have had 57 meetings when the General Assembly adjourns probably the latter part of next week. Were there quite harmonious meetings? Yes. You know, in the Fifth Committee, we are not bothered as much by political considerations as they may find in the other committees of the General Assembly. And it's quite pleasant. Yes. Very good. You've asked me about the preparation of the budget. First, the Secretariat, which is the working organization of the United Nations, prepares a detailed estimate of funds needed for its sections and for their activities. Then there's an independent committee, which has been appointed by the General Assembly itself, made up of 10 members. Do they represent countries or individuals? They represent countries, but more specifically, they are experts. Mm-hmm. And selected without regard to any section or country, but an attempt to find 10 budget experts. So they're pretty detached. Yes. That's good. And the chairman happens to be Mr. Agnidis, one who'd worked in the League of Nations. Well, I've known him for 20 years. Very fine person. This is an independent committee. It reviews the budget which has been prepared by the Secretariat and makes recommendations. They may approve it all, or they may make revisions, suggest revisions, or they, and frequently they suggest reductions. Then the budget and the recommendations of the advisory committee come before this fifth committee, which as you said is not a small committee, but in which every one of the members is represented. It's a rather large committee, 59 members. And in these meetings we've had, we've considered every section of the budget and many items in the budget. There's been rather free debate, extemporaneous debate, active debate, and a vote upon every section, and many times upon specific items. It's been a rather spoiled discussion. I hazard a guess, Senator, that you're one of the best informed members of the American delegation and the whole United Nations operation, because each other member has dealt with one particular phase of it, but you've had an overall picture of the whole work. As a newcomer, I haven't found it dull, because as you say, you learn a great deal about the structure of every part of the United Nations. I wish I knew it a huge... Then after this budget has been considered once, it's considered for a second time. There's a second reading of the budget, the final reading, the one we complete today. Now it must go to the full plenary session of the General Assembly, and it requires a two-thirds majority for adoption. Wait, was it adopted unanimously today? I think there may have been... there were five abstentions, I believe, but no votes against. Well, that... I might... mind you that you've been in the Senate, and can I ask how does this process... Let me ask you from your observations, do you consider this an efficient and careful process, and how does it compare with the Congressional budget? Well, first, as to whether or not it's an efficient and careful procedure, I would think that this detailed examination that I have reviewed would indicate that it is a rather careful review. And second, sitting on this fifth committee, representing many of the nations, are budget experts, or experts from their Treasury Department. It happens that I am... I'm not a budget expert, but I've been very fortunate in having with me and advising me people who are experts from the State Department. I'd like to mention them if I could. Go ahead, yes. Mr. Hall and... I know you. And, uh, uh, Ms. Lacey and Mr. French, they are trained in this procedure, and they've been an invaluable help to me. I met them with you the other day. Then I would like to say one other thing, that, uh, the members on this committee are economy-minded. Many of them come from countries where there's been devaluation. Now they have to supply more of their own currency to meet our dollars, because the budget is made up in terms of dollars. For example, in England, they have to provide more pounds now than they did. There is a penny has to come. Yeah. What, uh, what's the contribution of the United States? I mean, how much do we actually contribute? Well, the contribution of the United States is the largest contribution. It amounts to, uh, slightly over 39%, which in terms of dollars under this year's budget would, uh, would amount to about almost 15 million dollars. It's the largest, uh, contribution. The next contribution is the United Kingdom, about 12%. Then Russia and China, about 6%. Well, do you, you consider this a burden on the United States and its people? No, I do not. First, I'd like to say that this contribution is based upon the capacity to pay. It might be surprising to all of us to know that, in the world, that our income represents over, our national income represents over one-half of the income of the world. It's fantastic. And it's a very, something we can be very happy about, but, and so from that viewpoint, I do not believe our contribution of 15 or 16 million dollars is too much. There are other considerations, though, which, uh, make me believe that much stronger. And then, uh, what are some of those? I gather this is only about 10 cents per average American. That's true. And the average family, perhaps 30 or 35 cents. Well, I would say first, if we look at it in comparison to our own budget, in this country, a budget of 40 to 44 billion dollars, it's not much, 16 million dollars. And if we think of it in terms of the services that the United Nations performs, the services that you know so well. Yes. We have outlined a few of those. Well, as you know, there are economic activities. We have the commissions, the Economic Commission for Europe, for the Far East and for Latin America, where they're attempting to build up the economic, the economy of those sections. Then you know the social activities that are performed. Human rights and educational activities, fellowships, attempting to find better social programs in the world. I'm going to ask this question. I'm mindful tonight of the tremendous burden we're all carrying for military preparedness, and that the total budget of the United Nations is less than the cost of a battleship. How much of this budget is spent for the settlement of disputes and the prevention of war? One of the great activities of the United Nations, of course, has been its commissions, which it has sent out to, in those circumstances where there were breaches which might have brought on war. You remember the Balkan Commission, the Pakistan Indian Commission, the Palestine Commission, the commissions in Korea. And altogether, I would say between $2 and $3 million for those. If I remember rightly, Senator, the Secretary General, in his annual report, said that the United Nations was settling or dealing with wars involving 500 million people. That's the fourth of the human race. And if they can do that on $2 million, that's just about the cheapest insurance there. Yes, and so many people sometimes think that we're not doing anything in that field. And yet here we have settled, or helped settle, these breaches which might have led to great wars. Of course. I mean, you've taken the India-Pakistan situation. There were 350,000 men massed to go to war at a moment if it hadn't have been for the United Nations. I would like to mention one other expenditure that's being undertaken, and that is for the bringing to independence the Italian colonies of Libya and Eritrea and Somaliland. It's one of the great purposes of the United Nations, to prepare those people for independence. And we're spending this year $450,000 for that. It's one of the great purposes of the United Nations. That, I'm awfully glad you brought that out. And I have just room for one more question before I ask the final wind-up question. Will the budget of the United Nations be fixed at this amount? I do not think so. There's a chance that it will become more efficient, and it will be stabilized in certain areas. But I think we must always remember that as the need grows, as our activities grow, that we must not consider it a fixed budget. It's money well spent, and more money could be well spent certainly to preserve the peace. One item we forgot to mention, that is I think the United Nations Guard Force, the President of the League, will now have his own constabulary. And I noticed in the figures you showed me this afternoon, it will only cost $139,000 more than what is absorbed in those other services. Now I'm going to ask a last final question that I'd like to ask all of the guests on this program. What is your impression of the United Nations in a general way? We have just one minute after being with it at this first session. That's a big question for one minute. No, no. Please just watch that for us. Well, it's probably just an impression, but I must say that at the end of this almost three months, that I leave much in a much more hopeful vein and frame of mind than when I came. I should say a very hopeful vein. I want that, I don't want to qualify. I want to say it's very hopeful. First, because it's the only place in the world where these 59 nations are meeting, discussing these problems. They're already cooperating in many fields, more fields than most people realize. They've already settled many breaches. We're learning to cooperate. They are creating an opinion, world opinion, which I believe will become more and more effective. I leave in a very hopeful frame of mind. Senator, it's been a great pleasure to have you on our program tonight, to have you give in such a human way the financial picture of the United Nations and this very encouraged message in conclusion. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger and John Sherman Cooper. This has been another in NBC's University of the Air program series, The UN is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in the United Nations affairs. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is My Beat. What is the world's best buy for ten cents? A candy bar? A shoeshine? A cup of coffee? No. The world's best buy is what the two billion people on earth are getting for an average of ten cents per person each year. That's what it costs to run the United Nations and its twelve specialized agencies. This is a quotation from an advertisement appearing in many newspapers throughout the country under the auspices of the American Association for the United Nations. That's what we want to talk about. The national broadcasting company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, The UN is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. One of the most important jobs of every General Assembly is the adoption of the United Nations budget. And of course, to most people, the budget dealing with figures is a very dull proposition. But I think that there is courage and imagination and a great challenge to be found in the UN budget. And so does my privilege to present as my guest this evening, Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky, a new member of the United Nations delegation to the General Assembly. Senator Cooper has had a varied career, a lawyer in his own state of Kentucky, one time a member of the legislature, circuit judge, active in civic affairs, a United States Senator, and with a distinguished military record. And it was his tough assignment to serve on the Fifth Committee of the United Nations, which deals with the budget. And the Fifth Committee is composed of 59 people, one representing each member state. And so, Senator Cooper, we want to thank you for being with us on our association program. And we'll start logically, and so I'll ask what I think everyone would say should be the first question. What is the total budget of the United Nations? Mr. Eichelberger, first I would just like to say that I am grateful for having the opportunity to be with you tonight, and thank you and the great organization that you represent. You've asked me what is the total budget of the United Nations. It's rather appropriate that you could ask me this question tonight, because today the Fifth Committee made its final adoption of the budget, and its gross sum amounting to $42,352,000. That's interesting. You just had time to get to the studio from now. I just got here. I just got here. This budget covers the main organizations of the United Nations. That is the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Trusteeship Council, the Economic and Social Council, and the International Court of Justice, and the activities that they perform. Of course, I know, Mr. Eichelberger, with your long experience in this field, you know that of all the affiliated organizations, such as the International Relief Organization, the World Health Organization, and others, their budgets are prepared by themselves, and contributions are made to their budgets by the United States and other members. Yes, I understand. We do not consider their budgets in the Fifth Committee. I understand. Well, I'm going to ask another question, Senator. How is this budget developed? I know you've been going to like success almost every day for three months. Yes. What's the procedure of building up the budget? Yes. As they say, the Fifth Committee begins its work first and is the last to end, because it must consider every activity in the light of financial implications. I suppose every new act of this Assembly adds something to your final figures, is that right? Almost everything. We will have had 57 meetings when the General Assembly adjourns probably the latter part of next week. Were there quite harmonious meetings? Yes, you know, in the Fifth Committee, we are not bothered as much by political considerations as they may find in the other committees of the General Assembly. And it's quite pleasant. Yes. Very good. You've asked me about the preparation of the budget. First, the Secretariat, which is the working organization of the United Nations, prepares a detailed estimate of funds needed for its sections and for their activities. Then there's an independent committee, which has been appointed by the General Assembly itself, made up of 10 members. Do they represent countries or individuals? They represent countries, but more specifically, they are experts. Mm-hmm. And selected without regard to any section or country, but in an attempt to find 10 budget experts. So they're pretty detached. Yes. That's good. And the chairman happens to be Mr. Agnidis, one who'd worked in the League of Nations. Well, I've known him for 20 years. Very fine person. This is an independent committee. It reviews the budget which has been prepared by the Secretariat and makes recommendations. They may approve it all or they may make revisions, suggest revisions, or they, and frequently they suggest reductions. Then the budget and the recommendations of the advisory committee come before this fifth committee, which as you said is not a small committee, but which, in which every one of the members is represented. It's a rather large committee, 59 members. And in these meetings we've had, we've considered every section of the budget and many items in the budget. There's been rather free debate, extemporaneous debate, active debate, and a vote upon every section, and many times upon specific items. It's been a rather full discussion. I hazard a guess, Senator, that you're one of the best informed members of the American delegation and the whole United Nations operation, because each other member has dealt with one particular phase of it, but you've had an overall picture of the whole work. As a newcomer, I haven't found it dull, because if you say, you learn a great deal about the structure of every part of the United Nations. I wish I knew it as you did. Then after this budget has been considered once, it's considered for a second time. There's a second reading of the budget, the final reading, the one we complete today. Now it must go to the full plenary session of the General Assembly, and it requires a two-thirds majority for adoption. Was it adopted unanimously today? I think there may have been, there were five abstentions, I believe, but no votes against. Well, that, I might remind you that you've been in the Senate, and can I ask how does this process, let me ask you from your observations, do you consider this an efficient and careful process, and how does it compare with the Congressional budget? Well, first, as to whether or not it's an efficient and careful procedure, I would think that this detailed examination that I have reviewed would indicate that it is a rather careful review. Mm-hmm. And second, sitting on this fifth committee, representing many of the nations are budget experts, or experts from their Treasury departments. It happens that I am not a budget expert, but I've been very fortunate in having with me and advising me people who are experts from the State Department. I'd like to mention them if I could. Go ahead, yes. Mr. Hall, and Mr. Lacey, and Mr. French, they are trained in this procedure, and they've been of invaluable help to me. Yes, I met them with you the other day. Then I would like to say one other thing, that the members on this committee are economy-minded. Many of them come from countries that have to provide more pounds now than they did. Every penny has to come. What's the contribution of the United States, and how much do we actually contribute? Well, the contribution of the United States is the largest contribution. It amounts to slightly over 39%, which in terms of dollars under this year's budget would amount to about almost $15 million. It's the largest contribution. The next contribution is the United Kingdom, about 12%. Then Russia and China, about 6%. Do you consider this a burden on the United States and its people? No, I do not. First, I'd like to say that this contribution is based upon the capacity to pay. It represents over one half of the income of the world. That's fantastic. And it's something we can be very happy about. And so from that viewpoint, I do not believe our contribution of $15 or $16 million is too much. There are other considerations, though, which make me believe that much stronger. And then what are some of those? I gather this is only about 10 cents per average American. That's true, and the average family. One years' average family.