Hold your seats and your hats, here's Jimmy Durante. Hello, in-person. Hello, folks. Believe me, you'll have the time of your lives. Laughs and trills a million in them. The Great Ringling Brothers Circus opens at Madison Square Garden on April 4th. On this one night, in addition to the full circus, you will see performing under the big top, Celeste Holm, Gene Tierney, Tony Martin, and Mr. Tootshaw. Plus many other big stars. And the ringmaster, me, keeping everyone in line. All for the Hart Fund. Call for your Hart Tickets at the Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street, Murray Hill, 81400. I'll be looking for you. Turn up the volume, folks. Here's Norman Boykenshire. Thank you, Jimmy Durante. Yes, neighbors, it's spring again. And with the turn of the season, that master showman, John Ringling North, comes to our city with the greatest show on earth. Tickets are selling on the opening show from $5 to $1.50. All proceeds for this show will be turned over to the New York Hart Association. Glamorous stars of screen, television, and radio will take part as circus performers on April 4th. Tootshaw, following Sabu's trail, will ride the lead elephant, while that wonderful Jimmy Durante, who introduced me, will be cracking the whip as ringmaster and putting the stars through their paces. Yes, friends, this is one circus you don't want to miss. So be sure to get your tickets at the Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street. Or you can call Murray Hill, 81400. But do it now. This is Tootshaw talking, and I want to tell you about the greatest show on earth. Tickets are on sale now. Yes, sir. The tickets are for the greatest show on earth are selling like hotcakes at the Hart Fund Headquarters. Just think of it. For only $5 to $1.50, you will see a circus that will make your heart sing for months to come. The great Jimmy Durante, Gene Tierney, Tony Martin, Bob Hope, Dagmar, Donna Meachie, Lorraine Day, and a host of others will take the roles of circus performers to make the circus the most supernatural, colossal, and biggest show of all times on April 4th. Remember tonight, folks. The proceeds are going to the Louise Bear Memorial of the Hart Fund, and you can get your tickets at the Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street. Phone, Murray Hill, 81400. Hello, folks. This is Dennis James, and I want you to hurry, hurry, hurry for the greatest, and I mean the greatest show on earth is coming. Yes, sirree. John Ringley North is bringing his magnificent circus into Madison Square Garden Wednesday, April 4th, and it's a star-studded hit cast with the biggest names in show business. Jimmy Durante himself is taking over in the role of ringmaster. Your favorite movie stars are wearing their special elephant riding clothes, and scores of other personalities are preparing themselves for the most colossal circus of all time. Entire proceeds are being turned over to the Hart Fund, so be sure to get your tickets at Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street, Murray Hill, 81400. Hello, everybody. This is Dagmar speaking, and I want you to know that whether it rains or snows April 4th, all the stars will be out for the opening of John Ringley North's greatest, greatest show on earth. Celeste Holm, Lily Pons, Dagmar, oh, that's me, Tony Martin, Jimmy Durante, and scores of others will all take over as circus performers to make this opening the most supernatural opening of all time. Hurry, hurry, hurry to the Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street, for your tickets for this event. All proceeds are going to the Hart Fund, so be sure to hurry, hurry, hurry. This is Jerome Cowan from Hollywood. Jerry to all you folks. And I want you to know that April 4th is just around the corner, and with it brings the most supernatural, colossal, magnificent, splendiferous circus of all time. Lovely Jean Tierney, Celeste Holm, Lorraine Day, and a host of other great stars will take over circus roles to make this performance the greatest star-studded review of all time. Be sure to go to the Hart Fund Headquarters, 45 East 47th Street, for your tickets. And remember, all proceeds are going to the New York Hart Fund. Hello, this is Celeste Holm. Wait a minute until I can catch my breath. I can't help it. I'm so full of excitement. Do you know that the circus is coming to town April the 4th, and the opening premier's proceeds are all going to the Hart Fund? Just think of it. All the stars of stage, screen, television, and radio are going to take over the roles of circus performers. The darlingest comic of all time, Jimmy Durante, is ringmaster. Toot Shore is out now practicing how to ride an elephant. Of course, I'm teaching him. Jean Tierney, Ella Rains, Lorraine Day, and scores of others are being fitted to their costumes to make this opening the grandest, most colossal, magnificent circus opening of all time. Hurry, hurry, hurry. Tickets are priced from $5 to $1.50, and are going like ice sticks on a hot summer day. So be sure to go today to the Hart Fund Headquarters, located at 45 East 47th Street, Murray Hill 8, 1-400.