Hello? Hello, Mr. Piano? Mr. Piano? Hello? Oh, this is Tommy. Don't you remember me? I suppose you answered me then. Oh, Mr. Piano, won't you even say good morning? Well, what's the trouble, Mr. Piano? Hello? Hello, Mr. Piano? Mr. Piano, hello? Oh, Mr. Piano, won't you answer me? Won't you say good morning? Well, don't you remember? You remember me. I'm Tommy. Yes, I'm Tommy. I saw you last Saturday. And last Saturday you spoke so nicely at the piano. Oh, Mr. Piano, can't you say something to me? Oh, Mr. Piano, did I do something wrong? Oh, you said such nice things last week, Mr. Piano. Please say something. Just say good morning. Say, look who's at the door here over here, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. Look who's at the piano. What do you think of that? Hello, Tommy. Yes, you surprised me. Hello, Mr. Narrator and Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. You surprised me then. What are you trying to do, Tom? Well, Mr. Traffic Policeman brought me here a little while ago. Yes. And then he went out to look for you. And while I was here alone with the piano, well, I thought the piano would talk to me. Oh, he's trying to get the piano to talk to. Well, he did last time. No, let me tell you the secret of the whole show here, Tom. See, Mr. Piano, he's now in a safety studio here with us. Well, he will only talk when we are on the air. Oh. And you see, that's the only thing he does, you know. He wants to be sure that he broadcasts his message to everybody. And that's the reason he won't talk to you. But I'll show you now. We're about to go on the air in a few seconds, so you just sit over here, Tom, and you'll see the whole program will start off. And then we'll get Mr. Piano to talk for us. All right, Tom? Yes, all right, Mr. Narrator. All right, everybody stand by now. Are you ready, Mr. Zing, safety policeman? All set. Mr. Piano, are you ready? Everybody stand by. Here we go. The police safety program. Good morning, good morning. We've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. Yes, this is the police safety program, sent to you through the cooperation of his honor, the mayor, and the police commissioner, in the interest of highway safety, your safety, by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful. Be careful. You cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful. You cross the corners. That's where you'll be seen. Be careful. Make streets safer and safer. You're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful. And take it easy. Don't be in our eyes. Good morning, boys and girls. Good morning, mothers and fathers. This is your friend, Mr. Narrator. Yes. And we're broadcasting over these friendly killer cycles of your city's own station with our safety program from the Safety Studio. And we hope you'll all be listening here this morning because we're going to play some games, we're going to sing some songs, and we have our two friends here this morning, Mr. Piano and Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. And they're all prepared. Oh, yes, we have another visitor. Say, Tommy, come on over here to the microphone and speak with me. Come on. Yes. Hello, Mr. Narrator. And say good morning to the boys and girls. Good morning, girls and boys. That's very nice. Say, do you know what Tommy was trying to do this morning? He was trying to make the piano talk just before we come on the air. Oh, don't make fun of me, Mr. Narrator. No, I don't mean to make fun of you, but we want to show to you that Mr. Piano does really talk, Tommy. He really does. Because you'll find it very interesting. See, Mr. Piano takes great pride in telling other people how to be careful on the street. You'd be surprised what a smart piano he is. For instance, let me see now what his message is today. Mr. Piano. Have you got a message for us today? You have? Oh, that's very nice. Let us hear what the message is today. Did you hear that, Tommy? Oh, yes, I heard that. What does it mean, Mr. Narrator? Well, now I'm going to ask him to play it once more. Mr. Piano, would you please play that once again? And I'll tell you what that is. This is what it is. It's look, walk, and cross with safety. Now, Mr. Piano, you and I do it together. Here we go. Look, walk, and cross with safety. See how that piano talks, Tommy? Oh, yes. Now I understand. That's a musical safety idea. Yeah, would you like to try it with him, Tommy? Could I, Mr. Narrator? Oh, why, sure. You go ahead and try it with him. Uh, hello, hello, Mr. Piano. This is Tommy. Would you play that? Yeah, you try it with him. Go ahead. I think he would. Mr. Piano, would you play a safety idea for me? Yes, he answered me, Mr. Narrator. That's very nice. Now try him to get in that safety message again. Uh, Mr. Piano, would you play the safety message for me? He did the same thing. Those were the five safety words. That's right. Now, he has a reason for saying that. He has a reason for saying that. Would you like to learn what the reason is? Well, how could the piano tell me the reason? Well, he can. Will you hear it? Give us the reason, Mr. Piano. And the reason why we look, walk, and cross with safety is because the light is red. Well, say, look who... Oh, say, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman. Good morning, good morning, good morning. Say, we're a little late here this morning. I'm sorry. Yes, uh, good morning, Mr. Narrator. I was here a little early myself. Yes, well, I know you got a little early, but we were mixed up in one of the studios, and we come over here, and we found Tommy playing with the piano, and he just learned a nice lesson. Would you like to hear the lesson? Oh, yes, sir. Tell me, Tommy, what did you learn this morning? Well, uh, Mr. Narrator spoke to the piano, and he asked the piano, uh, he asked the piano to play, uh, a musical idea that deals with safety. Well, uh, what did the piano, uh, say to you this morning, Tommy? Well, the piano said, look, walk, and cross with safety. Oh, I'd like to hear that. Mr. Narrator, can you get the piano to repeat? Oh, I'm sure he can, yes. Do that once more for us, Mr. Piano. What is it? Look, walk, and cross with safety. And now the reason for it, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman, is this. The reason for it is because the light is red. Tell us that, Mr. Piano. Well, now, this morning, I understand we're going to speak about some bicycles. Is that right? Oh, yes, Tommy. Last week, you mentioned something about, uh, going out, uh, bicycle riding. Uh, that is with other members of your bicycle club. Isn't that right? Yes, that's true. We have a bicycle club. Uh, Tommy, tell me, have you, have you done any riding in the past week since we were up here last week? Well, let me see. Yes, we've gone last Thursday night. Now, I'd like to ask you, uh, one or two questions, Tommy. Uh, it was after dark when you went riding, right? Yes, it was. Now, tell me, Tommy, do you have, do you have a taillight or reflector on the rear of your bicycle? Yes, I have a reflector. You do? Mm-hmm. Well, now, let me see. Uh, of course, I, I know what a reflector is, but perhaps some of the boys and girls of the, of our radio audience don't know. So, will you tell them what a reflector is, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman? I'd be very glad to. You see, a reflector is a red disc that is on the rear mudguard of a bicycle. Oh, it's attached there. Yes. And an automobile approaching that bicycle, the lights of that car shine on that reflector. Mm-hmm. And they make it a bright red so that the man or woman driving that car can see the bicycle so much easier. I see. So, of course, and then you would also suggest that if they're going to ride at nighttime that they should wear an outer garment of light color? Oh, yes, Tommy. That's very important. And I, I, I wish you'd do us a personal favor by telling other members of your bicycle club that if they must ride their bicycle after dark, we don't advise that they do. But just in case they do go out after dark, that they wear an outer garment of light of color. Do you know why, Tommy? Oh, what, why is that? Well, I'll tell you. The man or woman driving a car, when their headlights shine on the person riding the bicycle, that lighter garment there, it shows them so much easier. And they're so much easier to be seen. Well, that way they're, they're much safer. I'll certainly remember that. Of course, you should always remember to obey the traffic regulations. Stop at full stop signs, stop at red lights, and of course, keep your bicycle to the right side of the road. Look, Mr. Ching and Safety Policeman, you haven't done much this morning for us, huh? Not as yet, no. What have you got in mind, Mr. Narita? I was going to ask you to sing that song about the bicycle. Mr. Piano, would you please play that song about the bicycle? No, not that one, please. No, no, that's not the one. No, that, that song about the bicycle is a little three-wheel bicycle. The one with the big bicycle, the big one. That's right. That's the one. When you ride a bicycle, watch out for the motor cars. When you ride a bicycle, never take your hands off the handlebars. You pedal slowly to and fro. You'll get where you want to go. Don't do tricks you think you know. Because you saw them at some show. Now be as cool as an icicle when you ride a bicycle. And that's true. When you ride a bicycle, everybody should be careful. Because remember, you're not allowed to do tricks. You know the man who drives the train, the engineer? Mm-hmm. He has to watch out for the red light. Yes, and he must operate that locomotive with great care. And the captain on the ship, before he can start, he must wait until he knows that the way is clear before he can go with the ship. Mm-hmm. Even though it's a big ship. And now you take the people who drive automobiles. They have regulations to abide by. They must watch out for the traffic lights. And they must keep their cars on the right side of the road. And they must also be careful. Am I saying the right thing, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman? Yes, you are, Mr. Narrator. And I have something else I'd like to say. And it would be very helpful if we could get the cooperation of parents. Well, how can you tell us to get the cooperation of parents? Here's what I mean, Mr. Narrator. If mothers and fathers, before they bought a bicycle for their boy or girl, if they were sure that they knew how to ride that bicycle properly. Now, in addition to knowing how to ride the bicycle properly, it would be very well for parents to try and stress the important things they must do, even if they know how to ride the bicycle, such as you said before about stopping for red lights and stopping for full stop signs and something else. Very important. What is that? Keep to the right side of the road and don't ever ride another child on that bicycle because in the old days they built bicycles for two or three or more people. But today, bicycles are built to carry one person. That's true. And, of course, you've got two people on the bicycle and accidents likely to happen. Oh, say, I see the clock has gone around. Are we ready? Are we ready? Shh. Everybody quiet. Everybody concentrate. Everybody think for safety. Everybody think for your safety. Remember, playtime can be safe time if you think. First, corner. Then, look. Traffic light. Then, look. Left. Then, look. Right. And remember to always. Walk safely. Remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner. Don't run in the street. Because that's where trouble and accidents meet. This program is sent to you through the cooperation of his honor, the mayor and the police commissioner. In the interest of highway safety. Your safety. Everybody's safety. It will be presented again over the same station. Next week, at the same time. Will you listen? This is your city's own station. The municipal broadcasting system. The municipal broadcasting system. That's how you learn from the prosecution. The municipal broadcasting system. The municipal broadcasting system. The lieutenant urban silos. Of course, it lives in the road in prison. That's maybe going back to the contribution. So. That's why we eat. The municipal broadcasting system. The municipal broadcasting system. That's why we talk on a unique show. The practical goed diese됐ment. The company was brought up. The sort ofcedented Peru. The지는 style to the tension. That's why we talk about it. Because that's glad. Gustav theauthor. going to learn more on the same show. The Ländern determining. Theieronी Valley. Theeeepie gracious is the Duchess, theią psychiatricJames templPod,