America has given much to the United Nations. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the greatest American of our time, was one of the founding fathers of the United Nations. His concept of the four freedoms defined in terms of mankind's need for indivisible unity, the basic humanist aspiration now embodied in the charter of the United Nations. The United Nations, for its part, had, from the outset, chosen the United States of America as its permanent home. In December 1945, the United Nations Preparatory Commission recommended that the permanent headquarters should be located in the United States. On February 14, 1946, the General Assembly meeting in London voted to establish the interim headquarters in New York City and the permanent headquarters in a suitable site in Fairfield or in Westchester County. In the meantime, the city of New York, under the able administration of Mayor William O'Dwyer, went to great trouble and expense to provide a temporary home for the United Nations, first in Hunter College and later in the New York City building in Plushon. During the second part of the session, which was held in New York in October 1946, the General Assembly reopened the question of the choice of a site for its permanent home. The cities of New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and San Francisco were considered. Finally, on December 10, 1946, Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. made his generous offer of a donation with which the greater part of the permanent site was purchased. This generous act was matched by the city of New York, which donated additional land and undertook the improvement of the area adjacent to the headquarters. Upon the recommendation of President Truman, the United States Congress, in one of the most heartening evidences of its bipartisan policy in support of the United Nations, granted a loan without interest for the construction of the building. The first allocation of $25 million from that loan was made available by the Congress in 1948 after agreement between President Truman and Governor Thomas Dewey. Thus, did the United States government, by the symbolic act of giving the United Nations a permanent home on American soil, yield a bit of its sovereignty to the world organization. This ground, a part of America, now belongs to the world. It is dedicated ground. Upon it will rest the visible structure of the United Nations, the instrument by which humanity hopes to attain peace and the blessings of peace. two priceless documents, the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are to be encased in the slab of granite that is to be the cornerstone of that visible structure. One could wish that other documents, hardly less historic and universal in their appeal, might receive the same reverential treatment. I refer, among others, to the resolutions of the General Assembly of December 14, 1946, of November 4, 1948, and November 19, 1948, calling for the control of atomic energy and the prohibition of atomic weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The resolution of November 3, 1947, condemning all forms of propaganda for a new war and encouraging the dissemination of information designed to give expression to the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace. And the Mexican resolution of November 3, 1948, appealing to the great powers to renew their efforts to compose their differences and establish a lasting peace. These solemn declarations, repeated each year since the birth of the United Nations, bespick humanity's insatiable yearning for peace. I make them again today on behalf of all the plain and humble people of all lands and pray that their voice may be heard before it is too late. Stone and steel alone will not give permanence to the home of the United Nations. The edifice that shall rise on this site will stand as a symbol of man's hope for a better life in a better world only so long as the nations gathered under its roof shall work together in unity and understanding. Stronger than steel, more durable than granite, goodwill is the real cornerstone of the United Nations. We shall have failed in our supreme duty to mankind if we do not make the permanent home of the United Nations the house of peace. In 1861, a great president of this republic addressed a nation rent by civil war in this world. We are not enemies but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic cord of memory stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and heartstone all over this broad land will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched as surely they will be by the better angels of our nature. Lincoln's words bear a timely significance for us today. truly, truly, we must not be enemies. We cannot afford to be enemies. Out of the ancient wisdom of the East has come the saying, all men are brothers, members of the human family. There may have been a time when we could have brushed this aside as a naive sentiment, an idle expression of idealism. But that time is no more. With the terrible weapons which human ingenuity has recently fashioned, war has become a luxury we can no longer afford and peace a necessity we cannot do without. the iron circle of war and peace is broken. Brotherhood is no longer an outmoded tenet of religion but the very price and condition of man's survival. The United Nations is the last sacred temple for the recovery of human brotherhood. We must remain at peace with one another. death or die. I thank you. You have just heard an address by Ambassador Carlos P. Romolo, President of the United Nations General Assembly given at the laying of the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. The Honorable Warren R. Austin, Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee will now address us. Senator Austin Bowen. Mr. President, this occasion calls to mind many conferences and consultations in which I have participated as Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee. Now all this effort comes to fruition. the home of the United Nations rises impressively on the East River site in New York. There are two points that may add to an understanding of the achievement marked by this ceremony. First, that men and women of goodwill have demonstrated their interest in the United Nations by substantial acts of generosity. Second, that this home building enterprise has been carried out by unanimity among the members of the United Nations. It was difficult to arrive at agreement on the general location and the specific site for the headquarters of the World Organization. We are grateful to Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. for his magnificent benevolence which decided this emotional controversy and acquired this site. His practical and generous idea was enthusiastically accepted. Mayor O'Dwyer, the members of the Citizens Committee, officials of the city of New York have acted promptly, generously, and with a vision to support the United Nations home building enterprise. They provided $20 million to build the approaches and made a $2 million grant to start the work. in every way, they, together with Empire State officials under the leadership of Governor Dewey, facilitated the headquarters agreement even to the extent of waiving taxes on this valuable property. Next, we faced the infinitely difficult problem of obtaining plans for the building. a board of designs composed of 12 celebrated architects from 12 countries, representative of all the regions of the earth, commenced meetings in March of 1947. From some 50 basic schemes and about 100 secondary designs, they reached unanimous agreement. on the blueprints which are now taking form in the buildings under construction here. This concurrence by these architects of many countries was a milestone on the road to Accord. No less than statesmen, they had strong opinions and vital differences to harmonize. They did it, unanimously. they presented us a unique house of the nations, having more windows surface than any other building in this city. While its facades on the north and south are of marble, both the east and the west sides are open to the light, a happy symbolism of the hope of peace-loving people everywhere. Not only did the architects reach unanimous agreements, but the members of our headquarters advisory committee and the General Assembly itself decided every important question by unanimous agreement. now having achieved unanimity on the plans for our United Nations home, we determinately seek agreement on security and well-being for the members of the household. So these structures are not merely buildings to house the workers. They are an instrument for harmony. they are a symbol in steel and marble and glass of unanimous effort and agreement in the cause of peace and world progress. As we dedicate the cornerstone on this anniversary, we rededicate ourselves to the high purposes for which these buildings are erected. We realize that in order to achieve these purposes, men of goodwill must continue to demonstrate their confidence and continue to harmonize their differing views in the search for universal accord. You have just heard an address delivered by Ambassador Warren R. Austin, chairman of the headquarters advisory committee of the United Nations in the open-air dais here on 42nd Street. His honor, the mayor of New York City, the honorable William O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. President of the United Nations, Mr. President of the United States, Governor Dewey, Mr. Lee, delegates, and distinguished guests. I am proud to be the mayor of New York City at a time when this building is being dedicated to its great purpose. we of New York City worked hard to induce the United Nations to select this city as its headquarters. No event of greater importance has ever happened in the history of our city than the selection of this permanent home. home. This city of eight million people is the product of the brain and the brawn of men and women from every corner of the earth, of every race, of every creed, of every color, of every national origin, of every alien culture, habit, and prejudice. their united effort has produced no Tower of Babel, but this city, a monument to the success of man's ability to get along with his fellow man. In the long run, as we have proved, the basic unity of human beings, the basic likeness of human beings is more vital, more important than these differences. Of course, we have not yet wiped out all injustices. The process is difficult, but we are making headway to better standards, better standards of living, and a better way of life. When we look back into history, we see civilization springing up where men are brought together into association with each other, and we see it disappearing as this united effort is broken up. two terrible world wars have been fought in our own generation. The futility of war as a solution of anything is obvious. We are beginning to realize that progress and improvement in international relations becomes possible when representatives meet in peaceful association. The closer the association, the greater the possibilities for improvement. If wars are to be forever abolished, the men and women of this world must devote their hearts and minds to the task of bringing the family of nations together and settling by discussion and calm consideration the differences which warfare never dissolve. The differences which exist among the various nations and races of the world have always been overemphasized. they're more superficial than real. The face upon which all nations rest and depend is the human being. He is common to all nations. His basic needs, ambitions, joys, and hope are the same the world over. It is our sincerest hope that here at the United Nations headquarters this great truth will be demonstrated day after day. We are not impatient with the United Nations because it has failed immediately to solve all the problems of the world. We know that progress is a slow process. we know that the chosen representatives of the nations must devote their minds and their hearts to the task of bringing the human family together. May the efforts of the United Nations be crowned with success. May it grow into an enduring establishment for world peace and world security with the help of God it will. Thank you. You have just an address by his honor the mayor of New York William O'Dwyer dedication of United Nations headquarters. Governor of the State of New York the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey. President of the United Nations President of the United States Your Excellencies Distinguished Guests Ladies and Gentlemen It's a very great pleasure to participate in this ceremony in which the cornerstone laying of the United Nations headquarters is attended by the President of the United States. If tasks of this kind were his only duties I might even envy him his job. But in truth his responsibilities are such that no one should envy him and all should wish him very well indeed. It's a great pleasure to welcome here to the State of New York not only the President of the United States but delegates and representatives from all the nations of the world who are taking part in the most important labor of all preserving and building the peace. It's important that we be here because in this which is now the most cosmopolitan city in the world we find the fairest meeting ground for the associations the views and the aspirations of all the peoples of the world. It has been my privilege to aid in procuring the extraordinary but necessary legislation of our state and something more than a year ago to assist in influencing the successful appropriation of the money to build the building. Everyone here has done his part in one way or another. But none of us would be here today if it were not for the action of one great and good man whose generosity and quick action saved the United Nations for New York and New York for the United Nations. We are all profoundly indebted as are the peoples of the world for the very existence of this building here to the generosity of Mr. John D. Rockefeller Jr. At this cornerstone laying it seems appropriate that we should also pay tribute to the permanent staff as well as to the delegates here for their labors in our common cause. It's not always pleasant to be uprooted from your home and transported thousands of miles to a strange city. It is often affirmatively unpleasant to sit through many hours of debate which often rises to abuse and to keep tempers in hand to subordinate everything to the cause of justice and peace. It's fair to say that people of every nation owe to the delegates who have labored here their gratitude in bountiful measure for peace to the extent they now enjoy it. There are many weary miles and millions of weary hours of drudgery ahead. But from a fragile beginning through perilous tests the United Nations has weathered every storm it is stronger today than ever before it is my hope and I know the hope of all of you that these mighty buildings here will symbolize the growing might of the United Nations in the best cause of all the cause of peace and goodwill on earth. Governor Thomas E. Dewey The President of the United States All the members on the dais stand as does the audience as Mr. Truman comes to the speaker's roster. President Romulo Mr. Lee Governor Dewey Mayor O'Dwyer Distinguished Representatives and fellow guests We have come together today to lay the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations These are the most important buildings in the world for they are the center of man's hope for peace and a better life. This is the place where the nations of the world will work together to make that hope a reality. This occasion is a source of special pride to the people of the United States. We're deeply conscious of the honor of having the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in this country. At the same time, we know how important it is that people of other nations should come to know at first hand the work of this world organization. We consider it appropriate therefore that the United Nations should hold meetings from time to time in other countries when that can be done. For the United Nations must draw its inspiration from the people of every land. It must be truly representative of and responsive to the peoples of the world whom it was created to serve. This ceremony marks a new stage in the growth of the United Nations. It is fitting that it should take place on United Nations Day, the fourth anniversary of the day the charter ended into effect. During the four years of its existence, this organization has become a powerful force for promoting peace and friendship among the peoples of the world. The construction of this new headquarters is tangible proof of the steadfast faith of the members in the vitality and strength of the organization and of our determination that it shall become more and more effective in the years ahead. The charter embodies the hopes and ideals of men everywhere. Hopes and ideals are not static. They are dynamic and they give life and vigor to the United Nations. We look forward to a continuing growth and evolution of the organization to meet the changing needs of the world's people. We hope that eventually every nation on earth will be a fully qualified and a loyal member of this organization. We who are close to the United Nations sometimes forget that it is more than the procedures, the councils, and the debates through which it operates. We tend to overlook the fact that the organization is the living embodiment of the principles of the charter, the renunciation of aggression, and the joint determination to build a better life for the whole world. But if we overlook this fact, we will fail to realize the strength and power of this great organization. We will fail to understand the true nature of this new force that has been created in the affairs of our time. The United Nations is essentially an expression of the moral nature of man's aspirations. The charter clearly shows our determination that international problems must be settled on a basis acceptable to the conscience of mankind. time, because the United Nations is a dynamic expression of what all the peoples of the world desire, because it sets up a standard of right and justice for all nations. It is greater than any of its members. The compact that underlies the United Nations cannot be ignored, and it cannot be infringed or dissolved. We in the United States, in the course of our own history, have learned what it means to set up an organization to give expression to the common desire for peace and unity. Our Constitution expressed the will of the people that there should be a United States, and through toil and struggle, the people made their will prevail. In the same way, I think, the charter and the organization served by these buildings expressed the will of the people of the world that there shall be a United Nations. This does not mean that all the member countries are of one mind on all issues. The controversies which divide us go very deep. We should understand that these buildings are not a monument to the unanimous agreement of nations on all things, but they signify one new and important fact. They signify that the peoples of the world are of one mind in their determination to solve their common problems by working together. Our success in the United Nations will be measured not only in terms of our ability to meet and master political controversies. We have learned that political controversies grow out of social and economic problems. If the people of the world are to live together in peace, we must work together to establish the conditions that will provide a firm foundation for peace. For this reason, our success will also be measured by the extent to which the rights of individual human beings are realized, and it will be measured by the extent of our economic and social progress. These fundamental facts are recognized both in the language of the Charter and in the activities in which the United Nations has been engaged during the past four years. The Charter plainly makes respect for human rights by nations a matter of international concern. The member nations have learned from bitter experience that regard for human rights is indispensable to political, economic, and social progress. They have learned that disregard of human rights is the beginning of tyranny, and too often the beginning of war. For these reasons, the United Nations has devoted much of its time to fostering respect for human rights. The General Assembly has adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on Genocide. Other important measures in this field are under study. I am confident that this great work will go steadily forward. The preparation of a covenant on human rights by the Human Rights Commission is a task with which the United States is deeply concerned. We believe strongly that the attainment of basic civil and political rights for men and women everywhere without regard to race, language, or religion is essential to the peace we are seeking. We hope that the covenant on human rights will contain effective provisions regarding freedom of information. The minds of men must be free from artificial and arbitrary restraints in order that they may seek the truth and apply their intelligence to making a better world. Another field in which the United Nations is undertaking to build the foundations of a peaceful world is that of economic development. Today, at least half of mankind lives in dire poverty. Hundreds of millions of men, women, and children lack adequate food, clothing, and shelter. We cannot achieve permanent peace and prosperity in the world until the standard of living in underdeveloped areas is raised. It is for this reason that I have urged the launching of a vigorous and concerted effort to apply modern technology and capital investment to improve the lot of these people. These areas need a large expansion of investment and in trade. In order for this to take place, they also need the application of scientific knowledge and technical skills to their basic problems, producing more food, improving health and sanitation, making use of their natural resources, and educating their people. To meet these needs, the United Nations and its agencies are preparing a detailed program for technical assistance to underdeveloped areas. The Economic and Social Council last summer defined the basic principles which should underlie this program. The General Assembly is now completing and perfecting the initial plans. The fact that the Economic Committee of the Assembly voted unanimously for the resolution on technical assistance shows that this is a common cause which commands united support. the United Nations and the United Nations will be the United Nations and the United Nations will remain unanimous in their determination to raise the standards of living of the less fortunate members of the human family. The United States intends to play its full part in this great enterprise. We're already carrying on a number of activities in this field. I shall urge the Congress when it reconvenes in January to give high priority to proposals which will make possible additional technical assistance and capital investment. I should like to speak of one other problem which is of major concern to the United Nations. That is the control of atomic energy. Ever since the first atomic weapon was developed, a major objective of the United States policy has been a system of international control of atomic energy that would assure effective prohibition of atomic weapons and at the same time would promote the peaceful use of atomic energy by all nations. In November 1945, Prime Minister Atlee of the United Kingdom, Prime Minister McKenzie King of Canada and I agreed that the problem of international control of atomic energy should be referred to the United Nations. The establishment of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission was one of the first acts of the first session of the General Assembly. That commission worked for three years on the problem. It developed a plan of control which reflected valuable contributions by almost every country represented on the commission. This plan of control was overwhelmingly approved by the General Assembly on November 4th, 1948. This is a good plan. It is a plan that can work. And more important, it is a plan that can be effective in accomplishing its purpose. It is the only plan so far developed that would meet the technical requirements of control and would make prohibition of atomic weapons effective. And at the same time promote the peaceful development of atomic energy on a cooperative basis. We support this plan and will continue to support it unless or until a better and more effective plan is put forward. To assure that atomic energy will be devoted to man's welfare and not to his destruction is a continuing challenge to all nations and all peoples. The United States is now and will remain ready to do its full share in meeting this challenge. Respect for human rights, promotion of economic development, and a system for control of weapons are requisites to the kind of world we seek. We cannot solve these problems overnight. But we must keep everlastingly working at them in order to reach our goal. No single nation can always have its own way. For these are human problems. And the solution of human problems is to be found in negotiation and mutual adjustment. The challenge of the 20th century is the challenge of human relations and not of impersonal natural forces. The real dangers confronting us today have their origins and outmoded habits of thought in the inertia of human nature and in preoccupation with supposed national interests to the detriment of the common good. As members of the United Nations, we are convinced that patience, the spirit of reasonableness, and hard work will solve the most stubborn political problems. We are convinced that individual rights and social economic progress can be advanced through international cooperation. Our faith is in the betterment of human relations. Our vision is of a better world in which men and nations can live together, respecting one another's rights, and cooperating in building a better life for all. Our efforts are made in the belief that men and nations can cooperate, and that there are no international problems which men of goodwill cannot solve or adjust. Our faith, Mr. President, Mr. Lee, the laying of this cornerstone is an act of faith, our unshakable faith, that the United Nations will succeed in accomplishing the great task for which it was created. Our faith is not a good, but faith without work is dead. We must make our devotion to the ideals of the Charter as strong as the steel in this building. We must pursue the objectives of the Charter with resolution as firm as a rock on which this building rests. We must conduct our affairs foursquare with the Charter in terms as true as this cornerstone. If we do these things, the United Nations will endure and will bring the blessings of peace and well-being to all mankind. With that known申inctions, we must act of praying for the Charter and Glade. You are just heard at an address delivered by the president of the United States, the Honorable Harry S. Truman, at the laying of a cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations in New York City. The cornerstone ceremony. Mr. Shrigva Lee, Secretary General of the United Nations, will be escorted by Mr. Wallace K. Harrison, Director of Planning. The Secretary General Shrigva Lee has left his place on the dais, is now going down the steps over towards the great crane, which is on the high platform here at the base of the tall secretariat building. As you can hear, the band has started again. It's a very colorful scene. The wind has blown away the clouds, which were here earlier. Bright sun is now filtering down, and flags of the 59 United Nations are blowing in their coast ranks at both sides of the dais. In the river just behind, we see tugs, the usual commercial flat boats, iron ore barges, occasional jaunty yacht will come past, seagulls are flying, and all in all, it's a very impressive and very colorful ceremony. I think we could break in here, Everett, while this ceremony is taking place before us, while we attempt to describe the actual laying of the cornerstone. I was out during some of the speeches looking through the other part of the building, through the vast crowd that's assembled here today. There are some 10,000 of them. President Romelu, President Truman, members of the General Assembly, distinguished guests, and all friends of the United Nations. It is... We're listening to Trigvalli now, speaking at the actual cornerstone. ...of this occasion that I proceed to dedicate the cornerstone of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. The charter of the United Nations begins, as you know, with the words We, the peoples of the United Nations. In the name of the peoples of the United Nations, I know place for deposit in the cornerstone to be preserved for all time. An exact copy of the original charter signed at San Francisco. May the United Nations charter be the foundation for a strong and true structure of world peace as the building that rises high above us here today. We, the charter of the United Nations. I also place for deposit in the cornerstone a true copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December the 10th, 1948. This declaration sets a standard for governments to which men and women of every race, language, color, and belief can appeal whenever their rights are violated. It is a standard by which they can rally the support of the opinion of mankind for the fuller realization of the rights that are here declared. Finally, I place also in the cornerstone a copy of the program of this ceremony of dedication. Mr. President, the cornerstone will now be lowered into place. The point at which it will now rest marks the south side of the permanent headquarters buildings when they are all completed.