WNYC now presents City Fun with Children with Mrs. Becky Ryer, lecturer, freelance writer, and author of the baby anthology Babies Keep Coming, and her most recent book, Zulu Women. Every season poses new problems for parents who want to get outdoors with their children to share the many sights of New York City. If you're puzzled just where to start and what to do, here is Mrs. Becky Ryer to help you along on the problem of City Fun with Children. Good morning, City Mothers. We're broadcasting to you this morning from the Grand Central Palace, from the golden anniversary exposition of our great city. All about us on four floors are spread the most wonderful things you could possibly want to see, something for every taste. The work of every department of our city life presented so dramatically, you just about feel the wheels of the city grind before you. This is my 168th broadcast. Each and every time I've tried to find a place in the city that mothers and fathers and their children would enjoy seeing together. But there are two most important city departments on which our very lives and safety depend that we ordinarily cannot see, because if we went visiting to them, we'd only interfere with their work. That's the police department and the fire department. But here at Grand Central Palace, the police department and the fire department have a truly thrilling exhibition. We're very fortunate to have with us, with our guest this morning, Acting Captain William A. Lawrence of the police department. Captain Lawrence has been with the police department for 23 years and holds 10 citations for outstanding police duties. He was born and brought up in Brooklyn, lived there all his life, now lives in Flatbush. He's married and has two grown sons. Captain Lawrence, it might be nice if you would begin by telling us, how did you get into the police department? Mrs. Ryer, I went to a civil service school, took a civil service examination pass and was appointed. By long, hard hours of study, I passed the sergeant and lieutenant's examination. Captain Lawrence, most of us, when we see those handsome mounted policemen at parades and special times, don't think of policing as hard book work. But that's one of the things this exhibition shows, the thoroughness of the police. Just everybody should see the police show here at Grand Central Palace. But Captain Lawrence, why do you think it is important that all children see the police show? Well, if they come here and see the police show at the Grand Central Palace, they will get a pretty good picture of what the police department does to preserve the peace, protect life and property, to prevent and detect crime, the arresting of violators of law, the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. And after the children are taking in some of the facts, they will go back to school all prime. And everyone will go home with a fine report card with an A in government and civics. That's something to aim for, a first-hand knowledge of how the police department works, but within the law, of course. Captain Lawrence, let's go up to the exhibit together and walk about. What will we see? Well, right in the center of the police exhibit at the public relations booth, a policeman will hand you a pamphlet prepared by the department. It has 18 pictures and briefly describes almost every unit of the department. It also has a map of the entire city by precincts, street addresses, telephone numbers, and every police station. There is also a message for the people of New York, and that means the children too. The people of New York certainly do include our children. Well, the pamphlet includes a message from all of us, all New Yorkers, from Mayor O'Dwyer and Police Commissioner Wallander. I read those messages, Captain Lawrence, when I took my booklet home, and I liked the sound of them. You know, I thought the commissioner and the mayor and the acting commissioner, Mr. Mulligan, would have their hearts warmed seeing the way the boys and girls are enjoying the exhibition, taking time and looking at each thing carefully. Besides the pamphlet, you are to be truly congratulated on the very good legends, explanations you have at every spot. Anybody can read and understand them, but we really must move on. We first started the exhibition of the Coordinating Council. This is a civilian organization that cooperates with the department in making children better citizens. Every precinct has a council. They cut across all lines of nationality, race, or creed. It's a shame we cannot linger, but we must get to everything, or at least try. The PAL, Police Athletic League, have a variety of citywide and neighborhood activities for children of all ages, but they go in most heavily for sports of all kinds, and they have their trophies and prizes on display. And they have a fine show of their handcrafts and the uniforms their bands wear. Don't you think, Mrs. Ryer, we'd better tell our listeners that PAL accept children for membership from seven years of age to 18, and the best way to do that is go to the nearest police precinct. Captain Lawrence, I live around the square, Washington Square, in the drawings and paintings of the children, done in PAL groups, is always one of the best parts of the outdoor show. I like to think that thousands of children belong to the PAL. Now what next? Next we see the work at the Juvenile Aid Bureau with a lot of fine photographs and some pretty impressive figures. The children won't want to linger over those statistics, but our listeners may like to know that the Juvenile Aid Bureau feels that the things they've learned working with families of delinquent children apply to any family, that parents have, besides a legal responsibility for adequate supervision, a moral responsibility to train and set an example. And the children, in turn, have a responsibility of respect, obedience, and love for their parents. That sounds good. Well, the ideal behind the Juvenile Aid Bureau's work with boys and girls is to develop good men and women. It is encouraging to compare the figures of arrests of today and 50 years ago. In 1910, there were almost 11,000 children arrested. In 1947, there was just about 3,500. This is all more striking when you realize how the city has grown in those years from about 5 million in 1910 to a present 8 million. That's a pretty dramatic story of reduction and handling of juvenile delinquency that the Juvenile Aid Bureau shows. But it's not exactly what the children are anchoring to see. Let's pick something strictly to make their eyes bulge. Well, we have just the thing to make the children sit up and take notice. That's the traffic division show. Right you are. The boys and girls hang over that traffic violation show, and you cannot pry them loose. Let's tell about that. Well, we have a miniature part of the city set up with some houses and a central park. As you press a button, one of 28 traffic violations light up. They've certainly got them all included, like parking at a fire hard drive, and definitely hindering the work of the fire department if there's a fire in the neighborhood. That's a show I definitely hate to leave, the traffic violation show. Everybody in New York should see it, and the children should push the button that shows pedestrians crossing diagonally, and children playing in the roadway, and see from this exhibit how dangerous it is. Then we have all the traffic signs on display so that men, women, and children can see them at close range. And get well acquainted with them. The visitors have an opportunity to see the mechanism that controls and operates the traffic lights. In New York, we have three types of traffic lights, isolated, simultaneous, and progressive. In certain areas where the lights are staggered, if you comply with the lights, you can go as much as 25 miles an hour with stopping, such as along Ocean Parkway to Coney Island. And you can see here at the Grand Central Palace, the first traffic tower on Fifth Avenue. That's a small copy of it. Yes, Captain Lawrence. I worked in one of those towers. I wanted lunch one time, and I had to lower a bucket to get it. Then traffic was annually controlled, wasn't it? Yes, it was controlled manually. And it was up to the judgment of the man in the tower, and today the traffic lights are automatic. But let's get into the Detective Bureau. That's attracting many crowds. That's just phenomenal. This exhibit of the Detective Bureau is a display of the advancement in the past 50 years. Take the display of how they protected trucks in the old days and today. Fifty years ago, the front... Today, to prevent hijacking, they have an alarm system. As soon as the thief mounts the truck, the siren goes off. They set off a real alarm for you to hear. We think it's a pretty good demonstration that crime does not pay. Well, let's get on to the fingerprinting show. Yes, there is a man on duty at the fingerprinting show daily at 2 o'clock. He will fingerprint your type any time you call there. He did me. And I got my prints to take home with me, all part of the show. Oh, any child would love that. I know I did. The children find the guns very interesting. We have a large display of them and time bombs and so forth. I know very little about guns, but the one that took my eye was the little tiny one, big enough to put on a watch charm. Does that shoot? I wouldn't want to have it aimed at me. I think, Mrs. Ryer, we ought to remind our listeners that it is a violation of the Sullivan Law to have a pistol in your premises or in your possession unless you are an active member of the police department or possess a payment issued by the police department. All right. That's a good thing for people in New York to know, that they have no right to possess a gun or a pistol without a permit. Now, what's the handsome young woman doing in the center of attraction, Captain Lawrence, in a glass case among the guns? Mrs. Ryer, that's a simulated murder with all the evidence, 21 points on display. A field day for the detective story lovers. It's really a great show. We shouldn't overlook the policewoman's display, the pistol team, and the various tricks used by the mediums and fortune tellers. Captain Lawrence, we just cannot begin to cover all the wonderful things the police are doing and the way their activities are portrayed here at the Grand Central Golden Anniversary Exhibition. But I think we must get over to the communications division show, for that is certainly one of the most exciting in the whole building. It would be difficult to cover the entire show, but you can see what happens when you call the police from a call box. Yes. They're actual call boxes, and the children can call from them and hear their voices coming into headquarters, aren't they? Oh, yes. You see, the alarm is received, and almost simultaneously, that call is registered. Then, the wheels of operation are set in motion. It's a highly geared, most technical process, but perfected to ensure speed and high maximum efficiency. The police patrol car is on hand, the radio motor patrol, the two-way radio, the telephone switchboard. All these important factors in the alarm system are there for everyone to see, showing on a map every radio motor patrol sector, every cruiser radio motor patrol sector, airplane, police launch, emergency squad, device used in the city to combat crime. Captain Lawrence, we just cannot cover everything or begin to do justice to your wonderful police show. All we can say is, dear listeners, come and see for yourselves. Now, any last word for our listeners on WNYC, Captain Lawrence? Well, just to repeat that we in the police department try to win the trust and confidence of the children. We want them to feel that the policeman is their friend, and that if they need help, they should be sure and go over to the man in blue. That policeman is your friend. Thank you very much, Captain Lawrence, for coming to us today and telling us about the work of the police department, and not only what they do for us each and every day, but for the wonderful explanation and demonstration of it here on exhibition at the Grand Central Palace. Dear listeners, you must realize that here at Grand Central Palace, you have a chance to show your children and to see for yourselves the work of the work of the police department and the fire department, which ordinarily you would not be able to see. Up in the police show, you can see how the calls come in at the alarm box. You can see how the cars go out after that call comes. You can see photographs of how the harbor is patrolled, how the airplanes go out over the harbor and detect crime, how airplanes go out over the city and watch the traffic and study traffic regulation and see what they can do. You can see all kinds of signs, and don't forget that the children just simply love that traffic violation show. And actually, that traffic violation show has something to show grown-up people as well as children. There are 28 buttons there, 28 violations that all of us do every day of our lives here in New York and when we go driving in our cars. And if you press a button, a light goes on and you see little miniature figures acting out those traffic violations. They're particularly useful for you to show to your children. You don't have to show them to your children because your children like to see them for themselves. Besides the police show here, and I don't want to get off the police show because after all, that's what we're talking about today, there's a very dramatic fire show. And the fire department and the police department are the two departments that look after our safety, our health, our very lives. And ordinarily, you can't go in to see them. Now, dear listeners, I have had 168 broadcasts. And this is my very last one. I've tried to tell you how to find city fun with your children in our wonder city. This is the last of my series. I've loved being with you and I've loved your interest in your letters. And if you have enjoyed the program, I think it would be awfully nice if you would write and tell me so, or if you would write and tell Dr. Seymour Siegel, the director of the station, that you really have enjoyed this program and that it's helped you know how to find city fun with children. I don't like goodbyes, so this is Becky Ryer saying goodbye till we meet again. Every Tuesday morning at 10, WNYC has presented City Fun with Children with Mrs. Becky Ryer, her guest, and their hints on how to have city fun with your children. Address all mail to Mrs. Becky Ryer in care of WNYC, New York 7. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. This ist my point.
