Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, speaking to you here in the Great Hall of the Cooper Union. Thank you, my friends. May I call to your attention that this is the last meeting of this present forum series. Now, do not get the idea that this is the last meeting that we're going to have this year. By no means. We are starting with our new series on January 7th. And I hope that all people here in the Great Hall have picked up their mimeograph sheets of the preview of the coming forum. For those people of the radio audience, if you will just write in to station WNYC, a penny postcard, we'll be very happy and delighted to send you a booklet. The booklets will be out this coming Friday. The booklets will be out this coming Friday. I would like to just mention the courses then, when I have a chance for such a nice audience. That Sunday we're talking about America in Crisis. America in Crisis. Now, this might appear to some people to be an American history course, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great deal more than that. This course is an effort to show how we have been through many crises, how they have been related to our social development, and to attempt to offer some feeling of balance as we face this great crisis today. And most of the speakers on this course on Sunday are very famous historians with one or two philosophers, and, of course, the famous Raymond Walsh who's speaking on the Depression, a good economist in there. On Tuesday evenings, we're devoting a whole series to the topic of women. As I said the other evening, for the first time in about 90 years, we are running a whole course on women. I mean, we've never done such a thing. I don't know how we could have avoided it all this time, but it's high time that we did have something on them. After all, women have changed tremendously, and the situation of women have changed tremendously in the last 25 years, even the last 15 years. And so we're starting out there with Margaret Mead, speaking on male and female. Margaret Mead, the great anthropologist. I think you will find that that's going to be quite an interesting series. And for those of you who do not care for our more or less educational series, we then have Music in Four Parts, a cultural program on Fridays. And that is being opened with David Randolph. I don't believe I have to say much more. Mr. Randolph and his madrigal singers will be here at least three times, if I can count one, two, three, exactly three times. And I think it will be quite a good musical program. All right, then. I am sorry to interrupt this introduction this evening, but this is about the last time that I'm going to be able to talk to you about the coming program because it's going to be the program when I see you again. And our meeting tonight is under the topic of conflicts in human relations. Conflicts in human relations. Our speaker is Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower, a psychologist, director of the Psychological Adjustment Services, and purely incidentally, formerly a lecturer in abnormal psychology at New York University, former assistant to the Dean of Men at Hunter College, and before that time, associated with the United States Army in numerous of the battles of the Pacific Ocean. And he's had a good deal of his training from the University of Hawaii, University of Oregon, Columbia University, and like all these good people, there's a list of publications, and things you know by Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower. But this evening, I'm just going to present to you the gentleman who has spoken here on two other occasions very nicely each time, Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower. Dr. Rower. Thank you, Dean Fairchild. And thank you, audience. In these days, I thought everybody had given up scientific psychology and taken up Dianetics. And under the circumstances, I felt that this would be rather inadequate to this particular situation. In the first place, I'm not an engineer. I'm a psychologist. I have to confess that. Secondly, I do not write for astounding science fiction. In the third place, I've never discovered anything that's in the least bit comparable with fire or greater than the wheel and the arch. And personally, I'm not the least bit interested in your AA's or attempted abortions, your Abera's, Norn's, and other mumbo-jumbo like Clears and that sort of thing. All I've ever done is taught and practiced clinical psychology for a great many years. My ideas are based on clinical experience and observation and experimental research. And so the ideas that I'm going to try to give to you tonight and talk to you about tonight probably will never be a bestseller. And they probably will never be published in astounding science fiction and other scientific magazines like that. That's a joke. I don't feel that I can teach you how to be cured of all your mental ills for a one-month course or how to cure anybody else's mental ills in a one-month course or charge you a fee of $500. Now in this series of lectures that you've just completed, you've heard about all sorts of conflicts and all sorts of maladjustments. You've heard talks on aggression and tension and rejection. You've had your moods explained. And they've told you how you've been over-dependent. Not only have they told you how you've been over-dependent, they've told you all about your psychosomatic illnesses. And there's been lectures on sex and your other fears. And the lecture... And the lecture on boredom has probably been made very realistic at times. And it'll probably also be brought home to you tonight. But the thing that I really would like to do as I'm talking to you here tonight is look at these common maladjustments that so many people have. You know, the other people, the people that didn't come tonight. And I want to also see that if there is anything in common between them. Now, you've heard ten lectures, or some of you have at least, on why we act the way we do. And not only why we act the way we do, but also what can be done about it. And this is the principal problem of psychologists and psychiatrists all over the world today. And there have been a great many theories, all kinds of theories, from Dianetics upward. I don't like Dianetics. To explain our maladjustments and to help us correct them. Now, these various theories, whether it's psychoanalysis or non-directive therapy or directive therapy or whatever they have to be, have helped a great many people live well-adjusted and happy lives. But they've also failed in many, many cases. And so I want to sort of recapitulate tonight and go back over these common maladjustments and see what they have in common. And this has been a very difficult task for me because in my training I've been taught most of the accepted theories of therapy, of psychotherapy. And their influence is so great, not only in my approach, but in everybody else's approach to the study of the problems of mental health, that many times I think we overlook the obvious in following the accepted paths of study and the paths that we are taught to study in our schools and in our courses. And it's in the obvious, the very common things, that I think we will find the solution to our problem and not in following the modern gods of psychological and psychiatric world or not considering that man made in his own image the electronic calculator. Let's look back at these maladjustments for a few moments and see if they have anything in common. All these that you've been talked to about for the last ten weeks. and see exactly whether there is anything that is so obvious and so common that we have overlooked. Let's look at the ones that we've listened about. One of the most common maladjustments that any of us have is fear. Everybody has been afraid of something. And people are afraid of most everything. You can find somebody that's afraid of anything. And I doubt very much if there's a single person in this audience who hasn't had fear in one form or another. Now we were born without fears. We didn't have any fears when we were born. But we soon learned to be afraid of most anything. We're afraid of the dark. We're afraid of being alone. the women are afraid of mice. And a lot of them certainly of men. Our fears may center on some particular phase of living. Such as our sex life. We may fear it a great deal and a great have a great deal of fear about that. We may be afraid that people won't like us. Or as I said, we can be afraid of practically anything else that you may mention. Why are we afraid? Why are we afraid? Why does a little girl who's apt to be think a mouse is cute learn to be afraid of a mouse? Why do so many women jump up on a chair and scream when they see a mouse? It's the same reason that we're afraid of anything in this world. It's because someone else has taught us to be afraid. Someone else has communicated their fear to us in the situation. And we learn to be afraid of the things that the people around us are afraid of. Now for many years in my life even though I'm a psychologist I had a terrific phobia about cats. I see the cat lovers are glaring at me already. I would reason I was it was so extreme that I would rather handle a snake than touch any cat in the world. And the cat being the kind of an animal that a cat is they took every opportunity to jump up on my lap to snuggle up against me or to rub against my leg. I could see a cat three blocks off and be talking in a group of twenty men and the cat would wind its way down the street and pick me out. Every time. Well I decided I was going to get around that affair so I very carefully decided to pet every cat I saw. I was going to make myself like them. But no matter how much I petted them I couldn't get over my aversion to them in any way shape or form. I had a friend even who purchased a Siamese cat you know one of these that go grrr instead of meow. And this Siamese cat spent its entire time on those boxes that they have up over the Venetian blinds. It wouldn't come down even to eat. and it definitely wouldn't come down if anybody else was in the room. Anybody else but me. That cat would come down every time I was in the house. It would come down and I'd sit in always in the farthest corner from the window in which it had decided to live that day and it would come across the floor and jump up and put its head inside of my coat and go grrrr, grrrr, grrrr or something like that. Nothing I could do about it. My friends all assured me I didn't smell like catnip and yet with all these affections of even the antisocial cats gave me I still got cold chills when any cat got near me. Now the cause for this fear went way back in my life I discovered later it went back to the time I was six months old and my mother rather hysterically grabbed me out of my carriage to get me away from a cat that was having a fit and had jumped upon it. And her fear her fear when I was that small an infant communicated itself to me and lasted well into my adult life. another common maladjustment that most everybody has felt is rejection. I think that I'm safe in saying that practically everyone has at one time enjoyed or at least has been rejected by someone or something. some of us have been rejected enough times that we've sort of formed a pattern of rejection and we expect to be rejected by the people around us and the people we meet and the people we'd like to like us we expect them to reject us. Not only do we expect to be rejected but sometimes I think we get so in the habit of being rejected that we even invite rejection. by our own acts and by the things that we do. But remember that in all these rejections we're always rejected by someone else. Now many of you have also felt tense. I feel a little bit tense myself tonight. Not because I'm afraid of this audience because I found that Cooper Union audiences that are very fair and have been very attentive to my lectures. But I think Dean Fairchild has something or Professor Fairchild I'm sorry to demote you tonight has something I don't know quite what it is but he warned me that I would have to speak especially well tonight and if anything that makes a person speak especially not well is to be warned that they have to speak especially well for some secret reason. I don't know whether he's going to cancel the next lecture that I'm scheduled for or what but anyway I've got to speak especially well tonight. I feel that tension and I think a lot of you have felt that tension and it may be a situation which you've been taught to fear that has made us feel tension. It may be just in the presence of some other person that makes us feel tension. It may be a thousand things that makes us feel tension. It may be an expectant or an actual rejection but whatever it is whenever you feel tension it's generally in relationship to someone else and we may be bored but what are we bored by? The man that just left the lecture was probably bored by this lecture. it's always the whenever we are bored it's always the presence of the influence of someone else or the lack of someone else. If it's a book we're bored by it's because the author has failed to say anything or failed to communicate to us. If it's a lecture that we're bored by say if you're bored by this lecture it's because I'm failing to be stimulating to you or to say anything that is meaningful to you tonight or saying things that you've heard before or if you're bored by yourself as we so often are it's generally because someone else is not present and it's because we haven't become or haven't learned how to attract someone else and to be with someone else or again our conflict may be in the area of sex you've been waiting for this I'm sure for some reason or another our life may be as chaste as a nun or it may be as frantic as a nymphomaniac if you don't know those words look them up they're interesting and yet no matter which way our life happens to be whether it's free of sex because we've sublimated it for religion or something else or whether we give ourselves out to it entirely we still have conflicts about it if we satisfy our sexual needs by our autoeroticism we feel guilt over our masturbation and the lack of someone else we may develop guilt over our sexual partners and whether we are homosexuals or heterosexuals we still may develop guilt over our sexual partners whoever they happen to be we may even be bisexual or trisexual trisexuals of someone who will try anything once and feel guilty over our lack of discrimination in our sex partner the important thing about this and the important thing that I want you to especially notice is that the sexual need in itself is not the real basis of conflict frustrations or satisfactions but that our conflicts are either in who our sex partner is or in our lack of a sex partner or in what other people think about our sexual life it's not in sex itself it's in one of those three things about our lack of a sexual partner about who our sexual partner is it may not be our wife in other words or what other people think about our sexual life and again in sex like all the rest of these conflicts it always rests and arises in someone else now in all these maladjustments and conflicts I see one common thing and I disagree with Freud in that I do not think it is principally the libido or the sexual drive actually in the analysis of case histories of the many thousands of people that I've seen in my lifetime with whom I have worked and in the analysis of all the cases that I've read in the literature whether it's Freudian literature or not I find that the actual drive the actual sexual drive is not the major cause but the major cause in all these conflicts and maladjustments is our relationship with someone else whether it's negative or whether it's positive now the most obvious thing about all our conflicts and all our maladjustments is in the area of our social interaction and in our need for real human relationships the greatest need that every individual has the greatest need of every person in this audience the greatest need of every person that is wandering around the streets of New York the greatest need of every person in this world is other people we cannot exist without this we cannot exist without them and some of us of course don't exist very happily with them our dependence on other people people is established from the very moment of our conception our prenatal dependence I don't think any of you will question in any way shape or form our dependence upon others in our infancy I think is very apparent this is not a great discovery I know that and we've known of the great interdependence between the animal and the plant worlds for many many years the biologist even has a fancy name for it symbiosis certain species have become so interdependent that they can't exist without each other in the plant and animal world and we as human beings no matter what you tell yourself have become so interdependent that we cannot exist without each other now this need for other human beings this social interaction is a learned need that has become the greatest need and this need is the real basis for every psychological problem that I have ever read about or come in contact with we behave like we do because of our experiences within the social group our conflicts our tensions our maladjustments are all in relationship to other people the very act of you people who are here tonight being present at this lecture is a result of your relationship to other people you may be here for several reasons good night you may be trying to find an answer to your own problems you may have a desire for cultural improvement or you might be here because somebody else has recommended it or somebody says you ought to go see that psychologist I go to he's a weird guy or something you might be here just to pure curiosity you might be here for entertainment I'm sorry you may be here just for a place to sit out of the cold so what you're here and whatever the reasons are that you're here the reason that you chose to listen to this lecture rather than go to the movie or look at television or go to bed is because of the type of person that you are and the type of the person that you are is the result of the experiences you have had with other people all your life the reason for professor Fairchild for instance chose this topic of maladjustment for a series of lectures is because of his knowledge that people are interested in the subject we're awfully interested in other people's maladjustments notice I said other people's maladjustments he also knew that it would be useful to the community to have such a subject or such a series but he made up his mind to this and was chosen for the position which gives him the power to make up the topics for this series or these lectures because of the kind of person he is I agree with you he is that kind of person because the experiences he's had with other humans in the past starting with his mother and father his school mates and the people he's grown up with throughout his life and every one of us behave like we do because of the experiences with other people and our ability to use these experiences to make goals for our behavior in the future now many of us have been able to achieve the kind of social relationship and never have been able to achieve the type of social relationship that we would like to have with other members of the social group some of us have also always been they felt like we've been sort of a misfit and most of the time these failures and these things which keep us from being part of our group that are contingent upon our own inadequate habits of behavior but we've inquired these inadequate habits of behavior from the people from our previous experiences experiences and the people we've been with and the things that have happened to us with other people in other words if we're withdrawn or shy and we can't easily make contacts with other people or other members of our social group and are just plain lonely you know it is because somewhere back in our past experiences we've had a particular experience in which we started this pattern of being a withdrawn and shy person now the original experience in which we withdrew may have been one in which the withdrawal was perfectly natural was quite the thing that we should do I'm going to tell you about a case Mary was a typical case of a Thai very shy and withdrawn person and she was told as a child that that she was ugly and while she was being told that she was ugly everybody admired her sister's beauty her sister was one of these beautiful beautiful child not only was this true that Mary was ugly but her clothes were the hand-me-downs from her sister because what was the use of buying new clothes for Mary because the other girl was pretty and so they gave her what the other girl didn't want she felt rejected she felt unwanted and as she was so repulsive to other people and she began to avoid other people as much as she could when she first came to me for psychological health she was a drab uninteresting spinsterish type of woman her clothes were as drab as her outlook in life her few friends were a small group of frustrated women like herself she felt herself to be unattractive to men and as I looked at her that first night I could see why thank you she felt that she it was hopeless to try to be attractive to men or to anybody else and she felt doomed to the life of a spinster she'd finally come to a psychologist because she was so lonely and so unhappy that it finally reflected in her work and so now it came to the point where even her superiors didn't seem to want her even though she spent overtime and all the rest of it her efficiency in work fell so low there was a matter of survival to do something about it now the therapy consisted principally of changing her attitudes about people and especially about very one very important person herself it was necessary not only to change her attitude but for change her mode of dress or hairdo to throw to you and all the rest of it and to learn a few essentials of making the most of her appearance and you know she's here tonight and she's probably one of the last people in the world that you would think I was talking about and I'm sure both she and her fiance as they said over there are not embarrassed by me telling about this but are happy in the discovery of each other Mary has found that her approved social interaction has not only given her a real joy in living it's given her a promotion and her job and made her a real contributing part of society and of her social group now our past relationships with other members of the social group color and change even our perception of our present impressions from our environment you may look at me and this man may look at me and get an entirely entirely different impression in other words the experiences that you have with other people even changes what you see right before you and what you hear and what you sense with your other senses from the person next to you even if you're looking at the same thing you may think the lady next to you don't look around has a dress on it's in atrocious taste but she may like it very much you may like the filter fish and hate tripe which she likes very much probably you've learned in your past experience to be a teetotaler you know but another person sitting over a little farther in the row I won't say which person likes Napoleon Brandy at least 50 years old and another person sitting over a little farther than likes hair tonic or sneaky pee some of you may even find yourself with an antagonism towards me remember not because I've done anything wrong to you not because I've hurt you you can go if you want to you see and none of that but principally because there's something about me that reminds you of someone else with whom you've had an unpleasant experience poor fellow why whenever we find someone in our life and whom we have an antagonism to and then we find somebody else who has some part of that person who reminds us in some way it may be a gesture it may be a tone of voice it may be appearance the way they do their hair or whatever it happens to be then we carry that lots of times in our preliminary meeting of someone else again just look around the hall especially you women look around the hall please look all around and look at the couples that you see sitting together all of the couples that you see sitting together what on earth did she see about that man why there are few of them that you would even change for your own husband even if he is slightly used not only do our past experiences with other people tend to color our present experiences but they are also responsible for the type of experiences we're going to have in the future or what our goals in the future happens to be some people save their money towards a vacation fling others for a new car or home of their own or for an education nation this is because the things in their past experience which they have learned to value are the things that they want in the future and again in our present attitude to present situations we select out of our environment wherever we are and as it exists what answers to our need as an individual in our present attitude. Let's look at Professor Fairchild sitting there. He's a pleasant looking fellow. He has on a black red and yellow striped necktie. Ooh. And a gray suit. He has a mustache and very distinguished looking graying hair. I guess we could still call it that. And yet he is different in practically everything with everybody that he comes in contact with. To you as the people who are here tonight, he's the chairman of Cooper Union Forum, whom you're very fond of because most of the times, except during Christmas weekend, he gives you wonderful lectures. To his secretary, Professor Fairchild is a boss, a demanding employer, the man who hired her, who gives her eight or nine hours of work at each day, pretty easy to get along with, and who one day may give her a raise. To his young daughter, Susan, who's about so high, Professor Fairchild is a kindly father who gives her affection, brings her toys, plays with her on occasion, and is too busy to be bothered with her when he's riding or working. To his wife, to his wife. He is her lover, uh, grown a bit older and, uh, a little bit stouter amidships, uh, who provides a good home and gives her an ample allowance. Is that okay, the way you said it? To his business, uh, contacts, Fairchild is a important man. He's an important man at Cooper Union, and he must be catered to and satisfied, so that they will retain him as a customer. Uh, to a lecture agent, uh, Professor Fairchild is an important property, as a lecturer himself, and also an important source of selling lectures at a very low price. Uh, uh, uh, to his barber, Fairchild is mostly a part of a head of hair, yeah, who wants it cut, uh, not too short, not too long, doesn't like to talk too much, and is good for a 75-cent tip each week. To the stranger who passes him on the street, he's a tall, dignified man. He would go with the one good thing, uh, with a gray hat and a blue coat. Now, to all of these individuals, every one of them, they see the same sensory impression. To every one of these individuals, they see that horrible striped tie, the gray suit, the mustache, the pleasant face, the nice disposition, and all the rest of it. They see the same, they get the same stimuli from him. And yet, to each one, from the context of their own experience, of how they experience him, and their experiences in the past, within their social group, whatever social group they're in, and their ideation, that makes Professor Fairchild a different object to almost everyone he meets. The same thing is true for you, and you, and you. It's true for every person in this audience. To each person that you meet, you are a different person. Different because of the kind of experiences that they have had in their lifetime. And so, because of our past experiences, and our relationships with other people, are colored, and sometimes even distorted. And the person who may be liked by some people, may be disliked very much by you. Because your relationship with people, in some way similar in the past. Now this whole idea makes it necessary for us to get an entirely different viewpoint on how to deal with our problems. The way every problem, every psychological problem that you ever have or had, arose, was from personal human relationships. And the only logical way for us to get rid of those problems, is in just as personal human relationships. Now in pragmatic therapy, which happens to be my own particular brand of psychology, it is just as important for the psychologist to have rapport for the client as it is for the client to have rapport for the psychologist. Because it has to be a personal relationship. The psychologist has got to work, want to work with a person as much as the person wants to work with a psychologist. And therapy is facing these problems. These problems which bother us. And with which we have caused, which we think and which we have found have caused our neurosis, whatever it happens to be, in another human relationship. Facing our problems in a human relationship, where they may be faced without guilt or any other traumatic effect. They are used. These very problems, which cripple us and make us inefficient and unhappy, these things would have seemed to be our troubles, which have caused our troubles, are used to make us much more efficient and much happier. Have you ever seen coal tar? Ooh, it's a distasteful, nasty looking subject, substance. It's bad smelling, and yet chemists have made some of our most beautiful dyes and colors from it. They've even made flavoring extracts from it, and many other useful things. Our conflicts that look just as black and just as distasteful as coal tar, but in practically every case, we can use these conflicts and transform them into useful and in many times beautiful new relationships. The person who is so selfish that all his relationships are in reference to himself can learn to honor and respect and consider the selves of others, sometimes I think better than the person the person who has no concept of self at all. The super sensitive person who uses his super sensitivity in many positive fields rather than towards himself is performing a useful act. The compulsive can use his passion for neatness and cleanliness in many, many fields of endeavor to be able to do that. The main thing, however, in all our neuroses or all our malign adjustments is to direct ourselves toward other people rather than away from them to improve our human relationships rather than escape and avoid them. Because the neurotic is a neurotic only because remember this only because he does not get along with the world in which he lives. And he spends a great amount of energy combating his environment rather than using this same energy to improve and better the world in which he does live. And the aim of pragmatic therapy is never to cure neurosis but to help the people use their neurosis in a manner which can be productive and can be creative and which allows them to live not only in but with the social group. Human conflicts are only one thing and that is our failure to make satisfactory human relationships. Satisfactory personal relationships. And this is just as true of the world situation the nation the family as it is with you. There is only one problem that we have as human beings and it is social not sexual. Freud Freud has made one of the greatest contributions in the field of mental health and yet I think in spite of this very great contribution he has only a part of the picture. even the sexual the social is part of the social part of our interaction with other people or the lack of interaction with other people people and everything that you know and most of your behavior has been learned directly or indirectly indirectly from someone else all your guilt and fears and maladjustments have been learned have been learned and have been because of someone else we are just we are just as happy and well adjusted as we are functioning well with other people and if you aren't functioning well with other people it's very plain that you're not happy and that you're not well adjusted the psychotic psychotic is a psychological term for what is generally called the insane insane is a legal term which means that they're committed to an institution but the psychotic is the person who is withdrawn from reality and from the people in the real world the neurotic seems to be constantly in conflict with the act of living in this world with others and he either strikes out in some way or another or else he finds some physical or mental escape from reacting with others and the only way that we can live our optimum life is with others now we must solve our problems our human relationships are where you and i and every other person will find the answer and we must revive the revise the goals in our lives we must act and be a part if we're not of the social group we must realize how important other people are to us and admit it it won't hurt you admit other people are important to you and then learn to function well with them the message of christmas christmas is peace on earth and good will toward men i wish the entire world and especially we who are here present tonight would revise that christmas saying and use it and use it as we revise it not as a seasonal greeting but as a pattern of living peace on earth and good will not toward but with all men all mankind and the time merry christmas and i wish you a wonderful new year and i wish you a wonderful new year oh thank you very much dr ralph wentworth roher i must admit it's the first time i've ever been analyzed in front of 1200 people in spite of that i thought it was very interesting we'll have our question period in the next couple minutes uh those of you who would like to ask the question directly we have microphone right here and if you'd like to write your question i'll try to read it for you thank you love what Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.