You place a forefinger on the inside of your wrist, searching out the pulsing beat that indicates the life within you. And because you are alive, the words we say here now are meant for you. Yes, you are alive. And yet at this very moment, some deadly anarchy may have begun within you, a revolt of your very cells that may mean death, or in the future you may face this deadly revolution. Will you know what to do to save your life? Here are the weapons you'll need. The dead cannot use them. They are only for the living. For the Living, starring Edward G. Robinson and John Beale. This is a strange story. The story of murder. But not in the sense we usually read of it in our newspapers. And yet it begins with a murder trial, at that moment in the closely packed courtroom when a verdict is waiting. All eyes are on the defendant. A tall, powerfully built man whose sun-bronze features show the strain of this moment. It can mean life or death. There is tenseness in his voice, too, as Hugh Masdon talks to his lawyer, Andrew Gordon, sitting at a small table before the judge's bench. In a few minutes, he'll know. In a few minutes. What are my chances, Andrew? Maybe not so long does it mean that... I've told you, Hugh, there may be one holdout in the jury who has to be convinced. But if there's any reasonable doubt, they'll have to acquit you. I believe Dr. Hamilton's testimony will be the one thing that will turn things in your favor. But the circumstances... Hugh, remember, you shot and killed a man. Yes. A man who was caught in the act trying to blow up a million-dollar dam I'm trying to build for the people of this state. A man hired by the Carpentine... We haven't been able to prove that, Hugh. It's inadmissible as evidence anyway. The one thing that worries me is the fact that you threatened Wheeler before. This is like a bad dream, Andy. Carpent's tried to stop me at every turn. But I didn't think he'd go so far as to charge me with murder to get me out of the way. Hugh. Hugh, are you all right? Yeah. Just a pain in my chest. I'm just nervous. Carpent hasn't showed his face, but he's behind this, Andy. Oh, it's easy to understand, Hugh. That dam will cut into a pile of monopoly he's held for years. And he knows you're the only one who can finish it. I'll finish it. I'll finish it even if... The judge. Hugh, stand up. The jury must have reached the verdict. Ellen. Why did she have to come? Why should she have to go through all this? Shh. The jury. Get hold of yourself, Hugh. Now remember, if this is the wrong verdict, we can always appeal. Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have you agreed upon the verdict? We have, Your Honor. You will hand the verdict to the bailiff. We, the jury, find in the case of the people of the state versus Hugh Mazden, charged with the murder of one Alvin Wheeler as set forth in the indictment, Hugh Mazden, not guilty. Oh, that's wonderful. Order, please. Order. Not guilty. You did it, Andy. You did it. Your own good sense did it, Hugh. You could have panicked, you know. I wish to commend the jury for a verdict which I believe is eminently just. In the light of the evidence, I believe you had no other cause. Hugh Mazden, will you rise, please? Yes, Your Honor. I shall sign for your release at once. You're a free man. Bailiff, come to my chambers. Court is adjourned. I'm free. I'm free again. Now I can get back to work. Hugh, Hugh. Oh, Ellen. Oh, darling, I was so scared. Oh, if you think I wasn't, you're crazy. Oh, darling. No, don't, don't kiss me now. Hugh, are you all right? Just too many cigarettes, honey. Pain in my chest. I'll be all right now. Nerves. He's been through a lot, Hugh. Oh, here's Dr. Halden. Doctor. Hugh. Well, you know how I feel. I don't need to tell you. Thanks a lot, Doctor. Your testimony just saved my life. Why, the truth saved your life, Hugh. Doctor, he's got an awful cough. I wish you'd look him over and see. There's nothing wrong with me, Ellen. I watched you all through the trial, Hugh. That cough can mean several things. Let's make sure it's not important, huh? How about coming to see me for a checkup the next day or two? Oh, sure, Doctor. But right now I've got work to do. Not much time to do it in. I've had a death sentence hanging over my head. And now I've got to get back to that job. And so Hugh Masden went back to his job. The big job of building a dam. Strangely enough, his human enemies seemed after that to have given up the fight against him. But now he had to fight against time. And though he didn't know it, he was fighting against something else. Helen! Helen! Hugh, is that you? You got anything to eat? I've got to get back to the job. Oh, Hugh. You're not going back to that job tonight. I have to. Oh, you've only slept home three nights in the last month. Oh, Simpson's having more trouble with the conveyors. I'll get some sleep in the shack again. Oh, Hugh. I'll just watch. And you're coughing again. Dear, you were supposed to see Dr. Hamilton tonight. If you break this appointment, it'll be the fourth time. I can't help it, honey. Just call him up and set it up again. But doesn't that man of yours realize that that cough and those chest pains may be serious? I tried to tell him, Dr. Hamilton, but he's so busy. From what you tell me, Helen, that's no cigarette cough. And it's getting worse. It can mean any number of things. Tuberculosis, for one. Or something even worse. I want an X-ray of that man's chest and a thorough examination. But what can I do, Doctor? You bring him here to my office tonight at five o'clock. Go out and get him off that job and drive him here yourself. Hugh? Hugh? Helen, what are you doing out here? Don't you know this is dangerous? Stand back there now. Jensen, shift that boom. We're overloading the cables as it is. Hugh, you're coming with me to the doctor. He's waiting at his office for you right now. All right, all right. But get off this scaffold. Hugh! Patterson's checked the mix on our last batch. He won't pass it. What? And we're ready to pour in the South Casa. Oh, I'll be right over. Tell him... Hugh! Oh, Ellen, I can't make it tonight. Get off this scaffold and go back home where you belong. The days rolled into weeks, and Hugh Mazden worked on at his job. And then one day, Dr. Hamilton received an urgent call to come to the construction shack at the side of the dam. Dr. Hamilton? Yes, where is he? Oh, we've got him on the bed in the next room here. Mrs. Mazden's with him. What happened? Well, he was bending over some plans here, and he suddenly started to cough like he's been doing. And it seemed like he couldn't breathe. Took out his handkerchief, coughed up something that looked like blood to me, and he kind of keeled over. I got him in here and called you and Mrs. Mazden. Right in here. Doctor! Let me see, Ellen. Hugh, what does it feel like? Terrible pain right here in my chest. I can't breathe. I'll give you something to help that. Hugh, have you ever spit up blood with that cough before today? Yeah, a lot lately. Hugh, you didn't tell me. Doctor, is it... What is it? You're going to the hospital, Hugh. I can't. The job... And you're going right now. Doctor, the nurse came into Hugh's room and said you wanted to see me. The x-rays, do you know? Yes, Ellen. Come in. Shut the door. Sit down, Ellen. Doctor, what is it? I want to explain to you what I've done and why. I want to give you as complete a picture as possible and let you judge for yourself. All right, Dr. Hamilton. You remember the x-rays we took when Hugh came to the hospital yesterday? Yes. They indicated a large mass on Hugh's left lung. I was sure it was a tumor, but I wasn't sure what kind. So I did an aspiration biopsy. When you put that needle into his chest. That's right. And took out a bit of that tumor. But what is it? What... The pathologist gave me his report late last night. Hugh has cancer of the lung. Cancer? His left lung is radically affecting. Last night I tried to find if the cancer had spread to his right lung. But so much time has been wasted. I... I can't see how anything less than a miracle can... I've stopped it. I... But I tell you, Ellen, without an operation, I... It's impossible to tell. So much time was... Yes, Ellen. I was thinking last night. After his trial, when Hugh said he'd had a death sentence hanging over his head, it was true in more ways than one. He had early symptoms of this cancer at that very moment. I gave legal evidence in that trial to save his life. If it had given me the chance, then, I think I might have found medical evidence to save his life from this killer. Cancer. Now it may be too late. Too late? He can't die. He can't... I don't want to give you any false hopes, Ellen, but there's one chance. We'll have to operate and remove Hugh's left lung. At that time, we'll be able to discover whether the cancer has spread to other parts of his body. If it has, if it's gone into the other lung, we may treat it with X-ray. But if it's had a more general spread, we'll lick to Hugh. An operation is his only chance now. You'd better operate. He's waking up, Ellen. Hugh. Hugh, Doc. Ellen. Doctor, what was the operation? Success? You've had a good 24 hours sleep since you came out of the anesthetic yesterday, Hugh. How do you feel? A little short of breath. Not bad. What about the operation? Shh. Don't talk, Hugh. You're trying to hide something from me. Was the operation a success? Well, as successful as could be expected, Hugh. I see. I'm going to die. Is that it, Doctor? I didn't say that, Hugh. If he won't tell me, you tell me, Ellen. Tell me. I can't. Dr. Hamilton, don't put me off. I can take it. A man only dies once. But I want to know what I'm fighting. And I want to know now. All right, Hugh. You have cancer. Cancer of the lung. The left lung. But you've taken out my left lung. So I don't have cancer anymore. Three months ago, I could have said yes to that, Hugh. But now... Three months ago? Yes. That day at your trial. You had early symptoms then. That cough and pain in your chest. I think we could have removed that cancer then. Now I'm afraid it's spread. It got beyond our reach. Hmm. And I thought that... I'd been acquitted. And all the time, this thing was growing inside of me. Slowly changing the verdict. It was my fault. It was my fault. I should have made you go to the doctor. I should have made you... No, darling. It was not your fault. You tried. The doctor tried, too. No, I just made a blind mistake. I forgot that there are enemies within us... more dangerous than those we can see. Now I... I've got to pay. Can you call what happened to Hugh Madden suicide? No. He did not will his death. He wanted to live. To live and work and build. I told you before that this was a murder story. Now you know. It's the story of one man's unknowing murder of himself. Of his criminal neglect which gave the killer, Cancer, a chance to claim his life. Cancer can be cured. It can be cured if it is discovered early enough before it has spread beyond the reach of the three great weapons our men of medicine have against it. It's the only thing that we have against it. Surgery, radium, and x-ray. But remember this. Your own vigilance and good sense are your first line of defense against cancer. learn to know the danger signals of cancer. Check yourself constantly and go to your doctor the moment you have the slightest suspicion. Wasted time is the greatest ally of cancer. Early diagnosis, your responsibility, and the great hope against cancer for the living. For the living. The American Cancer Society has presented Edward G. Robinson and John Beale in For the Living. The program was written and produced by Hugh Chain with music by Herbert Spencer conducted by Lynn Murray. For further information on cancer, knowledge that may one day save your life, call your local cancer committee and support the work of the field army. The fight against cancer begins with you. You reached out your hand and turned the knob on your radio. And now you're hearing my voice. The very fact qualifies you as a member of a very special group. A group you want to belong to as long as you can. A group we call the living. And the story we're going to tell you here now may help you to keep your membership for many years to come. So listen well. This is a tale for the living. For the Living with Edward G. Robinson and Lorene Tuttle. All things that happen to humankind have a moment in time when they first began. Perhaps another moment when we first noticed them. Remember that. For time itself is in one sense the villain of our story. In another sense, the hero. Let's imagine you're a vital and attractive young woman named Susan Markle with everything in the world to live for. A loving husband named Dan and a little girl of your own named for you, Sue. The beginning of what happened to you came to your attention that summer's day you went to the beach for a swim with Dan and Sue. They'd gotten into their swimsuits, you remember, and were standing impatiently outside your bathhouse while you got into yours. You were pretty happy that day. But as you look back on it now, everything that you did, every word that was said, comes back like a bad dream. Hurry up, Susan. Getting here is crazy to get into that water. I'm getting my suit on now, Dan. Come on, Mommy. Remember, you promised you'd teach me to swim. It'll be just a minute now. Dan, why don't you take her down to the water if she's so impatient? We've been down, but it's a little rough. You're a better swimmer than I am. I want you to take me in, Mommy. Hi, dear. Hey, guess who I saw on the beach. Who? Dr. Potter's nurse. The redhead, what's her name? Miss Hanrahan. Yeah, that's it. Whoa, what a figure. You got a white bathing suit on that fits her like the paper on the wall. Yes, I've seen her. She's a very nice girl. Now, don't change the subject. Come on, Mommy. You know, she can swim, too. But as I was saying, honey, that's the important thing... You realize that you look pretty attractive in your bathing suit, too. Danny likes your figure, and he always will. You may talk about the Miss Hanrahan's of the world, but... So you give a final tug at the front of your suit for modesty's sake, and that moment, graven in your memory, happened. Sue? Are you all right? Sue? Oh, Dan. Yes, I'm all right. Come on, Mommy. But you're not all right. When you pulled up your suit, your fingers encountered a small, hard lump in your left breast. You touch it again. The hope that you were wrong dies. It's there all right. You become a little dizzy when you realize what it can mean. But you force the thought out of your mind. Forget it. Forget it. Forget it. Action. That will help. You fling open the door. Danny, how do I look? Well, you got me, sweetheart. Prettiest gal on the beach. Gee, Mommy, you look wonderful. Just like a movie star. Come on, and teach me to swim. Okay, kitten. Come on, Danny. Last one in's the coward. And so you try to push an ugly thought out of your mind. But that night and all the next day keeps coming back. You know you should do something about it at once. But there's a black fear in you, not of death, but of something else. Dan comes home from work that night for supper and finds you in the kitchen. Hiya, sweetie. I got something good cooking in the stove. Susie, what's the matter? Are you sick? Dan, sit down. I want to tell you something. Baby, what is it? You're as pale as a sheet of paper. Dan, I've got to tell you. Yesterday at the beach while I was putting on my bathing suit, I discovered something. What are you talking about? I discovered a little hard lump in my left breast. Right here. A little hard lump, is that all? Well, you act scared to death. It's probably just bumped into something you didn't realize it. No, Dan, I haven't bumped into it. Well, then we'll go down to Dr. Potter and have him look at it. He'll probably give you something to put on it. That's just it. I know what he's going to say. Do you remember what happened to Wally Packer's wife? The one that died? What's that got to do with it? He died of cancer of the breast. And it started just like this with a hard lump. Cancer? Oh, now look, dear, don't jump to conclusions. I'm not worried about dying, Dan. But if Dr. Potter decides I have to be operated on to cut the cancer out so I'll beat him. Susan, please. Look, honey, don't you know I love you more than anything else in the world? I don't know much about cancer, but I know it can't do anything to you that'll change that. And another thing I know is that we're going to do something about this right away. Hmm. Yes. Tumor, undoubtedly. Fortunately, very small. No ulceration or bleeding from the nipple. But, Dr. Potter, can't you tell whether it's... Oh, speak up, Susan. Say the word. Get it out into the open. It's not a disgrace to have cancer, and what's more, it doesn't have to be the deadly disease it once was. Today, cancer can be cured if it's treated properly before it's gotten out of hand. There are no symptoms here that it has spread, no swelling of the lymph nodes under your arm. If it is cancer, and I'm not sure it is, I think you've got every chance in the world. But how do you find out, Dr. Potter? What do you do? Miss Hanrahan, help Mrs. Markle on with her blouse, please. Oh, I can manage. Thank you, Miss Hanrahan. Then have Mr. Markle step in, will you, please? Certainly, Doctor. I think Dan should be in on our plan of action. Mr. Markle, will you step in, please? I'll get that history you wanted, Dr. Potter. Thank you. Oh, well, Doctor, sit down, Dan. Susie, is it now? Don't ask her anything. Let me do the talking, Dan. Susan undoubtedly has a tumor there, and it's got to come out. That means an operation. But you two have been worrying yourselves sick that this might be a cancer. I'm glad you have, because it's brought you to me in time to really do something about it, if that's what it turns out to be. Turns out to be? Susan's going to the hospital, Dan, and I'm going to cut that tumor out. While she's on the table, a frozen section will be made of that tumor, examined under a microscope to discover whether we have a cancerous growth on our hands. And if it is cancer? We'll continue right on with radical removal of your breast. Dan! Now, believe me, if we're dealing with cancer, that's the only thing that'll save your life, Susan. But afterwards, Wally Packer's wife died of cancer even after she had her operation. I remember the case. Susan, she died because she didn't have the good sense to come to Dr. Osgood until months after she knew she had a tumor. And by that time, her cancer had spread to the rest of her body, and it was too late to save her life. Osgood took a forlorn chance, but you've got every chance in the world if you do it now. Well, I can't decide. Dan, I want you to decide. Darling, there's nothing to decide. I want you to live. Dr. Potter, she's going to have that operation. She's coming out of it, Danny. How are you feeling, Susan? There was only one thing you wanted to know. Yet even before you asked, you knew what the answer was. Susan, darling, just rest now. Dr. Potter, was it cancer? It was, Susan, but it's all out now. Yours was the second smallest cancer of the breast I've ever seen. And not that I'd ever admit there was such a thing as a small cancer. Once you find one, you can't get rid of it any too soon. Going to be absolutely all right, Susan. The doctor says so. Danny. Yes, darling. Do I look just awful? I feel crushed inside. Susan, I don't want you to say another word about it. Dr. Potter's just saved your life. I know what I'm going to do. But you don't have to worry anymore, dear. You and Kitten and I have everything to live for. You're not going to develop any complexes. I won't let you, you hear? It was easy enough to say, but you were still a woman. Oh, you got well fast enough physically. Dr. Potter had you up and out of bed in two days and he made you exercise. Now, lift your left arm, Susan. And it hurts, Dr. Potter. I know it, but you have to exercise those muscles. I want you to use that arm when you comb your hair the next few days and sit up straight. Sit up straight. A few days after that, you were home, walking about, doing your housework. But you couldn't help watching Dan, looking at him for some sign, analyzing everything he said. Who should come by while I was waiting for the bus but old man Whittaker. He said, hop in, I'll give you a ride home. Was Carol with him? Carol? Oh, his daughter. Sure. So I hopped in. She's a pretty one, isn't she? Nice looking girl, yeah. Did you sit next to her? Yes, but what's it? What's that got to do with it? Oh, I just wondered, that's all. I just wondered. Well, Susan, no more bandages. I've seen the last of you around here. I'd say this was a pretty perfect job if it wasn't some obits. I'm glad, doctor. Like to play tennis? You go ahead. The exercise will do you good. I know you like to swim. Do it. I want you to start leading a perfectly normal existence beginning today. A normal existence? Oh, don't think I haven't seen what's been happening in that pretty little head of yours. You've been slinking around, trying to avoid people. You've had the feeling people might stare at you. And you can't shut yourself off from society, my dear. But they do stare. How can they help it? How can they... Oh, they're not going to any longer. Miss Hanrahan has made arrangements. Miss Hanrahan? Yes, she usually takes over at this point in these cases. I want you to talk to her as you go out. Now, run along, little girl. I'm too busy to waste my time on people who are well. All right. Thank you, doctor. Don't mention it. Say hello to Dan for me. I will. Goodbye. Miss Hanrahan. Oh, Mrs. Markle. Sit down, won't you? All finished? Yes. How do you feel? Well... Never mind. You're going to feel much better soon. Here. I've written down an address on this slip of paper. The Powers Company. What's this for? You have an appointment with them for a fitting at four o'clock today. A fitting? Fitting for what? Why, for what people laughingly call falsies. Falsies? You mean I'm supposed to wear something to take the place of... Well, if Dr. Potter thinks this is going to change my whole outlook on life, I'm not going to have people stare at me any more than they do now. You don't know. Perhaps I do, Mrs. Markle. You do? Well, how could you? You see, I've had cancer of the breast, too. You? But I've seen you in swimming at the beach, and... Well, you... I know what you've been going through, Mrs. Markle, but you don't have to any longer, even for a minute. Oh, Miss Henry. Susan, you all finished? Hello, Mommy. Daddy and I decided to come down and pick you up. Danny and Kitten. You don't mind, do you? I thought we might just... Look, Daddy. Mommy's smiling. She hasn't been smiling much lately, and I've been worried. Yes, I'm all well, Kitten. Doctor says I'm all well. Isn't that wonderful? Gee, and you can take me swimming again and teach me how to... Kitten, Kitten. Certainly I'm going to take you swimming again, Kitten. What? And Danny, I'm going to get one of those slick white bathing suits just like Miss Hanrahan wears. She says she's sure I'll look wonderful in it. I'm sure you will, Mrs. Markle. I'm sure of it. Is your life worth a little vigilance, a little common sense, a little action? Cancer of the breast in women causes more deaths today than any other type of cancer. And for one reason only, women do not go to their doctors in time, in time to undergo the surgery that will save their lives. Remember this, cancer of the breast can be cured if it is discovered and treated in time. We're no longer living in the days of false modesty, the kind of hiding from the facts that it's taken lives in the past. You yourself are your own first line of defense against death from cancer of the breast. Any alteration in that part of your body at all should take you immediately to your doctor for an examination. Your own vigilance is the only thing that will save your life by bringing your cancer to your doctor before it has had time to spread to get beyond control. Vigilance and knowledge are the only hope for the living. Starring Edward G. Robinson and Lorene Tuttle, For the Living has been written and produced by Hugh Chain with musical direction by Lynn Murray to give you the facts you may one day need to know to save your life and is presented to that end by the American Cancer Society. More information can be obtained from your local cancer committee. Thank you. Thank you.
