The following broadcast was transcribed earlier this afternoon. From the Harlem Welfare Center on Park Avenue between 131st and 132nd Street in Manhattan, your city station brings you the special broadcast of the dedication ceremonies for this latest Department of Welfare project. The newly completed Harlem Welfare Center is the first city-owned structure designed and built solely to serve the specialized needs and to facilitate the efficient service of New York City's Department of Welfare. Participating in the dedication of the Center this afternoon are Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, Robert F. Wagner, Jr., President of the Borough of Manhattan, Mr. Albert H. Morgan, Deputy and Acting Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, representing Commissioner Frederick H. Zermulin, and Lester B. Granger, Executive Director of the National Urban League and past President of the National Conference of Social Work. To introduce the program and the speakers, here now is the presiding chairman of the ceremonies, the Honorable Henry L. McCarthy, Commissioner of the Department of Welfare. It gives me great pleasure to welcome you here this afternoon for the dedication of the new Harlem Welfare Center, the first building constructed by the City of New York exclusively for the use of the Department of Welfare in serving the people of this community. We will open our program by having the flag raising, which will be conducted by the color guard of the 369th AAA Group, the New York National Guard. Captain Richard T. Jones, commanding. Neighbor's The End Whose stripes and bright stars Thro'er the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the high-tri-clear The ramparts we watched Gave proof through the night Let our flag was still there O say does the star-spangled Bany yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave We are very grateful to Miss Monica Mays For that beautiful rendition of the star-spangled banner The invocation will be delivered by The right Reverend Monsignor Cornelius J. Drew Pastor of St. Charles Catholic Church in Harlem O almighty and everlasting God We humbly invoke thy blessing upon all who are assembled here Upon all who have conceived and constructed this center Upon all who will supervise and staff it And especially upon all who will sincerely seek its services We place this dedication ceremony in thy loving, powerful hands Because after all it is you who provides us with the rich resources Whose surplus we share with our needy neighbors Because it is you who inspires us to be generous to our brothers In gratitude for thy goodness to us Because it is you whose wisdom is needed to direct those Who must balance justice and mercy In the distribution of what can mean so much to so many Bless our community To recognize the religious dignity of labor That by the sweat of our brows We may be made worthy of a favorable response to our petition Give us this day our daily bread Bless our fellow countrymen That seeking first the kingdom of God and his justice Not overanxious about what we shall eat and drink and wear The civic vices of greed, corruption and prejudice May be rooted from our national life So that we may be one family United in thy image Bearing one another's burdens Sharing one another's sorrows Exalting in one another's joys As the best preparation For that peace and love Which are the atmosphere of thy home and ours Which we call heaven We ask these blessings In the name of the Father And of the Son And of the Holy Ghost Amen Thank you Monsignor Drew I think nearly everyone who is here today And especially those who come from This area of the city Will know that Monsignor Drew As pastor of St. Charles Church Has been doing a wonderful work in this area And that he plans to do even greater work Through the construction Within a short time Of the St. Charles School and Community Center For bringing better and more service To the people of the whole community We wish him well in that endeavor We in the Department of Welfare Are especially proud and happy today To be here at this opening of our new building Because this is the culmination of some hopes and plans That have gone forward for many years We have looked forward to this day In the last three years We have seen great improvements In the physical plant Of all of the installations of the Department of Welfare We have moved out of the old, dingy, and dilapidated places Where many of our activities were carried on in the past And we have gone into newer And more modern, up-to-date locations And this is, of course, the newest And the most modern The most up-to-date And the most efficient Of all of the plants that we have throughout the city This is the beginning We are going to have And we now have in the planning stages Additional welfare centers The next one Far along in the planning stage Is for Brooklyn I think this is appropriate Because it is a recognition Of the fact That public assistance Is recognized as an integral part Of that entire network of protection Which we, as a people Have set up for the protection Against economic hazards Of all of our people We have the protection Of the federal old age insurance program For those who can work We have the protection Of unemployment insurance For those who are temporarily unemployed We have the protection Of workmen's compensation For those who are employed And who may be injured While they are employed And then for those who can't work Who can't come under And be eligible for The benefits of all those protections For those who Through no fault of their own Are in need We have, as an integral part Of this network of protection The public assistance system Which is administered By the Department of Welfare Now we have In the Department of Welfare At the present time Some 8,000 employees Serving 280,000 people In this city Who are in need of assistance That 280,000 represents A percentage of the total Population of the city Which is just about the same As the national average Of those who are receiving Some form of public assistance We have the aged We have the blind We have the disabled And we have the children And we have those Who are temporarily ill And do not have Unemployment insurance rights Or temporarily unemployed And who do not have Unemployment insurance rights Now the load At the present time Is pretty stable In terms of The long run cases Those who Through no fault of their own Cannot support themselves And who must be Taken care of By the community at large We are, as I say Very happy To have this fine building Four stories Efficiently laid out And ready to serve The people of the community All the people of the community In terms of our regard For the taxpayers' dollar And in terms of our regard For the need Of those who come to us For help And we have a number Of distinguished guests Some of whom are going To speak this afternoon And there are too many Distinguished guests Commissioners Deputy commissioners Heads of departments And distinguished citizens Of the community For me to try To introduce each of them I will, however Introduce those Who will speak to you And the first one That I will introduce Is a man who Is here very fittingly On two counts One is that he is the son Of the father Of the Social Security Act Which is, of course The parent law Under which all of our Programs are administered And then on the second count In his own right He has been a distinguished Public servant And has given great Greatly of himself To the people of the city As a whole And particularly To the borough of Manhattan And it is my great pleasure To introduce to you The Honorable Robert F. Wagner Jr. President of the borough of Manhattan Mr. McCarthy Mayor and Pelletary Distinguished guests And friends It is a great privilege And pleasure for me To come here To play a humble part In the dedication Of this beautiful building And I know too That when we start out Our ceremony here With a prayer to God To assist us In the many problems That we face We do that In the spirit Of true democracy In the spirit Of the religious principles Which are so important In these troublesome times I know many of us feel That sometimes Progress is slow Many of the things Many of the things That we seek To make life a little better Don't come as quickly As we anticipate Or hope for But here today We have a classic example Of a beautiful building That will give comfort And aid To those who Come to it In need of that comfort And of that aid We know that we have As the commissioner has said An assistance program Devised to give Every one of our people Regardless of their race Color or creed The benefits of democracy And the assistance That democracy Has and should give them We know that we have Good housing projects Being developed Not only in this Great area of our borough But throughout our whole city We know that our schools Are slowly but surely Being improved So that our children Will give the very best Advantages of a good education We know that added Recreational facilities Are continually being given To the people For their comfort And their enjoyment And I know all of us In this area And in the borough Appreciate these things And we realize That the city Is doing everything possible It can To make life better Here As a place to live in And to work in And here today We again Demonstrate democracy At its best Our city at its best Giving to its citizens The help Which they deserve And they need Thank you very much Commissioner For allowing me To participate here today I know this is A momentous occasion For all here And for all of the people Of this great section Of New York Thank you very much Thank you very much The National Urban League Is known as one of the Great civic organizations Throughout the country Its work has to do With improving Relations Between the different Groups in the community And protecting the interests Of those who might suffer If they did not have A strong spokesman And a strong interest On the part of the staff Of the league Speaking for them So it is a special pleasure For me to introduce To you Mr. Lester B. Granger Who is the executive director Of the National Urban League And who I know Is as happy as we are Today At the dedication Of this building Mr. McCarthy And fellow occupants Of this exposed Situation I am happy to be here Because it is a great thing To be in a group Like this And to witness The fulfillment Of a dream And that is exactly What we are witnessing Here today And when I say Fulfillment of a dream I don't mean merely The dedication Of an imposing Pile of brick And cement And steel It is important That this building Which we have just Dedicated Is here in New York City As the commissioner Has said The first city owned And first specially planned Center for the administration And the supervision Of public welfare programs But to me The real importance Of this occasion Lies in the fact That today Is the fulfillment In more ways than one Of the hopes And the dreams Of our leaders Of our community For the past two decades Because this building Indicates that public welfare Has at last Attained stature In the eyes of our public As a dignified And vitally important feature Of our public services It was just about Ten years ago A little more than ten years When former welfare commissioner William Hudson Held me in conversation In a meeting On the top floor Of the Amsterdam News building A few blocks from here I know that ten years Is an awfully long stretch To be covered By the public's memory But even so I know that all of us here Remember that Bill Hudson Was one of the great Public servants In the history of this city And we remember That he died tragically Before his time But that he left Upon the welfare operations Of New York City The stamp of his imagination And his integrity And his deep humaneness While Bill Hudson and I Had been talking about The distressing indifference With which the city's Welfare programs Were regarded By a considerable proportion Of the public And in spite of the fact That the department Was now on a regular Established basis And is no longer A temporary And emergency operation And the commissioner Remarked with a grimness That was unusual in him He was a very sunny Disposition That as long as The city of New York Itself Treated its public services Without dignity The people of the city Could scarcely be blamed For following suit And he went on to say this As nearly as I can remember His exact words He said Some of the dingy Fly-specked Foul-smelling fire traps Where our offices are located Are a disgrace to the city And an insult to the citizens Who have to visit our offices For services And he said I'll never think That we're treating our staff Or our clients Fairly Until we can set up A chain of modern Attractive buildings As welfare centers Throughout New York And then we'll be able To get the public To understand That public welfare Isn't just a matter Of handing out relief checks But rather it's a job That's important Because it serves The welfare Of the general public itself Now at that time The idea that Bill Hudson Expressed Seemed to be To be little more Than the wistful dream Of a very sensitive Forward-looking city official And especially Did it seem A dream When wartime shortages Wiped such building programs Off the planning boards Entirely And when Commissioner Hudson and Mayor LaGuardia Both died Before further plans Could be laid Well it was a dream But it was not The castles in the air Kind of a dream It was a dream That had a chance To grow into reality Because it represented Because it represented Because it represented The determination Of hundreds of thousands Of serious-minded New Yorkers And because it represented More than merely Putting up buildings Because it represented Decency in municipal Administration And consideration For the needy And respect Of our citizens And that kind of a dream Simply had to come true Because in the long run All such dreams Will come true If we believe in them Hard enough And work on them Long enough And here today Though we have had Two mayors Since LaGuardia And four welfare commissioners Since Hudson Here is the dream Come true In the first Of what will surely be Mr. Mayor A succession Of similar welfare centers Throughout New York City So let's take a good look At this building now This is probably The last time That most of us Will be conscious Of its beautiful facade Or its architectural proportions Or the layout Of its office space Because from now on This building Is going to represent Not architects plans But people People by the tens And possibly The hundreds of thousands It will be literally Run over with people Because the administration And the supervision Of public welfare programs As Commissioner Carthy Has indicated Constitute A tremendous operation In this city Nearly 200 million dollars A year spent 18 welfare centers Over 280,000 people On the public assistance rolls Help given of all sorts Food allowances Allowances for clothing And shelter Dental and medical Care for the eyes When these can be provided By the people themselves But public welfare Is not merely a matter Of financial aid Because financially Distressed families Are apt to have Serious health problems And so the department Has its medical social workers Available for consultation To advise relief recipients On how to meet Their personal health needs There is a resource division Not merely to protect The city against fraud But also to help The clients themselves By realizing on sources Of possible income Like insurance And property And the like And families That are hard pressed As we well know Families that are Hard pressed economically Are apt to come apart At the edges emotionally And their family quarrels And threatened separations Their divorces And desertions And youth delinquency And cases of severe Family neglect And all of these Inevitably become The concern Of the welfare department And its court section Has been established To express that concern By working closely With the domestic relations court And the court Of special sessions And all of this I know sounds Grimly familiar To those of us Who live or work In Harlem Or otherwise Have special knowledge Of the social characteristics And economic problems Of this area Because Harlem Is a general section Whether east or west Or north or south Harlem Harlem has more Than its proportionate share Of social and economic problems And it therefore needs A more than average Amount of help The people of Harlem Have more than their Fair share Of personal and group problems And some of these problems Are those of Color discrimination Others are problems Of language difficulties And some Harlemites Find the going extra rough Because they are newcomers To the city Who haven't yet Learned their way around And others have established Long residence But they still have been Made to feel rejected So often That they've lost heart And sometimes Given up the struggle And these are the problems Of economic deprivation They are problems Of social congestion There are problems Of psychological distortion And Harlem needs This welfare centre But in administering The welfare department Needs the understanding Support of the general public As well as the loyal And intelligent service Of its centre staff And in this latter respect And I know Hank McCarthy Wants to cut my throat For doing this For jumping the gun on him But I can't help saying it I think we are awfully fortunate In the commissioner's choice Of the senior administrator For the Harlem welfare centre I'm not going to call her name And leave it to him to do But she's as much A part of Harlem As the corner of 135th street And 7th avenue Because she was born On 135th street She graduated from Harlem And Manhattan's Parochial and public schools And with the aid Of two scholarships She completed Hunter College She has financed Two daughters of her own Through college One is a graduate of Cornell And the other Has a Harvard degree She started off As an investigator In the welfare department She went up the ladder Interviewer, supervisor Director of special projects Administrator And now to a top spot In this location And so this senior administrator Is to be congratulated On the opportunity For service Opened up to her But the department Is to be congratulated On having appointed An administrator Who knows so intimately The area in which She now serves And who's proven In so many ways Her feeling of responsibility To it Because this is no Hackature sized operation Not by any manner of means 16,000 cases In this center alone Involving 30,000 people A monthly expenditure Of $1,300,000 For this Each month For this area alone 478 staff members And two assistant administrators 30 case units With their supervisors Medical service Employment service Statistical unit Control unit Fire unit Stenographic pool Dictation booth Intercommunication telephones I'll never envy Any administrators Their responsibility Of running this operation That will so often Seem to them and to others Like organized insanity But I could very easily End to them What is a rarely Equal chance for service Because what service Could be greater Even if seldom appreciated Than that which lies In meeting the destitute With assistance Offering advice To the bewildered And guidance to the lost Reassuring the terrified And soothing the desperate And what greater service To the community Of New York Than this one Of constantly reminding Our citizens That for better or worse We are all yoked together By unbreakable bonds Of common community interest And interdependence That if one of us falls The others must stumble And that together We can make the city We can yet make the city Not only the largest And the richest But also the finest And the kindest And the most decent Metropolitan center In the world To go back to this point I have previously made This is not merely A matter of skillful Administration And staff devotion Whether at departmental Headquarters Or any one of our Eighteen welfare centers It is a matter That involves The teamwork operation Of our whole city One that demands The most understanding And intelligent support By our general public And an unwavering policy Dedicated by our city Administration And followed through From year to year Regardless of political Changes in that administration And the most impressive Feature of this dedication To me Is the fact that It represents The steady unfolding Of progress In the state of welfare That has taken place Regardless of changes In the mayor's office We no longer hear The ignorant And sometimes vicious References we used to hear To public assistance As the dole And this is because Any American Who is intelligent enough To read and understand What he reads Knows today That the individual Is so economically Dependent upon our Whole national economy That it's absolutely Impossible for any one city Any one state And certainly for any one Individual To guarantee Self-sufficiency For himself Out of his Or its own Personal resources Public assistance Therefore Is no longer considered A charity handout It is organized Society's way Of trying to make up For its own mistakes By tiding the individual And his family Over a rough period For which the individual Himself is apt to have No responsibility And this growing Social intelligence Should also make us Understand as citizens Of New York That welfare funds Wisely invested Are not so much A tax burden As they are A social opportunity For they give us A chance to make Our whole community life More decent More humane And more constructive And we realize That the more we do Along this line The more it will cost But we realize That as community pressures Become more complicated And more intense We must do more And not less For our children For instance We must give every child His birthright Of protection and love Opportunity for good health And education And a chance For the full unfolding Of his personality traits For our agent We must give respect And similar love And protection For our community We must give our very best And this is what our Dedication ceremony Means to me As a social worker As a resident of Harlem And as a citizen of New York And that's why Commissioner McCarthy I'm proud to have had a part In this program Thank you Thank you Thank you Mr. Granger I think this would be A good time To let all of you Have a good look At the lady About whom Mr. Granger Was speaking And I am very happy To have his endorsement Of our choice We chose her For all the reasons That he mentioned Plus the fact That we know At first hand Of her abilities Having seen them In operation For such a long time So I'm very happy To present to you Mrs. Gertrude Bolden I won't ask her To make a speech But I would like To have her Have you all see her Mrs. Gertrude Bolden It's always A great happiness For us Whenever we have Any kind of an occasion To be able to Be able to call upon The sanitation ban Which For my money And I don't mean To be invidious About any other departments It's the best band In the city And we're now Going to hear from them Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you The End The End The End The End The End The Honorable Albert H. Morgan And I'm very happy to present him to you now. Commissioner McCarthy, Mayor Impeletary, Borough President Wagner, Mr. Granger, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of Commissioners of Mayland, I'm very happy to represent the Department of Public Works in the dedication of this Harlem Welfare Center. This ceremony, I might add, is also of personal interest to me as a former resident of Harlem who graduated from PS89 over here on Lenox Avenue and 135th Street. Our plans for this structure were prepared by civil service architects and engineers in the Department of Public Works, originally for a site on 136th Street near 5th Avenue. We employed as consultant architect the late Wirtner W. Tandy, who was a resident of Harlem and very much interested in seeing that our plans call for a structure that would be not only functionally sound, but also an architectural credit to the community. I can well remember Mr. Tandy discussing his hopes and ideas with me on several occasions. Unfortunately, about the time the plans were finished, we were prevented by war conditions from proceeding with the construction of this center. Before these conditions cleared, there were other developments that caused us to abandon the 136th Street site, and some consideration was given to the possibility of one on the 135th Street. However, it was finally decided to select this location, and we then had to revise our plans to meet the new site conditions. Bids for construction of this building were taken during the latter part of 1950, and the contractors were ordered ahead on February 1, 1951. The construction progressed rather well, although there were some inevitable delays due to material shortages, and the building was substantially completed this summer. We turned it over to the Department of Welfare so that they could move in the necessary furniture and equipment and complete the many tasks they had to do in preparing for the opening of the building. I can assure you that Commissioner McCarthy, aided and abetted by members of his staff, maintained constant pressure upon us to complete this building, so that his department would be in a position to render those community services to the people of Harlem to which they are entitled. The Department of Public Works is very happy to have played its part in bringing this structure to completion, and we are very glad to assist Commissioner McCarthy in the development of his plans for future centers. Thank you. There have been frequent references to how long this dream has been in process of fulfillment. Some of us may forget that the mayor of the city was a member of the Board of Estimate in his previous capacity for many years prior to becoming mayor, and so he was in on this dream from the very beginning, because it was through the Board of Estimate that we got the approval and the funds necessary to carry forward this project. The mayor has honored us by his presence this afternoon, and he has sat here patiently listening to all the things that have been said, and I know that you are as anxious as I am to hear what he has to say. He has had, from the beginning of my acquaintance with him, which goes back to the time when I came with the department some two years and ten months ago, he has had the most keen interest in the workings of the department. His only instruction to me has always been, just do the best job that can be done for the people of New York. I am honored to be able to present to you your mayor, Vincent R. Impelitari. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner McCarthy, Borough President Wagner, Commissioner Morgan, Mr. Granger, Reverend Clergy, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely happy to be present with you today to help you open the new Harlem Welfare Center. As you have already learned, this is the first building that has been planned, constructed, and owned by the City of New York in its long-term plan to house every welfare center in city-owned buildings. I am extremely gratified that the first of these projects is here in Harlem, for I feel that this community in the past has too often been the last to receive the benefits of long-range planning. I am glad to participate in this ceremony for another reason. It gives me the opportunity to renew acquaintances with old friends. As I stated many times during the last campaign for mayor, I would not only come to Harlem during the period of the election, but I stated at that time that I would avail myself of every possible opportunity to meet with you, for by so doing, I can better understand your problems and appreciate your needs, and thus be aided in my determined policy to give equal consideration to all parts and to all the people of our great city. These ceremonies today have a deep meaning. They recognize the permanence of our public welfare program. They show our government's awareness of its increasing responsibility to provide expanded social services to all of its people. We have finally, after a long time, come to realize that it is morally right to assist our fellow citizens and that it is economically and socially efficient to do so. The City of New York has long recognized welfare as a governmental function. Our program includes assistance to the blind, aid to dependent children, old age assistance, veterans assistance, home relief, child welfare services, and many other special services. Our city has been, indeed, most fortunate in attracting men and women of wide experience and successful accomplishments to administer its welfare program. I should like, also, to pay tribute and express a word of thanks to the thousands of loyal members of this department who are but a part of that proud force of civil servants who serve so well the people of our great city and to all of us who see in the completion of this building the fruition of our dreams. I exhort you to be ever mindful that our program of public welfare, no matter how worthy its objectives, is no better than its administration. I can only speak for the last seven years, so I didn't have the pleasure of working with Mr. Hodson, who is referred to so in such eloquent terms by Mr. Granger. But during those seven years, I had come to know, first, Commissioner Hilliard, who came to the department, not from the city of New York, came from outside the city of New York, but came to us because we wanted to divorce welfare completely from politics, and we felt that after making a nationwide search, Commissioner Hilliard had all of the necessary qualifications, and we brought him on to the city, and he made an excellent Commissioner of Welfare. Thereafter, when Commissioner Hilliard decided to leave the service of the city, but at the same time to continue in social welfare work, when he decided to quit, one of the first things I said to him at my office in City Hall, I'd like to have your recommendation as to the man or woman you think is best qualified to step into your very tough job. And that's how I came to know of, of course, I knew him from the standpoint of administration, but I first came to know his qualifications for the job of Commissioner when Commissioner Hilliard said without hesitancy, the man that I would highly recommend to you, Mr. Mayor, is my Deputy Chief, Commissioner McCarthy, and I would recommend them to you. And I, thereafter, when the resignation of Commissioner Hilliard became effective, I was happy to appoint Commissioner McCarthy, and he has made an excellent Commissioner of Welfare. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Under Commissioner Hilliard and under Commissioner McCarthy, great progress has been made in this city's administration of welfare. In that time, the Department has swept out of its ranks those employees who use their jobs to do the work of the Communists. they have eliminated the influence of suspect politicians right in this neighborhood who tried to use human misery as a tool for their own purposes. Today, needy families are helped when they need help in accordance with the laws of this state and city and not according to their political beliefs or whether they stand in good with any political demigod. I intend to see to it that that's the way it's going to be as long as I am mayor. There are 60,000 agents receiving help from this department, 130,000 mothers and dependent children, 23,000 permanently and totally disabled persons and nearly 3,000 blind. If you add those up, you have about 216,000 people out of the total of 280,000 now receiving public assistance. That leaves about 64,000 others who are temporarily ill or handicapped or unemployed, which is less than one-tenth of one percent of the total population of this city. Less than 5,000 of these are what can be described as currently placeable in jobs and those who can work are being placed in jobs as rapidly as possible. Just last month, the relief rolls went down by 5,000. There are 25,000 less persons on relief now than there were just one year ago. Our people, and this is important to bear in mind, our people do not want relief except when they have to have it. they would much prefer to have jobs. And the proof is that our relief rolls have kept going down as quickly as jobs have opened up. For those who can work, the department's big objective is to help them back to self-support and self-respect as quickly as possible. For those who cannot, and that means the aged and the children and the disabled, this city will continue to provide the kind of decent care that any of us would expect if we were in the same unfortunate position. It is my sincere hope that this institution dedicated to human welfare will be a real instrument of service to the needy in this community, an instrument to transform their desperation into hope in such a way that it will result in the individual so helped moving on into gainful occupation and that through this help they will be able to rise to a standard of living that will help develop their self-respect, assurance, and faith in our democratic society. To the accomplishment of this end, let us all dedicate our hearts and our hands. Thank you. You've been listening to a special broadcast of the dedication ceremonies of the Harlem Welfare Center. Commissioner Henry L. McCarthy of the Welfare Department presided with Mayor Vincent R. Impeletary as Principal Speaker and Robert F. Wagner, Jr., President of the Borough of Manhattan, Lester B. Granger, Executive Director of the National Urban League and past President of the National Conference of Social Work, participating in the ceremonies, along with Albert H. Morgan, Deputy and Acting Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. This has been a special public service feature of your city station transcribed earlier for this presentation. We return you now to the studios of the Municipal Broadcasting System. We are nearing the close. We are going to have another song from our wonderful singer, Miss Monica Mays, then we are going to have benediction. After that, you are all invited to inspect the building and you will see some folks around who have on the yellow carnation. Well, look for the yellow carnation. Those are guides who will show you through the building and will explain everything to you. Perhaps I should say for the benefit of radio listeners that the New Harlem Welfare Center is located at 131st Street, 131, 131st Street and Park Avenue. And I think all the citizens of New York should have an interest in seeing this building and are invited to come and see it at any time. I'm going to ask that the audience join with Miss Mays, Miss Monica Mays, in singing God Bless America. Thank you. To the prairie, to the ocean, white in color, Bloodless America, my home sweet home. Bloodless America, my home sweet home. The benediction will be pronounced by the Reverend Dr. Samuel H. Sweeney, pastor of St. Mark's Methodist Church. O God, let thy blessing rest upon this project, and upon these thy servants who will administer the work here, and upon all the people who will receive benefits through these facilities. And now the Lord bless you and keep you, and make his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift the light of his countenance upon you and give you peace, now and forevermore. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.