Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum and a hearty welcome to the WNYC radio listeners. This evening, our fourth meeting in the Sunday program of Great Themes in the Great Hall concerns itself with real issues of our time. The gentleman who has come down here to speak on this topic and lead us in a discussion J. Raymond Walsh is well known to most of us as an educator, economist, radio commentator, and also an old friend of Cooper Union who has spoken here many times, and his last appearance in this hall was last Lincoln's birthday when he gave the famous Cooper Union Lincoln address. It gives me great pleasure to present to you J. Raymond Walsh. Mr. Walsh. Mr. Fairchild, ladies and gentlemen, It's been a great pleasure to me on every occasion that I have been invited to speak in this room. This hall, of course, is redolent of some remarkable occasions, including the appearance of the man who was just referred to, Abraham Lincoln, a good many years ago. Particularly, the hall and the institute are dedicated to the proposition that men will be free in only insofar as they are informed. That couldn't but inspire anybody whose business it is to teach or to speak and to join with others in examining the issues that are our daily bread. So I'm very, very glad to be back here in this new series that Mr. Fairchild has inaugurated, and to raise some questions regarding the real issues of our time. Every age, I suppose, has thought of its own fate. Every time has had either hopeful or nightmare visions of its own future. And always there have been Cassandras, on the one hand, or prophets, to strip away man's immediate blindness, and to inspire him with assurance, perhaps, that his race would soar steadily on to an arc of endless progress, or, on the other hand, to warn him that it may hurtle him into a needless Armageddon of pain and death. But I suspect that in no age have men so feared that their race was done, that a gadadameron was near, than is the case with our own. And surely none has had better reason than ours to believe that the simple survival of mankind itself is at stake. For our willingness or passion to destroy ourselves has now been given the technical and technological means by which to make death universal and to end the human enterprise once and for all. Hundreds of millions of people, I think you will admit, in their ceaseless agony, resemble, if I may paraphrase Dante, resemble a sick man who continually changes his position to lessen an intolerable pain. And then other millions, who do not happen to suffer the material agonies, really, of their fellow men, are gripped themselves by consuming fears, lest their relatively satisfactory condition and privilege be lost to them. But fear, as we know, is the negation of personal serenity, just as it is the negation of public freedom. A thousand times, and in a thousand places, during our own lifetime, leaders have been catapulted into dizzy power by yearning men. And these leaders, like Macbeth's witches, have paltered to us in a double sense. They've kept the word of promise to our ear, but broke it to our hopes. In the darkness, with a great bundle of grief, the people march. Thus, Carl Sandburg. In the night, and overhead a shovel full of stars for keeps, the people march. Where to? What next? Blight? Not on the grain. Drought? Not in the spring. Rot? Not from the grain. What shadow hidden or unseen hand ceaselessly touches our face? Now, in this Cooper Hall series of lectures on the great themes, the great themes of your and my time, a great deal, I dare say, has been said and will be said about war and peace, about poverty and riches, about dogma and dissent, about authority and freedom. There will, of course, be divergent emphases. There will be even conflicting evidence and disparate judgment and conclusions upon the basis of such evidence. But I'm pretty certain that every speaker who stands on this platform and every listener who listens to him will be in accord on one conviction, that it is urgently, yes, critically, necessary that the real issues of our time be sharply etched, that they be radically examined, that they be profoundly studied, and perhaps presently, they may be surmounted in some measure. Else, there may not be any issues at all among men presently, for there may be no men to entertain issues. A few days ago, the President of the United States made an announcement. He made his announcement, as he usually does, or frequently, to the newspaper men representing the great agencies and the great newspapers of the world. He announced that within recent weeks, an atomic explosion had occurred in the Soviet Union. This announcement, you will recall, provoked a veritable epidemic of startled and startling pronouncements by other men. These pronouncements, on the part of others, range from the pretty frightening conclusion that we must rain bombs at once on all of the Russians that we can reach and do it before they have enough bombs to rain them on us. From that, on the one hand, to the equally frightening conclusion that the Russians had probably already invested a number of vessels with their bombs and sent them up the streams of the United States to explode the living daylights out of our fellow Americans. Mr. Hickenlooper, an almost too well-known member of the United States Senate, was provoked into remarking that, well, David Lilienthal had better be called on the griddle again than subjected to an examination. A fellow congressman in the lower house, Mr. Veld, out of his great understanding and wisdom, had once urged that the government be taken over by the FBI. Robert Taft, a colleague of Mr. Hickenlooper, suddenly found virtues that he had not detected before in Francisco Franco of Spain. and Mr. Rankin, the fragrant Rankin, I mean, demanded that the capital city of Washington be moved instantly to Paducah, Kentucky. Well, these were flashes, random flashes of statesmanship, but more important than these evidences of the high thought of men in Congress regarding our affairs and the implications of the President's announcement. Much more important, indeed, there moved across our capital a deeper shadow of determination to raise our military sights, to re-arm Europe, and to save the peace by girding ourselves for war. I might say at once, somewhat as an interlude, that I do not myself believe that war is imminent for the American people and the Russian people and the human race. I do not believe that it's likely within several years that I'm equally certain that these pronouncements and these events lie squarely on the trajectory of war and that unbroken that trajectory is certain to do us in. Now, as persons tonight concerned about the real issues, it seems apparent that as individuals we have to do something real about the issues. I would suggest that the first thing that we do is to relax. it would be a good thing if men, ourselves included, could turn our backs at least momentarily upon our fears in the hope that we may summon a detachment, that detachment that alone can provide anybody with an understanding and perhaps a control of our common destiny, sufficient to avoid catastrophe and to recover that basis for hope in a better life. For we've got to acquire an understanding somehow of our times quite exceeding the understanding that we have. Otherwise, events and not ourselves will remain as James put it in the saddle and they will ride us and ride us probably to extinction. Now, our own is a time of great, indeed it's a time of chronic crisis. And men in the highest posts are wrestling with that crisis. On the whole, wrestling earnestly and devotedly, I have no doubt, but wrestling to a large degree quite blindly. They lead us, generally speaking, into the future as men unequipped with any philosophy regarding that future. They lead us with little knowledge of the history of which they and we are a common part. And, consequently, they allow us and cause us even to writhe vainly in an agony of anxiety and doubt and fear. First of all, because they and we have so little understanding of the nature of the crisis which grips and consumes the world and of which they are wrestling so earnestly. I want to say some things tonight of a general, one might almost say, abstract nature regarding the crisis that these men are attempting to deal with and you and I are attempting to think about. the crisis, let it be said at once, is a revolutionary one. I'm aware that these days particularly the word revolution and the word revolutionary are not particularly popular in the conventional and official and diplomatic usage of our leaders. but I think it's of the utmost importance that we say out loud and with confidence to ourselves that the situation in which we find ourselves is a revolutionary one and that most of us Americans, leaders and led alike are inclined to miss that fact altogether even though we may have gone to college and acquired a certain sophistication regarding such matters. we act indeed as though this revolution this revolutionary crisis had not occurred at all. The Russians may I say parenthetically the image as they are of our own fears they do not miss this central fact regarding our crisis. They are trained indeed to express that crisis in revolutionary terms. I think they mistake the character of that revolution at times. They make blunders and very bad blunders frequently regarding it as they attempt to deal with it. But their training unlike ours has not only the impact and power of a dogma of a dogma but it has to some extent the sharpness of an intellectual tool by which they can analyze and thereby in some measure comprehend the crisis which it is their business to deal with. They are trained to look beyond diplomatic maneuvers and the military posturing of today to the deeper social forces that give a period and our own period its peculiar and unique stand. Unquestionably all the more if it is your conception that the United States and the Soviet Union are in the grip of a terrible conflict it's a great strength in the armoring of the Russian people and their leaders. Well our times therefore I say are revolutionary and somehow we've got to begin to comprehend that fact and the revolution is a multiple revolution many sided. One real issue then for us is the comprehension of that many sided and of that radical changing world. In its most obvious phase and much of what I have to say will be quite obvious I dare say to a good many of you. In its most obvious phase this revolution is an industrial one. In the last ten years for example the United States has developed techniques of precision applicable to industry of all kinds hitherto unknown. Much of the astonishing economic productive achievement during the war in the United States by which we file pelion upon OSA a war economy on top of a consumer's peace economy is due to the technological changes and discoveries and their application during the war. now in the same decade world science and American technology and now the Russian technology have sprung upon us atomic energy which in its application to industrial uses will surely change production as radically as did the classical industrial revolution two centuries ago. now what follows from this is inescapable. If allowed to run its course the means of livelihood are going to come within the reach of all men. No nation is going to find it possible to remain the trustee of the world's food or of the world's wealth. no class is going to find it possible to remain or to become the trustee of the welfare of the people. This without doubt is the conviction of the Russian leadership today. This is their conviction incidentally with a specific application in their rejection of the Baruch proposals on the international control of the atomic bomb and of atomic energy. their hostility derived at least in part from an anxiety that international control of atomic energy would jeopardize their own industrial use of that atomic energy. A jeopardy and a risk that they were determined to avoid. They argued this way according to Professor Blackett the physicist from England who has had the enviable privilege of sitting in on so many of the conferences dealing with the question. They argued this way that the Soviet Union was a late comer in the utilization of power for peacetime industrial purposes. That they bore about the same relationship to the United States and the Western world as a century ago Germany and the United States bore to Great Britain which had had the advantage of a head start in the earlier and classical 18th century revolution of industry. They argued to themselves Mr. Blackett said that atomic energy gave them the Russians an opportunity probably quite remarkably to telescope that disadvantage that they had as a late comer in the use of power power. And that that would be understood by those who were participating in any international control including the American and Western representatives. representatives and they feared that particularly the American representatives on any international control would say why we have the power developed on a lavish scale hydroelectric power and oil power and steam power and coal power. We are not under the immediate or urgent necessity to release the power that is caught in the atom and would use their international fulcrum to see that it was not so released and consequently use it in a way to the injury of the cause of the Russian people. Now Mr. Blackett says this I'm inclined to think that he is talking sense in part because he had such an enviable position to learn and in part because to me at any rate it seems so obvious and so logical as to be almost inescapable. So this atomic energy that has been released has become a factor of enormous importance in the calculations of people regarding their immediate and their long run industrial purposes. The widest implication of this atomic industrial thrust is that the maintenance of the world's population will cease to be a problem. Now insofar as all this is true it's going to be an historical turning point of unexampled importance in man's history. It's important we have been too distracted too distracted altogether among others by our diplomatic cold war of the last three years. we have been too distracted by our immediate fears and anxieties and too limited I suppose by our ignorance to think about to foresee or to understand. Now this revolution in peacetime industry which is part of this revolutionary crisis of our time is by the same token obviously a revolution in war and the technical skills utilized to produce on a large scale debt. Of course the scientists know this and the generals know it. The fact fills the generals with great confidence sometimes almost an arrogant self-confidence. It fills the scientists almost to a man with dismay. But the scientists and the generals know that although we may not have the absolute weapon, the final decisive weapon, that a range of weapons so lethal is at our command as to make it possible for mankind to destroy his race. And that sets a framework instantly it would seem to me and this is surely revolutionary. It sets a framework within which the cavortings of the diplomats and of the generals and of the politicians, American and Russian alike, seem a choreography for a dance of death. The revolutionary fact is this, that war which has hitherto been tolerable no matter whether you or I would consider it moral or not, which has hitherto been tolerable, has now become impossible to tolerate. It was until yesterday simply another means by which the national purposes of peace were pursued. But today war is utterly and finally and irretrievably obsolete. Any man who continues to think, even though he may be the head of a foreign office of a great country, any man who continues to think in terms of the use of war on behalf of his nation is in my judgment at any rate, lunatic in his ignorance. He has... He has missed utterly the revolution of his own time. For the only sensible and indeed the only justifiable strategy among the nations today, now, is literally a strategy of peace. A strategy probably as difficult to learn or more difficult than the strategy of war, but a strategy therefore which we must be most devoted in our efforts to learn. I say the revolution is a multiple one. It's multiple in the sense that industrial, in addition to its having an industrial peacetime application of a very profound kind, in addition to having rendered obsolete among any sane men war as a means of national enterprise, this revolution has a political form. It has a political form that has a number of phases. One phase of this revolution to which we have been strangely blind, it seems to me, here in the United States, is this, the collapse of colonialism. Or to put it a little more accurately, perhaps, the collapse of the prerequisite of the base upon which colonialism can survive. The British Empire has, as we all know, shrunk to a fragment. And it's a fragment which it is at least touch and go, whether the British can sustain. The wars of the Dutch and the French are allies on behalf of freedom. Those wars against the colonial peoples of the Far East in the last two or three years, they are fever readings, are they not, of a dying age. colonial empires in the ancient sense are definitely true. They no longer have a political base in the first instance, in the claim that we used to make that their peoples are so ignorant or so ill-trained or so ill-advanced that they cannot govern themselves. Because the fact is a blinding fact now, at least to most colonial peoples, that the rulers or the mother countries themselves do not have the wisdom to govern either the colonies or themselves. They no longer have an economic base either, as is shown, for example, by the remarkably emergent, well, almost continental economy in the vast area that we call India. These colonies no longer have a moral basis, if they ever had one, for the colonial peoples now know that subjection to another people means slavery and that overlordship means tyranny. And that both of these are immoral and immoral, mind you, by reference to the very standards in human relations that their masters themselves have led them to learn. So colonialism, as an economic and political and moral enterprise, is so thoroughly discredited and shattered as to be quite beyond the reach of men to restore. The liberation of the Far East and some day of Africa as well will mean, among other things, a strange and important shift in the balance of races in the world. The yellow and the black races, which constitute, I believe, more than half of the human race, they are coming into their own. And not only are they coming into their own in terms of preponderant weight in many situations, but they're coming into their own in the important sense that they are beginning to realize an important destiny on their behalf. And those yellow and black races, as they emerge into a preponderant influence in world affairs, bring some very great qualities. The examples, for example, of Gandhi and of Nehru in India show that they have not lost that religious creating primacy which the East has so long held and which the West has shown little power of taking away. The implication for the United States of this shift in the racial weights throughout the world will not be lost upon anybody in this room, of course, in the United States of America. And in this country on earth with so challenging a racial problem as our own. And it's a problem not of the black race but of the white race. It is not the Negroes who are standing at bay but the white people against the developing standards of conduct and the real policies that will have more and more hundreds of millions of people behind them in our world. One wonders just what the test how it will frame itself in the United States when it does come severely. I remember for example a year or two ago when the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in this country made a very important documented plea to the United Nations to come to the assistance of 13 million Negroes in the United States who were kept in relative bondage. It was not a pleasant experience to sit there in the United Nations and here this unchallengeable document placed before the leaders of the world. It was considered finally of course not to be an appropriate plea in as much as legally the United Nations could not or would not recognize the 13 million Negroes as a nation. And yet disturbingly in the secret places of the hearts of all of those who listen was a realization that this was a plea with an unanswerable logic and force to it and that if it were not answered one place and at one time it would be answered someplace at another. Well this is part of the revolutionary crisis of our time. Now as a corollary to the collapse of colonialism I suppose we should state the revolutionary fact of the decline of Europe. The decline of Europe as an economic, technological and a military world force. Have you seen those new maps? The new type of map that shows Europe to be an almost inconsequential hump of the Eurasian continent. You surely have seen those maps of the air channels across the world that connect the great regions of the world with a complete indifference almost to the existence of the European Peninsula. Now these maps are symbolic therefore they memorialize the passing of an exceptionally rich although small part of the world's land area and population. And they rather brassly announce that there are only two big economies left in the world, two real centers of power in the ordinary military and technological and political sense. And those two, neither of them is European. I'm sure that most of us in this room, many of us with a pulsing intimacy, feel probably that historically there's never been anything like the creative dynamics of that little peninsula we think of as Western or Europe. How can one summarize the meaning of the contributions to the history of the human race of that continent? In the field of politics and economics and military achievement, good or bad, and in the field of morality and art itself? How can one catch it up even in his mind? A continent that is given birth? How can one catch it up even in his mind? A continent that is given birth to Catholicism, to the Reformation and Protestantism, to political democracy, to the entire tradition of civil liberties, to the Transylvania, to the development of the world, to the German philosophy and French logic of the massive social and political theory of Marx, of the development of that savage and brutal response to Marxism, fascism. What is one to say about a continent in which the Christian-Jewish virtues and insights into the social ethics of men have had their roots in large measure and their fullest flower, what is one to say about a continent that has given us such diverse figures as Saint Assisi, Saint Francis of Assisi and Beethoven, as Bach and Goethe and Dante and Shakespeare, as well as those great figures of our own country offshoots, as it were, of Europe in our earliest history. In spite of my own almost nostalgic awareness of that in common with yours, it seems to me that these maps to which I refer underscore a fundamental but terribly revolutionary fact in our time, namely that Europe as a great power center is no more. Now the VEX struggles today for Germany, for example, that's a struggle for the residue of an industrial plant. The partition of Germany is but part of a deeper partition of a continent. Europe may remain, I hope it does, as a cultural force of real magnitude, but it cannot remain as an economic or political force. The foundations upon which its economic and political power were built are gone. Colonialism was but one of those foundations. It's gone. American subservience in an economic sense to Western Europe was another of its foundations, and that's irretrievably gone. Relations between the East and West of Europe that anteceded the emergence of communism as a world force. That was a foundation too, and it's gone. Now to think of Europe, as some of our momentary leaders do, as an economic and political entity of great promise, in addition to thinking of it as a military force, as is indicated in our own plans for rearmament of Europe and the North American alliance, in my judgment one could not indulge in more silly illusions than that. Now whatever the consequences of Europe's passing, as the world's dynamic, its center of creative force, its kind of volcanic furnace of activity in the field of practice and of ideas, whatever one may say regarding it, at least one must allow that if this is true, it is a revolutionary event. It's a fact supremely difficult to grasp because almost everything in our nature rebels against accepting it. But difficult or not, we'd better accept it. For illusion regarding this matter will lead us, I'm sure, steadily to blunder piled on blunder until blunder becomes crime, and crime a collective disaster. May I parenthetically remark here, I said that what I was going to say tonight was on the abstract or general level rather than specific applications, but for me at any rate, this fact of Europe's passing has not begun to penetrate those stratospheric circles of our State Department, for example. It hasn't begun to break upon the large world vision of some of the men whose particular prerogative and purpose and duty it is today to formulate the foreign policy of the American people vis-a-vis the rest of the world. Else they could not possibly have spun that gossamer-threb of policy that last April was subscribed to in the North Atlantic Pact. I was in Europe this summer in four countries in Europe. It was a hasty trip, but of course I should probably say at once that that gives me the right to be considered a paragon of authority on all matters dealing with Europe, and I want you to respect me. However, it was a swift trip. Nonetheless, I talked to the great many people in four capitals, both East and West. I can't begin to tell you how many times I had it said to me by men in important posts of government or of the opinion industry or of the intellectual professions of one kind or another. I can't begin to tell you how often I had it said to me by then that the North Atlantic Pact, in their opinion, was utterly ridiculous and absurd. Many of them, of course, were frightened. Some of them frightened quite out of their wits. Frightened by the Russians, frightened by the Americans, frightened by a possible re-emergent Germany. But they could not, scarcely any of these people, see any particular sense in the amalgamation of those particular countries which we have brought together under our own leadership into the North Atlantic community. They couldn't see it because in economic terms, most of those countries are competitive, not complementary, and will presently be at each other's throats in terms of economic competition for a shrinking world trade. Indeed, that's already occurred. They couldn't see it politically because they are not all countries dedicated to the proposition that government should be of, by, and for the people unless my knowledge regarding, let us say, Portugal is somewhat obsolete. They couldn't see any particular sense in the military implications of the North Atlantic pact which have finally been underscored in the rearmament plans, our own, of Western Europe. When on every hand I was told, by the British for example, we will never send a man to fight on the continent again. And by the French, we do not intend to be freed or liberated as corpses. The pacifism of the French people I urge upon you is profound and far-reaching. And a quarter of those people of voting age at the last record affirm themselves as communists not dedicated to our Atlantic community cause. The trade union people with whom I talked in both of those countries were quite adamant in the statement that they'd had all of the war that they intended to engage in except for that necessity of defending their own land and then they didn't know in France whether they'd even do that. I added up with several of them the available forces of the army and the air force and the navy of these various countries and even if you include Luxembourg with its ten trombones and its eight trumpets and I think two drums it still does not amount to a force that has any relevance to the apparent intentions of the North Atlantic pact on military grounds Western Europe could not possibly be a less willing or less fertile ally than it is. So indeed the North American Atlantic Alliance has one of the very top officials of the British government whose name I'm sorry I cannot use as he told me in his opinion that North Atlantic Alliance meant one of two things obviously it was aimed at the Soviet Union of course it was put in defensive terms but it was aimed at the Soviet Union which we understand has an army of a hundred divisions mobile now and four or five hundred that could be mobilized in a very short time with a reasonably good air force and no particular need of a navy other than submarines which they have in large numbers and that Western Europe having very little if anything to throw against that the North American Atlantic Alliance means either that the United States is ready and intends to transport to the European continent quickly and keep there at least one hundred divisions of American boys from the towns and cities and farms of America or intends to turn Germany into a military arsenal on our collected behalf I don't need to urge upon you but simply to raise the question with you whether any government democratic or republican would stand much chance of being returned again to the Congress and the White House in our own country that proposed sending one hundred divisions to Europe I'm sure I don't have to do more than to raise the question you do whether the British and the French and the Dutch and the Belgians and the Scandinavians to say nothing of the Eastern European peoples would be reassured by a venture on our part to inspire the re-militarization on an active stage of the German people so as I say if what I'm saying is measurably correct our foreign policy in these more immediate applications of this spring and summer are built upon an illusion they are conceived out of a mirage regarding what a part of the world has come to be and conceived out of a mirage and built upon illusion can anybody be so euphoric and confident as to think that the results will be creditable or helpful to the interests of the American people well this follows from one of the revolutionary aspects of the crisis of this time and that leads me to underscore another phase of this multiple revolution the new fact of only two powers in the world which I referred and quite obvious it is isn't it now the dangerous fact of the new role of Russia and the United States in the world is part of this these two powers are in a great struggle a struggle that has been given the name the cold war a cold war that we have frequently I'm sure wondered and feared that it might elapse into a hot war now we have been told again and again and therefore I dare say most of us have been brought almost bludgeoned into believing it that this conflict derives solely from ideological differences so profound as to make it almost impossible for these two powers to exist in the same world we have been told for example on the highest authority in this country at a political level in the president's message to congress last January that the sole menace to peace in the world is the Soviet Union that Russia alone prevented the formation of agreements adequate to the world's necessities that Russia alone has undermined the agreements to which he subscribe that Russia alone has weakened and discredited the United Nations I'm using the words practically of the president in saying Russia alone now allowing as I am perfectly prepared to that the Soviet Union has committed errors and blunders and even crimes which happen to be beyond my competence to find justification for in some instances nonetheless how can anybody for example subscribe to the notion the Soviet Union alone has weakened or undermined the United Nations to take that as an example and to test it as an example or what about Holland and its Indonesian war was that strengthening to the United Nations what about Britain and its prolonged gyrations regarding Palestine was that strengthening to the United Nations what about France and its Indonesian war does that fortify the United Nations what about the United States and its remarkable bypassing in the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Pact finally of the United Nations was that calculated to strengthen the United Nations why did the president say that said it he did and he has repeated it several times since other officials of our government have said it newspaper editors by the hundreds are saying it radio commentators have been known to say something of the kind no wonder under those circumstances we have become as it seems to me on this terribly important matter the victims of our own propaganda with the consequence that we overlook and miss one of the characteristics of the relationships between the two powers gripped in cold war for the differences or the struggle between these two powers is by no manner of means ideological so this is a struggle an important part of it at least a struggle between two nation concentrates a familiar power struggle raised to an unfamiliar potency both of these powers would undertake to refill the vacuum for example made in Europe by the shattering of the German dominion made in the far east by the collapse of the Japanese and of the European imperialism and in the middle east by the bankruptcy of the British if war should come each side in that war will undoubtedly have its religion it will have its blessing of its own idea and word but at the core of that war undoubtedly will be a naked conquest of power by two formidable continental empires each of them with a sense of world mission each with great material means each with atomic weapons and more besides and each with compelling appeal or compelling authority over the rest of the human race it would be a very great tragedy if Russian leaders were to underestimate the strength of their opponent perspective in such a conflict it would be a very great tragedy if we were to underestimate the Russian strength and it would be a supreme tragedy for both to miss the fact that the end of their national power struggle would be desolation and despair everywhere and certain brutal tyranny left to preside over the last days of the remaining fragments of the race two powers left in the world quite aside from ideology this situation would yield a tense play of ambition a tense struggle for further power the menace of nationalism in a word is involved here and it's at its highest now a large number of people within the sound of my voice has read the books on nationalism has as I did in the 1920s studied as a student regarding the emergence of nationalism the adoption by nations of sovereignty each unto itself so critically extended as to constitute the right by any nation to visit war upon the world if in its own unilateral judgment it suited its national purposes I long ago as many of you must have become very dubious indeed regarding nationalism in a highly integrated world economy and society well here we have it raised to a pitch that is quite unprecedented correspondingly the necessity for the transcendence of nationalism is quite literally at its apogee can we comprehend that the nationalism we so passionately defend must now at long last be surrendered who will rise and says that he comprehends that I don't know any more than you whether we shall have a collective ability to transcend it but this is certainly a real issue of our time and one of the most appalling accompaniments of the cold war is the degree that nationalism has consumed the leaders and the speakers on behalf of the respected nations until a collective interest is conspicuous by its absence almost conspicuous by the degree to which it is publicly suffocated and extinguished now all over the world the youth of this generation has stood at the gates of death in your and my time in their millions they've offered up a life that had hardly attained its maturity in the service of freedom they thought millions on millions of them died for that kind of a dream millions of others blind or deaf or maimed are going to spend the remainder of their lives cut off from the supreme beauties that life can offer it's the second time within our own lives that the youth of the world have been asked to risk everything that they were and had they fought they toiled in a conflict they didn't make the shape of its outcome took a form they had little part in deciding they've been the victims of a fate that they did not organize and they've been sacrificed on the altar of a destiny that they did not choose now no one who reflects on their achievements in countless epic battles of the last war can help feeling a sense of profound and touching humility before them and those in particular who fail to return oh believe me they've left us a legacy they've left us inarticulate as most of them were a demand that we fulfill the task that they thought they had begun the young dead soldiers do not speak nevertheless they are heard in the still houses who has not heard them they have a silence that speaks for them at night and when the clock counts they say we were young we have died remember us they say we have done what we could but until it is finished it is not done they say we have given our lives but until it is finished no one can know what our lives gave they say our deaths are not ours they are yours they will mean what you make them they say whether our lives and our deaths were for peace and a new hope or for nothing we cannot say it is you who must say this they say we leave you our deaths give them their meaning give them an end to the war and the true peace give them a victory that ends the war and the peace afterward give them their meaning we were young they say we have died remember us mr. archibald mcleish thus stated his conception of the real issue of our time war it is to renounce war it is to transcend war's nationalism it is to dedicate ourselves to the single strategy of peace if we understand the nature of the crisis that envelops us if we comprehend its multiple revolutionary character we might put on ourselves the modesty and the wisdom by which to learn that all men all men are brothers who must live in peace and give the dead the victory they died to secure they were young but they died and we remember them thank you very much dr. walsh for that very fine and stimulating talk thank you thank you very much dr. walsh for this very stimulating and very fine program that you have given us this evening there's one thing i would like to state sir that whether a person enjoys your ideas or not i personally do not see how they can help it but whether they do or not sir you are always a wonderful lesson in public speaking and a joy to hear I'm sure all right sir here's one question written in to you do you think that the world federation might be a solution for peace I think the world federation and similar schemes by which to emphasize the essential importance of our having an authority adequate to control out of existence national war all of those it seems to me are good insofar however as any of them is infected by a proposition namely that the world is good except russia or the world is good except any other great section of the world to that degree of course it's infected with an error so profound as to be almost useless for our thinking another world federation movement to which reference is made here so far as I know is not infected with that particular kind of error I might say in this connection that a few weeks ago I had a few debates with a man that you've heard of Eli Culbertson Mr. Culbertson is the great bridge expert you know he's the man who who says that he's the only man who is kept by 20 million women he also is of the opinion that he is an expert on foreign affairs and perhaps he is but at any rate we debated the question whether or not the United States should propose setting up a world organization now without Russia if necessary I don't know the title always amused me how could you have a world organization without Russia how could you have a world organization without the United States in other words it bypasses completely the problem and my suspicion is in the case of Mr. Culbertson and anybody who would support that kind of a proposition is that he not only wants to bypass the essential question but he wants to develop an alliance that will be used for military purposes or other compulsive purposes against the Soviet Union thank you very much sir doctor I enjoyed your talking very much and we all admit the colonization is passe but how about that more subtle type of imperialism the dollar imperialism and the gentleman also would like to know what about the United States and Puerto Rico if you want to be more exact well I'll see you afterwards to hear what you think about Puerto Rico I might say that Puerto Rico has received the shabbiest kind of treatment at the hands of the American government that is to say at our own hands most of us have never given a thought I'm sure to Puerto Rico and yet it is part of a population that lays essential acclaim upon us we treated them very badly indeed and we have allowed that area to be exploited by private economic groups in this country that constitutes a shameless record without any question and I have that on the authority as you know of such men as the last or the one before the present governor of Puerto Rico now so far as colonialism taking that subtle form that you say of dollars of course the reference probably intended is to the use that is being made some people think by the United States with their money to extend American dominion over other people I saw evidences in Europe and I've read of evidences around the world of a kind of an American pro-consular development Mr. Hoffman for example and Mr. Douglas and other men who are representing the United States devoted earnest men without any question for the most part so far as I know they constitute a pro- consular service they represent the United States in much the same way that the pro-consuls represented ancient Rome that the the weapons or the instruments that they use is in the form of money is only is rather irrelevant not irrelevant but it's a subsidiary or subordinate fact the fact major fact being that the money is being utilized in a way greatly to extend the importance and the power of the United States over other people that is felt I have thought in Europe this summer there was a almost a united front against the United States and our friends there so to speak were very irritated regarding us they were irritated that we weren't more generous and they were irritated that we were so generous and they were irritated of course that they that we were wealthy and they were not and they had the means by which so to speak to put them on the dole and the whole thing was an evidence of the fact that they felt the the constriction of the expansion of American dominion now I think in the institutional or long-run sense and it wouldn't have to be very long either that constitutes a new form of imperialism and perhaps that's one of the reasons why this kind of economic assistance was not rooted through the United Nations by the United States thus if it had been to remove the possibilities or measurably diminish them of the United States using this great weapon on its own national behalf thank you very much doctor and you spoke a good deal about the Soviet Union and so naturally we have one or two questions about it sir could you elaborate on some of the Soviet Union's crimes and blunders you did mention that they had made quite a deal now doctor we don't want you to take all evening and give all of them just a few sir all right well I'd be very glad obviously the questioner knows that's a big question and could occupy not only an evening here but several evenings but the the Soviet Union it seems to me is making a very large blunder in its or has in its assistance of the process that operated a year and a half ago in Czechoslovakia to the end of absorbing the entire authority of the state by the communists I was in Prague this summer and I saw plenty of evidence of the what shall I call it the moral resistance of large sections of the Czech people a loss on behalf of the communist cause locally and of the Soviet Union in world affairs that it seems to me was a needless cost and that that it's more serious probably than those in authority realize that I would include as at least a blunder I would include it as a blunder too because of the wide ranging effect that it has had upon the goodwill or the absence of goodwill of the Soviet Union among the Western people nothing I think so surcharge the Western Europeans with suspicious suspicions regarding Soviet intentions as this business in the Czechoslovakia in February 1948 I would like to mention one other thing that as a as a kind of the thing that I call crimes now don't misunderstand me I think all nations have committed crimes and blunders but this is a direct answer to the question it seemed to me that the treatment back in the 30s of the kulaks constituted a an indulgence by the bureaucracy in their power that of course even Mr. Stalin had finally to call into question and put the bridle on and say that some men were becoming dizzy with success and now that particular page in Russian history is not a page which I happen to know any language to justify but at the right there it is part probably of the difficult emergence of one kind of society out of the womb of the old thank you sir and now somebody else has stated here that they're inclined to agree with you and they feel the situation is as you stated but they would like to know what do we do about it what would you advise us to do about this difficult situation and the revolution in which we find ourselves would you like to comment on that maybe in 10 seconds yes I would use every every organization that I belong to as a clearinghouse for information and the expression of opinions on this I think we're in a rather dismaying situation in the United States don't you regarding the discussion of public affairs it seems to me almost intolerable the degree to which the authorities of the private and public kind plus the fears that have been generated have resulted in a kind of blackout upon the discussion of public affairs under those circumstances I don't know anything else to recommend except to use any trade union you belong to a business group or political party group or whatever it may be for the purpose of getting your opinions on these matters aired don't keep them to yourself thank you very much and now one facet you haven't really talked on very much sir is the fact about poverty isn't it true that poverty is now needless and it's one of the main facts of this multiple revolution that you've been discussing I use language I guess of a too abstract or kind of elusive kind or elusive kind at the beginning when I was talking about the multiple revolution because it's that that I meant by saying that in the last decade or so we had involved ourselves in an industrial revolution the consequences of which were about as profound as those of the classical 18th century industrial revolution I meant the release of technical power of various kinds and finally its ultimate stage in atomic energy and that that really meant that poverty was obsolete and that meant class relations and national relations that were predicated upon inequality among people including lots of poverty and a few well to do people that that those relationships were all in the process of course of being rendered historically obsolete and they will go either peacefully I suppose or violently one only hopes that they will go peacefully peaceful thank you sir now dr. Walsh you you really do love your own country don't you and why I ask that I mean it isn't just my own personal information sir but somebody suggests that you possibly love Russia more than you do your own native land and as a chairman I feel that I am duty bound to ask you that in the province sir well I can be very short on that no I don't love Russia more than I do my native land I love America of course I live here as most of you do because I was born here so there was no particular pride in choice I'm awfully glad that I live here in the United States I admire greatly many of the fine traditions of our own society I have done what little I could to fight to preserve them I find that many of those traditions are under increasing fire fire and the possibility of extinction of them alarms me very very much and that's what I was talking about tonight I might add that on the subject of Russia of course anybody who says anything in Russia's favor or who doesn't get up and kind of Heil Hitler you know on the familiar conventional way today runs afoul the tendency of a larger number of people than I find find comfortable runs afoul their tendency to say that indicates that you are more in favor of Russia than America or that you are pro-Russian or that you are even a traitor and had better be watched if not actually jailed now I think it would be a terrible mistake for us to overlook the fact as I see as it seems to me quite clear that the Russian people have massive achievements to their credit in the last 30 years that give that people and that government in its dictatorship objectionable as it is to us an immense authority over an immense number of people if we overlook that we shall of course be conspiring in our own ruin thank you very much I personally feel that one of the best things any American can do is attempt to study and learn all they can about people of other nations and how to get along with them that is being a real American sir in my opinion I'm glad to hear you say that I'm not surprised that you're saying that but that needs to be said again and again I thought you would be a little surprised how uh why is it that you didn't mention a single happening or trial that occurred in Foley Square how could you go through the evening doctor without mentioning that uh just briefly oh I take it that that is an invitation for me to say something about the Foley Square events well excuse me if you think it's a real issue of the time yes I think it is a real issue of the time I didn't isolate the question of civil liberties as I might otherwise I had thought of giving a somewhat different talk tonight then I thought this was rather early in the series and probably an abstract or general one that would be profitable to those who succeeded me but I was thinking of taking up concrete things including the attack direct and indirect overt and covert upon our civil liberties the Foley Square venture constitutes part of that attack I read all of the uh summary of the judge Mr. Medina with great care if you haven't read it I would advise you getting it and studying it it's quite a fascinating document written by a man of quite obvious urbanity sophistication of legal learning and I should say a devoted uh uh a devotion to the virtues that might be called the virtues of the west I respect them uh now uh Mr. Medina I think made it clear although he didn't I'm afraid would not admit it if you're on this platform that this was a trial not of men but of ideas it was a trial not of men's actions but of their thoughts that the meaning of it is if this decision is sustained that the first amendment of the constitution becomes for all practical purposes null and void that from then on in you and I will have to examine our library with care and decide decide just what to do with that book uh let us say what Marx really meant or what to do with the web's book on the Soviet Union or what to do on that textbook we had in college 25 years ago setting forth the nature of the various political faiths including communism uh what would you do under those circumstances will become a preoccupation of anybody who is in any way in the public eye I assure you it will become of necessity uh the result if that decision is sustained uh that uh men uh who uh are careful about their welfare will keep their mouths shut if they have opinions that run in any sense contrary to the prevailing opinions of authority it will become a consequence if that decision is sustained that uh the discussion of public issues by which presumably understanding can be increased and through understanding some wisdom evoked that that process will be uh come conspicuous by its absence uh because people simply will not engage themselves in the jeopardy of indulging in it under those circumstances I would I would think that not only the civil freedoms which we cherish and quite properly cherish uh would suffer gravely but the further consequence would be that the society that stands or falls with those civil liberties would be well on the way to its own extinction just read it oh do you want us to read it do you think that if Russia accepts the Baruch plan it would enhance world agreement uh and future peace well I was at the United Nations Security Council broadcasting the Security Council meetings on the day that Mr. Baruch presented his atomic energy proposals I remember so vividly uh rushing out of the assembly out of the room when he had concluded had been much moved by the tone of his voice and the way in which he presented it but I had been terribly disturbed by the content of it because it seemed to me to be an automatic insurance that the international control would not be won and I ran into a couple of my fellow colleagues in radio and newspaper work and we chewed the rag uh over lunch uh regarding it and one of them agreed uh that the proposals offered to Russia were so shall I say so stiff in character the price that was asked for an international agreement was so high that there was no reason whatsoever to expect that the Soviet Union would say yes uh the other uh was of the opinion that the proposals were very generous that no country in the world had ever offered such a proposal and that it was a generosity which uh the Russians should uh and uh accept and if they didn't it would be only further proof of the Russian perfectly well now actually it was a bargaining matter wasn't it and we offered uh a very very extensive plan that was uh to be inaugurated in phases steps that might take several years to evolve nobody knew how long it would take and only at the end of all of the steps of setting up machinery for international inspection and control and their acceptance by all of the nations only then at the end would the United States pay its particular price in the form of the cessation of the manufacture of atomic bombs and the delivery to the UN authority of the atomic stockpile uh the result uh was as we all know now that the Soviet Union decided that it was objectionable on that grounds the price was so too high and therefore they wouldn't take it and they would take the other alternative namely the prospect of breaking the American monopoly now they have broken the American monopoly so the whole basis of the Baruch proposal uh has uh i mean in a sense of international negotiation has been destroyed i would agree wholeheartedly therefore with Walter Lipman who instantly after Mr Truman's announcement of the atomic energy explosion in Russia said that the Baruch proposals were now dead and for heaven's sake let's begin to negotiate in terms of some proposals in touch with the realities of the immediate time that uh unhappily has not been accepted by our own government as yet possibly because the same men are in positions of authority as were in positions of authority in 1946 and it's always difficult for any of us to learn new things or to lose face under those circumstances i would be very pessimistic about any international control of atomic energy there is the prospect however may i add just one more word uh from being at the UN frequently recently i gather that there is the prospect that the united states uh government wish to push it but there's no indication they do yet of securing an agreement between the two countries for the uh by agreement the elimination of atomic energy of the use of it in war on much the same basis as was done with the gas in 1922 or 23 and that in return we might secure if we are interested an agreement on peace treaties for austria and germany now if we are really concerned about getting agreements that prospect should be worked on if we do not work on that prospect i would take it as another indication that our long-run purpose is not to secure agreements but to secure preparation for winning the next war right there's a young lady in the green shirt over here yes just read it please don't bother to come down all right in the meantime yes sir there's a gentleman here there's a gentleman here also great the expectation of the U.S. President, the limitations of the trial and the hungry of other satellite countries with a nine-month trial that you stated on the platform or implied it was definitely fair. Now, if you start in those terms, and equated it on equal terms, at least on equal terms, I don't expect you to put a mirror in the highlights and put a mirror on top on a different level. Then I have it for one step. I got out of the step for Dr. Walsh, but at least it goes out. He's with us. Thank you, sir. I appreciate the feeling that inspired that comment. And I can only say this, sir. Would you repeat the gist of that? Oh, I thought they all heard it. However, that in his judgment, I was deficient or defective in my weighing of things in regard to civil liberties by saying what I did respecting the Foley Square trials and not making reference to the widespread suppression of civil liberties in the Soviet Union and in the so-called satellite countries of Russia. And that he would have greater respect for my arguments if I had included that. Now, I think you probably are right. And let me urge in the first place that an hour is a kind of a short time. Secondly, that sometimes you do not get in everything that you really would want to. In the third place, I would say this. I have confronted this in my own head and from questioners from time to time. I cannot but be impressed, knowing history as you do, that the Eastern European and Soviet part of the world was not touched by the Reformation. The Reformation never got there, except, of course, in little isolated pockets. And it was the Reformation, you know, that gave us the beginning of the training in civil liberties. You and I didn't develop civil liberties. We had nothing to do with it at all. We inherited this remarkable tradition of civil liberties which cost a great many people blood, sweat, and tears over a long, long period of time. It took, indeed, a hundred years of religious wars in Western Europe before the single civil liberty of toleration of conscience came to be respected by Western Europeans. The conflict, historically, for civil liberties of our parliamentary and familiar Western kind, which are great, I agree with you, that conflict was prolonged, it was bloody, and it did not, historically, touch that Eastern part of Europe. I think it would, therefore, be naive on our part, historically, to expect the classical civil liberties suddenly to take flower in Moscow or in Budapest or in Belgrade or any of those Eastern parts of the world that have not been touched by that history. The second thing I would say is this, that I believe the Russian Revolution and now its propulsion beyond into Eastern Europe and into Asia, I believe that that's a very complex matter which includes some strong elements of freedom as well as an almost, you might say, brutal insensitivity to other aspects of freedom. Maybe it is true, inevitable, that people who are very poor will be concerned about economic freedoms more than they will be concerned about freedom of word, freedom of press, and the freedom of the secret ballot. I rather think that that is true historically and psychologically. At any rate, the thing that is appealing to larger numbers of people throughout that impoverished or poor section of the world is the emphasis that communism makes upon building an economy that shall relieve men and women of their poverty. that appeals to them and when Mr. Nehru was here he gave a speech up at Columbia in which he reminded his fellow Americans that freedom was more, so to speak, than a word. Now accompanying that emphasis, however, which is a tower of strength in the Soviet and communist faith is an indifference to, you might say, almost an opposition to, and in the communist party it is really an opposition to, the civil libertarian tradition that you and I associate with Western culture. I think that's a great misfortune. I think it may become a great tragedy. I think that I saw with my own eyes in Prague this summer some evidences of the felt tragedy that came as a consequence of this particular attitude on civil liberties. I'm entirely with you regarding the sobriety, the gravity of that denial of civil liberties on that scale by a faith so dynamic and so enriched with other elements of strength as it is. Therefore, I have thought, I hope as much as you have, regarding what an American does about that. Anything that you or I say, of course, is a matter of no consequence to a Russian audience because we aren't talking to Russian audiences. A denunciation of Russia by me or somebody else on this platform would be rather a silly kind of indulgence except as it illuminated the subject because we don't reach them. We can talk to ourselves about ourselves, but I have thought as you must have thought, what we do under these circumstances with civil liberties weakening in many parts of the world under the stress of an extremely positive program that has a number of other freedoms as part of its great arsenal. What do we do? Now, friends of mine, let me, well, I won't put it there, but I have friends, for example, in the labor movement and in political life and so on whose conception is that, well, almost that we'll have to blow their heads off in the interest of getting them to respect civil liberties. I don't believe that will get them to respect civil liberties. All that it will do is to get us to disrespect civil liberties. It will not enhance the civil liberties of the Russians if the Cold War becomes more intense and certainly if it becomes a hot war. What it will do is to submerge your and my civil liberties. That seems to me, therefore, a very, very dubious contribution some people would make to the cause of civil liberties. Their purposes are earnest and decent, but their conception of the techniques and the consequences seem to me to be profoundly wrong. Therefore, I would hope this, that we should use every ounce of imagination and creative ability and intelligence that we can muster to the end of preserving and such little communication channels as we have with those with whom we are in such a conflict and that we use every effort to enlarge those channels of communication, not as we did the other day on insisting on getting a debater's victory over the Security Council membership of Yugoslavia rather than Czechoslovakia. That was very injurious to civil liberties, I think, in the world, actually. But at any rate, that we should preserve and we should open steadily as we can the channels of communication between those who think themselves in disagreement so profound that they might have to war about it. And that we strive with all our might and maim to discover things that we can cooperate on within the United Nations. How deplorable, I think, that we did not take the great idea of the Marshalls' speech at Harvard of 1947 and propose it within the United Nations as a collective effort on behalf of the human race, instead of which it's become now corrupted into a State Department instrument in the Cold War. There are many other evidences or indications of the degree to which we could, if we had tried, vitalize the United Nations as a collective undertaking and in the process, well, in the process, what? In the process, exchange a mutual understanding between Russians and satellites and Americans and satellites, respecting their purposes, unique or common, respecting their attitudes toward values that are fundamental, respecting their short and their long-run intentions. if you and I believe that an accord is possible, it will have to be done in that way. It cannot be done through threat or coercion or fulmination and vituperation or certainly by war. Now, in that process, my guess is that, well, we'd be able to teach over time, but it will take time, so help us, the values of civil liberties to those who know them not. and those, on the other hand, will probably be able to teach us some lessons that we need to learn, too. To the common government of all concerned. Thank you.