Good evening, neighbors. This is the fifth time that we have asked you to permit us to come into your home. This is the fifth time that we have asked you to permit us to come into your home. We're taking, as you know, this talk to you from City Hall. During the five or four previous programs, we have tried to get you close to our thinking when we established policy and in the carrying out of those policies in the various departments. Now, we took three for hospitals. The reason we took three for hospitals is because this is a subject and a department that calls for the very best that we have to give. What would you think when I told you that in our city of eight million, there are hundreds and hundreds of thousands of needy sick that depend entirely on our municipal hospitals for care? Now that, of course, does not include the excellent work that's done by the volunteer hospitals. We're not discussing the volunteer hospitals tonight. We're talking about our own municipal hospital plan. Now, as we tried to develop the work that we have been doing in our municipal plan in the last two, we have come by natural easy steps to the final talk that you will hear tonight. After this, there will be no more on hospitals for a long time. We have other departments to go into, other subjects to discuss in which you are equally interested. But don't get the idea for a minute that in three half-hour talks we have covered the entire subject of hospitals. We have not. We have merely touched at the high points. Now, tonight, for example, we have worked up the program to the establishment of a hospital board. Dr. Kogel will tell you about this hospital board. Dr. Kogel will tell you how to start it. Although I think, Dr. Bernicke, you were then the commissioner of hospitals, weren't you, when we first began to reorganize the municipal plant? Yes, sir. I was. Would you tell us about the beginnings of this, please, Doctor? Well, I had to remind you again, because I'm sure that you'll never forget it, but I really handed you a terrific package about the third day after you assumed office in a report on what the conditions of the hospitals were at that time. You'll probably remember that after that report, we made an inspection trip, after which you immediately made available to us a million dollars, a million dollars for a five-year period for the renovation, the repair of the plant, the most urgent repair of the plant. Well, painting and repair, as I recall. Yeah, and the replacement of the most urgent equipment. Then, I think it was August of that first year, you chartered the bus and took the entire board investment over to Welfare Island. Oh, yeah. That's right. That was in 47, I think. 47? Yeah. Well, before that, you did make available to us in the next capital budget, 42 million dollars. That was for construction. That was for construction. Our original long-term program was three, amounted to three, 345 million dollars. No. Then, after much study and after more study, we finally got it down to an irreducible minimum of 192 million dollars. No. 42 million dollars was made available in 46. That was out of the city's capital funds. That was out of the city's capital funds. That was out of the city's capital funds. That was for the projects that are now under construction and nearly completion, nearly completion. Then, another 150 million dollars was needed for which you applied then to the legislature. No. You saw it safely through two legislatures. It was signed by the governor and is now issued. And passed by the people of the last election. That's right. Now, we have that 150 million dollars and I did speak once on, I think the first, Dr. Kovul, we did speak to the people about the construction program, didn't we? Yes, sir. That included not only the 42 million dollars, but the 150 million dollars was made available to us by the people. Yes, sir. I think we've covered that pretty well. Now, they came, of course, that day when we had the 150 million dollars and we were most anxious that not a penny of it would go the wrong way. We wanted to be absolutely certain that when we spent or used up that 150 million dollars, we had set the hospital program in a fine position to meet the needs of maybe the next 25 or 50 years. That was not easy, too. Now, Dr. Kovul, would you take it up from there? Now, we went at that in a certain way. Would you mind telling the people how we did that? I believe, General, we discussed that also at a previous program. We appointed, you appointed a committee of distinguished citizens to go over our program, to examine it very carefully and to determine the priorities, the things that we needed first and the things that could wait for a little while. Now, that group reported to you and it's on the basis of that that our construction program is now being worked. Yeah. Now, in addition to that, you felt a strong need for some group that would make it possible to assure the continuation of the various programs that are being developed by the department. You wanted to make absolutely certain that no matter who was mayor or who was commissioner of hospitals, that the things that had been started would be continued, would be followed through. And improved on, of course. And improved on. Yeah. So, with your help, you got the council to pass this law, which was passed only about a week ago, which was signed approximately a week ago, creating the Board of Hospitals. Yes. And, uh, it's the, uh, this group here that we have tonight that will make up this Board of Hospitals. We've, uh, made a long and arduous search to find distinguished leaders and community and business affairs, people that are completely trustworthy in whose hands the people of the city of New York could leave the problem of the hospitalization of the indigent sick in the city. Well, Dr. Kogel, uh, that's one of the things that I'm sure the people listening in, looking in, uh, will be very pleased with and very proud of. And this would be a good time at this first meeting of that hospital board for you to personally present each member to the people. I'd very much like to do that. Would you do it now so that we could... We'll start with the young lady sitting next to you. Uh, she is Mrs. Albert Lasker. She's the vice president and the secretary of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation. Uh, this foundation acknowledges outstanding contributions to scientific work, uh, by giving awards. They assist young people who are doing outstanding work. Uh, Mrs. Lasker has many, many honors and we'd spend a good deal of time talking about them. She's interested in mental disease and heart disease. She's a trustee of the Menninger Foundation in Kansas, uh, of the Institute of Psychoanalysis in Chicago. She's on the board of directors of the National Committee on Mental Hygiene. She's on the board of the American Cancer Society at the Memorial Hospital and so on and so forth. Well, didn't Mr. and Mrs. Lasker honor Bellevue Hospital at the United States Public Health meeting last year? Well, at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, they give a Lasker Award. Yes, I was there. Uh, in fact, three of our people at Bellevue Hospital were honored, uh, at the last meeting of the association. Dr. Andrey Kurnan, uh, was, uh, given a Lasker Award for the remarkable work he did in the development of catheterization of the heart. Uh, something which now is very important, uh, diagnostically, it makes it possible to make a definite determination, uh, of certain congenital lesions. And now that they can be operated on, and that's a wonderful thing that he did. And then, uh, Dr. William S. Tillett and Dr. Christensen did some very splendid work on an enzyme which digests proteins. And for that, they also got the Lasker Award. And I recall very well you giving them that award, Mrs. Lasker. I want to mention that Dr. Baer was chairman of the, of the jury on the award. Well, I think Dr. Baer did a wonderful job in selecting those people. Now, Dr. And then I, I... Berniker is no stranger to the hospitals, is he? No, not at all. Dr. Berniker was my teacher. He taught me everything I know about hospital administration. I, I have followed Dr. Berniker. Uh, I think I had, I took his job. Uh, you remember you started out as physician in charge of drug addiction. And I was the physician in charge of drug addiction, and so on and so forth. And you have, then you have Mr. Winthrop Rockefeller. That's right. Mr. Winthrop Rockefeller, I think, uh, is well known through his, not only through his own work, but through the work of his distinguished father and his great, great, and his great grandfather. I shouldn't put too many greats in there. But Dr. Winthrop Rockefeller should be known, uh, also because of the fact that he's chairman of the board of tracts, and he's the trustees of the New York University Bellevue Medical Center. He's also director of the Public Health Research Institute. It might be of interest, General, to know that, uh, Mr. Rockefeller entered, uh, the service in the last war as a private, and came out as a lieutenant colonel, and he was wounded at Okinawa. That's right. That's right. Now, uh, sitting next to Mr. Rockefeller is a real dear friend of mine, Dr. Stanhope Bain Jones. Dr. Bain Jones, uh, was, uh, formerly the dean of the Yale Medical College. But I know him, uh, more for the fact that he was a brigadier general in the army, down in Washington, in charge of preventive medicine. When you consider the splendid record that was made by our troops in preventive medicine, we owe a great deal of it to Dr. Bain Jones. Dr. Bain Jones is now president of the Joint Administrative Board of the New York Hospital and Cornell Medical Center. Then, sitting next to me is, uh, is Mr. David Hyman. Uh, Mr. Hyman is, uh, best known, perhaps, as president of the New York Foundation, the Philanthropic, uh, Foundation. He's chairman of the board of directors of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York. He's president of the Public Health Research Institute of the City of New York. He's a member of the Board of Health, and he has many, many honors. That's right. Uh, and sitting next to him, I believe everybody knows, Dr. George Baer. Dr. George Baer is probably, uh, among the first of the physicians in the United States. He's been highly honored wherever he's going, and he certainly deserves his honors. He was chief, uh, he probably still is, chief of the first medical service and director of clinical research at the Mount Sinai Hospital. He's clinical professor of medicine, PNS. He's formerly president of the New York Academy of Medicine. He was known very well by every physician during the last war because he was chief medical officer of the United States Office of Civilian Defense. And now he's the president and the medical director of the Health Insurance Plan of the City of New York. Sitting next to Dr. Baer, we have Mr. John A. Coleman. We really should call him Dr. Coleman because he has the degree of Doctor of Science from one university, and he has another degree of Doctor of Business Administration from another. He was formerly, uh, the, uh, president of the board of the New York Stock Exchange and is now a governor of the New York Stock Exchange. And he's very much interested in hospitals. He's on the board of trustees of Catholic Charities. He's on the board of directors of the Greater New York Fund. Now, uh, those aren't all the members, General. Yes, you have three more. We have three more who were very anxious to make it today, but they couldn't. Uh, I think our audience met Dr. Thomas M. Rivers last time. Two weeks ago. Uh, he's a member of, uh, this board. And Mr. Alfred P. Sloan is a member of the board. He's the chairman of the board of General Motors, and he's also chairman of the board of trustees of the Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. And then, I believe everybody knows Dr. Willard C. Rappoli, who's a former commissioner of hospitals. But I imagine he's best known for the fact that he's dean of, uh, PNS, and he's also the vice president in charge of medical affairs for Columbia University. So you see, General, we have really a distinguished group of citizens. Well, I congratulate you, Dr. Cole, on being able to assemble such a distinguished group for this work. And to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Lasker and gentlemen, I can't tell you how grateful I am to each and every one of you for offering to serve in a work that, to me, means a gift of help to hundreds of thousands of people who are reaching out their hands to our hospitals to take care of them. What you do for them, they perhaps will never be able to thank you individually. What you set up today in the nature of a tradition that will go down into the future where the unborn people will have advantage of it, you cannot be personally thanked for that. But on behalf of all of them, in my humble way, I'm grateful to each one of you for serving on this hospital board. Now, if you'll be good enough to arise, I'll administer the oath collectively. Would you raise your right hand, please? Do you and each of you solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Member of the Board of Hospitals, of the Department of Hospitals, of the City of New York, according to the best of your ability? Thank you very much. Now, Dr. Coglu, in the limited time that we have, do you think we could start out by asking Mr. John Coleman what he thinks of the idea of the further development of the city hospitals in regard to its relationship to the volunteer hospitals? Will it affect it in one way or the other, John, do you think? General, my humble opinion that this board that's been created by the new law under your direction will help in a great measure the great voluntary hospital system which this city cannot get along without. That's right. It's a very important adjunct. I would say that this hospital board is very fortunate in having three of the leading men active in hospital administration in this city and our three great medical colleges, three of our great medical colleges active on this board. And I believe that the development of the program will ease some of the burdens of the voluntary hospitals which we are so well acquainted with because of the income problems. And I look forward to serving on this board and to work with these distinguished gentlemen and Mrs. Lasker to aid this community in every way possible. Thank you, Mr. John Coleman. Now, I think we could take up as quickly as we can. Dr. Cogler, you can help us a lot on this. A short discussion with respect to three medical subjects. Tuberculosis, heart disease, and cancer. Those are very important. Now, those three, and we just have about the time. I'm looking at that clock over there. We've just got about the time for that. And not to go in very deeply into it. The points that I think the people would like to hear are these. What is our municipal plant doing in each one of these three fields? Is it doing a good job? What better job can it do? How will this board approach an improved job by our municipal hospitals in cancer, tuberculosis, and heart disease? I suppose you start off with that. I think I can start by saying I feel we're starting with tuberculosis. I'd say I certainly think that we're doing a good job. Our people have certainly taken advantage of every advance in tuberculosis. We're hospitalizing at least a thousand people more this year than we did a year ago. But I'd like to ask Dr. Bain Jones what he thinks about the future and about the job we're doing. Dr. Bain Jones is an authority on public health. Dr. Bain Jones, Commissioner Kogel, I got interested in tuberculosis in New York City when I came here and worked a while with the committees dealing with Professor Ginsburg and the famous report, the pattern of hospital care, and also through a committee on public health at the New York County Medical Society and also because the New York Hospital had tuberculosis ward. Dr. Bain Jones, Commissioner, I was amazed to learn of the extent of the problem and the big burden on the city hospital system. It was soon shown very clearly in these estimates that while I believe pretty nearly a quarter of your people in hospitals in your census are patients with tuberculosis, that you have say 5,000 people a day sick in the hospitals of New York City, municipal hospitals suffering from tuberculosis, you really need about 9,000 beds. There's a tremendous problem there. In addition, we know that there are many people in the city that would be much better off if they were properly taken care of in hospitals. And it's particularly interesting because tuberculosis has two sides to it. One, the essential and humane and necessary care of the sick person, and the other, the care of a tuberculosis patient so that the community is protected and the infection is not spread. And the family. And the family. And the family. Thank you, Professor. When a hospital can do, I would say, a God-given service by providing both for the conscientious care of the sick using the best means you have in addition, as I say, to remove these sources of infection from the community. Now, in the general survey that I know before I had the honor and privilege of being appointed by you on this board, I may say that everyone has thought that the program of tuberculosis care in the hospital system here is sound and long-range and has very intelligent thoughts. And then Dr. Kogel would probably want to say a few more things about what he's done, because we all are familiar with the crowding and troubles you've had at Bellevue. We know of relief, and there must be other things that are coming on about which we know. I think Dr. Ginsburg, who wrote the report for the state, you know, he made a survey for the governor about the hospitalization problem in the entire state of New York. You know, that's a Republican administration. And still they patted us. You're not allowed to bring that subject up at a hospital meeting. And they still patted the department on the back for its program for tuberculosis. You see, we're building a lot of beds, but we're building them, I think, intelligently and with some flexibility. We know that chronic disease is the big problem for the future. So, for instance, we're building a 1,500-bed hospital on Welfare Island, which was intended to have 1,000 chronic disease beds and 500 tuberculosis beds. But initially, we're going to fill all 1,500 beds with tuberculosis, because we hope by the time we need all the chronic disease beds, tuberculosis will no longer be a problem. And we're also building our tuberculosis hospitals on the grounds of general hospitals, so that later when we hope some developments, some discoveries are made, some antibiotic is discovered, which will really destroy the tubercle bacillus, that we won't be stuck with a hospital structure, but that may become the chronic disease unit of a general hospital. So we've built with that idea in mind. Will we be able to open up that new 572-bed hospital in Kings County in Brooklyn? That 570-bed hospital on the grounds of Kings County should be opened this fall, the latter part of this fall. And, you know, we just opened the Neponset Beach Hospital. We got that back, yeah. 300 beds. 300 beds. Yeah. When the Burdeskola Memorial Hospital is opened up next spring, it will be able to take 500-bed patients who are now on Farm Colony and utilize the space vacated by them for tuberculosis. When the James Ewing Hospital is opened this month, we will take the 225 cancer patients from the New York City Cancer Institute and fill that hospital with tuberculosis patients. We've, just so far this year, six months, we have gained over 600 tuberculosis beds. Well, in any event, Mrs. Laskin and gentlemen, what you'll have to deal with is just a subject like that, tuberculosis. There's the problem. There are the people. There's the need. Now, what are we going to do about it? The study that you'll make, the policies that you set up, enforced and carried out by the Department of Hospitals, is the answer. So we begin tonight with that portion of it, and after your studies, then we'll take it up and see what help can be brought to the sick. Now let's take, let's take cancer. Well, you know, General, we're opening two cancer hospitals this month. Yes. We're opening the Francis Delafield Hospital, which is up at 164th Street in association with Columbia University, and the James Ewing Hospital, which is right next part and parcel of the Sloan Kettering Institute and the Memorial Hospital. That will give us 600 new beds. 600 additional beds for cancer. For cancer. Under the finest possible auspices, because they're right where the best research is being done on cancer, where your best men are concentrated. Can you imagine that it has taken us almost four years to complete that program? It's been a difficult one, but thank God we're about to do it now. Now we have about five minutes or four minutes left for heart. Can we have heart disease program discussed? I can't think of anybody better to talk about heart disease than George Baer. He's one of the country's leading experts on diseases of the heart. Dr. Baer, can we hear from you, sir? Mayor, I have in mind some of the great accomplishments in the Department of Hospital, particularly at Bellevue Hospital in the last decade. Perhaps one of the greatest was the establishment at Bellevue Hospital by the late Dr. John Wyckoff of a model cardiac clinic, which was an example to all of the voluntary as well as municipal hospitals of this city and of this country. It set the standard in the proper care of heart disease in ambulatory patients and prevented countless numbers from requiring hospitalization. And those that were hospitalized and were discharged to the cardiac clinic of Bellevue Hospital were kept well and out of hospitals. It is things of that sort that can be translated increasingly into the future program of the Department of Hospitals. Well, now, Dr. Baer, you've had many years of experience in this, haven't you? Many. Many years. And, and, uh, had a distinguished record. Uh, do you think that, uh, we can tell the public that more and greater discoveries are sure to be around the corner as we keep working daily? You doctors, you research people, and we from the civilian life helping where we can. Don't you think that there is still great fields of hope for sick people? There are tremendous opportunities, particularly in the field of the cardiovascular diseases, the heart diseases. And in that particular field, our municipal hospitals in this city have made outstanding contributions, as you will recall, was made by Dr. Andre Curnan and his colleagues at Bellevue. Those are the boys that received the last reward last year? He received the last reward. Now, for the half a minute we have to go. Mrs. Lasker, will you please tell us something about what you think of the hospital board and the problem that it has to approach? General, I feel that we have to, uh, we have a great challenge. I feel that we have thousands of people that are in need of, of, uh, more and more solutions to their illnesses. I feel that, that the hospitals must do more and more about research, especially in the field of, of, uh, heart diseases. Uh, one out of every two people that die this year in the city will die of a cardiovascular disease. And I feel it's the duty of the city to see that more is done in the field of research, uh, in heart disease especially. And you think that this board should take that up almost at once, don't you? Yes, I, I do. You, you, you're really enthusiastic about that one, aren't you? I certainly am. Well, you've done a great deal of work. God bless you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the finish of our show for tonight. Next week or the week after we'll take up another subject. We'll tell you about it before. I know that you join with me in thanking Mrs. Lasker and these distinguished gentlemen who have undertaken the responsibilities of giving aid to our needy sick. I hope you'll never need them. But if you do, thank God you have them. Good night. God bless you.