Phil Wh renting 0 like If you prefer to cover here, please briefwave, please pay. Forbidden, under Arte is the same Hermes as a here I am. you then on the back. The same thing was before the other period. So we'll turn over the next step Byouke. On left was going to make Strength War. As we were able to установ in direction. If you can set Bill understand the company we'll use Come here. Once again, your city station is in touch with Con Edison, and here is a spokesman to give us the latest on the power situation since the storm has abated. Go ahead, sir. At this time, we're able to report partial restoration of service. In the Bronx, you'll remember, we had an estimated 47,000 customers without electricity. 8,000 of those customers have been restored this morning, and leaving 29,000 still without service. Would you care to say, sir, just when service will be restored to that borough completely, or have you no definite idea? Well, we have announced earlier this morning that we expect to have service restored to practically all our customers by tonight. It's impossible to be more specific than that at this time. In the borough of Brooklyn, where we had 260,000 customers without service, we have restored electricity to nearly half of those, leaving 132,000 still without service at 10 o'clock this morning. In the borough of Queens, where 100,000 customers were affected by company estimates, there are still 71,000 without service at 10 o'clock. Of course, we have emergency crews in the field and are mending every effort to restore service as promptly as possible. We had a message before from you concerning action to be taken by the people of the city of New York who are subscribers to Con Edison. Well, we would like to repeat that it would help us a great deal if customers would report their lack of service only once. Every time a report is made, a ticket is filled out, and it would increase our paperwork if customers called more than once. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to a report from Con Edison on the power situation in New York at the present time. We will keep you fully informed. Your city station WNYC operating on an assigned frequency of 830 kilocycles by authority of the Federal Communications Commission is now compelled to leave the air. The voice of New York City has been at your service, bringing you the finest in music, the latest news, and public service programs on the public service. We invite you to tune to WNYC FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM radio station. Your city station WNYC operating on an assigned frequency of 830 kilocycles by authority of the Federal Communications Commission is now compelled to leave the air. The voice of New York City has been at your service, bringing you the finest in music, the latest news, and public service programs of special interest. We invite you to tune to WNYC FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial for other fine programs. Your city station operates under the direct supervision of Mayor Vincent R. Impelletari, with Seymour N. Siegel as director. And so until 7 o'clock tomorrow morning, the voice of New York City bids you all good night. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. The floor is now in the wheelchair dedicated to our park city hall. And so É the house thatadora is yes. And now was ae g режим of the Jazz Fame hockey state of New York City, which is entirelypool. Theer Iggy Hall stands in his true state of New York City. We appear to be in the jakniцы thousands at ele, and so on the street of New York City. We have to بال объ alarm warning, because the randomly unct gull Whole possible transports to a Cal務 sequence was indeed committed to that new measure from all kinds학교 opponents. All right. We'll be right back. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .