Commissioner Hilliard, reverend and distinguished guest, neighbors, I never thought I'd hear such praise from any Republican as I just heard from Commissioner Hilliard. I have first to inform you and to give an official greeting to the acting mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico, Ms. Rincolm, who is here on the platform. I hope that she'll have a very pleasant stay with us. I hope she'll enjoy New York at least half as much as I enjoyed my visit San Juan a year ago. I'm also grateful to Mr. Miller and this delightful choral group of the Department of Welfare. This has been a brand new surprise to me. And ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think for a minute that you were that good. You all really love it, no question about it. Now I'll show you how the cooperation of the city departments go. The sanitation band that we all love had applauded that compliment. Now that's as nice as we could have it. I had a, one of those, uh, speeches prepared to read to you at the opening of the, of this sentence. I'm not going to do that at all. Never can tell what these Republicans are up to. They don't let me talk. I know that the Department of Welfare has had a lot of trouble over a long period of time. Uh, I know that. We searched as far as we could for the best man in the country to take it and try and get it into shape without hurting anyone and try and make it more efficient so that the people that ought to be served would have it. And we finally were lucky enough to get out in Illinois, Ray Hilliard. And I want to tell you now, he's a Republican, but he's a great commissioner of welfare. And we're very happy to have Commissioner Hayes. Now, we also, I, when I was, uh, coming in here, Mrs. Rook Whaley was speaking. Rook's doing a beautiful job down there. But Rook, you had great competition. I had a lovely little girl, two years old, who brought all the kids down to see me while I was waiting. And I told the little lady's mother that my only regret is that she wasn't 21 in time for November, because I know I'm going to lose that one. And I, uh, also want to tell you that, uh, with Miss Edith Alexander, uh, uh, on the job, especially detailed farm welfare to the Committee of Unity, where she's now the director, will be. There, you see, we're trying to get, step by step, to a point where in every corner of the city, within the outlines of it, that wherever we find something that ought to be attacked and improved, that we'll do it. Now, I'd be less than frank to say that we have completed that job. We've just made a pretty good start. There's a lot more to be done. It will be done. And to talk about a welfare center, and to spend the time talking to you about the building, is not my purpose at all. The fact that that will be here, the fact that we had problems of relocating tenants to find a spot without putting people out, the fact that we had to wait for this and wait for that, these are the things that confront me and the Board of Estimate, and I want to say to Hugo Rogers that he never once forgot this area. He pressed it all the way through. And now we're going to have this one center. We're going to have others. But that isn't the point I want to talk to you about at all. Welfare is something that you have to do when there's a breakdown somewhere, and people need public assistance. Now, it shouldn't be an objective of everybody to be dependent upon public assistance. But it is for the persons like us in government to understand that no matter how good a person is, no matter how well-meaning they are, no matter how energetic, there comes a time when circumstances beyond their control makes the decision either to apply for help to the welfare department or to die in the ditch. And children, we don't want anyone to do that. There's no need for it. We want to be able, with an efficient organization, to step in at the time when the individual of his family or her family need that bit of help to lead them over the rough going, and as soon as possible to rehabilitate them and give them the dignity that only self-supporting people can have. That's the general picture. Well, if you look at the larger picture, what are these things that people expect government to take an interest in? You don't expect them to New York City to go out like the Romans and say, hey, you're going to have bread and baths and practicals and you don't have to do a thing, you don't have to work for a living. That, of course, isn't the idea. The idea is simply to step in where circumstances has made it the only way and you have to go in and do a job, and we do it not as any gift, not to depress the person that's helped, not to rob them of the human dignity to which they were born or which God gave them. Of course not. Just to be helpful and adequately helpful, get them back on their feet. Now, there have been questions. Will you let this train go by before I see you? That one came from Illinois, Ray. You might like, you must have been reading that, or you've heard it perhaps, that in the last three and a half years, we neglected this part of the city. Generally. I'm not talking particularly now about welfare. I'm talking about things in general, but we neglected this part of the city. Well, maybe this is a good time to tell you exactly what we did in this part of the city. You may not have been in contact with it. This might be a good time to tell you what we hope to accomplish in the next four years. Take housing. You know, I have a list here that I want to read to you on housing that have been constructed or are under construction in this neighborhood. You take 1,310 new apartments. You take the William Lincoln. 1,286. Riverton was completed. 1,232. Colonial Park. 984. Dyckman. 1,167. Lexington. 448. Now, that in three and a half years will either complete it or are under construction and you know what the cost was. $71,800,000. I'll take a look at what we have programmed for this area. And when we say programmed, we have not only programmed but arranged for the financing. Stephen Foster. 1,337 apartments. Now, the St. Nicholas. In a very short time, we'll make a start on that. Uh, 879. Uh, Crawley. 1,100. Jefferson Park. 900. East Harlem and Tribal. 1,650. Morningside. 1,650. Carver. 1,600. Lexington. 1,200. That's not all. East River. The extension. 1,350. And a program of slum clearance under Title I of the National Housing Act, 1949, between West 132nd Street and West 135th, 5th to 7th Avenue. A total of $2,110,000. Welfare centers, well, we talked about one, and that will run into $1,718,000. We're adding another to the East Harlem welfare at 108th Street, 1st and 2nd Avenue, for $164,000. That's a reconditioning of all PS 172. That's not all. That's not all. Playgrounds in this area between January 1st, 1946, and September passed. You've got a total of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 playgrounds at a cost of $580,000. You've got proposals now before the Planning Commission, before the Board of Estimates, and will be decided before December the 4th, for a recreational facility is brand new and reconstructed to cost $9,522,800. If you are dizzy listening to those figures, I don't blame you. If you had to get the money up for it and plant it as we've had, you would be dizzy because it really does take an awful lot of planning, a lot of things. To consider, you have a whole city to plan for. You have crowds of people moving into new sections. For them, you have to get the money for sewerage so that they can have houses. You've got to build new schools. You've got to build all of that to make it possible for the families to live.