The worry is a healthy sign. As long as it remains the calm, thoughtful worry that gets things done. If a day ever dawns when we find ourselves not worrying at all, then we really have something to worry about. These words of New York City's Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander introduced the 19th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now here's Bill Leonard. This week we're going to discuss progress in civil defense, and we'll have the answers to some of your questions on the subject. And as is our custom, the program will be in two parts. First, Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, Acting Chairman and Director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission, will discuss progress on a statewide basis. And then individual stations will be given a chance to discuss the subject with particular emphasis on their local communities. Colonel Wilkinson, the State Civil Defense Commission, is almost a year old now. How do the results achieved in this time stack up against the expectations of a year ago? When we started in business ten months ago, we had no fixed schedule for our accomplishments. The commission has been operating on a timetable which foresees the possibility of an enemy attack tomorrow, and calls for a maximum effort today to increase our ability to stand up to such an attack. Well, how do we stand today, Colonel? Today, every community in the state has an active civil defense organization. The state commission has provided the basic information and instructions, as well as outlined plans to be followed by the local offices of civil defense. Some communities have done an outstanding job in their local preparations. Others, because of the lack of competent, full-time leaders, or the unwillingness of local governments to provide the minimum funds needed, are sadly behind schedule. The best answer to your question is that today we can react to enemy attack with a speed and relative efficiency which would have been quite impossible a year ago. We are proud of what has been done, but we would not claim for a moment that enough has been done. We have a long way to go before the size and effectiveness of our civil defense forces can give us a reasonable hope of meeting and overcoming the devastating effects of atomic attack, until the active support of all our people gives us adequate civil defense strength. Our national existence is in constant danger. Colonel Wilkinson, we've received many letters asking if we could give a specific date when the state civil defense commission will feel it's completely prepared for a possible atom bomb attack. Well, can you give us that date? There's no such thing as complete preparedness, Mr. Leonard. Every civil defense director must continually refine, improve, and expand his plans to take account of new technical knowledge and new policy decisions. Above all, he must everlastingly seek to improve the capabilities of his civil defense volunteers by continuous, realistic training. Our goal must be the best possible organization and use of our existing facilities and part-time volunteers. Well, another question that's asked frequently is whether this tremendous organization of civil defense units will be used for all types of major disasters. No. The civil defense organization is to deal with enemy attack. Regular emergency services will continue to be responsible in times of flood, fire, or other natural disasters. Naturally, many civil defense volunteers will lend a hand, but they will not be officially mobilized in units. Well, we talk and worry most about atomic attack, of course, but what progress has the state civil defense commission made in preparing for attacks by other weapons? The four main types of weapons we may possibly expect to be employed against the United States are atomic bombs, biological warfare agents, chemical agents such as poisonous gases, and, of course, sabotage. Biological attack can only be handled effectively by the established health services. There's little the public can do about it beforehand. The medical services and laboratories in this state are taking their responsibility most seriously and are working closely with the federal agencies and agencies of other states. Well, how about the other non-atomic weapons like chemical warfare and sabotage? Chemical attack must be continued over some period of time and over a large area if it is to have a major effect upon us. It is highly improbable that the Soviet Union would risk sacrificing any large numbers of a limited supply of long-range bombers in the large-scale attacks which enemy chemical warfare requires for real success. Furthermore, the enormous expenditures which would be required to give us full protection against such attacks are out of all proportion to the size of the danger. As for prevention of sabotage, that involves dozens of public agencies, the participation of public utilities, industries, and their workers. The civil defense emergency police forces are well integrated in this work, but the basic responsibility for anti-sabotage preparations rests with the FBI. Colonel Wilkinson, you've told us what's been accomplished in the ten months that the State Commission has been in existence. Now, let me ask this question. What do you consider the greatest lack in the civil defense program for New York State? The greatest lack is the intelligent, enthusiastic participation of the bravest, best-informed, most determined people of the world, the citizens of our country, in a common effort to preserve their country. To rise to the emergency is a fine national trait of ours. But in this atomic age, if we wait for the emergency to make us rise, our real chance of success is gone before we start. We need the people whose sons, husbands, brothers, and friends are fighting and dying in Korea to give their energy, their ingenuity, and their determination to provide our state and our country with the protection at home which our gallant young men are giving it on foreign battlefields. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you who are listening to this broadcast, you know what the danger is. You know how we must meet it. You know that failure to meet it is to gamble with your lives, with the continued existence of your country. Thank you, Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, acting chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And at this time, I want to remind our listeners that they can send their questions to this program, Plan for Survival, at Post Office Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. That's Post Office Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. Eight million people in New York City live in fear of the most deadly attack in history. Eight million of us depend on the Office of Civil Defense in New York City and its director, Arthur Wallander, to organize our protection in case of attack that could destroy our homes and our families. What's the progress of that defense, Mr. Wallander? Our progress has been definitely satisfactory. We are working under enormous handicaps. We are handicapped by lack of funds. And we are handicapped by the false general feeling of security. But in less than a year, we have created a civil defense organization ready to mobilize at any moment. At any moment? Does that mean that the organization's complete? Oh, far from it, Mr. Leonard. We must grow every day. But no major city in the United States surpasses us in defense preparations. And phase one of our preparations is almost complete. What's phase one? It's the phase that you heard at noon last Saturday, Mr. Leonard. Oh, the siren, huh? That's right. The siren system. The entire network which would warn eight million people to take cover to take cover to save their lives. That siren system would be meaningless, of course, without the education program which has taught New Yorkers how to protect themselves. At a time when ignorance could cost thousands of lives, New Yorkers have learned to take cover, avoid windows, and follow all the other survival rules. We had a chance to judge the success of phase one on Saturday, Mr. Wallander. Yes, I'm glad to say that the test was a success. Out of the 526 sirens which are already installed, only 27 failed to operate. That does not mean, however, that we did not locate some dead spots. We have located them and expect to correct for these weaknesses. And now I suppose you can install sirens in those areas. That's right, Mr. Leonard. It was impossible to complete the installation of our sirens until tests reveal the location of those spots. We will keep testing their condition week after week, hoping that no siren will ever sound over New York except at Saturday noon. Those sirens certainly remind us that we do live in danger. And they remind us of our civil defense duty. That's phase two in civil defense, Mr. Leonard. The techs are the task of fighting fires, rescuing trapped victims, and caring for the wounded, the hungry, and the homeless. Hundreds of thousands of people would need help, help from trained and organized neighbors. We have detailed plans which cover everything from emergency docking facilities to registration blanks for homeless victims. We have training courses, and we have volunteers, not nearly as many as we need, of course. Well, how many volunteers do we have, Commissioner? Oh, we have more than a quarter of a million. A quarter of a million. And each volunteer provides his own family with some degree of informal training, I suppose. Uh, that's right, Mr. Leonard. New York City raised 50% of all the civil defense volunteers in the United States. We have 25% of our quota. We still haven't nearly enough, though, and we call on all New Yorkers to help protect their homes and families. This is an age of scientific warfare, you know, and our defenders must be trained. Well, of course they must. But when they are trained, have you enough equipment for all of them? Certainly not. We haven't enough equipment because we haven't enough money. That is the fundamental obstacle to civil defense progress. Well, let's get down to dollars and cents or lack of it. How much money do you have? Uh, we asked for $98 million for strictly emergency needs. We got $3.5 million from the city and nothing from the state or federal governments. That's less than 50 cents to save the life of each New Yorker during the coming year. Well, in that case, Commissioner Wallander, what do we do about, well, let's say, equipment for all of the civil defense forces? In many cases, we do without. We don't have nearly enough medical supplies or firefighting equipment. Safety costs money. Wherever possible, though, we recruit equipment from private industry. The Public Works Emergency Division, for example, has surveyed and indexed 50,000 items which public utilities and private companies would put at our disposal in case of disaster. Those items would be for rescue work? Uh, yes, that's right, principally so. Those 50,000 items include trucks, trailers, cranes, steam shovels, all types of rescue equipment right down to shovel and crowbars. We have enlisted transportation equipment in the same way. Buses, trains, ferries, boats, trucks, taxis, and aircraft has been organized in case of emergency to operate as one giant transportation system, carrying supplies and personnel to the scene of disaster and evacuating the wounded. Dispatching points in the communication system are being organized right now. You spoke of communications, Arthur Wallander. How about the civil defense communication system as a whole? We are working on that. 25 of our 31 control and report centers are completed. They are the most centers you know of our communications. Air wardens will report damage to these centers and ask for emergency help. And the network that is carrying my voice right now is a very important part of our communications system. It's very close to our hearts, too. Mr. Wallander, I know that the entire radio industry has joined forces to form a network that would operate without wires in case of emergency. Now, we rely on this New York State Civil Defense radio network to calm and inform the public. The network is not only a great contributor to civil defense, it is an example to all of us of industry cooperation and sacrifice for all our mutual defense battle. You know, it's fellows like you, Mr. Leonard, and others of the industry who are doing a great job for us. If these sirens ever sound in earnest, the next news that most of us will hear about the fate of our city will come through the Civil Defense radio network. Well, may I say thank you on behalf of the radio industry, Arthur Wallander. And next week, our topic will be training in civil defense, and we'll answer more of your questions about that subject. Our speakers, Ralph Healy, Special Assistant to the Director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission and Colonel Robert Crummel, Aide to the Director, New York City Civil Defense Commission. Try to be with us, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the 19th in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll answer questions on training in civil defense you listeners have sent us. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. The only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Will you still join us on a Betrendy-南quist?