Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, how should we plan for community health? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will present analysis of the needs of community health agencies and the responsibilities of the community to these agencies. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Huntington B. Henry, President of the Board of St. Luke's Hospital, Chicago. Lawrence A. Kimpton, Chancellor of the University of Chicago. Edward L. Ryerson, Chairman of the Board of Inland Steel Company, and past President and one of the organizers of the Community Fund of Chicago. And Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, President of Northwestern University. Now as you know, gentlemen, our question has just been stated, how should we plan for community health? Many of the agencies concerned with community health, including the hospitals, depend upon philanthropy for much of their support. These health agencies must share the gifts of generous individuals, corporations, and foundations with social welfare agencies and educational institutions. The contributions of these philanthropically supported institutions to American life and culture are certainly enormous. And while we are primarily concerned here today with community health, the pattern of planning for community health is very closely related to the very real problem of supporting these other Elements and enterprises, which after all must look to the same sources for their continued support, their continued opportunity to serve the community and the nation. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Henry, what are the critical problems in planning for community health? Well, the main problems particularly as applying to hospitals are those which have to do with the growth of the communities and the vital needs of new equipment, nurses' education, interns' education, new buildings for larger quarters, and thirdly and last, the large high rates that we are charging. These must be reduced through some means or other. Are you saying in other words that the problem is essentially a budgetary problem, a financial problem to keep these institutions going? It is essentially a budgetary problem. And without help, you have to pass this on to the individuals who occupy your beds. Today, I'd like to inject a thought there in the problem that I think ought to be brought into this in your health field is the question of providing staff. And that's an educational problem, which these two gentlemen with us today have certainly a very big interest in. Well, Mr. McBurney's introduction gave us rather wide latitude. I think we'll go into other fields besides care of patients. Well, I very much hope so. Though I think, Dr. Miller, we have an interest in this hospital problem, too. That's for certain. Well, that's what I have in mind. The question of medical education is, of course, a tremendously important part of this whole health field. To what extent do the communities depend on private agencies for health facilities, Dr. Miller? Well, I have no figures on that, but I'm certain that it's a very high percentage in nearly all communities. I would guess about 90%, though this is strictly a guess. Well, I think you're very nearly right. Where do these agencies have to go for support, Kempton? Well, the primary source of support has always been generous individuals. And perhaps I should say in that regard that the federal government has just increased the allowance from 15 to 20%, in terms of which a person can give away 20% of his income before taxes and receive an exemption for that. How has inflation affected these institutions we're talking about? Well, it's had a very, very bad effect indeed. The cost of services, of personnel, of equipment have all gone up. And the result has been very serious deficits in almost every case. May I say also, and here I want to add these other things that Dr. Miller suggested a moment ago, this same kind of inflationary squeeze has hit the educational institutions very hard. We've had the same problem of an increase in cost of services and of equipment and resulting deficits. I'd like to point out too that about two-thirds of all of the institutions of private learning in the United States are endowed and supported by individuals. And about half the people who go to institutions of higher learning are educated in such institutions. Why, Ryerson, don't these private agencies turn to the government for support? Well, there are many good reasons why they don't do that. And just before we get into that, I'd like to pick up the thought here about the inflationary question. The inflationary squeeze that Kimpton's referred to certainly affects all philanthropic agencies, not only hospitals and health agencies and education, but all the whole welfare field. There are no exceptions. And also, you must remember that the inflationary problem affects the individual, and that goes back to the individual contributor, who have been in a large measure the principal support of all of these agencies. Therefore, quite naturally, we turn to the question of who else besides the individual can help in this critical period to maintain these agencies. And now we turn to corporations. Well, why not the government? Why not the government? All right. The answer to that is that these agencies represent perhaps more than anything else. What we have come to believe is typical of the American way of life, the freedom, the belief in free enterprise and individual independent thought, which is incorporated in the idea of our private educational institutions as well as our private social welfare institutions, that we must have that type of freedom in order to advance and make progress, and in order to base it upon what is the essential background for all such philanthropy, which is fundamentally our religious belief. So that it's a combination of religious belief with a belief in freedom, which is so characteristic of the American system of government, that is the thing that makes it essential that these agencies be continued under private support and not under government. I'd like to talk about it further, but I don't want to take too much time. I'd like to cite some illustrations perhaps as we get into it. Well, I'd like to say a special word here for the educational institutions, and I know Dr. Miller will agree with me. It seems to me that the essence of the private educational institution is its freedom and flexibility. The moment it comes under government bureaucratic control, it loses those things, and its very reason for being disappears. May I interrupt again to cite one illustration very much on my mind. The Red Cross, for instance, is a perfect illustration of the type of welfare agency that American people have developed to a wonderful degree. And one of the reasons for this is because of the tremendous number of volunteer workers in that organization. That is what has made it establish a great name for welfare and relief and emergency aid in this country, as well as in the fields of doing more operations. And it's that volunteer effort that is so essential and which can never be supplemented by government support and government employees. Well, since we can't and shouldn't turn to government for support, we must look to other sources. And the general source from which we find we should go to are the corporations of this country, who gain a decided benefit from the health of their communities. I'd like to cite one dramatic instance of the situation in the hospitals today and the reason I asked for reduced rates. We must accumulate contributions to reduce these rates because, as of the moment, the deficits of the hospitals are being supported by the sick patient in the hospital. And we feel that it is not fair to penalize a person for being sick, that this extra load in our deficit should be carried by the community at large. I'm sure, however, that again, looking at it from a broad standpoint, taking in all of our privately supported institutions, that you don't think that the individual should be relieved of his duty to support these institutions. Oh, definitely not. As a matter of fact, I think he'd do it whether you want to relieve him or not, because that's just part of the American way of doing things. Could I draw a special line under that? It does seem to me that we have always and we will always look to individuals, primarily for support of our philanthropic institutions. Isn't our problem that we need supplementary support at the present time? It is only supplementary support that we should ask for. I'd like to ask you men whether the government, the government support, if I may pursue that just a bit, compares favorably in the economy of operation with the private operation of these institutions. I would say no, definitely, because by the time you collect taxes, pass them through the various bureaus and back to the private agencies, the dollar is pretty well diluted for the use of that agency. And certainly the private institution is a much more economical one. I think Huntington Henry has some ideas on that too. Yes, let me cite one instance of government support. The government has for the past few years attempted seriously to pass laws creating a bureau to handle socialized medicine. They have announced that the first year would be $10 to $15 billion dollars and thereafter as the organization got underway, it would go from $25 to $40 billion. Now the taxes on $40 billion dollars are necessary to raise that amount, which would be passed on to individuals and corporations would be far greater than the amount we are asking as supplementary aid from corporations. And therefore, it is greatly to be believed at least that corporations and individuals can operate much more economically. I like Dr. Miller's phrase, dilution of the dollar, a minute ago. It seems to me it's getting thoroughly diluted because of this very problem. Of course, this larger program that you discussed just a minute ago that was proposed for the government, that contemplates, I take it, a wider distribution of medical care, doesn't it? A wider and less pointed distribution. Anybody can come in for almost anything under those circumstances, even as they have in England for wigs and eyeglasses and other appliances, which have nothing to do particularly with the health program. Well, if individual support is necessary but not sufficient, if we hesitate to ask, to turn to the government, where do we look for the necessary supplementation that we all now need in order to conduct these operations? How would you answer that, Ryerson? Well, I think that's a very logical question and very readily and easily answered. It's something that's been developing over the last 10, 15 years to a very great extent more than ever has before and quite naturally and properly so. But after all, corporations as such, whether they be in the form of corporations that are only partnerships or whether they be large corporations with a considerable number of stockholders, have come to be such an important part of our life in our respective communities and have a very definite relationship through their ownership, stockholders of partnership, with these problems so that we must expect those corporations, and it has transpired in these past 15 years, that they have taken a much greater interest in this problem and have come to be an important part of the support of maintaining these agencies. But do these corporations have the same kind of intimate community responsibilities that an individual has? Well, they're coming to have, and that's an interesting part of what's happening in this country. Yes, the corporations originally thought they were only interested in certain angles of it that had a direct and immediate relationship to their business problem. Some agencies, such as in the health field and some in the, oh, some of the, for instance, the railroad in the YMCA field had a very important relationship as one, and the Red Cross, of course, to its disaster relief, has had a very important relationship. But far and beyond that, corporations have come to realize, that is the intelligently controlled corporations, in my opinion, have come to realize that all these welfare and educational and health agencies in the community have an important bearing upon the life and success of the corporation. They must have, because after all, the corporation's going to have success in this community. It's got to have a good community in which to work and get its personnel employees. Isn't it true, Mr. Ryerson, that after all, the corporation being a collection of individuals called stockholders, isn't it true that these same stockholders are in large part the same generous individuals who now support the various charities? That's true. We certainly had an example of support from industry during this last year while we were celebrating our centennial. We needed some additional classroom space for what we call adult education, night school training of students. We went to industry in this community and told them of the large number, the thousands of individuals who were, their employees who were being educated at night in the various facilities we had. The response was most gratifying. They understood that that wasn't a tangible thing, but it was for the benefit of their employees, it was for the benefit of the community to offer this educational opportunity, and I certainly was gratified with the response. Could I speak a special word here for the educational institutions too? It seems to me that we are providing the trained personnel that's moving into industry and making it hum. Secondly, we're doing the basic research which is translated by industry into great technological improvements. So for those two reasons also, we're providing rather direct benefits in our educational institutions to corporations. Well, industry has certainly supported you in your research out there, haven't they? Indeed they have. They've been very generous to us. I'd like to comment on that too. I'm delighted to hear this conversation back and forth between you two heads of educational institutions. And I think you've got probably the best product to sell that anybody has around this community as far as privately-endowed institutions are concerned, because certainly in your educational institutions, we can show that they have a direct and intimate relationship to the corporate life. We must have scientists and better educated clerical and economists all the way through as part of our staff. And we're looking for the welfare. So that's relatively easy. But when it gets into some of these other things, like Henry's interested in the health field, well, they say, yes, that has a direct relationship to industry too. And then when you get into some of the other things that I've been interested in, even more remote in the welfare field, then what is industry going to say? Well, maybe I'll answer that one if you give me a chance. What are some of those things? That's a challenge. What are some of those things? Well, get into the cultural agencies, like we have in Chicago, the Art Institute and the museums, and our own orchestra. Can we convince industry that those are things that should be supported? I say yes, because if Chicago is going to be the kind of a city in the community that is going to attract business and grow and prosper, it must have cultural development as well as education, health, welfare, or any of the rest. I suppose that our listeners in New York and Los Angeles and New Orleans would feel precisely the same way about their communities. I think they're just as mightily interested as we are here in Chicago. Our problems here in Chicago are no different from any other instance. What does all of this have to do with the planning for community health? I'd like to put that question to you, Mr. Kempton. How are these educational institutions for which you speak related to this problem of community health? Well, very closely indeed. We operate, for example, a medical school at our institution, and we're training young doctors and young medical research men who will be of great direct benefit to the total community, which in turn, as Mr. Ryerson says, has a good impact on the corporation. When I think, for example, of our research work in cancer or the common cold or heart disease and success in this, what it would mean for the corporation, I can't help but believe that the corporation should make a contribution to this. Well, now, you men are saying that we have a great number of philanthropically supported institutions, including these very important health facilities, that are desperately in need of additional support. You're loath to turn to the government for that kind of support. Traditionally, you have relied upon the generosity of individuals. And now I take it you're looking to the corporations for additional support. Now, is this corporate giving, Mr. Ryerson, a new phenomenon? Well, it's a relatively new thing as far as being developed on any big scale is concerned, because there's been kind of a tradition in the past that the earnings of a corporation was all a proper claim on behalf of the stockholders. But I think we've reached a point where stockholders as well as board of directors have become educated to a realization that unless some money is spent by the corporation in the improvement of their communities and protection of all these agencies, that the stockholders are not going to participate in earnings in a satisfactory manner. And there have been laws passed which have a very direct bearing point, and one of them is the federal tax question. I would like to see in the relationship between labor and the corporation, in the labor relationship, I would like to see rates reduced to such an extent by the supplemental aid so that we could get the rates down to where the average insurance policy now carried by all employees of the large corporations particularly would be adequate to take care of their hospitalization. What is the legal status of corporate giving? You referred to the tax structure a minute ago. Well, the revenue tax bill at the moment provides for a 5% allowable, legitimate expense charge on the part of the corporation applied against their tax return for any contribution to a philanthropic, educational, charitable organization. And that isn't relatively new. I forget exactly when that was injected in the bill. I think it was back in 1933 or 1936. At a time when certain outstanding characters who were much interested in the welfare needs of the country, particularly Newton Baker, had a great deal to do with having Congress incorporate this in the Revenue Act. Mr. Ryerson, quite apart from the legal argument, the allowability of it under the law, isn't there also a moral argument that a corporation today is a citizen and it's obligated to be a good citizen, therefore it should participate by way of contribution to the good things of the community? Well, I think that's very interesting. I'm glad you brought it up because there was a very interesting report made recently by the Russell Sage Foundation on this whole subject. And among other things, they sent out a questionnaire and asking corporations who were making contributions as to why they were doing so. And exactly in accord with what you just said, Gimpton, is the fact that 42% of those people said they were doing it because of the duty to the community. That's a moral obligation that they accepted as a duty to the... Goes right back to the philosophy that you began with earlier in the... Well, is it legal, gentlemen, for these corporations represented as they are by countless stockholders to contribute stockholders' money? Yes, it is legal. Well, primarily the management of corporations should ask consent of their stockholders. This, however, should be easy to attain because, as I said before, the stockholders are virtually the same generous people who are now supporting these agencies. On the other hand, there are 26 states already who have passed legislation to the effect that management is not required to get stockholders' consent. That is to say it's permissive under the statutes of those states, and that's very important. And it's interesting to me to see what has happened as a result of that. There's been a very large growth in the contributions of corporations. And you might be interested, some of you, in the question of the percentage of how that's divided between different types of agencies. How would you answer that? Well, the tabulation most recently made for 1950 shows that the corporation gifts were divided so that 44% were given to what are known as welfare and chest agencies. 27% to the health field, which my friend Henry will appreciate is a very important part of it. And my other two colleagues here will be glad to know that 21% went to education. The rest was scattered. It's very hard to figure. Dr. Miller, can these nationwide corporations, and many of them are that, in good conscience give to relatively local community projects? Well, I see no reason why they shouldn't. There's ever a reason why they should, as a matter of fact. It's just a matter of distribution. They are responsible to the local communities, just as a local company is, and that all they have to do, as a matter of fact, is to work out some sort of a formula. They might even use a formula such as the number of employees and that, the percentage of their employees in that particular community. The argument that I've sometimes heard on the part of corporation executives, that if they give to some, they will need to give to all, does not really hold, it seems to me, on the very point that Mr. Henry mentions. If a good formula is worked out, then it seems to me a corporation can give to those worthy enterprises within the community that deserve and need support, and need not give to all. They can and they should, just as individuals have, all through our existence. There's no reason at all why they should be forced to give to everything. Oh, sure, they have pressures brought on them, but that's just a question of whether they've got courage and character enough to stand up and decide what is their field of interest and what they can best do. What you're saying is that a corporation should be a good citizen and act as a citizen in any community. Exactly. And we can certainly get good advice from corporations in our distribution of any funds that we, that they may contribute towards these various agencies. The thing that distresses me most, if I may say so, is that of the allowable 5%, only 7 tenths of 1% in the year 1948, which I think is the last statistic we have, was actually given by corporations to philanthropic enterprises. I think that's very interesting. Now this allowable 5% to which you refer, is the amount allowable under the... Under the federal law. Corporate income tax law. That's correct. For taxes. And we should understand that that does not mean that you're limited to 5%. You can give as much as you please, but 5% is allowable under the tax arrangement. Yes. It shouldn't, it shouldn't be construed as a tax dodge in any way. That's right. It's a provision, a device by the federal government for individuals and corporations to support these various institutions. Now you say they're giving 7 tenths of 1% now. 5% is allowable. How much should they give? Well, 3%, in my opinion, would cover all of the supplemental amounts we need at the present time. I think... On the other hand, there's taxes at 60%. Any corporation can give $1,000 away at a cost of only $400. I think my friend Larry Kimpton over there is trying to say 5%. I am indeed. If they're allowed to give away 5%, it seems to me that they have the community obligation to give away 5%. And there is the opportunity to make use of it, certainly. Indeed there is. Now are you as sanguine about this 5% as these other gentlemen? I'm not quite as sanguine as my friend Kimpton is in getting it immediately. But, I think that the opportunity to make use of it is there without a question. But it'll take a lot of education and the part of all of us interested in these agencies, with stockholders, directors, and everybody else, to bring it up to anything like the maximum. Is this corporate giving though likely to be a stable thing, Ryerson? Won't it fluctuate pretty seriously with corporate income? It's apt to. But we have a means of preventing that by the foundation process, which I think can be applied very advantageously. Wherein these corporations would establish philanthropic foundations. Yeah. And that would permit them to keep a fund available so that in poor times they could support agencies just as well as they could in good times. Now in brief conclusion gentlemen, I think the argument of this discussion can be summed up pretty well in these propositions. We've indicated the urgent need of hospitals and other community health agencies for additional support in order to carry on their work. This is equally true of educational... I'm sorry gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Should We Plan for Community Health? We want to thank our guests for today. Huntington B. Henry, Chairman of the Board, St. Luke's Hospital, Chicago. Lawrence A. Kimpton, Chancellor of the University of Chicago. J. Roscoe Miller, President of Northwestern University. And Edward L. Ryerson, Chairman of the Board, Inland Steel Company. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the role of women in community leadership. The discussion will be presented in collaboration with Delta Capogamma, the Women's National Professional Fraternity convening in Chicago. Our guests will be Berdella Ross of Minneapolis, Catherine Obey of Rockford, Ella Hannafault of Milwaukee, and Cecile Coombs of St. Louis. The role of women in community leadership assumes special importance in this election year. We hope you will be with us for this discussion. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. menu. 받ulos here at西 unsavos with Space Thought lavoro,條 for March 5th, we'velamine at about 1.8% on an international investment team who will speak with that are within the Quebec. We've modeled with Pompeo,ğı.