Robert Wise, Governor Lehman, Rabbi Miller, Mr. Warburg, fellow citizens and friends of United Jewish Peel, need I say to you that I am deeply moved by the message on this beautiful scroll and by the feeling of friendship and comradeship that unites us in our hopes for the new state of Israel. I shall be overlastingly grateful for the honor of this gift and for the sentiment of friendship that inspired it. Together, you and I, we will continue to work for the security of the new state. And I hope that together, you and I will see Israel welcomed as a member of the United Nations. That together, we will see it bring peace to the Middle East as a sanctuary for the troubled, the destitute and the downtrodden. Tomorrow morning, the guns and Israel will be silent with God's help. The provisional government has joined in an unconditional acceptance of the Security Council's plea for a truce. Let us pray that this ceasefire will grow into a lasting peace. Let us be strong in our realization that the prestige of the United Nations has been re-established by this agreement. Let us know that Israel as a full number can add strength to the United Nations. That as a full number, Israel can work effectively for peace, not only in the Middle East, but throughout the world. No one knows better than you, of the United Jewish field. What outrageous war can inflict! can inflict. No one knows better how essential to human dignity is an atmosphere of peace. As director of the War Refugee Board, which has been graciously mentioned this afternoon, I have seen the agents of the Jewish people bring a long forgotten touch of kind and gentle help to survivors of the death chambers. And I have heard also the murmured thanks of people who had nothing left in this whole world except a tiny flicker of light. As your mayor, I have proclaimed the month of June United Jewish Appeal Month. I have done so because I believe UJA can carry out the huge program it has undertaken, and that our fellow New Yorkers of all fates will support this humanitarian project. Ladies and gentlemen, in this project, you, you are the workers. Upon you rests the future of vocational training for the helpless. Upon you rests the future of more than a one hundred thousand orphans. Upon you lies the responsibility for the fertility of the farmlands of Israel. We, all of us, you, I, all of us, must urge Congress to approach the problem of the displaced persons speedily and with humanity. The United Jewish Appeal can help increasing numbers of homeless to find their way to the United States and Israel. It can serve as a financial bulwark to the Jewish community while providing the destitute of Europe with food and food. clothing and shelter. It can prepare European Jews to contribute to the reestablishment of European economy. It can increase the services designed to make better Americans of the many we hope will come to us. The United States sets the goal of 250 million dollars. Most of it to come from New York. This is the key point of your campaign. This is the time for you to set your determination to come from the United States of America selected by Ass mantra, tower president. Att si in the Uggreni Republicanians, la Australia theplants of the United States, and the United States. will be reached and surpassed. I'm confident that your appeal will be supported by the people of New York. Your work of physical and spiritual reconstruction will go on. I urge you to move ahead against all difficulties and misfortunes. Remember that you are working for human dignity and freedom. Remember that you are working for the cause of worldwide peace. Remember that you are working for spiritual understanding among all men. And in this noble work, may God bless you. I am told that a number of people have come here today, a very large number, to make their contributions today, the day that the mayor of New York inaugurates the Greater New York Appeal. What is