From the grand ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City, the National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the National Conference of Christians and Jews, presents an important address by the Honorable John Foster Dulles, former consultant to the Secretary of State. Both Mr. Dulles and Mr. Samuel D. Leidestorf are guests of honor of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and have just received awards for their outstanding contributions to the cause of brotherhood. Mr. Dulles, who has recently returned from Europe, will speak on the subject, Foreign Policy Needs. Now, Mr. Dulles. Mr. Reid, I can assure you that I am highly honored that the National Conference of Christians and Jews has felt me worthy to receive, with Mr. Leidestorf, your award. This organization is trying to lead individual human beings to live in friendly and useful fellowship with each other. That is what I have been trying to do in the field of international relations. Just as every individual has his problems of human relations, so every nation has its problem of international relations. Nations, like individuals, want relations with each other which will promote their safety and increase their opportunity to pursue happiness. And that is the goal of foreign policy. And you, here I am confident, have found that with individuals, happiness and opportunity largely depend upon character. And so it is with nations. Individuals are apt to be secure and happy if they are willing to sacrifice present enjoyment for future security. And if they have a sympathetic understanding of their fellows. These same three characteristics are those which are needed for a successful foreign policy. If the United States as a nation. If the United States as a nation has those qualities, and if those in authority competently translate those qualities into what they do on our behalf, then there is a good chance of our people being secure and happy in their international relations. Now with nations and with men, money is no substitute for character. Our nation today is spending fabulous sums for security. The target this year is $60 billion. We have given away to others about $40 billion since 1945. If money could buy security and happiness, we should have them. Yet we have them not. Today we are insecure. We have less goodwill than ever before in our history. And our people feel a sense of frustration. These facts suggest that it may be worthwhile to give more thought to fundamentals, and particularly to the present shaping of our national character. Let us then tonight think about whether our nation has a creative purpose, whether we have a willingness to sacrifice, and whether we have the fellowship necessary for understanding of our fellows. Now creative purpose has always been an outstanding characteristic of our nation. Our founders felt, as it is put in the opening paragraph of the Federalist Papers, that it seems to have been reserved to the American people to show, by their conduct and example, how to establish good government. And we have been constantly seeking to develop and spread throughout the world better political institutions, better economic processes, and ways to a richer intellectual and spiritual life. And because our creative purposes won worldwide recognition, we gained a large measure of security and of opportunity in the world. And that same national characteristic emerged after the last World War. We were then the principal architects and supporters of the United Nations. And within the framework of the United Nations Charter, we promoted various regional organizations. First, the real plaque to the American nations of this hemisphere. Then the North Atlantic Treaty between the Atlantic Mediterranean powers. And then a series of Pacific Ocean security treaties with Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, and Japan. Within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, there is arising a Western European army. An army which would be under a single political command so that the national forces cannot again fight each other, but will be a unit for the common defense. This project of immense significance faces difficulties, difficulties such as are always encountered when an effort is made to do more than to record pious hopes. No doubt what has begun now will be an evolutionary process, but a beginning has been made, largely due to the powerful support which General Eisenhower has given to the basic idea. He has had the wisdom to see that Europe will always be a weak, divided, and defenseless community, unless it adopts in some measure our federal principle, which is to bring under common control and common direction matters which are of common concern to all, notably at this time, defense against possible Soviet aggression. In Japan, General MacArthur, a supreme commander for the Allied powers, adopted wise and humane occupation policies. And these policies have started the Japanese on a new way of life. Without that, the 48 free world allies would never have made their peace of reconciliation with Japan. And without that, we could not have started on our Pacific security system, in which Japan would play a responsible role. And I may say that the May Day rioting of a few communists, which attracted much attention, is, in my opinion, of no great significance. They were largely of North Korean origin, and I do not think that that proves in any way that our trust and confidence in Japan for the future are misplaced. The American people, by supporting these projects, have shown that their historic, creative character has persisted. On the other hand, I think we would not be honest with ourselves if we did not admit that today large numbers of our people feel disillusioned and unhappy about these collective organizations. They went into them with great hopes, and they have seen our nation spend upon them great songs. And now it seems to many of them that the original estimates upon which our nation proceeded were miscalculated because the peril which it was said these organizations would remove persists unabated. It is, I am afraid, the fact that the American people were oversold on these international organizations, and some reaction was bound to come. The United Nations has great possibilities, but the United Nations was never designed to provide insurance against major tensions between the great powers. The regional pacts we have made, our piecemeal efforts, which are useful, but which, standing alone, are totally inadequate. The fact is that nothing that we have yet done tackles adequately the number one problem, which then is the problem of checking Soviet aggression everywhere, and doing so without such vast, unproductive military expenditures as would destroy the very values that we are trying to protect. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. that our own position would be desperate. Obviously, the 20,000-mile frontier of freedom cannot be defended by methods which may be available to the Western European peoples. The Asian countries have neither the military tradition, the industrial capacity, nor the financial resources for such defense. The total cost of completing the program for Western Europe must be calculated in terms of hundreds of billions of dollars, and to multiply that 25 times would be a bankrupting process which would expose all the participating governments to internal revolt. The United States is, of course, planning largely to increase its own military establishment. But we must bear in mind that our growing stockpile of atomic weapons, subject to our unpredictable use or abuse, is not everywhere reassuring. And indeed, in some respects, it helps Soviet communism in its political warfare. I have recently been both to the East and the West, and it has been made clear to me that many of the peoples of the world have less fear of the Red Army than they have fear that the United States may rashly precipitate atomic warfare. Their population centers are utterly defenseless against that. And unfortunately, the administration has not been able to prevent persons in our military establishment from giving utterance to warlike views. We at home believe that these utterances are utterly irresponsible, but they lead other people to believe that we are trigger-happy so far as the use of atomic weapons is concerned. The real problem which confronts the free people can, I think, be briefly analyzed as follows. One, we must invent ways to defend the entire frontier of freedom because small parts of the free world are not themselves defensible if the rest should fall. But, two, we cannot create 20,000 miles of static defense in depth, able to hold back the Red Armies at every particular point where they might choose to attack. Therefore, three, the only deterrent that will, at bearable cost, protect the entire frontier of freedom is the organization of striking power to hit any aggressor where it hurts him if he should commit himself to armed aggression anywhere. And for this deterrent power, if it is to achieve its maximum possibilities to prevent war and to reassure the free peoples, needs to be openly organized and clearly defined as in the interest of public security. Until we solve this problem, all else that we attempt will be blighted and involve a progression of hopes and disappointments which will, in the end, leave us spiritually and materially drained. This is the unfinished business of our time. The American people have a right to demand that our nation face up to it, and I am confident that with the political genius which has been characteristic of our people, it can be finished. Now, the second quality of which I would speak is this quality of willingness to make present sacrifices for future good. Individuals can be roughly divided into two groups. Those who cannot resist the temptation to spend all their income and perhaps a little more to get immediate enjoyment. trusting to luck or to somebody else's charity to take care of the future. Then there are those who have the strength of character to live generally within their means, making present sacrifices in order to save something against future hazards. It is a second group of people who usually win security, opportunity, and influence, while the first group are apt to be in trouble and to be judged by their fellows as unreliable. The same judgments apply within the society of nations, and in this respect, our rating is not as high as it used to be. Of course, we have immense richness and a certain kind of power which goes with that, but we are living in a way which leads other nations to wonder whether we are a steady and dependable ally. Today, we live in an atmosphere of self-indulgence which is punctuated by spasms of fright. Our government seems to feel that the American people are not capable of adapting themselves to a steady, sustained program. Yet, that is a need of a country which, on the one hand, is the end target of the most formidable threat the world has ever known, and which, on the other hand, is so uniquely powerful that it carries a special responsibility. As it is, we live through what are represented to be a series of crises. The assumption seems to be that the only emotion that causes us to act is fear. Congress and the people are from year to year being told that unless we take some emergency action, a terrible catastrophe will shortly befall. I recall that in 1948, when I was working with Governor Dewey and Senator Vandenberg for bipartisanship during that election year, I was told on high authority that 1950 would be the critical year, but that if we got by that safely, then the peak of danger would be past. And then, toward the end of 1949, when I was in the Senate, we were told that 1952 would be the critical year. If we got by that, then the peak of danger would be past. Now we're told that 1954 is the critical year, toward which we must shape our planning and our spending, but if we just get by that, then the peak of danger will be past. Now the fact of the matter is that when you're dealing with Soviet communism, you can't tell in advance what is going to be the critical year. Their leaders have dedicated an entire historical era, as they put it, to achieve our undoing. And I can see no more reason to assume that they planned to make open attack in 1954 than in any other year, past or future. For six years now, they have had overwhelming military superiority as regards the entire Eurasian continent, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. For reasons of their own, they have not openly used that superiority, except by way of terrorism. The reason? I don't know. But I doubt very much that the reason why they haven't is because they are waiting to give their opponents time to organize to meet them on equal terms. The fact is that the American people, having regard to the perils and responsibilities which are inherent in the future, ought to be willing to make these sacrifices year in and year out that are required to maintain us in a responsible military posture on the land, the sea, and in the air. And this should be done on a steady basis on terms that we can finance without budgetary imbalance, without confiscatory taxes, and without inflation which in effect eats up our patrimony. And we can do this. We can do this if we have the strength of character to cut down on non-essential self-indulgence. We should not have to be frightened into spasmodic spurts of over-costly effort. Now our foreign friends with whom we need to have relations of trust and confidence do not feel that our policies are dependable if they are to last only as long as the American people can be frightened. They know that the cry of wolf-wolf after a while loses its effectiveness. They know that they are up against Soviet communist policies that are steady and sustained. These policies have been pursued relentlessly now for 35 years out of one great successes. And it must be assumed that these policies will continue on for another generation or even more. And those peoples who feel most closely pressed by these policies, if they are to resist, must be able to count upon allies whose purposes are steady, whose strength will be maintained as a matter of principle and as an expression of a strong and stalwart character. It is true that in recent years we have tended to become a materially self-indulgent nation. We have disregarded the dictates of financial prudence. We have come to consider it as normal that our budget should be vastly unbalanced, that financing should be inflationary, that taxes should be destructive of individual initiative and individual savings, and that we should act in foreign affairs out of fright rather than out of sustained conviction. I do not believe that that way of life reflects what the American people really want. I believe that our people do have the strength of character to take out insurance for the future while at the same time living within our means and to do so on a steady and sustained basis without the necessity of being emotionally excited. If that is still, the American character now is the time to show it. And if we do, then we shall win and hold the respect of other nations and develop with them the relations needed for the security and the opportunity which is the goal of our foreign policy. I pass now to the third quality of character of which I would speak, and that is the quality of sympathetic understanding of others without regard to differences of nationality, race, or religion. I have in mind what is so well exemplified by your World Brotherhood movement. The material things that our nation gives away are no substitute for fellowship. Indeed, fellowship and understanding are often far more desired and far more needed than our material things. We have given greatly of our money, sometimes in excess of our ability to use money wisely and competently. And some of our people think that the recipient should bow down in gratitude before our material munificence. The fact is that nations like individuals, when they are in trouble, need, most of all, understanding and compassionate fellowship. And this often means more to them than material things. We all of us know that the inevitable pains and disappointments of life are made tolerable by loving care and that the joys of life are intensified by sympathetic sharing and we sometimes forget that what is true in detail is also true in mass. In the family of nations, the needs, the values are the same. I've just come from France where we talk of the cruel burden that France is carrying in Indochina. France is being bled not only materially but in the sacrifice of the flower of our youth to prevent that critical area from being submerged by communist aggression. It is tragic that there's so little sympathetic understanding in this country of what France is there doing. We are at last giving some material aid but what the French people are most conscious of is carping criticism on the part of Americans who think that France is shirking her responsibilities although France is relatively sacrificing more to the common cause than is the United States. And take our relations with Great Britain. Throughout the world, the interests of the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth are intertwined with those of the United States. Too often, however, we assume a superior attitude of non-cooperation because we are blind to the fact that the United Kingdom's present economic plate is largely due to past sacrifices made in the common cause. Take our relations with Chiang Kai-shek. His government was loyal and steadfast during four years when he fought alone to resist the Japanese militaries. At any time, he could have made a compromise which would have saved his rule at our expense. Concededly, his administration was far from perfect. Concededly, he made mistakes. But he is above all a patriot and he would work sacrificially with us for the common good of China, a China liberated from Soviet domination if he felt that we really understood China's problem. We are now providing economic and military aid to foremost. But this counts for a little if at the same time the nationalist government is subjected to a sort of moral isolation. I believe that this has now to some extent been relieved by the fact that the Japanese government, in accordance with its prime minister's assurance to me, has just concluded a treaty of peace with the nationalist government of China as with the other free allies. take the position of Asia generally. The people of Asia are not eager to see our materialism spread to them. Indeed, our superiority in material things is not very important in Asian eyes as we learn somewhat to our dismay when we come to deal with them. our automobiles, radios, refrigerators, washing machines, and other gadgets are not in the main what other peoples want. What the people of Asia passionately want of the West is Western recognition that Asian culture does not make the Asians our inferiors. Of course, the cultures of Asia do make the Asian people different, but also their cultures possess a richness which we would do well to respect and to admire. And what also they passionately want of the West is recognition that because Asian skins may differ from ours in color, that does not make Asians inferior people. We are wasting our money and our effort in Asia if we cannot or will not provide fellowship. Everywhere the story is the same, in Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Americas. The United States can provide leadership to bind the free world into effective unity for the security of us all if we have human understanding and human fellowship. If we have that not, we are a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. We need that fellowship here at home where the spectacle is not always wholesome and we need it in our foreign relations. As you of the National Conference of Christians and Jews preach and bring others to practice world brotherhood, you contribute mightily to the development of the kind of national character which is needed for our security and for our happiness in the family of nations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.