This is Jack Barry talking about the USO. A short while ago, USO came back to help the men and women in the services of the United States. To everyone in show business, USO stands for teamwork. Teamwork between the USO and entertainers. Teamwork between the general public and the USO. Like the teamwork among the Army, Navy and Air Force to win wars. You can join the big team by giving and giving generously to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. And the time to give is now. This is Harvey Stone, a fellow that usually ribs about the Army. The reason I ribbed is because I could never talk when I was in. But I'm out now and telling you that USO is back. In World War II, USO helped entertain millions of GIs everywhere. And we found that a GI audience was the most inspiring one an entertainer could have. Besides show business, USO went in for many other kinds of entertaining. More than you can count. With its clubs, its station lounges, its mobile units. It will do it again if you will help with a generous gift to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. Make your contributions now. Thank you. This is Joey Adams, and I'm talking about USO. Remember USO? Well, it's back on the job, and every GI in the service is glad of the news. It means fun and recreation, shows and parties, games and sports, and a place to relax and read or write letters without being under the eagle eye of the sergeant. Soldiers and sailors and airmen do their jobs better because of USO. Get into the picture by making a generous gift to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. This is Barbara Britton. Three cheerful letters from home, USO, are being awaited eagerly by millions of Americans serving in the nation's armed forces. The GIs have already heard the welcome news that the United Service Organizations, which provided a home away from home and performed a million acts of kindness during World War II and in the post-war period, has been remobilized to serve the welfare and recreational needs of those in service. Won't you do your part through your generous donation to the New York USO campaign, 50 Broad Street, New York 4? Thank you very much. This is Ed Sullivan telling you that USO is back. In World War II, USO helped entertain millions of GIs everywhere. And we found that a GI audience was the most inspiring audience an entertainer could have. Besides show business, USO went in for many other kinds of entertaining, more than you can count, with its clubs, station lounges, and its mobile units. It will do it again if you help with a generous gift to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. Make your USO contributions now. This is Ed Sullivan calling on all relatives and friends of servicemen and women to back the new USO. Do you need to be reminded that USO entertained GIs and helped keep them happy everywhere in the world during World War II? Well, USO is back to back the armed forces. It's up to us to back up USO. And to do it quickly, send your contributions to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. For the GIs, thanks a lot. Hello, everybody. This is Kate Smith calling on all relatives and friends of servicemen and women to back the new USO. The USO entertained GIs and helped keep them happy everywhere in the world during World War II. Well, the USO is back in service again. It's up to us to back them up. Send your contribution to USO, 50 Broad Street, New York 4. Thanks for listening. Thanks for listening.
