Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, are we fighting inflation effectively? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around an appraisal of inflationary trends in our economy and methods of dealing with them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Daniel D. Carmel, General Counsel of the Illinois State Federation of Labor and the Chicago Federation of Labor. Thomas W. Rogers, Executive Vice President of the American Finance Conference. And Robert H. Strohs, Associate Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. Now, as you have just heard, our question is, are we fighting inflation effectively? This question appears to assume, gentlemen, that we do have inflation and that we are fighting it. I'm wondering whether these assumptions are warranted. How would you define inflation, Rogers? Well, inflation, as most of us think of it, has to do fundamentally with the relationship between goods and services and the amount of these goods and services that we can purchase with the money we have. Essentially, then, most of us think of inflation in terms of the price level. This may be an oversimplified definition, but it does have the merit of enabling us to discuss both the cause and effect. Now, I might say, incidentally, that I refer to increases in the general price level. We may have some increases in individual prices while we have decreases in other prices and still not have changes in our general price level. Do you go along with that, Carmel? No, I don't. Well, my opinion of inflation is when there is a sharp increase in the amount of money and credits, which then in turn creates an advance in the price level. And the reason I don't go along with the general definition is that it may be true that where there may be goods and services which cannot be purchased because of the lack of money available, that may be depression under that definition. Well, do we have inflation now? I do not think we have inflation, and I don't believe we have inflation in the sense that inflation is generally understood. We have high prices, yes, and we have other things, but we do not have inflation in the sense of the fear of the word inflation is generally understood. Now, when you talk about inflation as something to be feared, are you talking about the kind of thing that happened in Germany in the 20s where the prices went out of sight in relation to the currency? Is that the sort of thing you're talking about? That's the sort of thing I'm talking about, and that's what I understand to be the general definition of inflation. Now, the mere fact that prices may be high and the mere fact that the goods and services may be high itself is not inflation. What do you say to this analysis, Strokes? Well, I go along with Rogers in believing that the customary definition of inflation is a rise in the general level of prices. I think Rogers and Carmel here can be brought together, however, if we distinguish between inflation, meaning a general rise in prices, on the one hand, and runaway inflation on the other, which is the sort of thing Carmel has in mind. I'd like to add this remark, that while inflation means an increase in the general price level, that this may be entirely consistent with an increase in national output and the level of living of the people in our country. Well, I think no one around here, around the table, would question the fact that we've had a substantial increase in prices. Now, whether you choose to define it as inflation or not is neither here nor there. Yes, I might mention that during the past two years, that is, since the war in Korea began, prices have gone up by some 11%. The rate of increase has perhaps not been so great during the past few months, but it has continued, and prices are now at an all-time high in our modern era. What has caused that increase in prices, Strokes? Well, since Korea, I think the blame should be placed squarely on the shoulders of the people running the Federal Reserve System. We have had during this period a substantial increase in the amount of bank money in this country, an increase of over $11 billion. And this would not have been possible had the Federal Reserve System adopted the proper traditional policy measures. And what would those be? Well, what the Federal Reserve System needs to do, really, is to sell government securities in order to reduce the amount of reserves that banks must have before they are permitted to increase the amount of money. The Federal Reserve System instead has been buying government securities, and this, it seems to me, has been a tragic error. How do you men feel about that analysis? What do you say to that, Rogers? Well, of course, I think that we have to go back beyond the present situation in order to get perspective on this whole subject. I'd like to say first that in the long run there are two major causes of inflation. One is the deficit financing of government, and the other is extraordinary expansion of our money supply through our central banking system. Now, while it may be true that the Federal Reserve Board has been acting in the way that Strotz indicates, yet the essential fundamental forces which have been operating in our economy during the last 10 years or so may be traced to government deficit financing, deficit financing during the war period. And, of course, on that, we have the foundation which we can build a current policy, of course. But, essentially, I think that the major forces operating to maintain our present high level of activity may be traced to the war period. Well, I think in order to keep our eyes focused on what sort of policy mistakes we've made, I'd like to add to your remarks, Rogers, that until about the middle of this year, during the previous two years of the war in Korea, the Federal Treasury has actually taken in more cash than it has spent, that we have had a cash surplus of $8.75 billion during the past two years. And this is not the major explanation of the rise in prices. This is not to say that we do not have a government deficit to look forward to, however, during the next 12 months. This question of deficit financing during a war doesn't concern me very much for this reason. I don't believe it would have been fair that during the course of a war to have the entire cost of the war paid by the persons that were participating in that war, which will have a great effect upon future generations. You have to take into consideration that government and peoples are human institutions, and they must be treated as such, and they cannot be treated simply on a theoretical economic basis. Of course it's better to pay as you go, but during the war, you had to get services and goods to people who were behind the lines, whose family were there, and had to maintain their morale in order that we should fight this war. Whatever justifications we may have had for inflation during the past war, I should certainly want to deny that one of them is the prospect of postponing the burden of the war to future generations. The cost of a war is always borne by the people who are fighting it in terms of the consumers' goods and services that they are unable to get during that period of time when they are instead producing munitions. The future is affected primarily by the way in which they finance the increase in total expenditure. Now, we have been concerned as a nation with this whole problem of inflation in terms of increasing prices, wages, etc. And we've been faced with the prospect of wage, price, and credit controls, which has been the essential program for trying to control this thing as I understand it. Now, do controls of that sort make sense to you, Carmel? Only in an alleviating manner. It doesn't controls it in all themselves, in my opinion, do more harm in the last analysis than good for various reasons. First of all, the goods are obtained irrespective of prices. There are price ceilings, but the black market comes in. And there was a tremendous black market in goods, services, and materials during the war. But the net result was that the money was siphoned into hands that were wrong and were never taxed. There was a great bulk of purchasing power that was never taxed and everyone else had to pay for it. Secondly, the question of wages, I don't think the question of wages has anything to do with the question of higher prices or particularly inflation. And for this reason, when we make our wage contracts, we make them as of today and they are in effect for a year, two or three years. During that period, with the exception of a few industries that now have escalator clauses, our wages are in the past. At the end of a contract, the cost of living, cost of goods and materials have gone up. We try to then catch up with what we had to pay the increased prices in the past so that the wage increases do not have an effect upon the inflationary theory in any manner. You might say that they're actually caused by increases in the amount of money to be spent, that they're not a prime mover of the price level, but that prices increase via wage increases as a result of increases in the amount of money that people have available to spend. Well, that's true, Stroh, but in addition to that, we're always behind and that's why we have to wait the year or two to meet when that contract was then reopened to try to get what we were entitled to had we been going along as industry has by raising prices as its cost increases. What's your attitude on this, Rogers? Well, of course, my feeling is that if you have and maintain a stable price level, the problem which Carmel points up here will be more or less eliminated because the wage level or wage rate which exists today will be adequate and for the future period. Then the question of bargaining between the union and the employer would be that of determining the relative amount of the production which is currently flowing out of the wage effort to be distributed between the employer and the employee. But how are you going to maintain this stable price level? Isn't that precisely the question that we're faced with? And my question is whether you're going to accomplish that by putting direct controls on these prices, on credits and on wages. Well, of course, my answer to that is that you can't accomplish that by putting controls on wages and prices. Why can't you? If you put them on and enforce them, why not? And credit. Well, of course, putting these controls... Carmel suggests here that you're going to have black market and that sort of thing, but maybe we can crack down on that here. Well, putting these controls on is like putting more weight on the lid of a boiling kettle rather than controlling the fire under the kettle. Of course, if you can't control the fire under the kettle, might it not be a good idea to pile a lot of weight on top. My contention is that you can control the fire under the kettle. And ought to. And ought to. And, of course, those... the two major burners, as it were, are the matter of fiscal policy of government and the control of our central banking system or the impact which our central banking system will have upon... But so long as we continue to expend billions on our war effort, our defense effort, how effective are you going to be really now in controlling the fire under the kettle? Well, of course, the way to control the fiscal policy burner is to balance the budget, to pay for the expenditures of government as you go along. In that way, you do not have deficit financing and in that way you do not add through deficit financing to the money supply of the nation. What is our national debt now, Rogers? Well, the last figures, I believe, indicate that it was about $363 billion. Incidentally, it's gone up about $3 billion since June. Well, that in itself is a lot of pressure under the kettle, isn't it? That's right. That plus, continued war spending, puts an enormous pressure under that kettle. Now, are you going to handle that by taxing us to pay as we go and also to reduce that debt? Well, of course, let's go back and get a little perspective. We have two situations. Of course, we must deal with an accomplished fact. We have debt. We didn't finance our deficit during war period. And the question is largely a policy of a question of where do we go from here? That's right. Now then, in my personal judgment, I think that we can reduce these pressures by doing perhaps two things. One, of course, is balancing the budget and keeping it balanced. Second is to reduce gradually our public debt. I would say by a minimum of $5 billion a year. And for the sake of Mr. Carmel here, who would want this cost of the war funded over a period of generations, I would say that at that rate, it would take us 45 years to pay for the war because our public debt went up from $40 billion to $246 billion. And that, of course, would touch the lives of three working generations. But Bernie, I'm not worried about the kettle theory, and I'll tell you why. The only reason that they want to turn the fire down under the kettle or up is because of the lid that's being put on it. Now, if you keep the lid off, you don't have to worry about the lid being blown off. If there is a stable prize level, that's going to mean chronic and large unemployment. When chronic and large unemployment is had, the government must step in and spend government money, which is our tax money, for the purposes of priming the pump. Secondly, the unemployment, the slight rise in the price level will then create a demand for goods, which are not now demanded. It is better to have a higher demand for goods and a shorter supply, even if it means a slight increase in price, because it means that people will buy more, and when they buy more, the employer's facilities are being expanded, business expands, unemployment is out of the way, and in a free enterprise system of government, I think that's the best way to do it and not worry about putting a lid on the kettle and then worry whether it's going to be blown off or not. You aren't afraid that that kind of policy will lead us to the sort of thing that happened in Germany in the 20s? No, because the only reason that it occurred in Germany was because of the failure of the government or the confidence of the government that took place after the war. If there is, if we have no faith in the government, and when I speak of government, I'm not talking of any political nature of the government, whether it be Republican or Democrat, Prohibition, Socialistic Party or otherwise, I'm talking about the ability of the government to function as a government, and when the government fails to function as a government, inflation will be no problem because you're just not going to have any government, you're going to have anarchy. Well, now, you're going to let the fire burn under the kettle and take the lid off, probably build a little larger pot, sure, and let a little seep over so the little guy can get something out of that kettle. All right, now, Strokes. I think Carmel's remarks reflect very openly the fears that a lot of people have about inflation control. Certainly, there are a few of us who would be willing to exchange 1952 for 1933, and there are many of us who are afraid that if we adopt the positive policies that are required to stabilize the general level of prices, that unemployment and low production are going to appear in various areas in our economy. But actually, I think we should also realize that we have been using inflation as a device to cover up various other causes in our economy for unemployment. And I think that what we have done is to turn to a second kind of evil. I know these remarks may be unpopular, but I feel that we ought to attempt to stabilize the general level of prices, and if we find that because of maladjustments in our economy we begin to get decreases in production or unemployment in certain areas, then we should go after the immediate causes of those difficulties. I think we must stand up to this problem and not continually be choosing between these two different evils. And precisely how would you stand up to this problem? Well, I think... You've given us some indication earlier of what your program would be. Spell that out a bit. Yes, if we have stable prices, I do not believe that we run any great danger of serious depression. I do believe that we can get pockets of unemployment with stable prices because some prices in the economy may be too high. For example, if trade unions insist on forcing up wages, in the face of stable prices this would no doubt mean a drop in employment. Now I should say that the thing that must be done then through one mechanism or another is to stop forcing up wages. That we must get prices in proper adjustment consistent with stable prices, I think we can continue to have full production. You know, I'm very much interested in these pockets of unemployment. I was just wondering how deep these pockets are and how often and in what areas they're going to occur. It's beautiful to use these phrases of pockets of unemployment and saying that if labor will stop asking for wage increases and have stable prices then we won't have inflation. inflation. Well, first of all, unless the purchasing power of the general public is there and they can only receive it in the form of wages for the greatest part because that's where most people buy the stuff, if the material cannot be bought and the persons haven't got the money to buy it with, there will be no industry. Now on the other hand, the creation of a shortage of supply by virtue of a demand, by virtue of the fact that persons have money to buy it with does not create inflation because, as I said, consumption has increased. I think you misinterpret my position. Simply because I am opposed to a rise in prices does not mean that I am advocating a fall in prices. And when you talk about a drying up of the demand for funds, this is to talk about deflation. I have been advocating that we follow a policy of stabilizing the general level of prices. And this means to maintain an adequate amount of purchasing power so that goods can be purchased without an increase and without a decrease in the general level of prices. I think it's imperative that we have and maintain a stable level of prices. I think we're all agreed on that. And I don't go along with your theory that we have to have a continuing increase in the price level in order to have prosperity. And I think to get this matter of stability of prices and focus that we have to look to the overall picture. Put it very simply, if we are going to spend 25% of our gross national product or if 25% of our growth, the value of all goods and services in the nation is going to government, we are going to have to consider that and pay for it as we go along. And it's foolish for us to go ahead and have a deficit through not paying for that and insist that we can control inflation through price controls, wage controls, credit controls, and so on. As a matter of fact, I'd like to speak to that question of credit controls before we're through with this discussion. All right, go ahead. Speak to it now. Yes. Of course, we've heard a lot about the subject of selective credit controls. And in the absence of dealing with the fundamental problems that I have mentioned here, namely proper fiscal policy, proper control through our central banking system, selective credit controls simply have the effect of distorting or changing the distributive channels within our whole economic order. For instance, when Regulation W was put on the last time, the effect insofar as the automobile market was concerned was to increase commercial credit by an amount greater than the decrease in retail credit. As long as automobiles were produced, they were stacked up in the dealer's hands and did not flow into the retailer's hands because they were blocked through this control at that particular level. That is a secondary social cost which is not contemplated and not seen by the average person and those who might be in favor of control. Rogers, I go along with you here and I think we might group together in one package not only selective credit controls but also price and wage controls as well as allocation programs. These are all particularistic measures for affecting the way in which we use resources affecting the direction of use of credit or affecting the relative levels of different prices. They are devices which might be useful if we find that the market fails to perform certain functions properly but they are not proper devices for controlling the general level of prices or of economic activity. Now these proper devices are in the nature of more taxes I take it, right? Yes, they are broad sweeping measures which would reduce the total amount of money that people have to spend relative to the amount of goods being produced. You know the term deficit is being used here, McBernie and I'm not worried about deficit. If we must it's beautiful to say pay as you go and everything like that but deficit is a frightening word and I don't think there's much to it when we talk about deficit. Money, the purposes of money as I understand it is a medium of exchange. What good is the money if you're going to keep it in the bank and it's not going to do anybody any good? As long as money is a medium of exchange when it can be exchanged for the services and goods where higher standards of consumption of goods are able to be had by the person the employer increases his facilities as I said before and then money is a standard function. It's a medium of exchange and it doesn't make any difference whether it's a deficit financing or not as long as there is a medium of exchange through the use of money and full employment there's no concern about inflation. Well now yours Mr. Carmel sounds like a very popular position if I may say so. You think we don't have inflation now. You don't want to increase taxes. You don't want any of these credit controls. You want the pot to boil merrily and you're not concerned. Well I'm not concerned because of the fact if I was concerned I'd be concerned that our form of government just cannot serve its function in a free enterprise system and I have faith in the fact that where there is a raising of the standard of production it means a greater demand for the goods and a greater increase in the facilities and less unemployment or full employment and under those circumstances we have what one fellow said is this Wall Street fears a depression Washington fears inflation but Main Street thinks it's doing all right and we're with Main Street I'm with Main Street I think there's a very serious mistake in the reasoning you've just carried us through Carmel you speak as if an increase in money expenditure is going to mean an increase in the amount of goods and services that we have to consume or the amount of munitions that we can produce or the amount of machinery that can be produced for industry this is not true we can have an increase in our national income as a result of an increase in money expenditures and a rise in prices without anyone having anything more than he had before the important thing is not what happens to the money value of the goods and services produced but what happens to the real value that is to say the value in constant dollars we cannot get pie in the sky by simply printing more more money to spend that's a point is very well made and I submit that we should be concerned about deficits because deficits enable us through our central banking system to increase the money supply of the country without increasing necessarily the total amount of the production of goods in the country and that is why we should be concerned with deficits let's go back just one moment briefly to this matter of allocation of our natural resources I think we have to keep perspective in this whole picture it's very popular for us to talk about our situation we're all interested in our situation but in terms of the general social welfare we have to think in terms of the whole of the group and we cannot have deficits and continue to have deficits without having inflation and if we have inflation 99% of the people suffer Mr. Carmel well I don't think we have inflation as I said before and you cannot have inflation in terms of persons that are able to live better where the standard of living in this country is the highest in the world and you can just say that it does cost more of course it costs more we're getting I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up you've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion are we fighting inflation effectively we'd like to thank our guests for today Daniel D. Carmel General Counsel of the Illinois State Federation of Labor and the Chicago Federation of Labor Thomas W. Rogers Executive Vice President of the American Finance Conference and Robert H. Strotz Associate Professor of Economics at Northwestern University we invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed copies are available for 10 cents in coin write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois now our moderator James H. McBurney returns to tell you about next week's program next week the reviewing stand will discuss a timely question are public officials adequately paid our guests will be Francis A. Allens Associate Professor of Law in the School of Law at Northwestern University Herbert Emmerich Director of the Public Administration Clearinghouse in Chicago and Roland Young Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University We hope you will join us next week for our discussion are public officials adequately paid? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual Your announcer Jerry Coffer This is the world's largest network the Mutual Broadcasting System famous mum and those some favorite clue