The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What is happening to our war babies? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand faces the question, what is happening to our war babies? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the fate of American children born between the years 1941 and 1946. War spawned babies. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. The Reviewing Stand is happy to cooperate with the Chicago Boys Clubs in presenting this discussion of a most interesting and important social problem. We welcome as our guests Noel P. Guest, Professor of Sociology at the University of Missouri. Leah D. Taylor, head resident of Chicago Commons, and member of the Executive Committee of the Chicago Recreation Commission. Irving Rudolph, executive director of the Chicago Boys Clubs, and Edward J. Condon, officer of the Chicago Boys Clubs. Mr. Rudolph, you've used the phrase war babies in referring to a certain group of American children. Specifically, who are they? Who are the war babies? Well, these children are the ones that are living in made-over apartments, using common kitchens and bathrooms. They're also the children of war veterans, of divorced homes, and children of deceased veterans. It seems to me we could also include a good many other children who lived under the stress of migrant homes, of poor housing, and war conditions, but perhaps whose family life was partially normal. Are we talking about American children now? Or are we including European children, all victims of the war? Well, it's my understanding that we're particularly interested here in American children, because if we go too far afield, I think we will get out of reach of our subject. And I think also we're interested primarily in the youngsters from the crowded sections of our metropolitan cities. Are we including the children born before the war? Are they an important segment of this population? It seems to me, Doctor, that the impact of the war made itself felt long before Pearl Harbor, because this great increase in so-called war marriages started with the draft in 1939, and I think, Doctor Gitz, you'll find that the rate of marriage and births were put near as heavy in those early days of the war as they were at that time of Pearl Harbor. That's right, beginning shortly after 1935, as a matter of fact, the birth rate began to increase, and by 1938 or 1939 it was relatively high. So that while not, strictly speaking, war babies, large numbers of children were born before the war, but who actually experienced pretty much the same difficulties that the war babies did experience. We're talking about the total baby population then between the years 1940 and 1946, not just those orphaned by the war, is that true? That's right. Well, now that we've identified the children, I wonder if we can determine in any way how many there are. How many war babies do we find today? Well, normally we would expect about 15 or 18 million children to have been born between 1940 and 1946. I say normally because there's no objective way of determining what was the normal birth rate. But if we start with the average birth rate as between 1938 and 40, there would have been born about 18 million children during this six-year period. That included, of course, includes, of course, the excess number that were born as a result partly of wartime conditions, or at least under wartime conditions. It's interesting to know that in Chicago alone there are over 500,000 children under 10 at the present time, and also very interesting that 20% of these are living under very inadequate housing situations and home conditions. I think in general we can say that there are about 3 million excess babies over and above what might be considered the normal number that were born during this period. Now this bulge in our population, the excess babies as you call them, are those the war babies? Most of them are war babies. Of course, some of them have been born since the war, since 1945. I'd like to draw a picture, figuratively speaking, here. If you could think of this in terms of a pyramid. It's the sort of thing that the population is frequently used. At the bottom or the base of the pyramid is a bulge, representing a fairly large percentage of the total number of people in the whole population structure. Now during wartime conditions, the birth rate was high so as to make a rather pronounced bulge at the base of the pyramid. And that's what we have at the present time. Mr. Condon, does that picture look good to you? Do you agree that we should consider all of these children as war babies? Well, I don't think it's a matter for our agreement. I think that's what they are and we're just going to have to live with the situation because it's a very realistic one. I do think they are all war babies. Well, we've identified the war babies and we know something about their numbers. Before we discuss their social importance, I would like to ask, how did the war affect these children? In other words, why did the war environment create a generation of war babies? Well, in many instances, the home was not a normal home. The father was out of the home. The mother, in many instances, had to work in order to support her family or because she was needed in war industries. There was a very great strain on the family constantly emotionally. Many of them were migrant and shifting from one place to another and a very great many lived in inadequate housing. Then another aspect of the problem, I think, is the shifting of families from one community or locality to another. Thousands, even hundreds of thousands of families moved during this period. Moved from the farms and the villages into the cities, into the large industrial centers where the parents, or at least a parent, could find employment. Well, that, of course, meant new neighborhoods and new living conditions and new playmates and new teachers and new school conditions for the children who were in these families during this migration period. To move back to what Miss Taylor said just a moment ago, she talked about mothers working and the fact that fathers were away from the home. What kind of a home did this make for children? Can you tell us something about that? I think you have to recognize that there were many children in fairly good homes who could be taken care of because there was adequate income. But speaking for the children who were suffering during this war period, we do have seen many instances of children with the door key strung around their neck and access to a home with no supervision during the hours that the mother was out of the home. We've seen children on the doorsteps of social agencies who are locked out of a home because the family didn't want them to have access to the home and who could not get into the home during the hours when the parents were away. Of course, the little mothers and fathers are with us many other years but were especially evident during the war, the nine-year-old child in charge of younger children. And the double-shift family we found to be quite a serious situation where the father slept during the day and for that reason the child was under very great handicap and the mother had all of the housework to do at home. Mr. Rudolph, you've been acquainted with children living under these circumstances. I wonder if in very specific language you could tell us about one of them. Mr. I think that probably is a good idea. The story of little Robert comes to mind. He was one of the most vicious and violent youngsters that ever came to our clubs. He's one of these active boys that jumped on other children. He stole, he lied. In fact, he ran absolutely wild. And in school, he wouldn't even sit still five minutes. Mr. The story, of course, began with the war. The mother had to go to work to help support the home while the father was in service. And since the mother worked the regular hours as a waitress, the boy had little supervision. And living in a hotel room and being an active youngster, he was nagged by everyone or perhaps he made himself a nuisance. We got together with the principal of the school and selling a psychologist. We found out first that while the boy was eight years of age, he had a mental age of 11 years, two months, and his IQ was 140. Is that a high IQ, Mr. Rudolph? Yes, I would say that I wish I had it. All right, we've talked here about some of these children and we've mentioned the fact that mothers are sometimes out of the home and fathers were away from home during the war. I wonder about housing. Was that a factor and is that a part of this picture? Well, housing problems have always been in existence in this country, but the problem was certainly accentuated during the war for two reasons or in two ways. One, because of the increased marriages and the increased birthright. Second, because of the very great shifting of families from certain areas into other areas of marked congestion. Those areas, of course, were for the most part industrial cities where the parents found employment. Now, many of these families lived under very adverse conditions in slum tenements. Many of them have lived and are still living, by the way, in trailers and other places that are really unfit for human habitation. Of course, there's another factor that made the housing problem so acute. There was a period of about six years during the war because of the needs of the war machine and because of restrictions and the difficulty of getting materials. We just were not in a housing program and we were faced with the problem of a greatly expanding population and not even the normal increase of housing to take care of them. Let's not talk too much about housing. On the reviewing stand, the next two weeks we're going to have programs on rent control and housing. Ms. Taylor has something to say. Well, I was only going to say that the present housing is serving the very high income family and not in the numbers that are needed for the low income. So we're really not solving the war baby problem in so far as present housing facilities. Is that right, Ms. Taylor? They certainly are not and the effect upon the child of this poor housing is a problem of today, which is very serious. Well, that interests me a little bit. Why is inadequate housing? Why is that hard on the child? You seem to say that. Well, if a family is living in one room or most two with a mother and perhaps three or four children sharing a community kitchen, sharing a common toilet with three other families, I don't think you can expect the child to come out of that situation with very normal reactions and an emotional balance. We have to think back into that situation and see what we can do about it, it seems to me, as well as to work with the child itself. But haven't we always had these problems in urban areas, especially slums? Not nearly as much as we have since the fact that Mr. Condon has mentioned of no building during these years. I was just going to add to what Ms. Taylor said about the problem. There's the doubling up of families, where two or more families lived under conditions that were suitable only for one family, and that occurred all over the country, but particularly in the large cities. That meant older and younger families trying to live together and the child caught between. Getting under each other's feet, so to speak. Yes. We've talked about increased marriages and increased birth rate during this period. I wonder about the divorce rate. Certainly, if that happened to be on the increase, it would affect the child. Can you tell us anything about that, Mr. Guest? Well, that's somewhat outside my field, but it's my impression that the divorce rate has gone up considerably since the war. Many of the marriages have proved to be unstable, or at least not very successful, so there's been a rising trend to the divorce rate. Now, that will probably turn down as the marriage rate turns down and families become somewhat more stabilized. It's unfortunate that in one particular area in which we have one of our clubs, the divorce rate is 50% at the present time, according to our records. In other words, one out of every two divorces or marriages goes on the rocks. Is that right? In this particular area. That may not be true for the city as a whole. That's Chicago. That's right. Well, we've talked here, I think, about the effect on the children of the war and war conditions, housing, the fact that fathers were away from their homes and mothers, were working and so on. Now, we have these children. We've called them war babies. Where are they located now, Mr. Condon? Well, of course, they're all over, but they're concentrated naturally in the larger cities where our population is concentrated. In terms of an age group, what age group of our population? Well, the great majority of them fall in the age range from about six to ten years of age, which means, of course, that they're somewhere between kindergarten and fourth grade. In our school system now. It's obvious that the child, as Mr. Rudolph describes him, faces some very real psychological problems. Are they causing trouble at home, Mr. Rudolph? Of course, they're causing trouble at home. It's only natural when a mother trying to clean house or cooking a meal has two or three children under her feet all the time. She does probably what you and I would do under similar circumstances. We tell the children to go out. And, of course, going out in this particular case usually means going out on the street and changing their health and their physical being. What about getting along with other children? Are they having trouble on the playgrounds and in school? Yes, we find that the children... When you say we, do you mean the Chicago Boys Club? Well, all agencies that are participating in this work in all the great cities of this country find this problem. That these youngsters, because of the lack of discipline, because not having a father to help guide them, and a mother that's either too busy at home or too small a place to supervise them properly, find that these youngsters are, in many cases, uncontrollable. And that when agencies do take them over, and we function, of course, after the schools, we get them together and we find it's very difficult to get their attention for any length of time. And when we do get their attention, we have to get them together in small groups, and we discover that when we get them in games, there are some rules, simple rules to the games, and as soon as they lose, they begin either crying or they begin stamping their feet in a tantrum. So it constitutes a very serious problem. I think we're studying more and more of what can be done with children of this age in the after-school years. Certainly the opportunity is there to give them some of the real resources for life that lies ahead. The opportunities to develop leadership, to learn to live with others and to play with others, who are a little different from the children who happen to be family connections or people with whom they are thrown normally. Well, we have, are developing an interesting experiment right at the present time. We think a great deal of this trouble that's, of these youngsters is caused by the fact that we've deprived them of the things which the country has to give. In other words, they've been required to live in the cities, and there's none of the good earth. There's none, there's nothing green, and there's, there's so much of the natural things that are lacking. And it seems to me that there is some relationship between the soil and the soil. Well, I should like to ask, uh, Miss Taylor, Mr. Rudolph, if they've noticed any apparent increase in, uh, psychological, uh, mal-adjustments, uh, neuroses, uh, among children of this age group in their work, uh, in the Chicago area. Uh, I think there is a considerable high tension among young children. Uh, we find particularly the children who come in from these very, uh, small, crowded homes, um, desire to run, to, to be, uh, uh, disorganized, and to, uh, uh, seek adventure in life. Now, that has always been the case to a certain extent. But I think that the tension in the home reflects itself in the child, especially in areas where there's a serious, uh, tension in the whole community. I know we're very much concerned about the actual delinquent acts of these youngsters. Uh, it's, uh, we, we're accustomed, and we know that the police department has been accustomed not to pay any attention to these youngsters until they've gotten into trouble. We have found that the first delinquent act where boys caught up doing something that goes on record is nine years. But we find, as a matter of fact, his delinquency starts way long before that time. Now, the police department, the schools, uh, have become aware of that, and that's why they're placing so much emphasis and are working with us on this particular problem. I think you're indicating here that these children, in addition to being problems for themselves, are creating definite problems for society. We've talked about, uh, most of these children entering school, being in the first, second, third, and fourth grades. Are they causing any problems insofar as our school systems are concerned? Well, from the standpoint of overcrowding, of course, they're causing problems, uh, and if you find the same difficulty in adjusting, uh, children who come from these backgrounds to, uh, the community life of a classroom, as you do in a, in a club or in any other facility. What the extent of that problem will be, uh, we're not in a position to know now, but it is growing, of course. Well, one phase of that problem, of course, is the shortage of teachers on this lower age level, particularly in the kindergartens and the elementary schools. It's a very great shortage, uh, all over the country. Uh, also, of course, the shortage of classrooms, which, uh, is very obvious in many of our big cities. Can you tell us anything about, uh, that situation here in Chicago, Ms. Taylor? Well, I am told by the Board of Education that there is one school with 337 children of kindergarten age registered, and 14 schools in which there are 200 children of kindergarten age registered. Those are going to move right through the school, and the shortage of rooms is going to be very acute. Our chief concern, uh, in this, uh, situation is if they are on two shifts, uh, and they're only in school for three or four hours, When you talk about schools being on two shifts, what do you mean, Mr. Rudolph? Well, that means due to this overcrowding, one of the ways, devices they use to meet the situation is to have two shifts, a morning shift and an afternoon shift. Our problem is what's happening to those youngsters in all those hours when they're not going to school? Well, between 1955 and 1960, the crest of this wave is going to hit the high schools, uh, and while there may not be an acute shortage of high school teachers, uh, there will probably be an acute shortage of rooms and other school facilities. And then, four years beyond that, the wave is going to hit the colleges and the labor market, and that's going to be a real problem. I think Mr. Condon is particularly qualified to speak about that. No, I'm not qualified because we just don't know what's going to happen. The economic condition of the country will have a great deal to do with whether these people are absorbing it. and whether or not they can be absorbed into a prosperous industry. It's a situation that's going to be, have to be met when it's faced with, I believe. We touched on problems of delinquency a little earlier. I'm wondering if, uh, these children living as they did in shifting, crowded conditions, and the nervous anxieties that you people seem to think they have, I wonder if that isn't reflected somewhat in our delinquency rate. Do you see that in your work with the boys' clubs, Mr. Rudolph? We see it very definitely. Now, these youngsters naturally of this age, we don't take them to the police. We try to counsel with their parents and work with the schools to meet their problems. But the law, as we said before, apprehends them around the age of 14. Now, we have found a rather peculiar thing takes place in these areas. While these boys, you might say, uh, well, even the parents sometimes consider their kids cute because they do these little, uh, mischievous acts which grow into delinquent acts. And therefore, they do not, uh, take it seriously. But there's another group of, uh, older boys in the communities from the age of 14 to 17 that were also raised during this period when their fathers were away. And they are the delinquents of today. And unfortunately, these little fellas consider these other chaps, the older boys, who even carried guns and knives as their heroes, and they're imitating them as best they can. Now, that's the way we're seeing, uh, uh, shape of things to come. But, Mr. Rudolph, isn't it true that probably the vast majority of these youngsters are not delinquents and are not going to become delinquents, but, uh, instead pretty good citizens? Well, most of them, most of them are. Thank God that 95% of them will become good average citizens. Mr. Connan, do you, uh, see any evidences of delinquency in this particular age group? Uh, no, only that they're being raised and were born in, uh, circumstances, uh, uh, where delinquency is most likely to flower. In other words, you're thinking about urban areas rather than rural areas. That's right. Uh, is, is this an urban problem or is it a rural problem, too? Oh, I think it's essentially, uh, an urban problem. It, uh, again, we go back to this inevitable housing and the concentration and the, and the pent-up, uh, circumstances. Outside of those areas where migrant farm families follow the crops as they ripen across the country, it isn't nearly as serious a problem in the rural areas as it is, uh, in cities like Chicago. Uh, in the first place, there's no problem of excess population on the land. Nor do you find in the country the presence of any of those factors that, that so aggravate these situations we're talking about here. There's no problem, for example, of mothers leaving home for work. Uh, the rural schools generally are not overcrowded. And because of lack of crowding and more room in the country and natural recreational facilities and, uh, perhaps better food and a lot of other things, uh, the problem with general health is virtually eliminated. So I say that it's not in any real sense a rural problem. I would like to raise a question, of course, about Mr. Condon's statement, uh, concerning the rural schools. I think a great many rural schools are overcrowded. I know one school in the southeast section of the state of Missouri where the, uh, crowding in the rural school, one-room country school, is quite, uh, pronounced. Uh, there's been an excess of war babies among rural families as well as... Do you think that generally so in the, in the school system in the rural areas? I would hesitate to generalize for the country as a whole, but it's certainly true of some rural schools. Well, to get, uh, back to the city, I think that you'd enjoy hearing about a particular case of a youngster that we're concerned with, an, an exceptional boy in this case, uh, who, uh, when we were planning to take some pictures of our youngsters with the governor of this state, uh, was brought along merely, uh, because he happened to be in the principal's office because the school teacher couldn't handle him. We took him and had his picture taken. He sat on the governor's lap, the finest looking boy you ever saw. In fact, the government said, the governor said to me, he'd like to have that boy. And I said, Governor, you can have him. And as this youngster walked out of this place, lo and behold, a knife, uh, fell out of his pocket. And when we searched him a little further, we found three empty pocketbooks. We don't know where he got them. And he, he, he has ready answers. He's a, he's a boy for, uh, for great potential good or great potential evil. Now, while we're not concerned with that particular youngster in Maine, 95% of our boys are normal boys. But these do concern us. The more you people discuss the problems created for society by the war babies, the greater these problems seem to loom. And before they reach discouraging proportions, I should like to ask, what is being done and, and what can be done to take care of the war babies? Uh, well, I'd like particularly to stress the responsibility of the community to the child. We have mentioned housing, so I won't go into that. But I wonder whether we are really doing all we can to get adequate schooling. If we need the school rooms now, we must work for them. Uh, if we need to have children in good health, we've got to see that there is in, stabilized income. And also, we very greatly need to provide the kind of group experience which will help the child to develop their children. And also, I would like to say that we might open our public schools as community centers and for nursery schools and other uses in areas where other agencies do not exist. I think, too, that we should, uh, we should stop studying this problem and do something about it, because these young future citizens are getting older and more set in their ways. And we should join, as Mr. Taylor intimates, we should join with the schools and the, uh, churches and the parents, and in providing programs that will captivate and hold our interest. And that's the functions of organizations such as ours. We all know that these youngsters live in a world of make-believe. They worship heroes. So the key to our success in this program is to have the right kind of heroes. In this case, the right kind of leadership who aren't satisfied in simply entertaining these boys and girls, but will guide their energies and talents so that they'll mingle naturally with their fellows, engage in constructive activities of their own choosing, in which they are permitted to work at their own pace, and where they will receive recognition for their accomplishments. This is a serious problem, and the manner in which we handle it will profoundly affect us for several generations to come. Well, obviously, there seems to be general agreement on what needs to be done here. Certainly, if the chance to play and run and blow off steam, which is the natural birthright of every normal kid, isn't provided in the home surroundings, then it must be made available elsewhere. There are a number of agencies, as have been mentioned, that can make these facilities available, but the one I know most about is the Chicago Boys Club organization with their clubs and camps. Now, the value of this service, I believe, can best be expressed, we were just speaking of delinquency, in no better terms than a quote from a statement recently made by Lieutenant Zerat, the director of the Youth Bureau of the Chicago Park District, who said, I recently studied 8,000 case histories of socially maladjusted youth who committed every crime from murder down. It was really amazing to learn that of all the 8,000 studied, not one youngster who was actively protesting in boys club activities had ever committed an offense or had ever come to the attention of the Youth Bureau. Now, I'm happy to see that a great many of Chicago business leaders have come to the realization that this is a problem, and have come to recognize that it can be solved, that this bargain in young human beings is really that, and they're engaged in a determined program to make this typically American plan of assistance available in increasing numbers for the boys and girls who need it. Well, I would like to suggest that a long-range program of low-rent public housing be carried out so that by 1960, the great majority, if not all, the lower-income families will be adequately housed. By relieving housing congestion and providing more suitable home conditions, we will be contributing very greatly to the welfare of the oncoming generation who are now the war babies. Supplementing such a housing program would be a more systematic community planning program, which would include, among other things, adequate facilities for recreation for young and old and middle-aged and all alike, for their welfare is a common problem. Ms. Taylor and gentlemen, you have told us a story about an important segment of our population, the six to ten-year-olds, the war babies as you have titled them. We'll all agree that it's a tragic story of a group spawned by the war, a group that has become the victim of an environment that at best could be described as unsettled and full of tragedy. But you have also suggested that some very real steps might be taken to make inroads on this particular problem. Better housing, better school facilities, more teachers and social workers equipped to handle war babies trying to make the post-war adjustment. Public awareness of the problem and support by all of us for the institutions who are now trying to give a break to America's war babies. Thank you, Ms. Taylor, and discussion. What is happening to our war babies? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin, one dollar for the next, and fifty cents for an entire year. University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Noel P. Gist, Leah D. Taylor, Irving Rudolph, and Edward J. Condon. Now our moderator, Leighton Bourne, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand, in the first of a series of two programs devoted to the perennial problem, a housing shortage, discusses the possible effects of extended federal rent controls. You've been listening to the Northwestern Reviewing Stand. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Theöm question. The source of advanced Flint isільed in the term we are aόμα in the archie of the Southwestern Reviewing Stand is due to theute小時's齡 association.
