The harbor of New York City and its great commercial enterprise as the maritime power of the harbor applies into what we familiarly know among railroad towns as ghost towns when a great railroad moves away from a situation or a terminal. And the purpose of this hearing today is to bring out some of the factors involved in this St. Lawrence waterway. Mr. Edward McGuire, Commissioner of your Department of Commerce, will act as Chairman rather, and it seems to me he's about ready to begin. And we now turn the microphone over to Mr. McGuire. Will the meeting come to water, please? At the opening of the meeting, I'd like to refer to a few telegrams and letters that have been received by the mayor yesterday and today. I have here a telegram from L.W. Vaughan, Jr., acting manager of the Norfolk Association of Commerce, Norfolk, Virginia, advising that he strongly supports the position that the people of the city of New York are taking in opposing the St. Lawrence Seaway. I have a letter here addressed to the mayor from Mayor Bernard Samuel of the City of Philadelphia. Among other things, the mayor says you are to be commended on your having called a general meeting at the City Hall, New York, for Tuesday, February 27th, for the purpose of directing public attention to the importance of bringing about the defeat in Congress of the proposed St. Lawrence Seaway and Power Project. We have other telegrams that are referred to in the course of the meeting. Now, I think that we've found over the last number of years that whenever a problem was confronting New York, that among the forefront in fighting for the interests of New York are the man who will speak to you next. I introduce, and it's a great privilege, the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelleteri. Thank you. Commissioner McGuire, gentlemen, once again, supporters of the St. Lawrence Seaway Project have introduced legislation before Congress seeking to authorize its construction. This legislation has been referred to the House Committee on Public Works, and many witnesses already have testified in support of the proposal at public hearings held in Washington. The St. Lawrence Seaway is the most serious threat confronting the business and industry of this city since New York first established its prestige as the leading part of the United States more than 100 years ago. In a report released by the United States Department of Commerce in 1941 covering this project and its effect upon existing harbors, it is blandly stated that the proposed seaway will divert almost 3 million tons of traffic annually away from the port of New York. Frankly speaking, I know of no good reason why New York businessmen in late should sacrifice even the smallest part of their commerce in order to promote what is at best a visionary scheme. I have called the seaway a visionary scheme, and I do so for the reason that its proponents have come up with a totally different reason for its construction each time it has been proposed over the past 30 years. Initially, it was urged as essential to the marketing of American grain in competition with foreign producing centers. Later during the Depression, it was described as a make-work project and a national panacea to relieve unemployment. In 1939, the foregoing reasons were scrapped, and it was argued that the deepened seaway was essential to the all-water movement of domestic commerce between the Great Lakes and North Atlantic ports. Every shipping man knows that the cost of such an all-water movement of domestic freight between the Atlantic seaboard and Great Lakes by way of the Gulf of St. Lawrence would definitely be more expensive than by direct fast rail and truck services operating between these areas. During the last war, the project was again brought up, this time, however, as being essential to our national defense and as offering a protected haven for shipbuilding. This argument was flatly discounted by the fact that all deep-sea shipping within the Great Lakes would be completely immobilized by the destruction of one single lock or the blocking of just one of the connecting channels. The assertion that the seaway would be of assistance to the American farmer in marketing his grain has now been completely forgotten, and the new hue and cry for the project is that the future of the steel industry will be jeopardized unless the seaway is immediately constructed to permit the shipment of iron ore from Labrador to the furnaces of the Great Lakes industrial centers. However, it is significant that the most important of these steel companies already have indicated that regardless of whether the seaway is constructed or not, they are prepared to move the ore by vessel direct to Baltimore and by barge and rail to Cleveland, Buffalo, Pittsburgh, and other steel-making centers. Our friend and competitor, the Port of Baltimore, is already handling large volumes of foreign ore and is expanding its facilities to take care of the increased tonnage that will be arriving from Liberia and Venezuela in the near future. It is expected that the total of such traffic will greatly exceed the ore production of Labrador. Furthermore, surveys indicate that all of the foreign ores, whether from Labrador, Liberia, Venezuela, or other countries, could be unloaded at Baltimore or at any of the North Atlantic ports that are willing to provide the facilities at a cost substantially less than the billion and one-half dollar seaway and without this huge sum being siphoned from the already deflated purse of the American taxpayer. The estimates of tonnage that may be attracted to the deepened seaway have varied just as widely as the reasons for its construction. In 1941, for instance, the United States Department of Commerce estimated that the seaway would handle 10 million tons of the United States and 6 million tons of Canadian waterborne traffic, or a combined total of 16 million tons. In 1948, this same government agency expanded these figures to an estimated total of 57 million to 84 million tons. The estimates of time required to construct the seaway have been just as divergent as the reasons for its construction and estimates of its potential traffic volume. Originally, the United States Army engineers advised that it would take at least eight years to build the locks and dredge the channels. This was later revised to six years. We are now being told that the project can be completed in four years. All of these widely varying guesses indicate that the authors either do not know what they are talking about or are willing to change their figures to whatever extent is necessary to sell the project to Congress and the people of the United States. The basic weakness of every argument put forward to justify the St. Lawrence Seaway has always been the same. Its economic aspects cannot begin to justify the tremendous investment of public funds and the annual cost of operation and maintenance. We on the Atlantic coast recognize that a minimum depth of 35 feet is essential in our port channels for the safe navigation and the operation of our deep-sea ships. anything less than this depth could not be navigated by the majority of vessels of the ocean-going merchant fleet of the United States nor by our larger naval craft. It was estimated by the Office of the Chief of the United States Engineers in 1948 that the total cost to the United States for a 35-foot waterway would be over $1 billion and the additional approach channels serving Great Lakes ports another $230 million. We know full well what has happened to construction costs since 1948 and it is reasonable to expect that the project would cost at least $1.5 to $2 billion if undertaken at this time. In view of its questionable economic value it is just fantastic for this government to seriously consider such a proposal. It is all the more so from the standpoint of the people of New York who are not only asked to pay a substantial part of its cost but also to sacrifice a significant amount of their trade and commerce in order to promote this scheme. There are over 3,000 firms including steamship agents towing companies stevedore contractors freight forwarders customs house brokers ship chandeliers warehousing truckmen and repair yards providing services for the handling of our foreign trade that derive their revenue almost exclusively from the commerce that moves over our peers. Why should any single one of these firms be asked to sacrifice one iota of its business which in most instances has required considerable effort and expenditure to build up over a long and hard period of years? More than $1 billion has been invested in New York's port facilities and services by private capital and by public funds. The city of New York alone has an investment of $250 million in piers and waterfront terminals. We intend to protect these investments. New York is the industrial and business hub of the United States. It is the outstanding commercial center of the Western Hemisphere. The metropolitan area is the greatest in the United States from the standpoint of population employment retail sales income tax payments volume of manufactured products wholesale and retail markets. A large percentage of the country's commerce finance and industry is centered here. Of the 100 largest industrial corporations in the United States 94 are represented in New York City and 41 maintain their head offices here. In New York City are located the offices or headquarters of more than one third of all trade associations and five out of 600 of the country's retail buy-in organizations. It is the foreign trade capital of the country and the world's greatest port. We intend to defend this leadership which is rightfully ours. This project is a matter of deepest concern to all of us and we cannot will not tolerate any proposal intended to divert trade and commerce from the port of New York. On the contrary, it is our purpose to promote an even greater flow of trade and commerce through our office as well as to stimulate business and manufacturing generally. I am sure all of you want the city administration to do everything in its power to further our commercial welfare. We are trying to do many things for business, particularly for our thousands upon thousands of small enterprises. For example, our Department of Commerce through arrangements with the Select Committee on Business of the United States Senate has scheduled a business clinic at the Biltmore Hotel for this coming Friday. This clinic, I am certain, will enable us to develop the right procedure in providing a fair share of defense contract and other federal work to our manufacturers. We invite you all to attend that clinic at the Hotel Biltmore this Friday. Many of the top flight administrators will be with us from Washington to explain these procedures to the businessman of the city of New York. Paramount, however, is the defeat of the St. Lawrence Seaway, fully recognizing the economic disaster that will fall upon our city and upon our port. Should this madcap scheme become an actuality? I strongly urge all our representatives in Congress to fight the Seaway legislation with every possible means at their command. All of us in New York, whether in the ranks of management or of labor, in public office or in private life, should fight this attempt to strike a death blow and our world trade prestige. When the opponents of the Seaway project are heard by the House Committee, New York City will be represented at the hearings. The Commissioner of Commerce of the City of New York will carry to the members of that committee and to the Congress the views of our city on this project and will express our vigorous opposition to it. Thank you very much for your attention. And now Judge McGuire, head of the and chairman of the meeting. I'd like at this time to refer to a telegram sent to Mayor Impeleteri by Mayor Thomas D'Alessandro Jr. of Baltimore. Congratulations on your vigorous opposition to St. Lawrence Seaway. Baltimore also strongly opposes this uneconomic and unjustifiable project which under the guise of national defense would cost over a billion dollars and the vitally needed manpower without compensating benefits to our country. It would cause untold harm to the great seaports of the Atlantic and Gulf. on which the nation depends to sustain its economy in both war and peace. Mayor Thomas D'Alessandro Jr. Now at this time it's a privilege to introduce a man who represents and is speaking here today for the American Federation of the Labor of the City. He represents the Central Trade and Labor Council an organization with probably 500 members 500 affiliated unions and many hundreds of thousands of members. I take great pleasure in introducing to you James Quinn, Secretary of the Central Trades and Labor Council. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mayor Pelletieri, may I at this time say that at a meeting of our executive committee last night our executive boy voted unanimously to reiterate its opposition to the St. Lawrence Seaway. On this discussion of this subject matter the executive board being mindful of the thousands of people that are employed in this city at one of the greatest parts in the United States and I might say in the world. New York City and its facilities here has been complemented not alone in the First World War but in the Second World War in view of its getting out of the shipments here to the armed forces abroad. Our organizations Longshoremen the Teamsters the Seafarers have been complemented by the great work that they performed in this locality during those two wars. Our organization representing 500 unions and 750,000 organized workers want to say to our congressmen that we will call upon them to vote its opposition to this St. Lawrence Seaway. New York, as we are proud, want to continue as we have for the benefit, as his honor has just said, of those men who have invested in this city who are employing our people. We say that shipments out of this port will continue and the workers here will in other terms deliver the goods. We want to say this afternoon there are other speakers here representing our organizations that the Central Trades and Labor Council will continue its efforts against this project because we are of this opinion that it will materially and also for the economic betterment of our city hurt us materially in this locality. Mr. Mayor, I want to assure you that we will do our part in helping to preserve what we have here and to vote our objection to this St. Lawrence Seaway. I wish it were possible for me to advise you how many different organizations business, civic, labor have communicated with us and advise us of the fact that they're supporting the position that's being taken here this afternoon. But it would be an undue burden on your time for me to seek to review them at this time. I will refer only to another telegram from Mayor Morrison, the mayor of the city of New Orleans, who also extends the mayor of New York, and you today, is congratulation upon the fine, vigorous position that you're taking. Now, the Port of New York has been developing over many years. There is no organization that has made a more careful study of the Port and its facilities than the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. We are privileged today to have with us the chairman of the Port Authority, and I'm happy to be able to introduce to you at this time the chairman of the Port Authority, Howard Coleman. Mayor Impeletere, Commissioner McGuire, and other friends and defenders of the Port of New York. I'm glad to be here today to discuss the St. Lawrence Seaway Project. As chairman of the Port of New York Authority, I and my fellow commissioners have followed this hardy perennial for many, many years. The project is a Siamese twin, partly power development and partly navigation. The two are separable. I take no position on the power development phase, but transportation is and very definitely will be our business. For years, my fellow commissioners and I, after careful study, have opposed the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars on a navigation project which has never been justified either by commercial benefits or national defense. We still vigorously oppose it. there has never been any project of the United States which has been the subject of so much propaganda and so little real study or factual evidence. Today, we are told that the seaway is essential to bring an oar to the steel industry of the United States. I'm not a steel man or an ore man, but it's hard for me to swallow that one. New steel plants are going up all over the United States, some on the interior, some on the seaboard. The men who are putting up the money are shrewd enough not to be depending upon a project that has been talked about so long and turned down so many times as the St. Lawrence Seaway. Great new fields of iron ore are being developed to serve these new steel plants, some north of the Great Lakes area in Canada, others in the Western Hemisphere within the limits of our sea and air protective screen. Finally, I look at a recent announcement of the company financing the undeveloped Labrador Quebec ore deposits, which the seaway is supposed to be essential. There I find that the president of the company says that the development will go forward whether the seaway goes through or not. Now, 30 years ago, the seaway was to be the salvation of the American wheat grow, but we hear no more of that argument. After a costly study financed by the United States Treasury, its prime justification in 1941 was supposed to be the movement of trade, between the Great Lakes and the port of New York. We were told that New York would lose a million eight hundred thousand tons of foreign commerce, but we would receive an increase of a million tons of new commerce by water from the Great Lakes, including eggs from Iowa and Nebraska. We took a good look at the map and concluded those eggs would not enjoy a ride by way of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, adding nearly 2,000 miles miles and many days of the journey which they are now accustomed. We haven't heard very much about that and this tremendous volume of new coastwise traffic which in 1941 was to justify the St. Lawrence Seaway. In the Port Authority, as Mayor and Pelletarian Commissioner McGuire know, we're called upon to handle some pretty big construction projects and they really have to be self-supporting over the long pull. We are human and our engineers can underestimate the cost of a project on a rising rocket. We can even overestimate the amount of traffic or the financial return, but we would never stand for the double torque which goes with this proposal to make a seaway out of the St. Lawrence. We are told on the one hand, for coarse estimating purposes, that a St. Lawrence channel through the international rapids and the Great Lakes needs only be 27 feet in depth. At the same time, we are told that the project can be self-supporting because it will attract up to 84 million tons of mostly ore, petroleum and other commodities carrying ocean-going tankers and ore ships per annum. Now, we are continually surveying and recommending to the Army engineers in Congress necessary channel improvements in the port of New York. We know that efficient sea-going ore ships and tankers, as Mayor Impoletarian has already told you, don't operate on 27-foot channels. Even the channels around Staten Island, serving nothing but industrial plants and oil refiners, require a minimum depth of 35 feet in soft material and 37 feet in rock. And that 84 million tons a year which is potential to the St. Lawrence Seaway, the Panama Canal, the largest of our seaways, handles only a little over 25 million tons a year. And the capacity of the St. Lawrence Seaway is completely controlled, if you want to call it by a bottleneck, the Welland Canal. Unbiased estimates based on practical working operations place the Welland capacity at 25 million tons. But again, figuring in mythical figures, our federal boys say the St. Lawrence revenues we hear about will be 84 million. It cannot be done. Our staff has analyzed the St. Lawrence Seaway, the extent possible from the basic cost figures developed by the United States engineers and a practical working knowledge of the movements of waterborne commerce. We conclude that the gap between the annual charges and the reasonable expectations of revenue under any proposed tolls would be about $60 billion a year to the American taxpayers. Let us not forget that the taxpayers of New York State alone pay 20% of these taxes and New York City a substantial amount of the 20%. Our people of New York and New Jersey are being asked to shoulder a new and huge tax burden. Our representatives are being asked to agree to a project which will divert men and materials from real national defense needs. Aren't all of us entitled to a really objective analysis of what is being proposed? Now when the Port Authority undertakes a big new project, the same as any other authority, we hire the most competent independent engineers and analysts that we can find to check the need, the probable use, the revenues, the cost of construction and operation, the debt charge, to see where we come out to evaluate the benefits that will accrue, not only to the users but to the general public. If the project does not prove out, we skip it and forget it. Perhaps such an approach is needed for the St. Lawrence Seaway until we can be shown better and neutral evidence, and I repeat that, neutral evidence, that this old perennial, the St. Lawrence Navigation project has a sounder basis than has been dished up so far in a welder of conflicting facts and assumptions. We are going to oppose it, be it here or Washington or anywhere else with you, Mayor Impoletari. We will continue to testify as to its fallacies. There has been far too much uneducated guessing on the St. Lawrence Seaway project, far too much misinformation from those who are sponsoring the project. In my opinion, it is high time that a dispassionate and intelligent analysis be made as to cost, possible utilization, depth of the proposed Seaway, potential revenues, operating expenses, and savings to users. If the proponents are sincere, what possible valid objection could they or should there be to such a procedure? Thank you very much. Thank you, Chairman. Coleman. I said before that supporting our position as a broad group of civic business and labor groups, organizations. The next speaker is a man who is the director of an outstanding and very well thought of, large CIO union in the city of New York. I look upon this man and his organization as thoroughly representative of the thought of the membership of the CIO in the city of New York. I'm privileged to present to you now as our next speaker, Mr. Pat McGrath, the director of the Utility Workers of America. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Mayor and citizens, I'm going to try and boil down what I have to say to about five or six minutes because that's the limit that I think that was given to me at this particular time. I want to say on behalf of the Utility Workers Union of America CIO that we are opposed to the St. Lawrence Seaway, primarily because of the fact that the development of the St. Lawrence Seaway will take away from New York City business, take it somewhere else, and take this city that we grew up in and that we love and that we like, put it in the nature of a deserted village, give the business to someplace else. Now I don't know how you can grow up here and live here and be part of this great cultural and historic center and subscribe to the kind of a job that is now proposed as far as the St. Lawrence Seaway is concerned. In our judgment, if there are any benefits, that's very difficult to find out as far as the development of this seaway is concerned, if the effect is some people in some remote part of the United States, we feel that the harm that would be done due to the dislocation of labor and commerce in this city, whatever little good might be done for an isolated few would be much more offset by the harm would be done to this place where we live and the people that we represent. And God knows if we didn't represent an organization at all, or a group of people, we'd still have pride in promoting the welfare and the benefit and the culture that this city has given to all nations and all people. Now I have to read some figures in connection with this particular development. And I quote from some sources here that I think are very compelling in our determination as far as labor is concerned. The Port of New York Authority has testified that the diversion of grain and general cargo from the Port of New York would affect at a minimum the livelihood of 200,000 people and a maximum of 600,000. I think that's related to the difference between depth of 25 and 35 foot. Again, Carl Huntress, chairman of the National St. Lawrence Conference, estimated based on government figures that the loss in railroad wages would range from $1 million to $250 million annually. In New York State alone, there are 132,780 railroad workers with annual wages of $414,800,000. And it goes without saying, should the New York railroads become bankrupt because of the success of the St. Lawrence waterway, there would be quite a problem and dislocation for the people involved in the railroad industry in New York State and in New York City. In our judgment, should the St. Lawrence project be approved tomorrow, its impact will be felt the next day in New York City. Now, here we have a city that at the present time is the nub and the center of commerce between the northern part of the United States and Europe. And certainly, every day and every week, you read a great industry and big industry coming into New York City. New big projects being developed in Madison Avenue, Lexington Avenue, and all over the city. That represents millions of dollars to the building trades, to commerce, to labor, and the welfare of the people in general. Now, I think, if I were a businessman and had the thought of coming to New York to avail myself of the export and import facilities that are available here, and should I find out in the morning that this St. Lawrence Seaway, or iceway as some people call it, if that were developed, I would pause. I would stop. And certainly, I'm sure that if it was passed in the morning, there would be curtailment of the construction activities in this city, as far as new business is concerned. And I am sure, too, that as time went along, that the situation would get progressively worse as far as the extension of the commerce of New York is concerned. Which, of course, you know, when you make that kind of curtailment, affects labor. Now, I have a particular interest, apart from being a citizen in this particular business, because representing some 30,000 people in this city, I think we're concerned about the third biggest in the CIO. I don't know how high we fit in with the air for Belgium, but we do have to carry on this expansion program of the city and the needs of the people, some 7,000 people in that particular facet of the business. We do have, and we work in conjunction with, 150,000 skilled people in the building trades, skilled people in the city of New York. And certainly, if you curtailed the expansion of the city, if you'd done nothing else, if there was no new construction but maintenance, you would affect that 7,000 of my people, and you certainly would affect the 150,000 people in the skilled construction trades of the AFV. And certainly, we don't want to give effect to anything to help that kind of a situation. My God, I like to think that what we should be doing is not defending, Mr. Mayor, our position. We should have been there before, looking for maybe a quarter of a billion to further expand our facilities, and to entice new business from Europe and from other parts of the country. Instead of defending a situation now, here and now, we're at a maximum, according to the figures that you can read by experts, where some 750,000 people, wage earners and their family may be put out of business by this St. Lawrence Waterway. Now, as part of this St. Lawrence Seaway development, there's a load, a little bit of pie in the sky held out to all the people, as related to public power. That power will be made available as a result of this particular development, and the power so made available will be essential and helpful to the war effort. And the nature of the amount of power that's going to be made available, incidentally, is some 570,000 kW kilowatts on an all-year-round basis. There are certain peaks that you can raise above that particular point. But what are the facts in respect to that 570,000 kW? What does it mean in real life to all the people? Now, actually, here in New York, private industry has got about 2,500,000 kW at any one moment, and they hit that peak in last December. And I believe the mayor and his plans has got somewhere between 6 or 3,400,000 kW in the Board of Transportation. So that this 500,000, and there's no guarantee that New York will get it, it may be spread between three states. If it's spread out, my God, the average consumer, or even one consumer down in New York City, wouldn't get enough to get half lit. That's how small it is. Now, as compared to that big job that's been sold to us that will take six or seven years to develop, as far as I read, although I heard somebody else mention four or five years, compared to that 500,000 or half a million kW that will take four or five years or six or seven to construct and make available, we have, through private industry here in New York City, in conjunction with the Building Trades Council, who have built a job starting in last year, we have made available from, I believe, February or January of last year, some 300,000 kW of new power. And by the end of the fall of next year, we'll be added to that 400,000 kW of new power. In other words, 700,000 kW. Now, that's just part of a $500 million program that's going along in this city. And when somebody tries to give you the lure to meet the war effort, you've got to subscribe to something because of cheap power that will take six or seven years. And when you are doing a job here in New York City, where you have developed within a two-year period some 700,000 kW and a continuing process of construction that means work for the people of New York City, that means taxes to the mayor, I don't know how we can subscribe to this 500,000 kW that may be spread between New York and Pennsylvania. Of course, I understand that Maine is out because of some mean disposition on their part. But again, I want to remind you that the part of the lure in this whole job has been that particle of power that is dangled in front of the people in the name of cheap power. And I don't want to go into figures, but I think somewhere as I read that what it would mean to the average consumer is about a twentieth of a cent per month throughout the state of New York. And that would mean in turn if you average 100 kW consumer about five cents a month saving. And of course, the taxes to do this kind of a job might be ten and certainly, well, you don't want to foul your own nest, if you know what I mean. You don't want to pay taxes to put New York City out of business and the skilled tradesmen and the utility people and all the other people that we grew up with and we know and we like. Now, we have another interest in this thing that I might throw in here for a minute. And that particular interest is that as far as the AFL and CIO unions represent the light and power industry, we are definitely in favor of private ownership. It's been our experience. God knows we don't agree too often with the IBEW, but the one thing we do agree on is that that's that particular point. And I think it arises from the fact that from our experience throughout the country, we have found that we can do more for people. We've got more untrammeled rights. We've got unlimited collective bargaining. We've got better rates of pay. And when we have those conditions for the people that we represent, we're for the people. And we're not for any funny statistics or anything else. We are, again, I want to say that I can't understand anybody in this city of New York who has grown up here. The melting part of all nations. The most tolerant city, I think, in the entire world. I don't know how anyone in this city could subscribe to some kind of a fantasy like the development of the St. Lawrence Waterway. The effect of which would be, again, to throw our people, our citizens, our neighbors, and back up the city. We don't subscribe to that. And, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Mayor, for the reasons that I've stated, we are unaudibly opposed to the development of the St. Lawrence Seaway. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. McGrath. We're fortunate today in having an outstanding representative of the American Merchant Marine Institute present with us. He's a man that knows his business. He's followed his trade for many, many years. He's presently executive vice president of the Moore McCormick Lions. It's a great privilege for me to introduce to you, Commodore Robert C. Lee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor. I regret very much that the death of Mrs. Taylor has made it necessary for me to appear here in Frank Taylor's place to present the views of the American Merchant Marine Institute. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are an assembly of steamship owners, American steamship owners. All of our property, or most of it, can move under its own power to wherever we please to take it. If there were any sense from a business and navigational point of view in this St. Lawrence Seaway, we would be for it. It is only natural that the shipping industry would be interested in any waterway that would promote trade and the use of ships. On this account, American shipping has been studying the St. Lawrence Seaway project ever since it was first proposed over 50 years ago. If there were any advantages to be derived from such a waterway, American shipping would be the first industry to discover them and be urging its construction. But over a half a century, no matter how many changes have been made in the project or how many arguments its proponents have put forth, the fact remains that the Seaway would not benefit in the slightest the American Merchant Marine, but would rather be a decided detriment not only to the shipping but to the nation as well. Our studies of the St. Lawrence Seaway have established these facts. The Seaway would not be of any assistance to the American Merchant Marine as virtually all steamship companies do not contemplate using it, even if it were built. The use of the Seaway would not be of any assistance to the American Merchant Marine as well. The use of the Seaway by low-cost foreign-flagged ships carrying cargoes diverted from Atlantic and Gulf ports will greatly reduce the employment of American ships and American seamen. The diversification of traffic from the Atlantic and Gulf ports will seriously impair their development and render them less useful as a major military shipping center in the event of war. The navigational disadvantages and hazards of the Seaway are so numerous as to make the entire project impractical and imprudent. In 1947, Senator Bailey, Chairman of the Committee on Interstate Commerce, addressed a letter to 32 prominent American shipping lines, inquiring whether they thought they would use the proposed Seaway. Thirty of the 32 replied positively that they would not use the Seaway. One reply was noncommittal, and the remaining sole operator—and I think I was it—expressed the opinion that possibly he would send his ships through the Seaway. And I'm sure I said occasionally. It should be kept in mind that Senator Bailey made his poll at the time when the American companies were seeking to expand their post-war operations, yet only one company displayed any interest whatsoever in the Seaway. Despite that, for 30 years I've been speaking against it. The principal reason why American shipping lines would not use the Seaway is that their vessels could not be accommodated because of the limited draft proposed by the Seaway. The 27-foot canals and channels mean that ships can operate only with a draft of about 24 to 25 feet. With such restrictions as to size, 91% of the American merchant marine would be barred from using. The finest and best ships in our fleet would never traverse the Great Lakes. Because of the high labor costs under American flag operations, these ships must be operated to capacity loads, which would be impossible through the proposed St. Lawrence Seaway. High costs compel American ship owners to rely principally on vessels of great capacity and consequently deep draft. The suggestion has been made that a greater number of American ships could use the Seaway if they would only partially load. The first time they would be loaded. Sometimes ships are required by reason of schedule to sail, although they are not fully loaded. But no operator, American or foreign, would find it economically feasible to be forced to accept the fact that all his ships must sail all the time, only partially laden. American ships, which already has such competitive disadvantage as high wages, high construction and maintenance costs, higher standards of living and working conditions on its vessel, cannot be saddled with another handicap, such as sailing with ships only partially laden. It has been frequently asked why American operators cannot build shallow draft vessels suitable for the depth of the proposed channel. This cannot be done because of the enormously high costs of American shipbuilding and operation. A small vessel requires almost the same size crew as a large vessel, yet can carry perhaps one third and earn one third more revenue. Construction costs of the smaller vessel is disproportionately higher per ton. You'll notice that all small ships practically nowadays are foreign. You can't afford them. It becomes apparent that such a Seaway would be used almost exclusively by foreign flagged ships of a size and draft that can be accommodated. Those few American ships that could use the Seaway could not cope with the competition furnished by low-cost foreign ships. Even the proponents of the Seaway admit that cargoes originating in the Middle West, which are now exported to Atlantic and Gulf ports, would leave via the Great Lake ports. This means that steamship companies attempting to maintain service out of Atlantic and Gulf ports would have to reduce the scope of their operations, and certainly during the seven months of the year when the Seaway would be ice-free and in operation. As high-cost operators, American lines would necessarily bear the brunt of such reductions in its service. Some overseas trade routes would be hit harder than others by this diversion, and on these it is entirely possible that American shipping would disappear completely. It all means that fewer American ships would be in operation and thousands of Americans seem unemployed. ...ports whose facilities would go into the state of decline and whose development would cease as a result of such reduced usage. Such a situation would have dire consequences in time of emergency, when seaports possessing facilities for handling great movements of men and material are of the utmost importance to the military establishment. Seaports that have the easiest access to the ocean invariably become the biggest and best ports, particularly in time of war when speed is the vital factor. On this account, remote inland ports a thousand or more miles from the ocean that can only be reached after time-consuming trips through torturous channels would be of little use to the military in their effort to rush men and supplies to the overseas war. As stated at the outset, American shipping is in favor of developing any waterway that will help this nation's commerce. It is constantly recommending to Congress harbor and river improvements that will further this aim. The St. Lawrence Seaway is one project that it cannot and will not recommend. To place the St. Lawrence Seaway in the same class as the Panama and Suez canals as contributing to shipping is ridiculous. The two great canals materially increase the volume of world trade by shortening ship voyages, but no such claims can be justified for the St. Lawrence. The clamor and pleading that world shipping made for the construction of the Suez and Panama Canal are today matched by apathy and opposition for the seaway. Surely the potential users of a waterway are the best judges of the need of such a project, and the seaway cannot only be regarded by shipping men as unnecessary. If the seaway were only unnecessary, it would be reason enough for the American shipping to oppose it. But of even greater concern are the harmful effects upon the American merchant marine and the national defense where the seaway built. The active fleet and the seagoing personnel would be reduced and thus weaken the American merchant marine as an arm of our defense. The seaports on the Atlantic and Gulf Coast, sap by the loss of traffic diverted through the Great Lakes, could no longer be counted upon in an emergency. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, we are opposed to this project. Thank you, Commodore Lee. We've heard these expressions of thought, and it's quite natural that we want to crystallize them. For that purpose, I recognize Mr. George Mace and ask him to step to the restroom. All right, if you will. Mr. Mayor, I have a resolution here that I would like to have considered and passed. I would like to have a resolution to the rest of the state of New York and the nation as a whole, because the many millions of dollars already invested and many millions projected for improvements in the port of New York and in ports of other communities along the Atlantic seaboard, and in the Gulf area would be imperiled and might result in some instances of the bankruptcy of some of the communities involved. Two, construction and maintenance of the project would engender gross waste of public funds, since the benefits claimed, if actually attained, would accrue to a comparatively small segment of the United States, while the nation as a whole would suffer immeasurably through disruption of existing transportation facilities, and also would be saddled with a tremendous tax bill to pay for the benefit of the few. Third, diversion of foreign trade and shipping from the port of New York and from communities along the eastern seaboard and the Gulf area, which would be bound to ensue, would compel many employers to close down their businesses and throw out of jobs many thousands of workers in foreign trade and allied industries, along with thousands of others who would be affected indirectly and displaced. Fourth, the American merchant marine would be set back tremendously and thousands of merchant seamen made jobless because only foreign flags, the American merchant seamen made jobless, and the American merchant ships would be set back to the seaway and would take away cargoes of freight now transported by American ships in regular line service. Five, support of the project under its present guise of defense necessity is without foundation either as a military or economic factor, since most of the proposed seaway would be vulnerable to attack from the air and sabotage by land, while weather conditions which compel closing of the St. Lawrence to traffic in the winter months would make it inaccessible during those periods. Six, as to the urgency of the project being based on the need for transporting iron ore from a field in Labrador that has not as yet been opened. Four and two, one owner in the United States, presumably to augment a far from depleted supply coming steadily from ample deposits in the United States and Venezuela, even if the need for getting iron ore from Labrador were real, all rail transportation combined with several seasonal use of existing water route facilities would provide year-round service as against a top of seven months a year via the seaway. Seven, the efforts of proponents of the seaway who, having failed over many years to win approval, first by labeling it as an aid to Midwest wheat growers and then as an important to Great Lakes navigation, now tied up to the national emergency, are hereby condemned as a self-serving subterfuge. And be it further resolved that the organizations and individuals participating in this mass meeting heartily commend and endorse the leadership of Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, the President of the Secretary of State of the State of New York, the Secretary of State of New York, the Secretary of State of New York, in opposing the St. Lawrence Seaway project, and further resolved that the chairman of this meeting have copies of these resolutions forwarded to the President of the United States, members of his cabinet, members of Congress, the Governor of the State of New York, and the governors of all other states, members of the New York State of New York State Legislature, the New York City Board of Estimate, and the City Council, and further resolved that this meeting be designated as a meeting of a citizens' committee in opposition to the St. Lawrence Seaway, and that the chairman of this meeting be designated to speak for the City of New York at hearings before appropriate congressional committees, and that he also be authorized to appoint representatives of the various groups here gathered to act as a steering committee for continuation of such citizens' committee in a program of cooperation with the mayor and others determined to defeat the St. Lawrence Seaway project. I move the adoption of that resolution. Do I have a second? Mr. Joseph Ryan, President of the ILA. Chairman, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Before you put that motion... I'm left just a minute, please. There's a motion there. The mayor has seconded the motions on the floor. Pardon, sir? No, it hasn't as yet, sir. Mr. Ryan has risen as I understand it. Yes, yes. Would you please... I represent... Would you please let us conduct this thing in the... Yes. ...in orderly way, sir? If you'll give me an opportunity to work... I'm not sure, sir. What is the... The whole thing I would like to do is on behalf of the Atlantic People Waterways Association of Philadelphia, who asked me to prepare for them before Congress, and there have been certain points that haven't been brought up that I feel certainly that you would be anxious to have incorporated in your resolution. We'll see what the will of the meeting is, sir. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, and members of the organizations that are here today to oppose this legislation. I don't want to inject myself in the program because when Jimmy Quinn, Secretary of the Central Trade and Labor Council speaks, he speaks for all the affiliated American Federation of Labor organizations. But our organization is vitally interested, has been interested since this fantastic legislation that the mayor very properly tabbed at has been introduced. We are very happy that the mayor of this city took cognizance of the fact without us asking to do it. We're very happy that this group are here, seriously interested in it, because they seem to feel that now, with the world conditions as they are, they can slip it over. So I think that we should all watch it very carefully. All legislative agents are here, and they will attend every hearing, cooperate with the chairman if this resolution is adopted, and let us let them know in Washington that they better stop trying to pass this fantastic scheme over on us. Can I take the motion a second? Now, gentlemen, the time is growing late. Yes? Surely, sir. I want to invite you to hear it only for those who are opposed to the human rights. Well, everybody that was invited here and who has communicated with us has expressed the fact that they are in support of the proposal. Now, as a matter of getting the will of the people, I see, ladies and gentlemen, you've heard the resolution that's duly seconded. All those in favor will signify by saying aye. Aye. All those opposed? Aye. Resolution is carried and so on. Now, motion for adjournments in order. Adjourn. Adjourn. Radio's microphones have brought to you the important hearing today on the matter of the St. Lawrence Seaway, which by its adoption and construction would make a ghost town of one of the greatest harbors in the world, the harbor of New York City, with its over 550 miles of bulk headline and the tremendous employment in all the various trades and industries and facets of trade and industry that are represented in the great commerce and industry picture of the city of New York. Led by the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable Vincent Impeletarian, distinguished speakers, you have heard the discourse from the council chamber in city hall and the unanimous adoption by the assembled trade unions, trade councils and all those concerned with the labor and industry and prosperity of this great and wonder city of New York and the good and welfare of the maritime history of New York and its progress and development as an employment agency for the people of the city of New York. We have brought to you this program as a public service in the public service programs of your city station whose microphones keep you thoroughly informed at all times of any cross civics, cross section rather in civics whereby you might be affected by any legislation that would affect the integrity, the prosperity and the supremacy of the city of New York as a great commercial and industrial center. That is all from the council chamber in city hall. We return you to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system.