Tonight we present the six of our meetings of the Morrisania Mott Haven panel series. This meeting will cover a very important phase of the general problem of food and nutrition. Some of our fellow men live only to eat. They, as wise old Solomon in the Bible says, dig their graves with their teeth. Tonight we want to appeal to all to eat to live, that is to eat wisely. And one of the first steps in food wisdom is a knowledge of the value of vitamins in food. Discovered first only 30 or 40 years ago, fair utilization and proper use has been of an estimable advantage to the human race. So tonight we are bringing you a very complete discussion of vitamins by very eminent workers and authorities in this field. And we will have the subject very thoroughly covered by the speaker. Naturally, the first speaker will discuss for you what are the symptoms in the human being of deficiency of various vitamins. And the speaker who will cover this part of our evening's discussion will be Dr. John Bookman, who is supervisor of clinics of the Bureau of Nutrition of the City Department of Health. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to present to you Dr. John Bookman. Dr. Bookman. Dr. John Bookman. Dr. John Bookman. Dr. John Bookman. I amrock of professors inpezis, vigor, drone licenses, and radio in reminding us that we're entering into the second half of this century. And many articles have appeared showing the remarkable advances that have been made in many fields of human endeavor. Our scientific knowledge of the role of vitamins in human nutrition falls into much the same span of time. time. However, even well before 1900, symptoms and signs of many of these diseases, which we now know to be caused by vitamin deficiencies, were described. Some of these diseases were given their present name long before 1900, and the effective methods of treating some of them had been found. But what caused the diseases and why the treatment worked was completely unknown. As examples of this, we know of the disastrous effects of scurvy among sailors on long voyages, and these effects have been well described in the 16th and 17th century writings of various explorers and physicians. The use of lemon and lime juice for the prevention of this disease dates back to that time. In much the same way, beriberi, now known to be caused by lack of vitamin B1 or thiamine, was known as far back as the 16th century. The first knowledge that it too was related to diet again came amongst a group of sailors, this time those of the Japanese Navy. Their diet consisted of rice, and it was noted that by adding other foods to the diet, the high incidence of this disease could be prevented. At the turn of the century, work by a group of Dutch physicians showed that something present in the husks of rice was effective in preventing beriberi. In 1911, Casimir Frunk attempted to isolate in pure form the substance responsible for beriberi. In the course of this work, he recognized that they were present in true substances other than sugars and fats and proteins which were needed by the body. He coined the word vitamin at that time, and he took a rather smart guess at the fact that possibly scurvy, pellagra, and he presumed possibly rickets might also be found to be caused by a similar lack of some substance in the diet. In the ensuing 40 years, as you're all well aware, the importance of vitamins in human nutrition and disease has progressed in almost snowball fashion. We've gone through several phases in the development of our knowledge of the role of the vitamins, though it's probable that none of them are as yet completed. Initially, workers in this field were busy discovering the vitamins. Following this was the application of this discovery to the cure of specific diseases. This was soon followed by an attempt at using vitamins for a wide variety of diseases. Many signs, many symptoms, which were common to some of the deficiency diseases. Some of these attempts were with much justification. Others, however, were made on very tenuous grounds. In any discussion of the symptoms produced by lack of a specific vitamin, or the converse, the cure of a symptom by a vitamin, one has to be cautious in interpreting the results. Thus, the black skin of seen in pellagra, due to a lack of niacin, is striking both in its development and in its cure. But, on the other hand, the vague symptoms of headache and fatigue, which can occur with such a thing as thiamine deficiency, are not always the result of such a deficiency. And hence, their failure to disappear on the administration of this vitamin only points to the fact that there is a large group of non-specific symptoms, which are found in many diseases. The vast majority of the work done in elucidating the role of vitamins in disease has started to a certain extent by trying to produce the disease in animals. As a result, a number of vitamins have been discovered, which, to date, seem of nutritional importance to various species of animals, but as yet have not definitely been shown to be of any importance in the human. Amongst these vitamins are vitamin E, pyridoxine, or vitamin B6, pantothenic acid, inositol, biotin, choline, and paraminobenzoic acid. Today, of undisputed importance in the human diet are the fat-soluble vitamins A, B, and K, and the water-soluble vitamins C, thiamine, riboflavin, and nicotinic acid. Deficiency symptoms of vitamin A are largely found in the eyes and in the skin. One of the first eye symptoms is night blindness. In this condition, an individual adjusts to dim light very slowly. When a person enters a dimly lit movie theater from the brightly lit lobby, such individuals may have to wait quite a period of time before being able to make out an empty seat or distinguish features within the theater. With increasing severity of the deficiency, further eye symptoms develop. These include thickening and cloudiness of the surface of the eyes, with the eventual formation of ulcers on the surface of the eye. In addition, small triangular spots can be noted on either side of the pupil. These are known as betot spots. The skin lesions that are seen include dryness and scaliness of the skin. This is seen especially over the shins. Small elevations appear about the hairs, which gives the skin the appearance of a permanent goose flesh. A similar type of dryness and hardness is seen in the mucous membrane. That's the kind of skin that is found in the linings of the body, such as inside the mouth and the bronchi and the trachea. It is this factor which has led to vitamin A being called the anti-infective vitamin. With these changes in the inside skin, the tissues become somewhat more susceptible to invasion by various germs. However, there has been very little evidence to show that this vitamin will prevent infections without these marked changes of this special type of skin being present. The lack of sufficient amounts of vitamin D leads to rickets in the infant and small child and osteomalacia in the adult. Vitamin D is concerned primarily with the body's absorption of calcium and phosphorus, which are the substances from which bone is largely made. In the infant, the symptoms of deficiency of this disease are relatively few. You will note that the child may sweat profusely, may be a good deal of restlessness. The muscles may seem flabby. But the number of signs of the disease as distinguished from the symptoms is quite large. Because of the disorder of bone growth, you will note that there are softening of the bones of the skull with prominences of the ridges above the eyes. You will see various deformities of the chest with the production of a funnel chest and so-called chicken breast. They also develop a condition known as a rachytic rosary. This is an enlargement and beating of the ends of the ribs where they join onto the breastbone. There is also bowing of the legs, which is fairly common. If the teeth have not fully developed yet, there will be poor development of the teeth. Severe deficiencies lead to a still further complication known as tetany. In this, you find spasms of muscles and severe convulsions. In the adult, the symptoms are somewhat different because the bones have already grown to their full length and developed completely. The disease here due to a lack of vitamin D is called osteomalacia, which means a softening of the bones. In the adult, the symptoms may include weakness, pain in the bones, particularly those of the legs and the back. There is a tendency for relatively minor injuries to produce a fracture of the bone. And as in the infant, tetany may also develop. The last of the fat-soluble vitamins essential for man is vitamin K. Deficiency symptoms of this vitamin, because of a poor diet, have rarely been found in man because the bacteria, which are always present within the intestines, manufacture a sufficient quantity to protect him. This vitamin is primarily concerned with the normal coagulation and clotting of the blood, and its deficiency leads to an abnormal amount of bleeding. This vitamin is of particular importance in two main groups of individuals. The one is the newborn infant who tends to be deficient in the vitamin, and hence may have a tendency to bleeding, with resulting internal hemorrhages, usually due to the trauma during birth. The other is in those individuals who are unable to absorb the vitamin from the intestine. This latter is found especially in people who have jaundice, and less frequently in people who are unable to digest fats properly. It has been previously mentioned that the symptoms of scurvy and its prevention by lime juice dates back several centuries. Yet the discovery of vitamin C and its isolation in pure form as a responsible factor for scurvy has all been the product of the last 25 years. The symptoms of scurvy are dependent upon its action in the body. Essentially, it acts to bind the cells of the small blood vessels together and the tissue cells elsewhere. In fact, it has been called a cement substance in the body. Because an infant's tissues are growing and developing very rapidly, it has a great need for this substance, and as a result, scurvy is not infrequently seen in infancy. It usually tends to appear towards the end of the first year. The symptoms at first are vague. There's a loss of appetite, a failure to gain weight, a mild diarrhea. The child appears pale, apathetic, listless, cries readily, fails to play, fails to seem happy, cries when approached. The tissues are flabby, and the muscles tend to be soft. The characteristic lesions are found in the gums, in the bones, in the muscles, and in the skin. The gums appear swollen, reddish purple in color, and bleed quite easily. Swellings may appear about a limb very suddenly, due to hemorrhages between the bone and the special kind of skin that covers the bone. These swellings tend to be painful and tender. Hemorrhages beneath the skin are found, and hemorrhages can occur within any part of the body. Anemia and fever develop. If the condition is uncorrected, death ensues. In the adult, the picture has some slight variations. Hemorrhages into the skin and muscles are more common than around the bones. Edema, or fluid within the tissues of the face and legs, appears. The gums may become so swollen as to hide the teeth. Weakness, weight loss, and anemia can develop rapidly. All these are the symptoms of the most acute forms of the disease. In its mildest forms, the only symptoms noted may be slight swelling of the gums, bleeding when the teeth are brushed. There may be minute hemorrhages about the hair follicles of the skin. In this form, a mild anemia may also be present. Wounds may tend to heal rather slowly. Of the B group of vitamins, three have been separated which are essential for the human in health. These are thiamine, nicotinic acid, and riboflavin. And each of these produces a rather distinctive group of signs and symptoms. Beriberi is the disease caused by lack of thiamine. Generally, the disease is one of long, slow progression. Though acute forms with sudden death may be seen, especially in the infant. Lack of this vitamin affects primarily the nervous and muscular systems and the heart. In the chronic form, the initial symptoms again may be rather vague for a long period of time. They may include weakness, fatigue, especially on exertion, irritability, slight loss of weight, loss of strength and appetite, a rapid heartbeat, tenderness and pain of the muscles, especially those of the legs. As the disease progresses, it may take one of two forms, either the dry or the wet type. In the dry type, the disease primarily affects the nerves and muscles. These people develop tingling of the hands and feet with loss of reflexes. There's numbness of the skin and paralysis and wasting of the muscles of the extremities. In the wet type, the tissues starting in the legs become filled with fluid so that in extreme cases, the entire body may become filled with fluid. In both of these types, the heart may eventually be affected, causing a very rapid pulse, shortness of breath, and a regular heartbeat, and heart failure. In the infant, as has been mentioned, the onset may not be noted until shortly before death. In these cases, the development of the heart symptoms can be very rapid, ending in heart failure and death. Pallagra is a disease due to a lack of nicotinic acid. It has been called the disease of the four Ds, dermatitis, diarrhea, dementia, and death. This gives a clue to the symptoms found since they involve the skin, the gastrointestinal tract, and the nervous system. Again, as in so many diseases, there may be a long period characterized by rather vague symptoms of weakness, lassitude, headache, insomnia, memory loss, indigestion, intermittent, mild diarrhea, and constipation, and nervousness. The skin lesions are found primarily at those sites which are exposed to sunlight or slight irritation. They are most commonly seen on the neck, the hands, the wrists, the elbows, the knees, and the feet. They're usually found in a similar position on either side of the body. The skin lesions are sharply demarcated from the surrounding normal skin and consists of a reddening which becomes scaly and then darkly pigmented. Following this, the skin becomes thick and wrinkled. The intestinal lesions involve the mouth, the tongue, and the intestine. The tongue becomes red and swollen and ulcers develop on it. The same type of lesion is found about the lips, the gums, and the palate. In the affected area, there is a considerable burning which becomes aggravated by hot or spicy foods. The intestinal symptoms are those of a watery diarrhea or mild constipation. There's usually a loss of appetite and there may be nausea that may be vomiting. The nervous symptoms are primarily those of mental changes. There are frequently episodes of depression, apprehension, hallucinations, and confusion are not uncommon. In its most severe form, lyrium is seen. The last of the B group of importance in producing deficiency symptoms is man, is riboflavin. The symptoms of this deficiency disease are found largely in the eyes, the skin, and the tissues about the mouth. As in the other deficiency states of the B group, there may be a long period of nonspecific symptoms. Loss of appetite, light weight loss, weakness, burning sensations in the eyes, the skin, the lips. All these may occur before any of the objective findings will be noted. The most characteristic lesion is a cracking and a fissuring at the corners of the mouth. This is accompanied by a redness of the lips and an increase in the vertical lines of the lower lips. The tongue develops a rather peculiar purple-magenta color and appears somewhat smooth. Superficial ulcerations of the tongue may occur. The skin lesions which are found occur mainly about the nostrils, about the eyes, and about the ears. And it consists of a somewhat fine, somewhat greasy scaliness. The eyes tend to burn, itch, and tear. It tends to be an inflammation of the eyelids. Any tiny new blood vessels grow across the outer surface of the eyeball. Those, in general, are the symptoms which are found in the acute deficiency states of the vitamins which are essential for man. In describing these symptoms, there are several points that must be kept in mind. In the first place, as I have said, those symptoms are those of the single, full-blown disease. Today, in most parts of the country, it is rare to see such patients in our hospital. As a rule, no individual is so completely deficient in his diet that he receives no vitamins at all. Hence, the severity of the symptoms described will depend on how long the patient has been on a lessened intake of the specific vitamin vitamin, and what the extent of the decrease in intake has been. Secondly, the production of symptoms is further complicated by the fact that it is rare to see a single vitamin deficiency disease picture. Generally speaking, when an individual is not taking in a sufficient quantity of one vitamin, there is a good chance that he is not taking in or is lacking part of another vitamin. Therefore, the disease symptoms produced may be the sum of a number of vitamin deficiencies. The corollary to this, of course, is that when an individual is taking a good diet, his symptoms will generally not be those of a vitamin deficiency. hence it is not surprising that the use of vitamins in treating symptoms similar to some of those described when they are not due to a deficiency disease meets the failure. Thank you very much, Dr. Bookman. You have heard this opening part of our panel on the symptoms of vitamin deficiency. We shall now have the panel continued with a presentation on the prevention and treatment of these deficiencies. And the speaker who will next address you will be Dr. Norman Jollip. Dr. Jollip is one of the leading authorities in the country on the subject of vitamins and the various phases and is also director of the Bureau of Nutrition of our own City Department of Health. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to present to you Dr. Jollip. Ladies and gentlemen, I think before discussing the prevention of deficiency diseases, it would be a very good idea for you to get a conception of the extent of the problem. If deficiency diseases are so infrequent that no one sees them, then our problem of prevention or of treatment is not of serious proportion. On the other hand, if the deficiency diseases are fairly common, common, say, as the common cold, then it would be a tremendous problem for us to face. Fortunately, we have a fairly good idea in New York State as to the prevalence of deficiency diseases. For we had reported in, last summer, in the Journal of Nutrition, the results of a survey of New York State, including our own study, of approximately 10,000 school children in the fourth and the tenth grade. Now, this survey revealed some very interesting findings. For example, if we want to take the prevalence of deficiency diseases as undoubted signs of malnutrition, not symptoms, but of anatomical, physical changes that can be seen by the naked eye or felt with the fingers, disease, then these authors reported that there were undoubted signs of deficiency diseases in 10% of these children surveys in New York State. That is in the fourth and the tenth grade children. These authors also stated that if they would include the questionable signs, signs in, of which the doctors disagree, then the prevalence of these signs might amount to as high as 50% of the children surveyed. But 10% is a terrific incident. There is probably no other disease other than old age that will give you that high a prevalence in the population at any one time. now what is the reason for this? Now of course there are many reasons for the prevalence of deficiency disease. The most common reason is of course an inadequate or an unsatisfactory intake of these nutrients. That is not the sole reason. Now what did these same people find as to the intake of nutrients of these 10,000 people that they surveyed? Well New York State is a very fortunate state. It is one of our richest states. Income is very high compared to many other states. We are an agricultural state. we have one of the highest consumptions of milk and of fruits and of vegetables of any state in the union. We also have standards. We also have a yardstick by which we can measure the intake of nutrients. Whether these nutrients are satisfactory for optimum health. Now using these National Research Council yardsticks of a satisfactory diet, we find that the fourth grade pupils in the entire state, only 22% have a satisfactory diet. That's in the fourth grade pupils. New York City, however, 28% of our fourth grade pupils have a satisfactory diet. It's better than the state as a whole. Now let us see what happens in the tenth grade. Here we have to separate the boys from the girls. That's about the second year high school, isn't it, tenth grade? Here the 21% of the boys have a satisfactory diet. 25% in New York City. Of the girls, however, only 12% have a satisfactory diet. In New York City, 15%. So New York City is slightly better in all respects for our fourth grade and our tenth grade children than the entire state. Now we have some data also upon adults. so we have broken adults down in the three groups. The pregnant women. In the state, only 4% of the pregnant women have a satisfactory diet. And in New York City, it is slightly worse than in the state as a whole. 3% of our pregnant women have a diet that is considered by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council as satisfactory. And remember that they are the people who are daring our children and our children start their health and their nutrition during the prenatal stage. All right, let's see what our homemakers. These are the non-pregnant women that are running around. Well, they're considerably better than the pregnant women. In New York City, 12% have a satisfactory diet. In the New York State, 12%. In New York City, it's slightly higher, 14%. Now, our industrial workers, that means the men who are working in industry. Now, here we do not break them down between New York City and the entire state because the industrial workers were taking practically outside New York City. But their intake averages 16% of a satisfactory diet. Now, all this means that right here, in probably the most prosperous state in the Union, at least where the per capita income is very high compared to most other states, four out of five of the people, whether they are children or adults, whether they're pregnant women or home makers or industrial workers, have diets that are not satisfactory, that meet our standards. So, it is little wonder, therefore, that a survey of the state, of the children of the state, would find a 10% incidence of probably undoubted signs of deficiency disease in a healthy group of children going to school. Not in the hospital. Not staying home from school because they can't get there because they're sick, but in children that were going to school, and this was in the first and second week of December, 1948. Now, what can we do about this problem? And I'm only going to talk to you about prevention because the actual treatment is in the province of the physician, and if you're sick, I think you should see the physician or your clinic and get instructions. But I think we can do a lot about prevention of this disease. We should divide the prevention into, I believe, three parts, education and demonstration. The nutritional improvement of our staple foods and the economic. These three fields, they do not operate singly or individually. Each three are interwoven with each other. But let us take education. Now, what is the purpose of the education? The education is to make people want the proper foods, to include them in their diet. Now, that is a difficult job. That would, of course, include the wise use of income. But it can be done. education. Now, most of the, most of this educational work must be done by school teachers in the schools. It must be done over the radio. It must be done by the newspapers. It must be done also by example. There is no better method of education than example of one family or one group that go on, that goes on a proper diet, and they see the results, the neighbors see the results, the neighbors ask them, then they follow them. That is worth a lot of radio talks. It's worth a lot of talks, such as we're giving tonight. If you have a neighbor or a friend who have a group of children, and they change the diet so that it includes perfectly good, satisfactory, adequate, attritionally foods, and you see the results, then you are following what your neighbor is doing. Now, you should probably, you will probably want to know how you can obtain this adequate diet. Now, it is not difficult, frankly. One of the first things to do in obtaining a satisfactory diet is to eliminate from that diet certain foods, or cut them down to the minimum. Eliminate the vitamin-free or vitamin-poor foods, and a primary example of that is sugar. One of the chief causes of malnutrition in this country has been the progressive replacement of the cereal grains by sugar. We now use somewhere around 110 pounds of sugar per person per year. sugar. And with this increase of sugar has been a progressive decrease in the consumption of the cereal grains. The cereal grains, particularly the whole grains, or those that have been enriched, carry with those calories certain amounts of minerals and other vitamins that give you something in addition to calories, while the sugar gives you calories and nothing else. Now, along with sugar, and equally a bad, is alcohol. Same thing. And acts approximately the same way. It gives you calories and nothing else except possibly a little enjoyment on the side. with that, the same thing again as sugar, is your carbonated beverages. That is nothing but a flavored carbonated beverage. And not much better are the jams and the jellies and certain of your cakes and sweet breads and things like that. So, in obtaining a satisfactory diet, one of the first things to do is to eliminate as far as possible, as far as is consistent with taste, the extra large amount of the vitamin-free foods. Then the next thing is to include daily in your diet, as far as possible, the basic seven. The instructions that have been handed around to all of you. Eat every day this way, one item from each of the following basic seven groups. That is so well-known, and time is so short that there is no need of going into that. But please do not think that if you eat every a serving from each of the seven basic seven, that you're going to get fat. You will not. The basic seven includes about 1,200 calories. Only about half the number of calories that the average working man would need daily. So you have plenty of room to include your basic seven every day and still eat more and get a sufficient amount of calories. Now, the second point in the prevention of deficiency disease is a nutritional improvement of a staple food. that is to surround people with food that is nutritionally satisfactory so that even if you do not follow completely your basic seven, you will get a better diet. That would include the enrichment of, say, white bread or macaroni, spaghetti, or white rice, or a margarine. Then that makes these basic foods that everyone eats almost every day, and they're the cheap articles of food, the cheap staples, so that when you eat those, you will get an increased amount of these rather expensive nutrients. I could tell you, I could tell you if the chairman will permit me the time, the remarkable experiment that was conducted in Newfoundland on the deficiency diseases. In 1944, a survey was made of the incidence of deficiency disease in this island of Newfoundland. At that time, enrichment of the flour with thiamine, niacin, riboflavin, and iron was made compulsory. Also, the enrichment of margarine with vitamin A was made compulsory. And a survey was then conducted four years later. There was a significant decrease in every sign of malnutrition that could be attributed to vitamin A or riboflavin or niacin or A, vitamin A deficiency, both from clinical signs and from the blood test, showing the remarkable improvement that could occur in an isolated population group simply by the enrichment of two of the staple articles for food, namely flour and margarine. Now, that we have as proof of its value. It is harder to show its value here in this country because we are not an isolated population. The incidence of deficiency disease, instead of being 80 or 90 percent, as in Newfoundland, is around 10 percent. And so that gives a much easier demonstration where there is an extremely high incidence. Now, the third point in the prevention of deficiency disease is economic. Now, that I'm not going to touch upon, but those are problems for our political leaders, for economic leaders, for that group of people that doesn't belong to the doctors, though we must always recognize that economics enters into the nutritional picture. The second very large field for the prevention of deficiency diseases lies in the hands of the doctors. These that I just mentioned are in the hands of the public health and the government experts. In the hands of the private physicians is the care and adequate care of people during illnesses, people during illnesses can and do develop many of the nutritional diseases because of the, either the increase in requirement that occurs in illness or because of prevention of absorption or impaired utilization or whatnot. But that is not a subject for this audience. Thank you. Thank you. You have heard this highly interesting and instructive presentation on the prevention of vitamin deficiencies. As you know, the vitamins have been very highly advertised to the public, as happens very often and in the case of discoveries, great enthusiasm is engendered and sometimes the use of this or that material or method goes to extremes. And it has, there has been discussion from time to time of whether the public does not place too much faith or try to medicate itself with this or that vitamin or combination of vitamins. And so as the third part of our panel here tonight, we are going to have a presentation of vitamins, truths, and fallacies. and that will be given by Dr. Robert Goodhart. Dr. Goodhart is one of the preeminent men in vitamins in this city and in the country and is also medical director of the National Vitamin Foundation. Dr. Goodhart. Because of the nature of this topic assigned to me, I'll have to, in a way, summarize what the previous two speakers said. But I'll be brief on those points where we overlap. And in order to bring out the fallacies in regard to what the public believes about the vitamins, the best procedure, it seemed to me, was to arrange a discussion with questions and answers. But in order to get the right answers, the right questions have to be asked. So I will ask the questions and then give the answers. I wanted to mention that Dr. Dulloch has already touched on a major misconception in regard to nutrition, and that is the one very commonly held, that women are usually better nourished than men and that women eat better than men. That just ain't so. And all the work that we've done during the war, the men usually come off better than the women on the examination of the diets and on their nutritional status. So I think, due to the fact that the women do the cooking and prepare the meals and whatnot in the home, that the women might very well pay a little bit more attention to nutrition than they have. A great many of them are paying a great deal of attention to, let's say, diabetics, new recipes and things of that sort, which is not necessarily good nutrition. Now, the first thing that people would want to know about vitamins is what they will do for me. Will they increase my appetite? Will they make me less irritable? Will they make me sleep better? Will they make me gain weight? Will I feel stronger? Will I grow bigger? Will I be healthier? Will I increase my resistance to infections? Will I do a number of other things? Well, in the past several months, there have been at least two journalists in my office who were preparing articles for women's journals. And they were interested in this discussed, argument about fallacious police in regard to vitamins. And both of them, each acting independently, wanted me to draw up a table showing the things that vitamins will do and the things that vitamins will not do. The symptoms that they will cure and the symptoms that they will not cure. I told both of them that that could not be done, and it could not be done honestly by any physician. Because these symptoms do not represent disease entities, these symptoms occur in a variety of diseases. And my answer to the questions just asked by myself would be that if these symptoms are due to vitamin deficiency, vitamin therapy will cure them. If they're not due to vitamin deficiency, vitamin therapy will not cure them. If you're irritable and can't sleep because you're not getting enough vitamin B1, because you're a deficient in vitamin, vitamin treatment will cure it. If you're irritable and can't sleep because you can't get along with your husband or with your wife or because you're worried about your child, vitamin isn't going to help it anymore. The child's appetite is poor because he's mal-fed. Getting him right will improve his appetite. If his appetite is poor because he's a spoiled child or over some other emotional constipation in his family, vitamin therapy isn't going to cure it. So what vitamins will do and what they will not do, vitamins will cure vitamin deficiencies. And the symptoms of vitamin deficiency are all these symptoms that I have mentioned, those which were mentioned by Dr. Putman and by Dr. Jala. And those symptoms occur in a variety of other conditions not related to vitamin deficiency. So if you go to the doctor and say you have a poor appetite and you want vitamins, the doctor would have to find out what was the cause of poor appetite if he could do so. And then give vitamin therapy and see if he cannot correct it if no other cause of poor appetite has been determined. Now the next question that I'm asking myself is how do I know if I need vitamins as a layman? Well, I don't. As a layman, I don't know whether I need vitamins or not. I can't tell from the symptoms which I present. I can't tell from any of the signs, any changes in my skin or any other condition. I would have to go to the doctor to find out whether the things that are wrong with me might be due to vitamin deficiencies and whether I should take vitamin therapy. And I would find that where very often where my symptoms are vague and might be any one of a number of things, that the doctor himself could not be sure whether or not he needed vitamins. I might say here that my question was not worded quite properly. It was worded the way a layman would word it. How do I know that I need vitamins? The answer to that, of course, is to die without vitamins. Everybody needs vitamins. First of all, the layman has in mind when he says that is do I need vitamins in addition to the food that I am taking? And that is the question that I have been answering. Of course, everybody needs these vitamins. They are essential to life. And you get them in your food and if you don't get them, you die. But do I need them in addition to what I get in my food? Well, now, Dr. Jolliffe has given you an inkling. He has told you that 10% of the school children, or I think it's a figure about one-fifth of the population have definite vitamin deficiency. About 50% probably have vitamin deficiency. That seems to be the first of all, the first of all, you're going to can't. About 50% probably do, and at least 80% are not getting the vitamins in the food. And so that the answer to you sitting there as a layman as to whether or not you need additional vitamins seems to me is quite obvious. One thing you can rest assured you do need, and that is to have, pay more attention to your diet and correct your diet. That you can be certain of. And you can be certain of something else, too, and that is that if you have been living on a diet which has been inadequate for several years, that you will do better with vitamin supplements plus a good diet than you will with a good diet alone. Now the next question that comes up is, should I take vitamins? And if I do have to take them, what kind should I take? Well, Dr. Bookman touched on that. He mentioned that people do not have single vitamin deficiency, that if you're deficient in one vitamin, that you are deficient in more than one vitamin. So that if the decision is that one needs vitamins, one would decide, and one's physician would decide, that a polyvitamin therapy is indicated. That is therapy with all of the vitamins which are most apt to be missing in the average American diet. And those vitamins would be, of course, vitamin A, vitamin C, thiamine, riboslavin, and niacin, possibly folic acid, and vitamin D for children. So those are the ones that are most common, and therefore, they would be the ones that one would consider for routine preventive therapy in a small amount. Then, of course, the next question, if one decides in the affirmative that vitamin therapy might be desirable, would be, can I take too much of these vitamins? Will they hurt me? Are they poisonous? And on that, I think we can give a pretty good answer. And I'll do that by giving some examples. I have estimated on vitamin D, for example, which is one which we know is the most toxic, that, uh, for an adult to be poisoned with the vitamin D, it would take more than 192 times the daily requirement, recommended dose, I should say, uh, taken every day for months on end to get any harm at all from that vitamin D for the adult. So that's an enormous amount, and that's an amount which, uh, it is not likely that any sane person would get from any type of, uh, vitamin capsule. With children, with, it is different. With a small baby, it is somewhat different. Say that a, uh, seven-pound infant, a newborn infant, uh, might, uh, develop some evidences of toxicity with a dose as small as ten times the requirement, recommended requirement, uh, has continued for days and days and days on end. With vitamin A, again, the situation is somewhat similar. For an adult, it's possible that a dose as small as 60 times the recommended equivalent requirement might, uh, be, uh, result in some adverse effect. With a baby, again, seven-pound baby, it's possible that a dose as small as nine or ten times might have some toxic effect if continued for a long enough period of time, day in and day out. With thiamine, vitamin B1, uh, we don't know of any poisonous effects whatsoever when given by mouth. There have been cases of people becoming sensitive to it when given by injection by a physician, just as people become sensitive to a number of other food substances and other substances when given by injection. That's a matter for the physician to investigate. I might say that the number of cases of allergy reported to, allergy or sensitivity to thiamine reported in the literature that I know of don't, uh, number more than a dozen, and, uh, there are many, many more cases of, uh, allergy or sensitive to other foodstuffs than there are in the ratio of thiamine, and that is only by injection. There's one case of, uh, reported that I know of, of a, uh, uh, man who took, uh, 1,000 milligrams of thiamine a day for, uh, several days on end and was reported to have some toxic symptoms. That amount is, uh, 556 times the, uh, recommended requirement for an active man. And, uh, that, uh, incidence of toxicity is quite open to doubt. It hasn't been reported by anybody else except this one physician. One other substance has been tested for, uh, folic acid, uh, for toxicity, I'm sorry, and that's folic acid has been given to man in amounts of, uh, 400 milligrams daily for three months on end with, uh, no effects whatsoever, no evidence of toxicity. And that amount is, uh, probably more than 800 times the, uh, requirement. So that we see that the vitamins are, uh, quite, uh, harmless. substances in, uh, quite large amounts. There's only one thing I want to point out, and that is that where small babies are concerned, the margin of safety with vitamin A and D is not anywhere near as great as it is for the adult. And, uh, vitamin A and D preparations are given commonly to small babies, and it's practiced now to put them up in concentrated solutions so that, uh, only a drop or two would be enough. Some mothers seem to feel that if one drop or two does the work that they can give as many as 15 or 20 drops. And in such instances, with such concentrates, there have been cases of poisoning of small babies with vitamins A and D. But there is no excuse for that. And I think that myself that, uh, vitamin preparations for infants should not be put up in such concentrated amounts. If, uh, they were put up so that the mother had to give the infant a teaspoon full to get the requirement, why, uh, it would be impossible to poison the babies because she would have to give him an enormous amount of fluid. So I think, uh, perhaps we've answered the question on the, uh, toxicity of the vitamins. Now the next question that I'm sure would, might be asked, is there any difference between the natural and the synthetic vitamin? Well, the vitamins are not mysterious substances. They are chemical compounds. And, uh, in regard to practically all of the vitamins, there is more than one form of the chemical compound which is, uh, active as a vitamin. That is, there's more than one vitamin B6. And, uh, there's more than one vitamin D, and there's more than one vitamin A, there's more than one vitamin E, there's more than one vitamin K. And, uh, when they are made synthetically, the factories endeavor to use the most active compound as the vitamin. So that it happens sometimes that, uh, the synthetic vitamin is more active than the natural vitamin. The synthetic vitamin K is a higher activity than the vitamin K found in nature. Now, if I take vitamins, how long should I take them? All right, if you take, first of all, if you're taking vitamins and not for the treatment of a specific disease that you have, then you are taking vitamins in the prophylactic amounts, that is, small amounts, and you are taking them to prevent the development of deficiency, and if you are taking them to prevent the development of deficiency, the theory is that you would take them as long as there is a possibility for you to develop deficiency, which would be as long as you live. We're not talking about the treatment of disease with larger amounts of vitamins. That is a problem which concerns your position. And then, of course, everybody wants to know that they're taking vitamins, how soon will they feel better? How soon will they feel all this pep and vigor and everything that's supposed to go with it? Well, that I don't know. That's up to how responsive you are to the adversements in the subways and so forth and how your psyche reacts to such things. And then the next one is, if I take vitamins, do I have to worry about my diet? And the answer to that, of course, is that you most certainly do. Because these vitamin preparations do not contain all of the vitamins that are necessary for a man, nor do they contain any of the other substances that are necessary for a man. After all, the vitamins only act to enable you to use the carbohydrate, protein, fats, and other substances that you need. Without these things, the vitamins are no good. They have no, they're no source of energy. You can't build tissue. You can't do anything. You have to worry about your diet. And you have to make certain that your diet is balanced just if you want taking the vitamins. Because those foods that are rich in the vitamins we know about are also the ones which are rich in the vitamins that we don't know so much about. So your problem is no easier by taking the vitamin capsule. that we have had a very interesting and valuable evening. And as is our custom at all these meetings, we now open the discussion to the audience for questions and answers. questions. And may I ask that anybody who wishes to ask a question will speak directly into our traveling microphone. This does not amplify your voice but is necessary for our recording apparatus. I may say to you that we hope that all these meetings will eventually be broadcast over WNYC, our municipal station. And anybody who asks a question here in one of these meetings may very well hear himself over the radio in the not far distant future. Are there any questions? Dr. Jalas, I'd like to know, no, I don't know how to put this question. in reference to a vegetarian diet. Is it possible for adults and children to live on a strict vegetarian diet and keep up good health? Cut out completely meats and sugars and starches? Dr. Jalas, will you please answer that question? By a strictly vegetarian diet, do you exclude milk and eggs? No, not for the time. then a strictly vegetarian diet that includes milk and eggs could probably be made satisfactory. If you would cut out the milk and eggs, I don't see how it would be possible. even if it's for a newborn and then they start anew, I mean, to give them just milk and they never have any meat and fish and, I mean, as they grow, think there are many people have grown up to a fine, ripe old age without meat, without fish, but on meat and, but on eggs and milk and cheese. But I do not believe it is possible to do it without those protein foods. The gentleman here has a question. Dr. Jolliffe, uh, that experiment in the, among the school children in New York State, fourth year and, uh, tenth year students. That include a group of students receiving supplementary diets through school lunch program. this, uh, this survey was conducted to find out what was the statistical average for the fourth grade and the tenth grade school children. So it included part of the children that were on the school lunch program. It was not conducted either exclusively or inclusively of, of either and other. It was to get a, a picture of, of what is a situation in the fourth grade and a composite picture, in other words, rather than a differentiation between the two. Thank you. Is, uh, brown sugar or white sugar better? Do you want to answer that question? Well, I think that it's safe enough to say that the, uh, less refined the sugar is, the better, the least, less harmful, that is, uh, we can do without either brown or white, but the brown does contain some things which are not present in the white sugar. How would you account for the, um, the girls being, uh, nourished worse than the boys in the schools? I'd like to know the reason for that. What, the gentleman? I mean, especially the fourth grade. I mean, they are not on diets yet. The fourth grade, there was no difference. It was only in the tenth grade, which, uh, happens to be at a very interesting age for girls, and maybe that accounts for it. I don't know. Another thing, uh, boys, uh, uh, have a higher consumption of meat, as you know, as you know, and that grade is terrific, and they also have a higher consumption of milk, naturally, at, uh, at that age, and that builds their whole diet in the intake up to more nearly satisfactory levels than, than your girls at that age. Uh, Dr. Joe, if you mention the elimination of, uh, white sugar as a bad food, why not the elimination of white flour? Since enrichment, enriched bread is, uh, the enrichment is so minute compared to the whole grain bread, the whole wheat or whole rye or corn. The, uh, white, uh, white flour, even, uh, when enriched, even when, uh, unenriched, is still a nutritionally very fine food as compared to white sugar. White sugar would have absolutely, it, it's practically a pure carbohydrate with no contamination of anything else. No protein, no niacin, thiamin, minerals, or anything else. While white flour will have about 90% of its thiamin removed, say, about 75% of its riboflavin, uh, but there will be relatively small proportions, say, a B6 and panathenic acid and a few of the other vitamins, are still remain. Then, you made a misstatement in that the amount of enrichment added to it is infinitesimal. That is not true. It is brought up to the level of thiamin, niacin, and riboflavin of the whole grain, uh, of the whole grain product. I, I believe that's what I had read about. This is news to me. I was always under the impression it was in just the opposite, that the enrichment was so minute that that was the reason why white flour and white products, I mean, you are, you've been misinformed on that because the enrichment has brought it up to, uh, that is why it was called enrichment. It was brought up to the levels of the whole grain, of the whole grain. Now, it may well be that some whole grains may be slightly higher. It is brought up to the average of the whole, of the whole grain. Thank you. Now, you take your mind? Okay. Is there any nutritional value in honey or in the nature, natural sugars like sugar? I'm trying to find some good use of sugar. It's sweet. I, I have no kick against, uh, honey. I have no kick against dates and figs. They're perfectly good, natural, natural foods. And your dates will have, and your figs and all that will have, uh, all the vitamins and minerals in it that is necessary for, uh, metabolism of the individual that eats it. Now, honey is in a spatial, uh, uh, spatial, uh, category. Honey is made by the bees. It's a manufacturing process by the bees. They deposit the honey in a honeycomb. And if you eat the whole honey, including the honeycomb, it is very high in these accessory elements of nutrition. But if you'll take the strained honey and remove away the, the honeycomb, it is not far different than our brown sugar. That is, it's a pretty vitamin and mineral deficient food. On the other hand, if you eat the whole, the whole honey, it's pretty adequate. Yeah. I just want to mention something in relation to these foods which are relatively vitamin poor or absolutely vitamin poor. Uh, we seem, in this discussion, we seem to be considering them, uh, individually. But, uh, actually, you can't consider this food by itself and say, well, this hurt me. You've got to consider this food in relation to the rest of the diet. Now, every time you eat something that is vitamin poor, you are replacing something which is vitamin, uh, rich that should be in your diet. Unless, uh, you are overeating. If you have limited your, uh, intake to just the amount of food needed to carry you along and, and amount of calories needed to maintain your weight at its best weight, uh, and then you substitute a vitamin or protein poor food for one which is vitamin, uh, rich or protein rich, you are thereby, uh, bringing about a deterioration in your diet and producing a deficiency. So that, uh, when you ask whether a food is good or bad, it depends where that food fits into your diet. Thank you, Dr. Goodhart. Thank you, Dr. Goodhart. Arnold, thank you, Dr. Goodhart. Dr. Get the  of our gut filter for over kelp andinity called a virtue of a protein rich, which is a supplement. There's a company in particular that advertises a food is having a vitamin, and it's called a sunshine vitamin. I'd like to know if the vitamin actually, if you go out and play in the sunshine, but if you get that vitamin, I believe it's vitamin D. Dr. Bookman? You're absolutely right. If you go out in the sunshine, you can supply yourself with vitamin D. The sun acts on certain chemicals in the skin to change it into vitamin D. Dr. Goodhart, the age-old question of vitamin C in canned orange juice versus fresh orange juice. Economically, at the present time, they're both pretty low in price. You can get a good supply of oranges. Fresh orange is an hour at a good price, and a canned orange juice is equally reasonable. What is the difference in vitamin content between the two? Well, I can't give you the exact figures. I can tell you this, that the vitamin content of the orange, fresh orange, varies considerably, depending upon when it was picked off the tree and how long it was transported and how long it waited at the wholesale house before the retail man picked it up and how long he held it before you bought it and where you put it and all the rest of it. But the vitamin C content of the canned orange juice is stable. And in this climate, both orange juice and tomato juice will be stable under ordinary room temperatures for at least a year after purchase. So that the best all-around buy and the most economical would be the canned orange juice. There's a question asked of me once whether a whole wheat slice of bread would have the same vitamin value as an equivalent amount of cereal. Is that correct? There are some mothers who think that if the kid doesn't want to eat cereal, they can do the same trick, in other words, nutritionally, with a slice of whole wheat bread or whole grain bread. Dr. Jollis, or Dr. Bookman, would you please answer that? I think that they probably come fairly close to it. I can't give you the exact figures, but certainly they'd probably be a little less than the whole grain cereal, I think, the whole wheat bread. You're going to have a certain amount of destruction in your processing and your staking. I think the teeth difference, if there is a difference, would be on the cream and milk and sugar that you would place on the cereal rather than on the bread. Because in the whole wheat, if you have a whole wheat slice of bread or a whole wheat cereal, say an average slice of bread is 20 grams. An average dish of cereal is about 30 grams. So, but if you would have an equivalent amount, I don't think there would be very much difference between the two. It's what you put on. The bread, if chances are, would have butter on it. The cereal, chances are, would have milk. One of the speakers mentioned that if the local foods around the neighborhood were enriched more vitamins. If they were enriched, people might have more nutritional value. Well, Wonder Bread, I read an advertisement for Wonder Bread in the papers, and they seem to claim a whole list of vitamins that you get from six slices of Wonder Bread. I'd like to know if that's true. I'd say that most of the white bread that's in the local market is enriched, and all enriched breads, by law, have to contain on the wrapper a statement of the vitamins contained therein. And if you will look at several other breads from other companies that are marked enriched, you will see the same vitamins and the same amounts are listed on the wrapper. And if they're actually there, it's no dip. Are there any other questions? Are there any other questions? Are the darker vegetables a better source of vitamins than the light ones? For instance, green celery or white celery, or the yellow turnip or the white turnip, or the outer leaves, the dark green outer leaves of cabbage. The green and yellow color of vegetables is a guide to the carotene content of those vegetables. That is, carotene, as you know, is the vegetable source of vitamin A. The deeper the green or the deeper the yellow, the more carotene contained therein. And also an egg. Is an egg with a very yellow yolk a better source of vitamin A than one with a lighter yolk? Well, that isn't so. Much of the vitamin A in the egg is in the form of vitamin A, which is practically colorless. And there is some carotene which colors the yolk, but there's other coloring matter there involved in that also. But you have, in relation to some other foods we might mention, in relation to butter, the vitamin A content of butter does vary seasonally. And normally winter butter is quite pale in color, which is also the period of the year in which the vitamin A content of butter is at its lowest ebb. But under the peculiar laws of this country, it's quite all right for butter manufacturers to dye their butter, and that they do, so that you can't go by the color of the butter to determine how much A is in it. At margarine, you can't dye that way, but butter, you can go ahead and do it as you keep fit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions? I want to thank you for your presence here this evening, and I want to urge upon you to come again to our next meeting, which will be on January the 19th. Not only come yourselves to bring your friends, because on that evening we shall have a very fine discussion of a very important public health problem, that is cancer. And as you know, it is one of the leading causes of death in this country, and becoming more so in the last 20, 25 years, and the speakers will discuss very thoroughly the early diagnosis of cancer. Thank you very much. Thank you.