Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Do our democratic liberties depend on mental health? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand is in New York to inaugurate the beginning of National Mental Health Week. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the state of the nation's mental health and the possible interdependence of democracy and the adjustments made by its citizenry. Now, our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Today, the Reviewing Stand welcomes the prominent educator, Louis M. Hacker, Director of the School of General Studies at Columbia University, the anthropologist and sociologist Margaret Mead of the American Museum of Natural History in New York, and two internationally known psychiatrists, Dr. John R. Reese from London, Director of the World Federation for Mental Health, and Dr. Gregory Zilborg, Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at New York Medical College, and the faculty of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. American history is replete with events that give us reason to wonder about the nation's mental health. The Salem witch hunts, the rise of the Ku Klux Klan, the anarchist and socialist scares in the 1890s, and the Mitchell Palmer Red Scare of the 1920s. But today we read about the flying saucers and the Great Red Purge. Dr. Reese, as a keen student of human behavior, do these events seem significant to you? Well, Mr. Boren, that's a difficult question to answer to start with. They do seem significant in that they are clearly the evidences. There is a good deal of anxiety about rumors and myths, such as the saucer story, only grow in people who are anxious, in my judgment. I have no doubt whatever that the whole question of mental health is relevant to us. There's that phrase again. There's that phrase, mental health. Can you help us in defining it, Dr. Zilborg? What do we mean by mental health? I don't think I would be able to tell you definitely what mental health is. Mental health, like any other health, mental health is an absence of disease more than anything positive. Oh, I think we can do better than that, Dr. Zilborg. We want mental health to be something positive. It's really the beginning of a new idea of what people can make of their lives in any society. And, of course, psychiatry gave it to us. Do you want to leave it at just the absence of disease, absence of ill health? No, I wouldn't like to leave it at that. I think at the present moment, there is no real, clear-cut, scientific definition of mental health. I think one should just mention the World Health Organization's definition of health, which is relevant, a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease. In other words, a person doesn't have mental health simply if he stays out of a mental institution or a prison. Is that right, Ms. Mead? That's the sort of idea we're working towards, and I don't believe we'll have a clear-cut scientific definition because this is an ideal rather than simply a scientific category. Well, is there more mental illness now than there was 50 or 60 years ago, or because of a very rapid development in psychiatry and psychology, have we become aware of mental illnesses that were not noticed before? What do you have to say on that, Margaret Mead? We haven't awfully clear statistics on the subject, and we do diagnose and recognize a great many things that, well, it was just Aunt Susan was queer, and father was a little odd, and that child you couldn't do anything with 50 years ago, and now we give special names to these cases, we work on them, we try to make something of them. So that we can't say that mental health is increasing, but we can say that the country is more conscious. Ill health, I'm sorry. I get you. No, we can't say that mental health is increasing, but I don't think we can say mental ill health is increasing. Well, I can't help but feeling when I hear a couple of psychiatrists talk that we are becoming a nation of neurotics. How far wrong am I on that generalization, Dr. Zilborn? In the word becoming, we have been so for a long time. The situation is merely this. We used to have in the ancient times, periods when whole nations were neurotic, during those witch hunts that you mentioned in Salem, during the witch hunts in France, and in Germany in the 16th century, and in the 17th century, there's no doubt there was a prevalence of neuroses. And as Dr. Rees pointed out, there is a lot of anxiety in present-day society, and wherever there is, a lot of anxiety, there will be a great number of people who will succumb to this anxiety in the form of personal neuroses. Then may I interject a thought here? Are we prepared to assume that such anxieties appear perhaps cyclically, or in terms of long-term cycles? What do you mean cyclically? Or in terms of long-term cycles, that is to say, recurrences of periods of great stress? Or perhaps, might we not say, that all through the history of mankind, that is to say, the recorded history of civilization, there have always appeared such periods? I wouldn't like to say that they recurred regularly, which you don't want to do that. No, no, no, which is not quite. But in fact, the definition of a cycle does not mean regularity. And we all agree that there's a real mental health problem today. Whether it was worse 50 or 60 years ago, we don't know. I assume, then, that we've diagnosed the patient, Ms. Mead and gentlemen. Now, if you promise not to send me a bill in the morning, I'll ask the $64 question here. What causes this mental illness? Is it economic insecurity, fear of war? What is it? Are these economic and political questions very important in the picture? They're all conditions which make it harder for families to bring up children, for teachers to teach pupils, for management and labor to work out their various problems. They're conditions within which any sort of flaw in the individual is more likely to show up, conditions of pressure and conditions which produce anxiety. I wouldn't say they were causes, but they're unfavorable conditions. I agree. They're largely with Margaret Mead about that. I don't think that the economic conditions are the cause ever. They're the precipitating factors. The causes are partly inheritance in certain cases. They're very largely the way in which children are handled or brought up from the earliest days of their life, and it's there that we have to look for causation. What about fear of war? Is that important in the picture? Are we really concerned about the H-bomb? Does that precipitate much of this mental illness? What do you say about that, Dr. Zilborn? I hope that you are going to ask me this question because I'm a heretic in this field. I think it... I myself am very anxious about these matters, but I don't think that these matters are responsible for the increase in number of neuroses. There was a long time ago, about 125 years ago, a French psychiatrist, Esquirol, in 1838, pointed out that during the French Revolution, people were afraid of executions and of guillotines. In Napoleon's times, they were afraid of Napoleon's marshals. Today, we are afraid of the H-bomb. About 20 years ago, we were afraid of the radio. I speak of mentally sick people. In other words, these are agencies through which human anxiety expresses itself. But there's another point there, Dr. Zilborn. I think you're talking there about the man in the street and whether he is or is not frightened. But how about the position of responsible people in the world today, of every single person who carries the weight of leadership, every statesman, every educator, who knows that the world is a more precarious place than it was and carries that burden? But I'd like to indicate, and perhaps I may assume a certain prerogative as a historian, that there have always, in the history of modern man, been such periods. Certainly, there was never a more unstable world than the period of the Renaissance, when warfare was a constant in the activities of people. And yet, I think we would all agree that this was the epoch of greatest creativeness among men. They lived in a state of perhaps constant anxiety, and yet went ahead about their daily affairs. May I cut in there, just to point out that, of course, there's anxiety about the H-bomb and about war, so there should be, because the real anxiety that should be there is quite different from pathological anxiety, the kind of anxiety that leads to mental illness. Quite, quite so. And that is the point that we very seldom do differentiate. If we are afraid or anxious about actual things, no matter how anxious we are, even to the point of being panicky about real things, we are not yet mentally ill. It is at the moment when our anxiety begins to pyramid itself, and we begin to see H-bombs under every piano and in every studio room and the WOR that we become mentally ill. I would like to, if I may, just say this, that the Renaissance was an extraordinary period, but at that time, strange to say, there was no anxiety about war at all, because the example is wonderful. Cornelius Agrippa, when he was fighting, and his knapsack was busted up in the middle of the battlefield, found a piece of sausage, a piece of bread, and a manuscript that he had no time to finish between battle. Well, don't you think also, Dr. Zilberg, that we could say that people who do not have anxiety and fear about conditions which they ought to want to prevent in terms of their own political ideology or their own humanitarian values, those are people who don't have full mental health. You could say it both ways, both the people that worry about things that aren't real and the people who don't worry about the things that are. Can't you? Oh, it's inevitable that what you call the algebraic sum Well, let's go back to these social and economic factors. I think you've agreed that they're quite important in this mental health picture. It forces me to say that if the economists and the political scientists, if they do their work, in other words, if we achieve a more rationally organized society in which every person is engaged in constructive work with resulting security for himself and his dependents, there will be little incidence of mental illness. I'm actually saying that psychiatry then becomes a marginal profession, existing only because we have not achieved through proper political and economic action an organized society. I guess I'm saying that if we had that kind of society, you, Drs. Rees and Zilborg, would be unemployed and could start drawing unemployment insurance. Let me go back to your earlier assumption. You started out by saying that if we could have a stable society, that is to say, a static world, that there would be no need for concern over anxieties and incapacities to adjust. I don't know anybody in our modern culture who is talking of a stable or of a static world. In other words, I'm saying this, that all of us, social scientists, physicians, leaders, must recognize as given the instabilities of our world and go on from there. I think I was talking about an organized society, not a stable society. Well, we all live in an organized society. Certainly, there isn't one of constant turmoil in the world in which we are today. We have all kinds of methods of organization, political, economic, social, family. But I'm saying if that type of organization were better, then the psychiatrist who is concerned about curing the ills that come out of a disorganized society wouldn't have anything to do. I don't want to put these men out of work. Yes, yes. But I'm just saying that the psychiatrist works because the political and social scientist doesn't work. Well, let's not be naive. Let's not say it's possible for the social scientist, and I assume that in part I must assume the onus for the thinking of this group, that the social scientists are trying to create a utopian world. Only romanticists have tried to do that, and we have never, in fact, moved towards. They want a better world, though, don't they? Well, perhaps. Perhaps, but that gets us into more complicated situations. But we want a changing world. We want a world that can grow, and if the world is going to grow and change, every change will produce its own complications, and things will be out of joint, and parents will bring up children not the way they're going to have to live, and then we will have some maladjustment. I don't think the psychiatrist will be out of work. Thank you for the encouragement, Margaret Mead. The thing, I really wasn't worried about that. I think Dr. Reese and I have more work to do than we can afford to drop. And the issue is this, I think, and that is very important in a discussion like this. I think Margaret Mead already gave us a word of warning about it. Namely, it is very dangerous, I believe, to emphasize that a proper adjustment of political and economic conditions in a country, in a society, will prevent mental illness. Will it reduce mental illness? I don't even know that. I remember that my old friend Frank Wood Williams went to Russia in 1928, I think, or 29, and came out so enthused that he said that there were no manic depressive psychosis in the Soviet Union. When I reviewed the literature of the Soviet Union, during the war, I found the Soviet psychiatrists admitting that they have as many psychoses as we have, and in some respects many more. So that we have to face the fact here that we, in a changing, growing society, we will always need those disciplines which will help us meet the new problems that come up as we go along, don't we? And I would say, therefore, that a good deal of the work, if I may, of the people in mental hygiene is not therapy so much as prevention. I entirely agree, and I'm very glad that point has been stressed. I'm quite certain that the psychiatrists will never be out of business, though I wish they would be. I'm equally sure that this whole problem is not one for psychiatry alone, but it is one for a very large number of professions, all those groups, in fact, who are concerned with human beings, and psychiatry by itself isn't going to deal with this problem any more than the sociologist or the politician or the economist by himself. Now, everyone seems to be concerned that we achieve a high degree of mental health in this country. What is it unique about the democratic political structure that seems to demand a more stable and sensible populace? Well, one could define the characteristics of such a democratic society in formal terms. One could say that there is a need for the existence of a rule of law and the creation of an incorruptible judiciary. One could say that there is a need for freedom of expression and perhaps even more important than that, freedom of association. one could say that there is a need for the preservation of the integrity of the private individual. All those are textbook definitions and we could embroider that theme very elaborately. But to me, it seems that an outstanding characteristic of a democratic society is the development of the citizen. That is to say, the requirement of full participation by the citizen, not only in political decisions, but indeed in economic decisions as well. And in our pluralistic world, more and more participation is required. In other words, you'll observe, I juxtapose a democratic society against a totalitarian one. And a democratic society must be pluralistic and therefore the citizen must be encouraged to participate at many levels. and he also has to have the capacity to tolerate difference. I mean, in a totalitarian society, all the disaster of him is to obey and to follow a single value code. Now, in our kind of society, you've got to be put up, be able to put up with people who disagree, people who say you're completely wrong, people who worship God in a different way or don't worship him at all. in a society that's postulated on the existence of difference, that lives by the existence of difference, we have to have a kind of citizen who can tolerate difference. And recent researchers have shown that the toleration of difference in others is very closely related to mental health and is built up in the kind of family where each child is treated with respect, where the mother has respect as well as the father, and the kind of school where pupils are not merely ordered about by an authoritarian teacher, but treated as human beings with a right to think even when they are very small. Well, you, pardon me. I was going to comment on an earlier observation I had made, and that is that in utopian societies there isn't very much room for participation. The first one that was ever presented was Plato's Republic, and there isn't a single place that he finds any room for participation, either through discussion or through activity, other than on the part of the rulers. We have to be more responsible in a democracy, then, because we participate so heavily in its procedures. Is that true? There is a psychological moment here in what both Margaret Mead and Professor Harker said that I think is worthwhile emphasizing. What is that, indifferences, in toleration of differences, we do not become indifferent to the differences, but we learn to feel that we think differently and we are ready to fight for it, but we do not hate the one who is different. That is a, has a direct relationship to mental health. Are we doing that? No, we don't. We do the opposite. We continue to hate them and we continue to develop anxiety, continue to develop depressions, continue to develop neurosis, and continue to help psychiatrists to make a living. But that's not the issue. The issue is this, that in a society in which aggression and hatred are combined, that is a society in which there will be a lot of mental illness. Can you give us an example of that, Ms. Mead? What he's talking about here, what Dr. Zilberg says? Well, he's talking about the fact that if a society runs on relations, say, between Protestants and Catholics and Jews or Democrats and Republicans or people of different ethnic backgrounds where you spend your time hating the other people and taking out all the unfortunate things that happened to you when you were a baby because somebody took a cookie away from you and then later you hate the other people, you get a continual cross-fertilization between political activity and your own inner anxieties. You get frightened to death because you've hated somebody so much and it goes round and round and round. But I disagree with Dr. Zilberg in thinking we do all these things. Some of us do all these things but this is a country after all when you're reasonably certain not to be shot just because you disagree with somebody else most of the time. Don't you think? Well, yes, I think so. I've been here now for 30 years and wasn't threatened with shooting anywhere not even in Chicago yet. May I suggest another requirement in a democratic society in addition to those mentioned and that is an opportunity to advance. In other words a democratic society must be essentially equalitarian. It must be able to hold the door open to talent all the time whether it is in politics or in the economic life. Now you're back to this political organization again. You're saying that we need a political state which will give us some of these things. Isn't that right Mr. Hacker? I'd like to take this back to the whole question of mental health. If we simplify the subject we are really saying that people should be more adult and we didn't define mental health but lots of people have suggested that it does mean greater adaptability a greater capacity to cooperate with other people playing the game with other people and in fact good human relations being able to love our neighbors as ourselves and these elements of mental health in the individual are certainly what are needed in the groups and in the communities that create and comprise the democratic state. Now we've been talking about the citizens of a democracy the people who follow what about the leaders do they have to be sane and sensible and rational Margaret Mead or do we need the opposite in leadership? Well the thing that interested me was you said we've been talking about the people who follow but as I understand what Professor Hacker has been saying in a democracy it's the citizens who lead and the leaders who follow and to be a leader who follows that takes a great deal of mental health. We have that kind of a leader I'm wondering about that. Now that's right remember I tried to distinguish between a totalitarian and a democratic society under a totalitarian society you have leaders under a democratic society you have citizens who have the potentialities of participation. Can we dare set off in our world today a group that we designate as leaders? Don't we? Even in a democracy don't we have at least nominal leaders? Certainly the chances or the missed chances of our political life indicate how quickly they come and go. Well we've been talking here a good deal about our goal of better mental health for all citizens and that seems to me to be quite a tall order. I'm wondering how can we improve the nation's mental health? We've been critical up to this time. What can we do? Margaret Mead what can the sociologist or the anthropologist do to promote a better world and better mental health? They can study the culture pattern in this country the way in which we are bringing up our children the pattern of our schools the pattern of our marriages and interrelations and show where the weak spots are the spots that need changing and readjusting and strengthening so that we can go on be a growing society without individuals paying such a heavy price. Your role is one of analysis and diagnosis chiefly then. That's right. All right let's turn to Dr. Zilborg the psychiatrist. It's often said that a psychiatrist is worth his weight in gold. It seems that he must be a very valuable person in our society. What's the answer to our problem as far as a psychiatrist is concerned? Do we need more psychiatrists in government Dr. Zilborg? If you omit the Aga Khan definition of psychiatrist about the weight in gold I will give a simple answer. I think the psychiatrist does today in the frame of social relationship the same thing as the anthropologist and I would like for purposes of our job here today to emphasize that the anthropologist and the psychiatrist and the sociologist as Dr. Reese pointed out must work together because the anthropologist cannot be a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist can do only one thing he treats the sick people but when he is called upon to work in a broad socio-psychological scale he's got to have the knowledge of the anthropologist he can't be an anthropologist himself he's got to have the help of the sociologist and the economist. We must interrelate our work all the time. In other words you think we need a great deal of cooperation between all of these people. Just as it was done for instance at the last assembly the International Assembly of Mental Health in Geneva with Dr. Reese. Can you tell us about that Dr. Reese? What happened to Geneva? That we got to we were able to get together very interested interprofessional groups who did a great deal of hard thinking and did produce suggestions not naive enough to believe there are the answers necessary to the problems from an interprofessional group not just one particular group Mr. Hacker Margaret Mead mentioned schools several times in her discussion which indicates she thinks that education has a role to play here what can the educator do in solving this Well the fact is we are all educators all engaged not only in the education of youth but more particularly the education of adults you see I am concerned notably with the formulation of programs in this area and I'm almost tempted to say just as I think it was Bernard Shaw who declared that youth was wasted on youth that education perhaps wasted on youth that our requirement because we are living in a constantly changing world is one of teaching confidence in it that we are confronted constantly by change and therefore the role of education is the need for adjustment that instead of becoming autonomous in a mechanical culture we are really rational and educable and purposeful individuals In fact you think we need to educate our grandparents as well as our grandchildren That's my job Dr. Rees may we turn to you and ask what can the ordinary citizen do A very great deal I think Mr. Warren because I think that the ordinary citizen can give his interest and his thought to this whole problem he can back up his local society in the mental hygiene field he can work in with other people of different professions and outlook and study these matters from marriage guidance which might make happier homes and more stable environments for children he can do something in the antenatal field in home problems and school problems and their combination in industry in all of these there are problems to be studied there is work to be done work that not only benefits the family and the local community in each area but it is of some use to our neighbours and our neighbours today are China and India and other countries we can find out material and the ordinary man can do a very great deal through the eyes of the educator the sociologist and the psychiatrist we have seen the mutual interdependence between mental health and the democratic state may we as citizens promote both for a better world in which to live thank you you have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion do our democratic liberties depend on mental health if you are interested in this vital problem the nation's mental health you will want a copy of today's broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject just send 10 cents and coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois better yet better yet indicate your support for National Mental Health by starting your subscription to the reviewing stand with a copy of today's broadcast send only one dollar for the next four months two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois our guests today were the prominent educator Louis M. Hacker the famous anthropologist and sociologist Margaret Mead and the internationally known psychiatrists John R. Reese and George Zilborg this program has been conducted in cooperation with the Mental Health Week Planning Committee and has come to you from New York now our moderator Leighton Boren will tell you about next week's program next week the reviewing stand asks the question are we drifting towards socialism you won't want to miss this debate that brings together Robert S. Byfield member of the New York Stock Exchange and articulate spokesman for the free enterprise system and Charles M. LaFollette National Director of Americans for Democratic Action and former congressman from Indiana we invite you to listen next week for a debate on the question are we drifting towards socialism the Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual this is the Mutual broadcasting system
