Good evening. Tonight we are speaking to you from the auditorium of the Music School Settlement of East Third Street, in order to broadcast a concert by the Society for Forgotten Music. This concert, part of WNYC's 11th Annual American Music Festival, will feature the Society for Forgotten Music Quartet, composed of Harry Zarif, first violinist, David Mankovitz, second violinist, William Schoen, violist, and Maurice Bjorken, cellist. Also featuring pianist Shirley Reisman and Vladimir Dukkowski and Joan Bishop, mezzo-soprano. Mr. Dukkowski, who is the founder and director of the Society for Forgotten Music, has demonstrated to the music world that classical and popular music may originate from the same pen. Under the name of Vernon Duke, the director of the Society, has written many outstanding popular tunes. We are delighted to have with us this evening Mr. David Randolph, director of the Randolph Singers, and your host on the Music for the Connoisseur program, which is heard twice weekly over this station. And now David Randolph, who will be your commentator this evening. Mr. Randolph. Good evening. It seems rather odd that the American branch of the Society for Forgotten Music should present forgotten American music. If we were in any other country, I don't think that would be so unusual. Most European countries draw upon their own music. But I think we're about the only large country that relegates its own music to a subordinate position. Well, this evening the Society for Forgotten Music is going to look into the works of some of our more or less forgotten American composers. The first one didn't exactly lack recognition during his own lifetime. In fact, he probably won more prizes for his music and was commissioned to write more works than any other American composer in history. He was Henry Hadley, who died 13 years ago. And it's amazing when you think of all the things he did. At one time he was the assistant director of the New York Philharmonic Symphony. He had an opera performed at the Metropolitan Opera House that lasted for two seasons. Not the one opera. It was kept in the repertoire for two seasons. And he was a prolific composer. You'll get an idea of the kind of music he wrote as you hear this opening work on our concert by the String Quartet of the Society for Forgotten Music. It's the Quartet Opus 132 by Hadley. The first and last movements are very vigorous and very rhythmic. There's a light, fast-moving sketch, and also a very expressive slow movement. All in all, there's some very competently made music in this quartet. Now, here are the members of the quartet. The violinists Harry Zarif and David Mangowitz. The violist William Schoen and the cellist Maurice Bialkin. They'll play the Quartet Opus 132 by Henry Hadley. The violinist Harry Zarif and David Mangowitz. The violinist Harry Zarif and Davidzess aispflicht. The violinist Harry Zarif before scene Nightmare. Lady Hazel, the violinist Harry The violinist Harry Malay. The jazzészscreen GBITAK. The violinist Harryجilsiyer. The violinist Harry Potteruar, the violinist Harry Zayde-Penselig heart disease The violinist Harry Marlin and David Graовор, the violinist Harry Tobias. The violinist Harry Jasper, the violinist Harry Potter, the violinist Harry Potter, The violinist Harry Wolves in Pawat designs Saturday Nightmare on Sunday Nightmare on Sunday Nightmare on Saturday Nightmare on Sunday Nightmare on Sunday<|es|> The written piano по time piano and later in alleáので his buddy can sign the violinist in every imaginário the violinist Harry Potter. WORSE災ated by An malaise Theatre in the violinist Harry Potter and the violinist Harry Potter who denied themselves. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End