Tonight, the New York Academy of Medicine inaugurates the 10th series of lectures in its postgraduate radio program. Perhaps a few words may not be amiss, especially for new listeners, regarding the motivation of the Committee on Medical Information in establishing these lectures. The New York Academy of Medicine is one of the great medical forums of the world. At the individual sections, the stated meetings, the Friday afternoon lectures, the graduate fortnight, various annual endowed lectures, special conferences, and the lectures for the laity, an immense variety of material is brought out. This is presented by outstanding authorities for medical institutes throughout the country and abroad, and includes not only the results of current research, but clinical demonstrations and integrated critical surveys of entire fields. Few indeed must be the medical fields which are not touched on in the course of the year. It was the feeling of the Committee that, in economic terminology, the intellectual output of the Academy has outstripped its distribution. Too many of the profession have not profited from the opportunities offered by the Academy. Most physicians, especially in these times of hot and cold war, find it difficult or impossible to spare the time from the duties of practice to attend more than an occasional meeting at the Academy. This is especially true of physicians in the far-flung periphery of the Metropolitan District, and the majority of men in general practice, whose office hours are apt to stretch well into the evening. Interns and residents, especially during the busy winter months, often find it difficult to leave the premises of the hospital. Many such physicians would like to attend lectures at the Academy, but find it impossible to do so. It is hoped that the postgraduate radio program will offer a substitute and afford to many the benefits of Academy lectures. In addition to individual physicians listening to the lectures in the comfort of their homes, it is hoped that interested groups will form to listen to the lectures and then discuss them. This may well form a significant part of the educational program in hospitals, where a specialist in the field of the lecture might be present to go over it with the interns and residents. The selection of lectures from the abundance of some palliative material available has not been an easy task. The guiding principle of the committee has been to present lectures which would be of interest and value to the general practitioner with special emphasis on fields in which notable advances have recently been made. In this connection, incidentally, it is worthy of note that while a considerable interval elapses between the submission of a manuscript for publication and its appearance, during which time obsolescence may be distressing, the radio presentation has no similar leg. The lectures should be of interest not only to the general practitioner, medical student, and intern, but also to specialists in other than the field covered. In the present series, there will be individual lectures and round table discussions on such variegated fields as internal medicine, surgery, dermatology, gastroenterology, and industrial medicine. A similarly diverse fair will be offered in subsequent series. The postgraduate medical program of the New York Academy of Medicine is a new departure in medical education. Under the guidance of Dr. Iago Galston and Dr. Norton Brown, we believe it is off to a flying start. But such a pioneering effort must evolve. Our listeners can immeasurably accelerate this evolution by sending us their suggestions, not only regarding the nature of desirable programs, but above all, by pointing out the inevitable defects. Please write, Dr. Galston, your criticisms. By so doing, you will help in the development of this new technique for the dissemination of medical knowledge. Thank you. Thank you. You You