There is then a mature and normal dependence that implies mutual cooperation and consideration, such as exists between the quarterback and the halfback, between citizen and citizen, between business partner and business partner, between father and son, between husband and wife. If I want promotion in my job, I cannot get it by telling the boss to go to hell. I must cultivate his goodwill, at the same time showing that I can use my own judgment in his interest and in my own. We find, therefore, that the very complexity and interdependence of our society, like that of a complex machine, demands not only a specialized development of each of its parts, its individual citizens, but also a harmonious integration of these components' parts. This involves a sacrifice of some of that pioneering independence of our ancestors. The day when a man with simple animal courage and bronze could hack a farm out for himself out of a virgin forest is practically gone. Whether we like it or not, we are all parts of an immense and complicated machine. Maturity, then, demands a harmonious blend of independence and cooperation. We are not only persons in our own right, with our own individual interests, but we are citizens and are needed by our fellow citizens. This harmonious integration of two opposite trends in man is the work of a lifetime. One might almost say a masterpiece. Our greatest men have achieved it. Most of us swing too much towards one pole or the other. One might be a man who feels a nobody, a nothing in himself, needs to join a gang, a club, a wolf pack, or a secret society, in order to feel strong and superior. This is not maturity. This is adolescence. On the other hand, one who overvalues himself as a genius or a prophet and withdraws from the crowd, no matter how independent, may be merely an eccentric hermit or a paranoiac who believes the world revolves around him. The mature person has acquired, by slow degrees, a nice perceptivity of where his rights begin and where they end, where he should assert himself and where he should fall in line. Now, none of this can be learned from books. Every bit of it has to come from the laboratory of day-to-day human contact. Integration and adaptability are the words we give to it. It is the capacity to fit together jigsaw pieces of our personality so that sexual and aggressive impulses, our instincts in other words, do not stir up the hostility of our group, but are directed to its welfare. The mature man has achieved a streamlining of his personality. He listens carefully to what others say. And he judges, selects, takes into himself what he thinks he can use. There is no ruthless suppression of his instincts through fear, guilt, and shame. It is obvious, I am sure, that this streamlining and harmonization of the personality, of independence with dependence, of instinct and social conscience, is not achieved merely by talking or thinking about it. It comes through control, and principally self-control. Only through learning self-discipline can the mature personality arrive at the power of reflection. The child of two is a veritable madman, with almost no control of his instincts whatsoever. The mature man has learned to control his rage, his hate, his envy, and his sorrow, by constant reference to reality. He is like the man who knows when to drive his car five miles an hour, and when at 50. Indeed, the analogy of driving a car is suited to the whole process of maturing, since it demands constant awareness, choice, dexterity, and judgment. We learn to direct and modulate our emotional instinctual forces to the immediate situation, while keeping in mind our destination or ultimate goal, and how much time and how much energy it will take to get there. A mature driver will calculate on how far he can comfortably drive day by day, over what roads it is best to travel, how much energy in the form of gas he will require, where he may travel slowly and where with speed, and thus control goes hand in hand with reflection. When I can control my emotions, I give myself the chance of selecting the best of a number of plans. If I can reflect upon each situation, I will avoid traps and unpleasant dilemmas which excite my emotions. For it is obvious that where there is a perpetual emotional turmoil, there is little thinking and little maturity of judgment. And hence, much frustration. An apparent contradiction in my thinking appears here. For on the one hand, maturity seems to demand emotional control, and on the other hand, freedom. From guilt, fear, and shame, which exert a repressive effect upon our emotional expression. Does not control involve suppression? When I control my desire to speed through a traffic light, am I not suppressing my instincts by means of guilt, fear, and shame? Am I not afraid of the traffic cop giving me a ticket? Or of the judge taking my license away? Is not this a fear of the traffic light? Is this a fear of the traffic light? The answer is that there is a great difference between abandoning a plan because of fear and giving it up because it gets us nowhere. In the former, we are acting as children. In the latter, as adults. If I am mature, I will need no traffic cop. I will be able to become my own traffic cop. My impatience to pass a slow truck on a hill or around a curve will be controlled by the thought of the foolish risk and by a higher evaluation of my own life and that of others. Now, this automobile analogy is not so inapt because it is not a mere coincidence that most of our traffic accidents are due to adolescents and young drivers. They have not yet learned how much patient waiting and prolonged perseverance are needed to reach goals. Post-adolescence is therefore the time when we really begin to think. We examine the authoritative utterances of the pundits to see how much truth is in them and how much baloney. It is the time in life when we learn to make our own evaluations, set our own standards and aims. The post-adolescent ceases to respond with enthusiasm to the fads and the frenzies of the adolescent. Revolt against authority, which is so important for the adolescent, becomes tempered by a cooler appraisal of authority and a recognition of human fallibility. Thinking for himself, getting at the facts, accepting nothing without examining many sides, and the capacity to admit ignorance until this is achieved is an important sign of maturity. One ceases to be part of an intellectual chain gang and dares, as Emerson says, to be a nonconformist. But without balance, we can swing too easily into the long-haired eccentric. We must maintain a balance between skepticism and open-mindedness, while waiting for the facts and avoiding snap judgments, which close our minds to further expiration. Now, to most persons, a prolonged suspension of judgment seems to be intolerable. It seems, amidst so many wise acres, to be a sign of weakness to say, I do not know, I have not made up my mind, I am not so sure. The world is so full of cocksure people, who say they know the answers, but one by one they fade away, and no one pays any attention to them after their little moment on the stage. Most men want everything in black and white, like the adolescents. But this world is largely shaded in grays, and spotty grays at that. The dictators, Cromwell, Napoleon, Robespierre, Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, all through history, never admitted a doubt, never admitted a mistake. And the weak clung to them. Why? Because they seemed so strong and so sure. Even now, with their ruins and rubble all about them, the Germans want their Hitler back again. It seems that in times of crisis, men turn like terrified children to a papa, to tell them what to do. The man with a plan. He always gives us security. Now, post-adolescence is characteristic, or characterized by planning. For planning is indispensable to independence, and successful adaptation to reality. Lurton reports that of 10,000 people who attained success in life, every one of them had had a definite plan. If I have no plan, then my life will be determined by those who have. By the time a man is 25, he should have a plan. If he hasn't, he'd better get busy about it. The adolescent wastes his energy like a puppy, is rushing hither and yon, but the post-adolescent knows how much energy is needed for success, and he dares not waste it. While we are on thinking and planning, I would like to say to those students who may be here, that there is a vast difference between the adolescent and the post-adolescent and the post-adolescent or mature student. Adolescence is a period of revolt and is unhealthy if it is not. The adolescent, not yet able to think out a plan for himself, knows at least that he does not want to be told what to do and think by those who do. It is the beginning of his independence. An adolescent prides himself on how little study he can get away with, and this is logical because to him, study is imposed on him by father or the professor. This revolt is particularly necessary in the adolescent, in the adolescent male, for when he is a good student, he feels like a sissy. The adolescent is not yet provided with a life plan, so he thinks in terms of examinations, which are our civilized substitute for puberty rights. The good adolescent student wants to please papa or mama. The mature student asks himself, where is he going? How much does this help him get there? Many young people, you know, enter law and engineering and medicine not because they are fascinated by these professions, but because of the advice or the ambition of parents or vocational advisors. Many fail zealously as a result. Because they are rebelling against someone else's plan. Thus they revenge themselves by failure against the over-authoritative parent. They will continue through life to be failures until they arrive at their own plan. It is pathetic how little independence of thinking is found in our undergraduate classes. At a California university some years ago, only 10% of the undergraduates knew what they wanted to do with their lives. Only 10%. Many students are students for pathological reasons. I mean by that that books, instead of being guides for exploration, are used as a refuge from reality and as an escape from social responsibility. Our universities and colleges are just beginning to realize that intellectual maturity is not enough, that it can be a compensation for emotional immaturity. And that to become a man, a student, should be a part of the workaday world where common sense and know-how is more esteemed than book learning. The university of the future will devote attention to those neurotics who use their studies as an escape or who are on the verge of suicide because of profound inner conflicts. Now we see how much balance and proportion enters into the composition of maturity. Without these qualities, there can be no humor. The ability to see the absurd in ourselves and in those around us is a protection against exaggeration and excess. The man who never finds himself funny now and then is likely to be too rigid and brittle. An Irish sweepstake ticket, for example, or a lottery prize. There must be a reason for this. In every instance, when you hear of someone profiting from a piece of good fortune, you find a person who is already trained and capable of using it. Many young men, when they find that the years, that years of preparation are required rather than months to get into the professions, get impatient. Things must come to them quickly. The Reader's Digest, which boasts of the largest circulation of any periodical in our country, owes its great appeal to the implicit assumption that the right magical formula is just round the corner. Seize it, and you will be on top of the pile in this best of all possible worlds. The immature mind is always looking for the magical formula for something to come out of nothing. Some years ago, a survey of the working population of a Pennsylvania town was made, and it was found that only 30% of the workmen were dissatisfied with their jobs, but not with their jobs alone. They were not happy in their social relations, their marital or sexual relations. In fact, their job maladjustment was an expression of a general personality maladjustment. So we find that the capacity to endure and enjoy hard work over the years with a plan and a goal that make this possible is the sign of emotional stability and maturity. The work habits that make the successful man are not initiated in post-adolescence. They are laid down in childhood. Every child needs to get fun out of sharing in the tasks of the home and to get pride out of some responsibility. If he has not, then when post-adolescence is reached, the hard self-discipline required for success will be intolerable. And he will become a drifter, a dreamer, and a dependent. The problem of work for the young woman of today is not easy either. Woman is torn between the opposing claims of marriage and a career. It is the unusual woman with rare poise and judgment who can combine them gracefully. Industry is not too eager to encourage part-time labor for married women because of the oscillation of interest between the job and the home. Since our families are getting smaller and the exertions of housework are being mechanically reduced, more leisure for women means another problem and a great reservoir of human energy being wasted. Industry and labor unions must face this. A woman with a part-time job feels a part of society, whereas isolated with her children in a small apartment, she feels too much alone with her thoughts and too dependent for security on the moods of one person. Many young husbands feel that a part-time job for the wife reflects on their adequacy as males and as wage earners. But as long as a man has no deep unconscious drive for dependence, his wife's part-time experiences can be a source of security and entertainment. The fact that so many women of 50 are unhappy and troublesome is due to their inadequate preparation for the time when mothering and housekeeping are no longer needed. Hence, if the young housewife of today does not have some extramural interest, she may become the clinging, dependent, bossy mother-in-law at 50 who in turn teaches her own daughters to grow up in her infantile image. This matter of growing up should not be regarded as a sort of leisure time activity to which we devote our attention when we have nothing better to do. Those who do not grow up almost invariably break down. Neuroses, psychoses, and crime are the problems that the psychiatrist faces in a culture that demands more complex adjustments than the average man is capable of making unless he is quite mature. What horrible thing happened a few weeks ago? A young veteran, brooded, retired within himself, imagined everyone plotting against him, and in a crazy frenzy massacred 16 people. No, this psychiatric problem is no joke. Something in that young man's life or personality prevented him from getting fun out of work and love and people. The capacity to love was small, the capacity to hate overpowering. This is the story in all the failures to mature. No power to love. We may say that a person's maturity is measured by his capacity to love. Some years ago, a distinguished physician, Richard Cabot, wrote a book called What Men Live By. As I close, I would like to repeat to you the message of that book. The four things that give man happiness in this life, according to Cabot, were first, work, second, play, thirdly, love, and fourthly, worship. These four things made mature life worthwhile. Now, I have talked enough about work and some about love. Play is provided in maturity on a wider scale and is available in childhood, but in maturity, play is of secondary importance to work. We indulge in the periodic return to childhood in order that we may move more effectively work as adults. We need play of a truly creative character if we are to experience a sense of growth in us. Passive recreation, such as listening to the radio, seeing movies, watching other people play baseball, or going to concerts, all satisfy our instinctual cravings for combat or our aesthetic longings for beauty, but to a limited degree, it is when our amusements take on an active, creative character, such amusements as gardening, cabinet work, painting, etching, weaving, writing, playing a musical instrument, et cetera, that we become independent and less vulnerable to the jars of life. What about worship? I've said nothing explicitly about religion in this talk, but what I have to say I will conclude with. You notice that every politician, however ungodly his behavior or his discourse, always drags God into his last paragraph. whenever we feel depressed or perplexed over the burdens and problems of reality, we can always appeal to the almighty. Perhaps this, too, is a symptom of our immaturity. In the end, we need to run to Papa. But there is a spiritual nature to man that the psychiatrist with his background of mechanistic or biological thinking is too prone to ignore. We cannot treat the decline of authoritarian religion as wholesome unless it is replaced by greater maturity. What do I mean by spiritual? I mean by that a capacity in each man and woman to dedicate himself to a cause which is greater and nobler than his own personal goals. That means self-denial and love. It means a continual striving for a better race of human beings than we are at present. Over the centuries, man has stubbornly held to the belief in progress. There is something in each of us, call it soul, call it narcissism, that wants a better future than the past or the present. When we consecrate our lives to a goal that seems to transcend our own individual aims and ambitions, we experience a spiritual elation or a sense of importance as being a part of a great whole. All great mass movements that have convulsed mankind from the crusades to revolutions have drawn their strength from this exaltation. There was a time when Christianity captured the imagination of mankind and made the lowliest slave feel like an emperor. Perhaps the religion of the future will concentrate more on love and less on sin, hate, fear, and guilt. It may aim at making men creative and free, not cowering in fear of having their own thoughts. Let religion strive towards eliminating greed, envy, cruelty, and anxiety. It can't do it by pulpit oratory. Any more than my talk tonight can make any of you more mature. we have had too much faith in the magic of words, so talk can't do it. Can science do it? Scientists pride themselves on eliminating values from their consideration. Thus far, I am afraid that only one thing can produce any change of any permanence or depth in man's character, desire, and that is an extensive introduction to his own unconscious. Thus only can man mature, escape from his infantile fears, hates, greeds, and sorrows in order to experience a truly secure and adventurous post- adolescence. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Henry Harper-Hart. Thank you very much.