Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Civil Defense Communications. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense. Here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight our civil defense report is concerned with a very important subject of communications. As always on this series of programs, we have set up the material in the form of a candid question and answer session. I consider this the clearest way to indicate to the people of the City of New York just how we are mobilizing on a standby basis in order to be fully prepared for any conceivable emergency. Within the last two weeks, the world picture has darkened. And with it, the certainty of peace has become less definite. We must view the disturbing tide of events in Korea as the possible forerunner of World War III. And I needn't tell you, for you know, for every thinking American knows, that if ever another world war does come, we are all on the battle front. No longer will infantry in the lines and men in planes and aboard ships bear the physical dangers while the rest of us remain relatively safe. In plain language, we must stop thinking that civil defense is something remote, something that can be accomplished by just going through the motions. It is necessary for us to realize that though we have already come a long way in civil defense preparation, we have no longer, we have the longer part of the road still to travel. There has been a great deal of complacency due to wishful thinking that there was really no great hurry for this kind of defense preparation. Wishful thinking among men of goodwill that was blown apart when the Chinese Communist forces crossed the Yellow River to attack the United Nations Army. Now there is an urgent need for immediate all-out effort on the part of all of us. The National Securities Resources Board has presented to Congress a plan for civil defense preparations against atomic attacks. Implementing this plan will cost us as taxpayers over $3 billion during the next three years, an expense to be shared among the federal and state and local governments in various proportions. It is up to all of us, both as good citizens and as loyal Americans, to make sure this money is spent as wisely as possible. So that these expenditures combined with our contributions of time, thinking and effort will result in our being prepared to withstand any sort of attack. Here with me in WNYC studio is Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Civil Defense Communications for the City of New York. First of all, Mr. Siegel, suppose you review for us the functions of the communications system in our civil defense setup. Yes indeed, Commissioner. Communications are the nerve center of civil defense. First, the Army flashes the signal of impending attack. The public is warned by sirens and by the radio. Our civil defense forces are mobilized, and in case of attack, their movements are directed by means of the communications system. This unites the many city divisions and agencies into one great protective organization. What are some of these agencies, Director Siegel? They are police, fire, public works, medical, health and welfare emergency divisions, our transportation and evacuation divisions, and such agencies as the Salvation Army, the Red Cross and many others. Our communications system also ties in with the armed forces, with United States government agencies, with New York State and neighboring states, to bring unified action and mutual assistance in time of trouble. Finally, and probably most important, the citizens of our city are kept informed of what is going on so that they may protect themselves. That's good. The importance of that last point, the letting the people know immediately what is going on in an emergency situation, cannot be overstated. Prompt warning and adequate instructions to the people will save thousands of lives by enabling them to seek shelter in case of attack. Information will prevent panic, and by communications, our protective forces will be mobilized and directed to the disaster to fight fire and save lives. I know the storm on November 25th served in an important way as a shakedown for civil defense communication facilities. Suppose you tell us something of the way it was handled by your organization, Mr. Siegel. Well, Commissioner, the approach of the storm is other than staff members of WNYC being alerted, put on standby, and as conditions required, being called into duty. This enabled the station to function as the communications headquarters for storm information for the city. A headquarters with two functions. First, to allay any trace of panic by informing New Yorkers the precise extent of the storm damage. And second, to serve as an emergency communications link between key city departments. And in a civil defense emergency, your operation would still have that two-fold purpose, wouldn't it? That's right, sir. Now, to accomplish our first objective, throughout the day we broadcast a constant flow of the latest reports from the Weather Bureau. We set up interviews with Commissioner Cavanaugh of the Department of Marine and Aviation, with the Automobile Club of New York, with city transit officials, with Commissioner Hilliard of the Welfare Department, with the Red Cross, with Staten Island newspaper correspondents, with Consolidated Edison, with LaGuardia Field, and many other agencies which were actively involved in the storm. In addition, we made immediate broadcasts of statements by Mayor Impeletari relative to the storm. The first one advising the public to return home and remain calm. And the second statement which released civil defense workers from standby. Now, my point in outlining our coverage is to indicate to the people of the city of New York that in the event of crisis, they can and must turn to the radio for information. Radio broadcasts will give them the necessary instructions and prevent a jamming of telephone lines. Well, how about the second objective of your operation? That is, serving as an emergency communications link between key city departments. How did that work out during the big storm? Well, at about 1.30 p.m., Commissioner of Hospitals, Dr. Kogel, notified us during the height of the storm that telephone service at Seaview Hospital on Staten Island would probably go out of service. We rushed a mobile radio telephone unit out there via the Holland Tunnel through New Jersey, since all ferry service to Staten Island had been disrupted. Our mobile unit then prepared to establish emergency communications in the event that the regular service failed. Many listeners to this program do not live in the city proper, but in foreign areas in New Jersey, as well as other states. The word here about the newly formed New York and New Jersey emergency network might be very much to the point. Well, a bi-state emergency radio network has been formed for use in an emergency and to assist in the public information aspects of civil defense. This network will, in reality, be composed of three separate networks, which may be linked together as a single unit for purposes of disseminating information throughout New York State and New Jersey. The New Jersey network has already been established and will work in cooperation with the New York Upstate and Downstate Networks. The Downstate Networks, which operates under the chairmanship of Dave Gruskell of WOR, of particular interest to our metropolitan listeners, will comprise every radio station in an area extending from New York City up to Hudson Valley to Albany and Troy, including Long Island and Middletown, New York. Engineering details of this network are being worked out and monitoring tests are being made so that uninterrupted transmission from one station to another will be assured. You are then getting the full cooperation of private broadcasting authorities? Oh, indeed, yes, Commissioner. And not only as regards facilities, but in the time of broadcasting's most busy and illustrious executives, I might mention at this time the top-level advisory committee on communications, which you formed and which is constantly consulting with us. The chairman of this committee is Keith S. McHugh, the president of the New York Telephone Company. Would you mind giving us the names of the other gentlemen who stay on this committee? I think at least we should publicly commend them. Certainly, Commissioner. Other members of this top-level committee are Major General H. C. Ingalls, the president of the Radio Corporation of America, Frank Stanton, the president of the Columbia Broadcasting System, and his vice president and assistant, William C. Gittinger, William S. Hedges, the vice president of the National Broadcasting Company, and Frank White, the president of the Mutual Broadcasting System. Well, Mr. Fiegel, you have emphasized the elaborate arrangements already underway so that in the event of an emergency, there will be no panic due to the inadequate information. But suppose you tell us a little more now about the other function of the Civil Defense Communications Network in an emergency, the setting up of various systems for key units. Well, first of all, and most important, Commissioner, there's the communications network of our own police department, which since 1932 has pioneered in the usage of a large-scale two-way system. It covers now about 900 widely scattered headquarters and vehicles. How about the fire department? The fire department communications facilities have been made available for civil defense. A new two-way system comparable to that of the police department is about to be installed. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Would you, at this point, for the benefit of our listeners, review the system of precinct report centers and borough control centers? Well, Commissioner, the precinct report centers will receive word of any emergency within its area. A water main burst, a fire, an explosion, say. Representatives of the various divisions who are present will immediately go into action to summon help to bring the emergency under control. If the emergency is too great for the picked teams at the report center level to handle, then what happens? In that case, Commissioner, calls will be relayed back to the borough control center, as well as adjacent borough control centers for assistance. Now, let's visualize the waste. Suppose further aid and reinforcements are required. In that case, we have special lines set up for direct contact with the armed forces, with the state, and other municipality civil defense authorities. How about the establishment of alternate locations for control and report centers, in case the original ones are put out of commission? Well, that will be arranged too, Commissioner. Incidentally, I might mention at this point that a model report center has already been completed, and we're running tests to determine the most efficient setup. We're running tests for the health department, and we're experimenting with communication techniques. Eventually, each key department will have an individual emergency communication system of its own. In line with this, could you say a few words about the development of the subaudible signal transmitted on a broadcasting medium? Yes, indeed, Commissioner. Yes, indeed, Commissioner. This is an interesting development. This is one of the most encouraging innovations in our civil defense experimentation. We're making arrangements for broadcasting signals to be sent out over regular broadcasting stations. But these will not be audible via any but receivers which are equipped with special devices. And this will allow us to use regular broadcasting channels for specific messages without distracting, confusing, or alarming the general public. I'd like to emphasize that we're constantly experimenting with everything from the latest in electronic devices to the utilization of carrier pigeons, all in order to fulfill the mission of the communications operation in the civil defense job. And now, Director Siegel, how about volunteers? Could you estimate how many you will need? Commissioner, at this time we estimate that we'll need approximately 20,000 volunteers in the communications operation, including messengers. In a large measure, the success or the failure of our job will depend on these volunteers. Well, good. You know, talking about volunteers, we're after many of them right now. And it's something that's to be said for the entire civil defense effort. Volunteers are needed badly. And we know we can count on the people of the city of New York to come through now that the pressure is on. And thank you very much, Mr. Siegel. This has been another in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Civil Defense Communications. Next Tuesday evening, at this same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you.