From all over the country. That's the biggest of our municipal markets. That sounds a lot like London's Covent Garden Market. Might be. I never saw Covent Garden. But Washington Market's a good-sized place. Then straight across town from that one is Fulton Market, where the fish comes in. You'll see all kinds of ships over there, and every kind of fish there is in season. It's a colorful place. Like Billingsgate, I imagine. Well, thanks very much, farmer. Well, not at all. Yeah, got to be getting up to the Bronx Terminal myself. Tuesday and Thursday are the big days up there, you know. And we've got all kinds of restaurants in our town, too. Hey, wait a minute. Why not tell them about the automats? All right. We have one kind of cafeteria called the automats, where you choose your food from little compartments of glass doors. Each little glass door opens separately when you put the right number of nickels, those are five-cent pieces, in the slot on the side. You take the food out and put it on your tray, and you save money, because you don't have to tip anybody. Hey, how's that? You don't need me, brother. You need a psychiatrist. When New York began, it was clustered at the foot of Manhattan Island overlooking the bay. As it grew, it began to take in the villages around it, and these sections still retain their old names. Just as you have Soho and Bloomsbury and Mayfair and Chelsea, we've got Murray Hill, Chelsea, Washington Heights, Fordham, Flatbush, Bay Ridge, Hollis, Jamaica, Harlem, and lots more. Not to forget what we call the village, which is Greenwich Village, and is our equivalent to your Soho. Naturally, the boundaries between them are all gone now, and we're pretty solid within our 321 square miles, with its 5,557 miles of streets. How do we get around? Well, mostly we use the subway, which is our name for the underground. Usually, we run ten cars to a train, and in rush hour, which is from 7.30 to 9 in the morning and 4.30 to 6 in the evening, these trains carry about 2,000 people apiece. We have no smoking cars on our subway. Yeah, and that's something we could use. Oh, wait a second. You ride on the subway, I take it. That's right. Every day at least twice. And let me tell you something. How much of a ride is it? Washington Heights to 42nd Street, about 5 or 6 miles. And how much is it? A nickel, 5 cents. Doesn't matter where you live or what station you get off at, it's only 5 cents. Two pence a penny in England. We're talking to London, you know. We are? Well, hiya, London. How you doing? So, any ride you take is still a nickel. What's the longest ride you can take on the subway? Oh, 205th Street in the Bronx, out to 169th Street in Queens, I guess. I'd say it's about 23 miles. 23 miles. Save from Charing Cross almost to Dawkins. 23 miles for a nickel. And you want cigarettes, too. In our town, there are no districts set aside, especially for professional men. No Harley Street for doctors or temple for barristers. But we do have business districts. The clothing industry, where most of the clothes are made for the people of America, lies in 5 or 6 blocks in mid-Manhattan. And so does the fur industry. Newspapers are mostly concentrated in two groups. One uptown, one downtown. Around Wall Street is our financial district. And from 42nd Street to 53rd along Broadway and the side streets is the amusement district. It's called Times Square, although the square itself is only the southern end of it. Boy, that used to be some sight before the war. It used millions of candle power every night. There were the huge electric signs, the biggest one, showing a collection of strangely colored and exotic fish whose lights went on and off. There was another in which a horse race was won once every minute with a different horse winning each time. There was one that blew smoke rings right out above the crowd. Another that had a miniature fountain in it using tons of water each day. There was one... Ah, but you get the idea. They were a show in themselves. People would come down to Times Square just to watch the signs and saunter along the streets. They still do that, even now. On a warm Indian summer night, Broadway's crowded from curb to curb with people who stroll along slowly. Boys were their best girls, whole families, husbands and their wives, and soldiers and sailors on leave. All of them just walking. Maybe stopping in front of a movie house. Maybe even going to a movie finally, but most of them just walking and taking it easy along Broadway. It's a show in itself, this promenade, and you can watch it for hours. Here, too, are all our legitimate theaters, most of them on the side streets. You know, actually, there are only two theaters on Broadway itself, and neither of them is within the bounds we set as a theatrical district. One is on 40th Street, just across from the Metropolitan Opera House, and the others up on 53rd Street. In the daytime, these streets are full of actors and actresses looking for jobs. They're standing in corners talking to each other and trading the latest news. You have your season in the summertime when the shows and the concerts and ballets are going full swing. Ours is later... Just a minute, young man. I believe I know more about that than you do. Well, go ahead, then. Our season begins in October. That's when the ballet comes to town and the theaters begin to present the new plays. The New York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra starts its concerts in October. These last until January, when those who can afford it leave for the South. It gets rather cold in New York in January and February. Then in March, it starts all over again and lasts until May. And what about the summertime? That's quite a season then, too. Summertime is when most New Yorkers take their annual vacations, staggering them out through the two months. But summertime is also the time when most out-of-towners come to see their biggest city, so the town is never empty. Then, too, in the summer, the city government sees to it that we have plenty of entertainment, mostly in the form of concerts. This year, there were more than 400 out-of-doors concerts during the two months of July and August. Our biggest summer concert features are the Lewiston Stadium concerts, where the New York Philharmonic Symphony plays nightly for thousands of people under the stars. There are nightly concerts, too, at our parks. Band concerts and concerts by popular orchestras where dancing is encouraged. Our warm summer climate makes it possible, makes it sensible to hold these concerts out of doors. Parks? Did I hear someone mention parks? Yeah. I mentioned parks. What did you say about them? Nothing much. Just we hold concerts in them in the summertime. Well, you might have mentioned that New York City has 18,310 acres of parkland, without counting parkways and playgrounds. The principal parks are Central Park and the center of Manhattan... That would be the equivalent of Hyde Park in London. No interruptions, please. Ah, ah. Central Park and the center of Manhattan with 840 acres. That would be a little more than twice the size of Hyde Park. It has 840 acres. Van Cortland Park in the Bronx has 1,112 acres. Prospect Park in Brooklyn, 526 acres. Flushing Meadow Park in Queens, 1,054 acres. Marine Park in Richmond, 1,256 acres. Bronx Park, 698 acres. Well, that's enough of that. That's enough of that. Now, about playgrounds. You mentioned playgrounds before, I believe. Certainly. There are more than 400 playgrounds in the city. set aside exclusively for the use of our children. In addition, there are 17 swimming pools for adults and children. 1018 golf courses and 535 tennis courts. The principal parkway is the west side highway running along the Hudson River. East River Drive running along the East River. And Belt Parkway running along the perimeter. I said Belt Parkway running along the perimeter of Brooklyn. Sawmill River Parkway connecting with... Well, you get the idea, London, probably. However, lots of things have changed since the war came to America. On the streets, you see uniforms wherever you go. Americans, British, Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians, Norwegians, Netherlanders. Every kind of uniform of the United Nations walks along our streets. We worked out some special things for all men in the services. Free tickets for many movies and plays for men in uniform. The Defense Recreation Center provides free tickets for ball games and other sports. The Stage Door Canteen provides dancing and entertainment by the great stars of the theater world. The Music Box Canteen. The English-speaking union. The Servicemen Center. The British Apprentices Club in operation for 25 years with funds provided by citizens of New York City. You know, some of our buildings would remind you of London, too. Our city hall like an English mansion of 150 years ago. Gracie Mansion, where the mayor lives. It was built under English rules. Jermell Mansion and Van Cortland Mansion. All part of the early history of the city. And our churches, too. St. Paul's, built by the English in the early 18th century and looking like a typical London church, except that it's built of redstone instead of white. St. John's Cathedral, overlooking the city. A cathedral that's been building for 80 years and still not finished. Showing as many kinds of architecture as one of your own cathedrals. Temple Emmanuel on Fifth Avenue, our largest synagogue. The Dutch Reformed Church on Hudson Street, with its perfect Renaissance facade. Trinity Church at the end of Wall Street, with a quiet churchyard where the old stones mark the resting places of famous men. A spot where our New Yorkers often go to rest quietly and peacefully for a few minutes before going back into the maelstrom of Wall Street. St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue, with its Gothic spires graciously turned towards Radio City. Focal point of our yearly Easter parade. Each Easter Sunday, when all New York puts on its new spring finery and displays it along the avenue. St. Patrick's, which used to have iron railings, but turned them in for scrap to build guns and tanks. Not to mention the borough of Brooklyn, which calls itself the borough of churches. Oh, we're a city of contrasts, too. We're 10th Avenue, with its tenements stop abruptly at 70th Street, and becomes West End Avenue with its swanky buildings. A city that's looked upon as the city of speed, but has thousands of acres of parks and hundreds of churches and libraries. A city where Fifth Avenue, and its seven-mile march through Manhattan, becomes progressively a quiet residential section, a business section, a shopping section that combines all the features of Piccadilly, Regent Street, and Bond Street, a district of art galleries, another residential section with some of the finest homes on the island, and finally, a tenement section. We like to smoke cigarettes, and we like to drink beer, although they tell us that our beer is a lot different from yours. Or anyway, we like it cold. We like our pretty girls, that everyone tells us are the best dressed in the world. We don't know how true that is, but we like them anyway. We like the foggy days when you can smell the sea along our streets, and hear the foghorns blowing on the river. We like our baseball teams, even if the Yanks did lose the World Series. Well, our time's almost up now, and before we go off the air, we'd like to introduce once again, the man who is responsible for the smooth functioning of this complicated city, Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia. Well, now, I dare say you will say that we've been showing off. We're rather proud of our city, though. And we're looking very anxiously toward hearing the London program, for you have so much to tell about. You're so much older than we are as a city. And besides that, you've added so much to the great tradition of London. By your example and your fortitude, you have brought courage to every heart here in America. And we will know what to do, because you have done it. And I am sure when I tell you that we expect here in America to defend what we have created and built during the past 150 years. And we expect, too, to protect our ideals and our institutions just as much as we are going to protect our structures and our homes. But we're not satisfied because our homes have not yet been attacked. We're not happy because of the momentary safety that we enjoy. We shall not be completely happy.