Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, what does Africa want? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will present a conversation with two Africans on the political attitudes and economic needs of Africa. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are William Kijube from Uganda, East Africa, a student of geography at the University of Chicago. William Bascom, acting chairman of the Department of Anthropology and acting director of the Program of African Studies at Northwestern University. Pius Okibo from Nigeria, West Africa, a student of economics at Northwestern University. And Calvin Stillman, instructor in social sciences in the College of the University of Chicago. Now, gentlemen, what does Africa want? Is there any quick answer to this question, Okibo? It's invidious to try to give a quick answer to the question, what does Africa want? Because of the vastness of the territory, the size, the variation in the political aspirations of the regions, and in the political boundaries and groups and languages. Baskin, do you have a word? Yes, I don't think Americans usually realize how large Africa is, four times the United States. And one of the ways we can get a picture of its tremendous size is to realize that Lake Victoria, this little spot in East Africa, is actually larger than Lake Michigan. In fact, Africa is 11.5 million square miles, and it involves 200 million people speaking more than 300 languages. So you will see that in Africa there are many people of various types at various stages of civilization and with quite different needs. Still, there must be some things that all Africans want. It must be possible, Mrs. Okibo and Kijubi, to generalize and say that all Africans, at least all Negro Africans, want this as opposed to this. Can't we say that there are some general desires or drives? Is that possible, Okibo? Well, the point is that in the whole of Africa, which has been carved up among various European countries as a result of history, they've been brought up under different traditions. So those in the French territories do not have exactly the same aspirations politically as those in the British territories, nor as those in the Portuguese or Belgian territories. Kijubi? Yes. Linking up to that, I should say that more than 95% of Africa is under foreign rule. There are only a few countries which are independent. Now tell me a bit about your own country, Kijubi. I come from Uganda, which is in British East Africa. That is a country which is to the west of Kenya and to the north of Lake Victoria. How large a country is it? It is just about twice the size of Illinois. And the population is just about 5 million. The equator passes right through the country, and it might sound as if I ought to have melted already before coming here. But we are 4,000 feet above sea level, and the weather is relatively cool all the time. You have many whites in Uganda? No, we have about 2,000 to 3,000 whites there. But we are famous for our elephants there. If you come to the country, you'll find notices on a road that elephants are right of way. Please do not disturb elephants. Sounds like the deer in northern Michigan. Sure, but I must tell you that the first elephant I saw myself was in the London Zoo. Because these notices are found only in game reserves. And Americans here tend to think that all Africa is animals and snakes and all that. I hope to see some more animals in this country too. How about your country, Nigeria? I come from Nigeria, which is at the bend of the west coast of Africa. It's a British protectorate and has an area that is practically as large as Texas, Louisiana, Illinois, and Indiana put together with 30 million people. Well, if it's as large as Texas, it's pretty big. Yes, it is very big indeed. And there are about 6,000 British officials. Very many whites other than those British officials? No, there are not many whites. Whites don't settle in Nigeria. They are not allowed to own land, you see. What about the big game in Nigeria? I understand that there are some big game. I haven't seen any at all myself. And in actual fact, I've neither been to the zoo here. I'm anxious to go to the zoo to see some. Well, now, this absence of big game is very disillusioned to a naive citizen of Illinois. But tell me this before we go on. What are your aims here in America? You're studying economics at Northwestern. What are you going to do? When I complete, I hope to go back and probably undertake some work in a research establishment. And you? Before I came out here, I was a teacher in a mission school. And after I have completed my course in geography at the University of Chicago, I hope to go back to Uganda and teach in a high school. Now, let's come specifically to our question. In terms of the political aspirations of Africa, what does Africa want politically? What does your country want politically, Okipo? Nigeria wants to be free from foreign rule. It wants independence. And the character of the independence it will have depends on what the people decide when the time comes. That is, whether they want to be totally independent of Britain, like Burma, or whether they want to maintain the same symbolic union with Britain as India has contrived. What is the position in Nigeria now? At the moment, there is a substantial measure of internal self-government. That is, out of the council of 12 ministers, nine are Nigerians and three are British. And those three are the ministries of external affairs, finance, law and order, and defense. That at once shows you that they are the most important ministries. But all the other ministries dealing with internal affairs are retained by Nigerians. Why do you want independence? In order to promote democracy, I think that it is difficult to have a democratic form of government and to develop yourself economically if you are still under foreign rule. Sturman? Okipo here is talking about one of the brightest spots in Africa in terms of development towards self-government, in terms of development of a really honest democracy on the Western frame. We certainly don't see anything like this in South Africa, in Central Africa, in most of the rest of Africa. In fact, I'm afraid that when the present fracas works its way out in South Africa, the Africans will reject democracy itself, chiefly because it's associated with whites. What do you say to that, Kildjum? The difference here is that in West Africa, there's no white settlement, whereas in these East African and Central African territories, there's white settlement. And what is really called democracy and self-government will not be democracy and self-government for the black Africans there. That's why there's a tendency for the Africans at this present time to reject what is supposedly self-rule because they fear that it will not be self-rule for them. Certainly the place where the political development has gone ahead most rapidly in Nigeria and the Gold Coast are areas in which there are no white settlers, where the government has prevented the allocation of lands to whites on any permanent tenure and where, for other reasons such as health, there has been no tradition of settling down. The white people in West Africa are those who come out for a tour of duty and then return home to Europe or to America to retire. Who owns the private invested capital in West Africa, Mr. Baskin? Is it owned by white investors? Is it government owned or is it owned by Africans? Mostly by white investors in the large companies and in the mines. The government itself has invested large amounts of money in such things as ports, roads, and coal mines. You would say that in general that it's ownership of land rather than ownership of capital that is associated with foreign domination? In East Africa, yes. In Africa, Hungary. Yes, yes. Yes, and the same true in India probably. Well, now you seem to have, we seem to have a very explosive situation on our hands in South Africa with very real friction between the blacks and the whites. How do you account for that friction down there, Kajubi? The trouble there is that there are white settlers, about two million of them, and then you have got the majority of the Africans, about eight million. And then there's fear and suspicion on the part of the white minority who are there and on the part of the black majority. Between the two, friction develops, and the problems are mainly economic because I feel that the economy of the Union of South Africa is built on the Africans as a factor of cheap labour in the industry, in the mines and so on. And so the whites there feel that if they gave political freedom to the black majority, the white minority would be swamped. And as a result, there's friction between the two cultures. Well, might not the white minority be right in that? I don't think they're right in that. This friction and fear exists because the whites have created it. They have mistreated the Africans in the mines so much that they fear now that if they gave them any political rights, probably the Africans will strike back. But if that situation had not been created, I think the Africans would be quite happy to share all political responsibilities with the whites down there. Well, since the situation has been created, unfortunately, do you think the blacks would strike back or are likely to? I think that if they gave them the political and economic equality and responsibility, the Africans in South Africa would be happy to share with the white settlers there. I think now we can begin to see one generalisation in Africa. We have coming out of West Africa the principle of African self-government on Western democratic principles. We have coming out of South Africa and spreading now rapidly through Central Africa and the Rhodesias, the principle of a two-level state with whites on top and blacks below. This is justified by the phrase preserving white civilisation in Africa. Yes, and it also makes clear the fact that independence in itself is not the final answer. After all, the Union of South Africa is an independent state, but it is not the Africans who have the independence. It is the whites minority. And the same is possibly going to be the course in the Rhodesias and perhaps also in East Africa. Would it be fair to say, Okibe, what you really want politically is democracy, whether that's achieved under complete independence or under a Dominion status or some other status? It's not exactly that. It's the aim, of course, to have democracy. But in the exclusive areas like South Africa and East Africa, the search for democracy has become synonymous with the search for nationalistic independence. In the sense that in those territories, democracy is denied to the Africans. Yes. So that in their seeking democracy, they have more or less identified that with nationalistic aspirations. That would be less true, I take it, in your country. In the Western coast, it would be true to say that they are seeking democracy. Would you like self-government only if it means democracy, or would you like self-government regardless of the form of government? I think that democratic institutions have taken a very firm route in the West Coast, for instance. In actual fact, historically, they have been very democratic in the West Coast, and what has very often been confused with the feudal structure of the society has maintained very many forms of democracy. I think in making up our own minds, if we have to take sides, say, in the South African situation, or in the potentially the Rhodesian situation, we must think in terms of colonialism versus self-government, in the alternative that the new African government might not have any form of democracy at all. I think that to be against colonialism on principle tends to obscure the fact that some newly free governments can be very vicious, even though it's a good native nationalistic viciousness. What do you say to that, Okipo? Well, I would rather say that from the experience of those African territories, which have attained some measure of self-rule, the passionate retention of democratic forms is a pointer to the fact that it would be generally true to say so for all African territories. I would be in the opinion that it would be more danger of having an undemocratic state in a case where you have a white minority that's at the top of it than you would in a state which is almost entirely controlled by the Africans themselves, and where the white is an unimportant element. But a state born in fire, for instance if we have a new state coming out of the South African situation, a state born in these kind of terrific stresses and violence that will have to take place here if the present situation continues, would there be the possibility of democracy, do you think, on either side? In West Africa it seems to me to be quite possible. The problems are complicated, of course, by the white settlers, and you have a two-class system, and perhaps it would be inverted if the Africans got independence, but it's not democratic now to begin with. I might point out that what is referred to in West Africa as the happy state now did not exist historically that way. It is only within the last ten years, I should say, that the Africans have had a substantial measure in the discussion of their affairs, and in the last five years in the active participation in their affairs, so that before that the situation was quite as explosive as it is in South Africa today. Can you account for that easily? I think that the war, the last war, has had a tremendous effect in altering the concept of British colonial rule. What about Africa incognita, Portuguese Africa, Belgian Africa, areas from which we hear nothing? Are there independence movements in these areas, do you think? I do not know of Portuguese territories. I know that in Spanish territories there is one that is just off the west coast of Nigeria, Fernando Po, where there is a substantial number of Nigerian labor. I know that the position is not exactly as idyllic as it is in West Africa under British rule. I think in French West Africa there has been a tendency to turn the Africans to look towards France and becoming French citizens. And there, it may cause some complications owing to the fact that some Africans might wish to gain their own political independence quite apart from France, and others wish to look to France and become French citizens. Well now it embarrasses me a bit to ask this question in the presence of two literate, cultivated Africans. But I think I must. Are your people capable, really capable of self-government, Kijubi? I should think that they really are. Because from what I have seen in the recent movements, take for example in West Africa, the so-called illiterate and uneducated Africans have really played a great part in the elections and in the activities of government. But do they play an intelligent part? I think they are quite intelligent enough to elect whom they want to rule them. They have done so even better than what the ordinary governors do. I have seen on the local legislative councils, for example in East Africa, Kenya and Uganda, whereby illiterate chiefs have been chosen to sit on legislative councils, where English is used as the medium of instruction. But I think if it were the people of Uganda or Kenya who were asked to elect their own representatives, they would have at least appointed better men. The white settlers in southern Rhodesia and the Union, to a large extent in Kenya and other East African areas, would furiously disagree with you. They would say that Africans are childlike. They hardly have minds. The idea of self-government among Africans is ridiculous and illusory. Yes, they always use that as a measure of self-defense. They argue also that the African is not yet able to rule himself and we must wait until such time as he shows that he is able. That looks to me a bit ridiculous because I don't think that they will ever find out that the African is really able of governing himself until such time as he has been given the power to rule himself. I disagree with that. I disagree with that. I do not think that we have to be given the opportunity to govern ourselves in order to prove to the world that we can govern ourselves. Historically, we have been governing ourselves until late in the 19th century. And I think that, say in the West Coast for instance, the effects of the slave trade by which West Africa lost 50 million people have been responsible for the disintegration of the political structure. So that it was very easy and possible for the Western European nations to come in. So that the usual argument that the Africans have not got the capacity to govern themselves, as Mr. Kajubi has said, is purely a defense mechanism. You speak of being given self-government. To what extent are Africans ready and willing or able to fight for self-government, fight for freedom? It all depends on the manner in which you think that they can fight for it. The only avenue open is by peaceful and constitutional means. In the sense that the militia and the police and all the weapons are in the hands of the foreign administration. They have fought successfully in the West Coast and are continuing to fight until they achieve their aim. Well now, would it be an oversimplification of this discussion of the political aspirations of Africa to say that the nub of the problem is a very real friction between the whites and the blacks, Kajubi? What's your question again? Would it be fair to say that this political problem arises from a frustration caused by the whites and a friction between the whites and the blacks in Africa? Yes, I think to a great degree it springs from that. It springs from suspicion and fear between these two cultures meeting together. And especially so as a whoever there's the point of meeting the African has always been put in the inferior position regardless of the fact whether he is really inferior or not. And that has caused frustration on the parts of the African. And I think I quite agree with you in that this difficulty comes from friction and suspicion and frustration between the two. What would you do with the whites in Africa, Okiba? It all depends on which part of Africa you're talking about. I'm talking about Nigeria now, your country. What would you do with them? Well in Nigeria, I don't think that's a real problem as to what to do with them. Because... How many do you have there again? About 6,000? There are about 6,000 or so. Would you throw them out? Well they will by a process of self-abdication, throw themselves out. Once self-government has been... Yeah, but that does not mean, I'd like to clarify that, that does not mean that there will be no... Whites in Nigeria because they will still have to help in the development of the country. Would you like to see more come in and give them land and let them settle and... It is amazing in fact that in India, after India turned itself government, the door was open to many more whites to come in. But then it's on a cooperative basis. So that I think it would be quite true to say that in West Africa as a whole, when they attend their self-government... And that we expect is quite soon... There will be many more Europeans coming in, but then they would come in specifically for their expertise... And for their contribution to the economic development. Kijubi? Whenever thinking about Africa, I think we should draw a very clear line of demarcation between those countries... Where there is white settlement and those countries where there is not. In East Africa, whether white settlers should be thrown out or not is an academic question. The white settlers are there and they cannot go out. What the black Africans in East and South Africa would like is to participate in the development of those countries... And to be given the responsibility regardless of colour on the legislative councils and parliaments... And to be given economic opportunities without any distinction whatsoever on the basis of colour. And they would be quite happy to live with those white settlers there. Now what you just said Kijubi, I think raises the second issue that we ought to talk about here today. The economic problem, the economic aspirations of these African countries. Can you...is it really possible to achieve the kind of relationship between black and whites... In view of the economic problems which underlie these frictions, do you think? You mean internal economic relationships or economic relationships with... You pointed out earlier that the whites in South Africa, for example, were exploiting the blacks. And in all probability a lot of this political difficulty arises out of that exploitation. That's right. Now what the Africans there want is to be given the political responsibility in parliaments and legislative councils. And they will use those political opportunities to better their social and economic conditions. If the Africans in South Africa, for example, had representatives in parliament... They would push through legislations that would better the conditions of the Africans in the union. That is especially true of all African terrorists. But what's that going to do to the economic structure of the country? The way goes the cheap labour. Is it possible to achieve that? Well, in this country you have got a good economic system regardless of the fact that your labour is expensive. Of course many of the profits come in into South Africa as a result of cheap labour. But those profits go to the white... Go to individuals. Yeah, go to white individuals rather than going to the blacks who really are the primary producers. Is it fair to say, Mr Kajubi, that African people would rather have social rights at the cost of certain economic advantages? Say, would you rather have the right to vote than as much food as you now have, should we say, or the price of clothing being what it is? Would you take more political rights at the cost of clothing cost twice as much? Actually, you cannot have the other rights without the political rights because all these other rights come through political channels. But suppose economic inefficiency was an effect of political rights. Would this be a reasonable cost for political rights to have a lower standard of living? If economic what? If economic efficiency was lessened by greater political rights. Another way to put the question, Kajubi, would you rather eat or vote? Well, if voting will mean eating more, I think I'd rather vote first and then eat more later. I think that answers your question. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to, pursuing this economic question, ask about the kind of standard of living that you have in Africa now. How would you compare it, Okibo, with the standard of living you've met here in America? It would be perfectly true to say that nowhere else is the standard of living as high as it is in the United States. It is certainly not high in West Africa. Do you have any automobiles and bathtubs? Oh, yes. We do have these, but they are all available to people in the high-income groups. You want more of them? We certainly would want to see them available to the greater bulk of the population. What kind of industrial development would you like to see come to your country? I would place primary emphasis on those industries that touch much more directly the context of the daily lives of the people, in the food processing industries and housing industries. And what is the role of the United States in this area, Okibo, as you see it? Well, economic aid... What do you want from us? Do you want technical help? Do you want assistance? Do you want money? We have had some technical help, but I think what we need more now is the moral support in the aspirations of these territories politically. Aren't you getting the moral support of America? It doesn't seem that we are getting the moral support at this moment. About ten years back, all Africans and all other countries aspiring for political independence derived their inspiration from the United States. But according to what has happened in the United Nations recently about the Moroccan question and so on, people are not getting that moral support they looked for. I'm sorry gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does Africa Want? We wish to thank our guests for today, William Bascom, Acting Chairman, Department of Anthropology and Acting Director, Department of African Studies at Northwestern University, William Kajubi from Uganda, East Africa, a graduate student at the University of Chicago, Pius Okibo from Nigeria, West Africa, a graduate student at Northwestern University, and Calvin Stillman, instructor in the Department of Social Science, University of Chicago. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, How can we reduce nighttime accidents? Our guests will be the Honorable H.R. Gross, United States Representative from Iowa, Franklin Kreml, Director of the Traffic Institute at Northwestern University, and Alva R. Lahr, Director of the Iowa State College Driving Laboratory. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, How Can We Reduce Nighttime Accidents? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.