We'll ask the Honorable Lazarus Joseph to say a few words, sir. Parkman, Mayor, Church, ladies and gentlemen, when the boss is around, I have to keep quiet. I understand there are a few votes in the back here, too, Bill. Might as well say hello there. The mayor has headaches. Mrs. Hartman has headaches. But your presence here tonight relieves those headaches to quite a degree. Your cooperation makes it possible to maintain this wonderful institution for Austin children. And as the controller of the city of New York, I want to express my gratitude to you for taking a considerable burden from the official city of New York. The mayor has headaches, too. He's a rather shy individual. But you'd be surprised to learn how many undertakings he is engaged in every day of the year to bring some measure of happiness, some ray of sunshine, into the lives of those who unfortunately can't help themselves. So my gratitude to you fine people, to Mrs. Hartman and the members of our organization, for the great job that they are doing in making conditions somewhat better for those who cannot care for themselves. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Lazarus Joseph. And now it's my pleasure to present Fanny Hurston. Mrs. Hartman, Mr. Mayor, to Lazarus, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is one evening that I can hurry along, although I seem to come to this microphone each year almost automatically. But I know that you want to hear the mayor of your city, and rightly so. And I should think that if his honor has headaches, the sight of this audience would be highly curative. It occurs to me as I stand here for the nth time, before this very coveted microphone, that many of the children who have been under the benign and vast umbrella of this orphan asylum are adults by now. And this institution has turned out its little civilization of the kind of Americans who are going to carry forward for us in what seems in so many respects a bankrupt era. I want to congratulate Mrs. Hartman, who I have over the years, for her part in making it easier and better to live up to the blessings of this democracy, which is so well exemplified in the institution we are here to celebrate tonight. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Your remarks are always so inspiring. And now, ladies and gentlemen, his honor, the mayor. Thank you. Mrs. Hartman, Mrs. Hurst, Mrs. Joseph, Mrs. Hartman, officers, and friends of the Israel office town. We have waiting to come on many great artists from the legitimate theater. A long talk from me will just break up their time and interfere with your happiness. I'm reminded, and so we are, that years ago, many years ago, 29 to be exact, Judge Hartman, the late Judge Hartman, began this magnificent effort in the interest of the orphan children that that is a long time ago and that many of those orphans who were saved are now grown men and women. and that down in Rockaway Beach, or far Rockaway, rather, there is the institution with 200 of them all the time and still the group back of this movement are not satisfied. 13 years ago, 13 years ago, he left to take over the mantle of his great interest, the gracious lady who presides here this evening on behalf of the city, and in the name of those little ones who have been cared for in the past, in the name of those who will come another day, our deep gratitude to his memory, and our deep gratitude to her. Thank you. Your city station has brought you the major portion of this all-star show, a giant benefit performance here in Madison Square Garden for the benefit of the Israel Orphan Asylum. A capacity audience of more than 22,000 persons has greeted a star-spreaded parade of artists and personalities, including this evening's festivity for the closing remarks you just heard by our own mayor in New York City, the Honorable Thomas O'Dwyer. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Zone high fidelity station, WNYC-FM. Due to the special program that preceded, your city station did not present, 10 o'clock, the usually scheduled municipal concert hall, which will be heard again tomorrow at its usual time. And now, at this point, we bring you a foreshortened program of four strings. We're here for recordings. Invitation to the dance. Scout Frank Thomas of Troop 37 Brooklyn. Scout law. Will you please join me in the Scout Oath and Law? Scout sign, on my honor, I will do my best to do my duty to guard in my country and to obey the Scout law, to help other people at all times, to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight. Scout law. A Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent, too. Thank you, Scout Thomas. And now, standing here, dressed as George Washington, in the buff and blue uniform of the Continental Army, complete with powdered wig and all the trappings, is Mr. Henry W. Dubois, who will deliver George Washington's prayer for the United States of America. Mr. Henry W. Dubois. It is June 8, 1783, a day long to be remembered in the annals of our national life. It now becomes my solemn duty to disband the Continental Army. We now return to the building of that republic for which, under God, we have become responsible, shall we pray? Almighty God, we make our earnest prayer that thou will keep the United States in thy holy protection. That thou wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience to government and entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another and for the citizens of these United States at large. And finally, that thou wilt most graciously be pleased to dispose us all to do justice, to love mercy, and to demean ourselves with that charity, humility, and the specific temper of mind which were the characteristics of the divine author of our blessed religion without a humble imitation of whose example in these things we can never hope to be a happy nation. Grant our supplications, we beseech thee, with Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Thank you very much, Mr. Dubois. We brought you the Boy Scout Tribute here at the sub-treasury steps, the sanctified spot where the government of the United States began, here on the tip end of Manhattan Island when George Washington was inaugurated President of the United States when Federal Hall stood on this spot, now occupied by the sub-treasury. We take leave of you now from the corner of Wall Street and Nassau. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you.