Mr. Prime Minister, honorable members of the Senate and members of the House of Commons of Canada. This is my first visit to Canada as President of the United States. And I am happy that it affords me the opportunity to address this meeting of the members of both houses of the Canadian Parliament. Here is a body which exemplifies self-government and freedom of nations of the great British Commonwealth. The history of the Commonwealth proves that it is possible for many nations to work and live in harmony and for the common good. I wish to acknowledge the many courtesies extended to me on this visit by the Governor General Viscount Alexander, who paid me the honor of a visit in Washington a few months ago. His career as a soldier and as a statesman eminently qualifies him to follow his illustrious predecessors. For the courtesy of appearing before you, as for other courtesies, I am sure I am largely indebted to my good friend, Prime Minister Mackenzie King. I was particularly happy to be present yesterday when he was honored in the rotunda of this Parliament building. It was a wonderful ceremony and one which I think he richly deserved. I also appreciate very highly his political advice which he gave me this morning. I have come to value and cherish his friendship and his statesmanship. As our two nations have worked together in solving the difficult problems of the post-war period, I have developed greater and greater respect for his wisdom. Americans who come to know Canada informally, such as our tourists, as well as those whose approach is more academic, learn that Canada is a broad land. Broad in mind, broad in spirit, and broad in physical expanse. They find that the composition of your population and the evolution of your political institutions hold a lesson for other nations of the earth. Canada has achieved internal unity and material strength and has grown in stature in the world community by solving problems that might have hopelessly divided and weakened a less gifted people. Canada's imminent position today is a tribute to the patience, tolerance, and strength of character of her people, of both French and British strains. For Canada is enriched by the heritage of France as well as of Britain. And Quebec has imparted the vitality and spirit of France itself to Canada. Canada's notable achievement of national unity and progress through accommodation, moderation, and forbearance, can be studied with profit by her sister nations. Much the same qualities have been employed with like success in your relations with the United States. Perhaps I should say your foreign relations with the United States. But the word foreign seems strangely out of place. Canada and the United States have reached the point where we no longer think of each other as foreign countries. We think of each other as friends, as peaceful and cooperative neighbors on a spacious and fruitful continent. We must go back a long way, nearly a century and a half, to find a time when we were not on good terms. In the war of 1812 there was fighting across our frontier. But permanent good came of that great campaign. It shocked Canadians and Americans into a realization that continued antagonism would be costly and perilous. The first result of that realization was the Rush Bagot Agreement in 1817, which embodied a spirit and an attitude that have permeated our relations to this day. This agreement originally was intended to limit and to regulate the naval vessels of both countries on the Great Lakes. It has become one of the world's most effective disarmament agreements. And is the basis for our much hailed unfortified frontier. I speak of that period of history to make the point that the friendship that has characterized Canadian-American relations for many years did not develop spontaneously. The example of accord provided by our two countries did not come about merely through the happy circumstance of geography. It is compounded of one part proximity and nine parts good will and common sense. We have had a number of problems. But they have all been settled by adjustment, by compromise and by negotiations, inspired by a spirit of mutual respect and a desire for justice on both sides. This is the peaceful way, the sensible way, and the fair way to settle problems, whether between two nations that are close neighbors or among many nations widely separated. This way is open to all. We in Canada and the United States are justifiably proud of our joint record. But we claim no monopoly on that formula. Canada and the United States will gladly share the formula, which rejects distrust and suspicion in favor of common sense, mutual respect and equal justice. Canada and the United States will be proud of our joint. We are the fellow members of the United Nations. One of the most effective contributions which our two countries can make to the cause of the United Nations is the patient and diligent effort to apply on a global scale the principles and practices which we have tested with success on this continent. Relations between Canada and the United States have emphasized the spirit of cooperation rather than the letter of protocol. The rush bagot agreement was stated in less than 150 words. From time to time it has been revised by mutual agreement to meet changing conditions. It was amended as recently as last December. The last war brought our countries into even closer collaboration. The Augsburg agreement of 1940 provided for the creation of a permanent joint board for defense. It was believed by the Hyde, it was followed by the Hyde, it was followed by the Hyde Park agreement of 1941, which enabled us to coordinate our economic resources with increased efficiency. Common interests, particularly at the Pearl Harbor, required the creation of several joint agencies to coordinate our efforts in special fields. When victory ended, the necessity for these agencies, they were quietly disbanded with a minimum of disturbance of the national economies of the two countries. Just common sense again. The permanent joint board on defense will continue to function. I wish to emphasize in addition to the word permanent, the other two parts of the title. The board is joint, being composed of representatives of each country. Canada and the United States participate on the basis of equality. And the sovereignty of each is carefully respected. This was true during the gravest dangers of the war. And it will continue to be true in keeping with the nature of all our joint undertakings. The board was created and will continue to exist for the sole purpose of assuring the most effective defense for North America. The board, as you know, has no executive power and can only make recommendations for action. The record of the board provides another example of the truly cooperative spirit that prevails between our two countries. The spirit of common purpose and of the impressive strength which we marshal for action on all fronts are the surest safeguard of continental security in the future. The people of the United States fully appreciate the magnificent contribution in men and resources that Canada made to the Allied war effort. The United States soldiers, sailors and airmen in the heat of battle knew their Canadian comrades as valiant and daring warriors. We look back with pride on our association as staunch allies in two wars. Today our two nations are called upon to make great contributions to world rehabilitation. This task requires broad vision and constant effort. I am confident that we can overcome the difficulties involved as we overcame the greater difficulties of the war. The national genius of our peoples finds its most satisfying expression in the creation of new values in peace. The record proves that in peaceful commerce of the combined efforts of our countries can produce outstanding results. Our trade with each other is far greater than that of any other two nations on earth. Last year the floor of trade in both directions across the border reached the record peace time total of two and a quarter billion dollars. We imported from Canada more than twice the value of goods we received from the United Kingdom, France, China and Russia combined. The United States purchases from Canada were about six times our purchases from Great Britain and nearly ten times those from China and eleven times those from France. We sold to Canada nearly as much as we sold to Britain and France together. Gratifying as the volume of our trade now is, it is capable of even further expansion to our mutual benefit. Some of our greatest assets are still to be developed to the maximum. I am thinking of one particularly that holds tremendous possibilities. The magnificent St. Lawrence Great Lakes system which we share and which we must develop together. The St. Lawrence Project stirs the imagination of men long accustomed to majestic distances and epic undertakings. The proposal for taking electric power from the river and bringing ocean shipping 2400 miles inland to tap the fertile heart of our continent is economically sound and strategically important. The St. Lawrence Project The St. Lawrence Project The St. Lawrence Project The St. Lawrence Project will more than ever unite our two countries. It will stimulate our economies to new growth and will spread the flow of trade. There have been times when short-sighted tariff policies on both sides threatened to raise almost insurmountable barriers. But the need to exchange goods was so imperative that trade flourished despite artificial obstacles. The reciprocal trade agreements of 1936 and 1939 made possible a sensible reduction of tariff rates and paved the way to our present phenomenal trade. Something more than commercial agreements, however, is required to explain why Canada and the United States exchange more than $2 billion worth of goods a year. Ambassador Atherton has aptly given the reason as not free trade, but the trade of free men. The record flow of goods and the high standard of living, it indicates, on both sides of the border, provide a practical demonstration of the benefits of the democratic way of life and a free economy. The benefits of our democratic governments and free economy, operating side by side, have spread beyond our countries to the advantage of the whole world. Both nations expanded their productivity enormously during the war, and both escaped the physical damage that afflicted other countries. As a result, Canada and the United States emerged from the war as the only major sources of industrial products and the food upon which much of the world depends for survival. Canada has responded as nobly to the challenge of peace as she did to that war. Your wheat has fed millions who otherwise would have starved. Your loan has strengthened Britain in her valiant battle for recovery. The United States is particularly gratified to find Canada at our side in the effort to develop the International Trade Organization. We attach great importance to this undertaking because we believe it will provide the key to the welfare and prosperity of the world in the years immediately ahead. In sponsoring the International Trade Organization, the United States, with the cooperation of Canada and other countries, is making a determined effort to support the international trade is making a determined effort to see that the inevitable adjustment in world trade as a result of the war will result in an expanding volume of business for all nations. Our goal is a vast expansion of agriculture and industry throughout the world, with freer access to the raw materials and markets for all nations, and a wider distribution of the products of the earth's fields and factories among all peoples. Our hope is to multiply the fruitfulness of the earth, and to diffuse its benefits among all mankind. At this critical point in history, we of the United States are deeply conscious of our responsibilities to the world. We know that in this trying period between a war that is over and a peace that is not yet secure, the destitute and oppressed of the earth look chiefly to us for sustenance and support until they can again face life with self-confidence and self-reliance. We are keenly aware that much depends upon the internal strength, the economic stability and the moral stamina of the United States. We face this challenge with determination and confidence. Free men everywhere know that the purpose of the United States is to restore the world to health, to re-establish conditions in which the common people of the earth can work out their salvation by their own efforts. We seek a peaceful world, a prosperous world, a free world, a world of good neighbors, living on terms of equality and mutual respect, as Canada and the United States have lived for generations. We intend to extend our energies and to invest our substance in promoting world recovery by assisting those who are able and willing to make their maximum contribution to the same cause. We intend to support those who are determined to govern themselves in their own way. We intend to support those who are determined to govern themselves in their own way. And who honor the right of others to do likewise. We intend to aid those who seek to live at peace with their neighbors, without coercing or being coerced, without intimidating or being intimidated. We intend to uphold those who respect the dignity of the individual. who guarantee to him equal treatment under the law. Who guarantee to him equal treatment under the law. And who allow him the widest possible liberty to work out his own destiny and achieve success to the limit of his capacity. We intend to cooperate actively and loyally with all who honestly seek, as we do, to build a better world in which mankind can live in peace and prosperity. We count Canada in the forefront of those who share these objectives and ideals. With such friends, we face the future unafraid. From the Commons Chamber in Ottawa, we have just presented an address by the President of the United States, at a special joint session of the members of the Canadian Senate and House of Parliament. on the occasion of his state visit to Canada. President Truman's appearance before the Canadian House of Parliament is the presence of the Canadian Senate and House of Commons. President Truman's appearance before the Canadian House of Parliament is the present of the United States. From the Commons Chamber in Ottawa, we have just presented an address by the President of the United States at a special joint session of the members of the Canadian Senate and House of Commons on the occasion of his state visit to Canada. President Truman's appearance before the Canadian Houses of Parliament is symbolic of the friendship that exists between our two countries, and so it is appropriate that we bring this special program to a close by playing the national anthem of the Dominion of Canada, followed immediately by our own national anthem. Let's go. So so ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ from the wires of the Associated and United Press Services. President Truman has revealed his major purpose in going to Canada. It's the same motive that was behind his visit to Mexico. The President says his aim is to bind the friendship of the United States, Canada and Mexico and to solidify the friendship of the people who live on this continent. Otherwise, he says, the men who died in the two world wars will have died in vain. The President completed his three-day visit to Ottawa, the Canadian capital, by holding a conference with Canadian and American newsmen. Mr. Truman said the only objective of the United States abroad is world peace and friendship with every nation in the world. And he asked reporters to underline the word, every. Meanwhile, President Truman has recommended that controls on consumer credit be continued in peacetime. He said today that unless Congress passes a bill, continuing controls, he plans to end present regulations based on wartime legislation. Mr. Truman stated his views in a letter to Mariner S. Eccles, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, and Eccles read the letter to the House Banking Committee. The present regulations fix the size of down payments under executive order. Also, they fix the length of time in which the balance due must be paid by installments. The regulations cover such things as household goods, refrigerators, and automobiles. The Federal Reserve Board wields controls on installment buying credit. Eccles asked the committee to pass a measure giving the board power to continue operation of controls in peacetime. Well, with all the current talk of a depression, the Commerce Department is looking forward to a real boom in a couple of years. One of its officials, H.B. McCoy, told the Senate committee today that our gross national production will reach $172 billion in 1950. That would be just about double the average between 1935 and 1939. Then McCoy brought the Senators back to the present with a prediction of fuel shortages next winter, possibly greater than last winter. The lid was off the nation's sugar bowl today, and in many parts of the country, housewives were helping themselves to it. In a half-dozen cities, many grocers reported they were sold out of sugar. Housewives rushed to buy sugar, ration-free for the first time in five years. Several western cities reported heavy runs on supplies. In Seattle, one wholesaler says he has been taking orders eight to ten times above normal size. The president of the Independent Retail Grocers Association in Portland says the sugar rush of 1947 has reached what he calls panic proportions, and that there would be only a pound left in the city in three days. Meanwhile, in Atlanta, women are reported to have gone crazy over sugar. This is crop canning time in Dixie. However, in many other cities, grocers report no unusual runs on sugar. And by the way, here's the latest on the help we're giving Europe. The Army has announced in Berlin that last week, the Germans in the American and British zones received $18 million worth of food from the United States. That was a new weekly record. And in Washington, a congressional committee approved a bill transferring $1,200,000 earned by privately employed conscientious objectors during the war to the United Nations Children's Relief Fund. Under the law, the earnings go to the Treasury unless Congress orders otherwise. Meanwhile overseas, the communists continue to push their campaign in southeastern Europe in the face of resentful outcries at home and abroad. They extended their purge of the opposition in Bulgaria with the ouster of 23 legislators in the National Assembly. The communist-controlled parliament read them out on charges that they were tools of Nikola Petkov, the head of the Agrarian Party, who is now in jail on charges of conspiring against the state. Meanwhile in Budapest, there was an awful row in the Hungarian parliament when a prominent member denounced the new communist-dominated government. There were shouts and jeers from angry communists as Dejo Suryak, the head of the Freedom Party, called on the Small Holders Party to beat the Reds at their own game. Suryak charged that terror begins and reigns throughout Hungary. Britain, meanwhile, pressed for a Russian explanation of the upheaval in the Hungarian parliament, despite a Soviet rebuff. And in Austria, the Vienna chief of a Swedish relief organization was killed last night by Russian soldiers. The Swedish official, Arn Collison, was fired upon in the confusion that developed when his car came to a Soviet roadblock near the Czech border. A Swedish legation spokesman in Vienna described the shooting as a deplorable accident, but said any action would be left up to Sweden. News dispatches from the Holy Land described three acts of violence, but no casualties. The day's violence included two bomb explosions that wrecked stores in Haifa and a terrorist attack on the Tel Aviv office of a British news agency. The first bomb wrecked a dairy product store on the ground floor of a Haifa apartment house. Damage was extensive. Then, one hour later, came a blast that wrecked a wine store 100 yards from the first bombing scene. Police think that the explosions may be part of a terrorist blackmail scheme aimed at Jews who did not contribute to the terrorist cause. There have been no government details so far about the attack on the news agency office, which recently had been threatened by the Jewish underground. Back here at home, the latest weather forecast fell on the ears of Midwestern farmers this evening like a curse. Yes, more rain, meaning the new threat of floods in a four-state area that had had one million acres of cropland damage by the swirling workers of the Mississippi and its tributaries. Floods have been predicted today and tonight in the adjourning corners of Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, and Kansas. The rivers have begun to rise anew on all streams in northwest Missouri, northeast Kansas, southeast Nebraska, and southwest Iowa. Farther south at St. Louis, forecasters said new disasters along the Mississippi still hinge on heavy rainfall. The Packet Motor Car Company has announced a new labor contract providing wage increases and a wage freeze. The pack, with the CIO UAW, calls for a flat 15 cents an hour wage boost for Packet production workers. It also freezes wages for two years and calls for dismissal of over $45 million worth of back pay claims. According to Packet President and General Manager George Christopher, those claims represented $44 million in portal-to-portal suits and one and three-quarter million dollars worth of super seniority claims. Meanwhile, the auto labor picture remains complicated by disputes at the Hudson and Ford motor car companies. Although a one-day sit-down strike at Continental Motors Corporation came to an end today, 20,000 production workers, foremen, and office employees are off the job at Ford and Hudson. Meanwhile, the 600 white-collar employees who walked off their jobs at the Hudson Motor Car Company turn down pleas from their international union to break up their picket line, which 15,000 Hudson production men are respecting. And finally, a late bulletin, the Reverend J. Hugh O'Donnell, former president of the University of Notre Dame and a prominent Catholic educator for more than two decades, died today after a long illness. And that's the news from the WNYC newsroom. We'll be back again for another news summary, a complete news summary at 10.45, featuring national, international, and local news. Be with us then at 10.45 for another complete summary of world, national, and city news. We return you now to Carnegie Hall for the remaining portion of this evening's Carnegie Pops concert. You are listening to New York City's own station, WNYC 830 on your dial. WNYC FM 95.3 megacycle. I'm very sorry to be there. Good morning. Thank you.