Good afternoon everyone from the 106th Regiment Armory in Brooklyn. Your city station brings you some of the highlights of the interfaith party of the Boys Club of Brownsville. There are many distinguished guests here this afternoon. The police glee club and the fire department band are present to assist in the entertainment. Right now here is the noted folk humorist Sam Levinson who is to be our master of ceremonies. Okay Sam Levinson. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. We are at the Armory Bedford Avenue and Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn where we have about 5,000 children of all denominations gathered this afternoon for a Christmas and Hanukkah celebration. An interfaith party all faces all kinds all sizes all breeds all colors. They've now had their sandwiches and if you want to hear how happy they are I'm going to ask them to say hello to you. A cheer. You have just heard the voices of 5,000 happy children. Right now they're shaking hands with each other in a gesture of brotherly love. Shake hands everybody. There goes the handshake. You can't hear that but I think you can get the general spirit that's coming over the microphone and the airwaves. This party has been organized by the Brownsville Boys Club. Eighth stock who ends the whole thing with the help of very wonderful civic leaders from Brooklyn and Manhattan. I would like at first to introduce a gentleman who is well known in public life. One of the master storytellers and public speakers of America Mr. Harry Hirshfield. Ladies, gentlemen, to the children assembled a few weeks ago in eastern Germany, 250,000 children were put together against their will to cheer for a subversive communist country. I want to see now so they can hear it there what it sounds for 10,000 American children to drown out those in eastern Germany. Let's hear it. constants Not Hall of 빨 made. Racteria號 eb you are wonderful and I want you to listen to this 25 years from now I want you to remember this day so that you in turn tell it to your children and their children and their children's children that you live in a land you live in a city that makes you free I am now this is important I am going to introduce to you a man who today and every day represents and represents specifically today the mayor of the city of New York this great city who represents this great mayor I want you to know that it would be impossible unless you had a government in a city that recognizes your worth and your rights to happiness we wouldn't be having this today let me introduce to you who will speak for the city of New York so vital at this time I give you this exceptionally able administrator representing today the mayor and the city of New York deputy mayor deputy mayor deputy mayor Charles Horowitz Harry Hirschfield children ladies and gentlemen I am here today at the request of Mayor Impeletary to represent him and the people of the city of New York at this remarkable outpouring of the wonderful children of the city of New York gathered together here in the 106th regiment armory at Bedford Avenue and Nostrand Avenue in Brooklyn now the mayor was very very anxious to be with all of you boys and girls and to celebrate this event with you but you know the city of New York is a great big place and it has a lot of business to conduct as part of its government affairs and so the mayor has been forced to remain at City Hall attending a special meeting of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment and he has asked me to come here and I'm honored and I'm privileged and I'm very happy to be here with you now for the benefit of the radio audience who are not given this great privilege of being here in person and witnessing what is going on in this armory may I say to you in the humble powers of description that I possess that this is a most inspiring sight here we have before us close to 10,000 children the cream of the American crop of youngsters from all parts of our city and particularly from Brooklyn every race every creed every color all are assembled here and here we are witnessing democracy and Americanism in action and what is this great event? this is an event this is an event being conducted by the Brownsville Boys it is a combination Christmas and Hanukkah celebration and the sponsors of this affair are the hard-working individuals who constitute the membership of the Brownsville Boys and above all the leading spirit and the leading force is one of the outstanding great citizens of the city of New York none other than Abe Stark he he is the outstanding individual responsible and the spark plug for setting off this wonderful affair now on this platform to my left symbolic of the Christmas season is a magnificent Christmas tree adorned with beautiful ornaments and its many colored lights and on the right is the menorah which is the symbol of the festival of lights the Hanukkah celebration observed by the people of the Jewish faith and here we have these boys and girls each one of whom every one of the 10,000 who are who had lunch here refreshments each of whom is receiving a gift and mind you over and above that gifts we have the unusual situation here where children who never had the opportunity of starting or having a savings bank account 5,000 of them today will be awarded bank books opening accounts of $1 apiece for each of them so that they may be started on a career of saving and having something that is their own oh this is wonderful and very inspiring and a great tribute to our American way of life a great tribute and I bring to you the gratitude of the of Mayor Impolichari and all of the people of the city of New York and congratulations and felicitations to Abe Stark and all others who are responsible for this marvelous affair God bless you all thank you Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz representing Mayor Impolichari for the city of New York ladies and gentlemen we are in this tremendous armory the 106th armory and I feel with all the big brass around I feel like the rookie soldier the rookie soldier that walked back of a soldier hit him on the back knocked him down and the fellow got up and said do you know who I am he said no he said I'm General Eisenhower and he said do you know who I am he said no he said thank God that's why I feel about this one now now you know what I need ladies and gentlemen it falls to my great privilege to introduce one whom I've introduced time and time again and I'm always happy in the thought of introducing him because I always feel like I am introducing him the first time because the first impression of this man when you see him and hear his voice you'll feel exuding from him all that is good and noble and he is good and noble every great undertaking in these last few years topped today by this unbelievable demonstration of freedom tolerance a fight a fight for Americanism in every way regardless of race color and creed he stands first as a citizen not only of Brooklyn but of all these United States with pride I introduce the head of the Bronzeville Boys Club and this great Hanukkah and interfaith movement I give you with all the pride I can summon and I want you to appreciate this name and you do Mr. Abraham Stark Mr. Mayor Harry Hirschfield distinguished guests ladies and gentlemen and children all this is your party and as your party I say to you call it what you may to some of you you may want to call it a Christmas party that's perfectly alright to others it is a Hanukkah party that's alright but as a general all over all picture to every one of us here to everyone in America we would like to call it an interfaith party on behalf of all children and all people of America to those who have made this party possible the directors of the Bronzeville Boys Club the Women's Division the Women's Division the Alumni the Brookborough Club and many others as I go on later on that I'm going to speak about all we are concerned is that you're all happy and I am here not only speaking for myself but also speaking for the co-chairman of this entire party two of them are on the dais I'm going to ask them to stand up and take a bow one of them is Abe Roth Abe Roth will you stand up and the other one is Judge Arthur Dunai Judge Dunai then there are the chairman of the women's division that are out there working amidst you and chairman of the 46th club in the Brookborough and so forth however at this moment it is my special privilege to call on a gentleman who two years ago permitted us to run our annual dinner in his honor and it was one of the most successful dinners in the history of the Bronzeville Boys Club and last year again he called together a group of people within the kind funds of his own bank and helped us raise additional money to make it possible to complete sometime in 1952 the Bronzeville Boys Club that will cost three quarters of a million dollars and so it is my pleasure to introduce to you the president of the East New York Savings Bank Judge Edward Richards It would be fine if you boys and girls could for a moment be as quiet as possible for it is very difficult to speak from here I think that I know you boys and girls and you know me and the East New York Savings Bank very, very well it was because of our interest in you boys and girls that I was very happy to have the privilege of joining with Abe Stark in this great and wonderful demonstration Do not give credit to me in any respect for what has been done because the spark plug of this whole affair the man that has been back of it the man that has established the Brownsville Boys Club the man that is going to build a wonderfully fine building for the boys of Brownsville is not the speaker but is Abe Stark give him a hand I am here today because I love admire and respect the public spirit and the great accomplishments of this man of Brownsville and I hope he will live many, many years to put into many enterprises the enthusiasm and the strength that he's put into the Brownsville Boys Club Abe my hat is off to you God bless you five thousand five thousand of you children are receiving a public school bank account of one dollar each I'm going to ask Dr. Charles Eichel who has done an unbelievable job in organizing this entire affair here of the children to bring on the stage a few children to represent all of you Dr. Eichel sit down stay right here and now I'm going to ask two of the gentlemen on the stage here to make the presentation to them one of them is Judge Ed Richards the president of the East New York Savings Bank and who more than him should present the bank accounts to the children then I'm going to ask the deputy mayor of the city of New York Charlie Hurwitz to come here he represents the city of New York and all you children I'm going to ask both of them to present to the children their bank accounts on behalf of all of you perhaps there's nothing better in the world that you children should have except your Bibles and your prayer books than a savings bank account so that you may build up your financial structure while you are young for I know you'll need it when you are old I'm very happy on behalf of the Brownsville Boys Club and through Abe Stark to present to some of these folks here a passbook and many many more of you have already had yours or will get them as part of this great interfaith celebration being held by the Brownsville Boys at the 106th Armory under the auspices of Abe Stark we are donating today or giving to 5,000 children bank books opening accounts of $1 each for each child in the savings bank and it is part of my privilege and honor as the deputy mayor of the city of New York first of all to express appreciation to Abe Stark and the Brownsville Boys for encouraging these youngsters to engage in the habit of saving and to present to these children these bank books in the hope that it will mean the start of a great and prosperous career for each and every one of them I am now going to ask two of the children Linda Rose first and then Robert Tomlinson who represents all of you to say a word or two Linda Mr. Deputy Mayor it is a great honor for me to receive this bank book from you personally I know I shall never forget this moment to you Mr. Stark and to the Brownsville Boys Club there are no words to express our gratitude I speak for all the girls present today I know that years from now I will look back on this day and remember you and your co-workers who have made this one of the happiest days in our lives thank you thank you Linda and now Robert Tomlinson Mr. Deputy Mayor Judge Richards and ladies and gentlemen on behalf of all the boys who are here today I want to thank Mr. Abe Starks for the bus that brought us here for the delicious lunch for this bank deposit and for the wonderful entertainment that we enjoy I know that you have set a fine example here for us today and I hope that when we are grown men we too can set such an example for our children thank you thanks very much alright you can go and now my friends this great big party just didn't happen we needed the help an awful lot of people and we had to inform the world so that maybe through this party other sections of America would do the same and who more than our own local paper could have done it and so we called on the Brooklyn Eagle the prized Pulitzer winning newspaper to help us in this job and I'm happy to say and I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the president and publisher of the Brooklyn Eagle Mr. Frank Schwartz for all he has done in helping us put this party over and now there are some gentlemen who have helped tremendously Mr. Joe Belsky Mr. Ben Levine Mr. Phil Boris and Izzy Lipp of the Kosher Butchers Association Mr. Nat Messing who is on the stage right here Nat Messing we're just staying up and Ed Hoffman of the Waiters Local 2 went all out to do a terrific job and Mr. Harry Dallas and Abe Silverstein of Local 325 of the Coke and Count of the Men's Union as well as Arnold Cohn and Theodore Lipshey of the Candy Association and Mr. Dave Durst and William Walford of the Bakers Union and Mr. Morris Horn the business manager of the Provision Salesman's Association now there are so many that I should thank and I'd like to thank but that's impossible you have it in your programs you can read all the names and know who there is but sitting on the dais here is the fire commissioner of the city of New York who is good enough to see that we had the fire department banned here and I'm going to ask him to stand up and take a bow Mr. Jacob Gromet Commissioner Jacob Gromet thanks thanks commissioner it was wonderful and your men did a marvelous job and the same goes to the men of the fire department who also did an exceptional job up here on the dais also is the attorney general of the state of New York who just arrived I'd like him to stand up and take a bow attorney general Nathaniel Goldstein of the state of New York would you say a word gentlemen let him say a word yeah say a word Abe and friends this is a real great party it can only happen in New York City it can only happen with Abe Stark as a mentor I want to wish you all a happy Hanukkah and a happy new year thanks ever so much just like we have one second to introduce postmaster Quigley is he here? how about about postmaster? that's right kids we have about one minute I'm going to turn you back to my good friend Ziggy over here you've heard him on the records he's been wonderful he helped run this whole show he's going to get us all to sing so that Ziggy Lane so that everybody can hear you at home alright kids we're on the air let's sing that song that we sang so well before God bless America come on kids let's stand up and sing it Oh let's stand up joy and to the cross let's sing it To the home, to the home, I will go. God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, our home sweet home. Ladies and gentlemen, from here in the 106th Regiment Armory in Brooklyn, your city station has brought to you some of the highlights of the Interfaith Party of the Boys Club of Brownsville. Deputy Mayor Horowitz addressed the participants. We also heard this afternoon from the well-known humorist Harry Hirshfield, Abe Stark, the president of the Brownsville Boys Club, the Honorable Edward Richards, president of the East New York Savings Bank, who made the presentation of bank accounts to the boys and girls here on behalf of the Brownsville Boys Club. Our master of ceremonies was the noted folk humorist Sam Levinson. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. of the theme of the film