Our next speaker is one well known to all of you. I know you agree there is no individual in the United States so generally admired for his accomplishments and none so well beloved for his character. Being fully aware of his distaste of public encomiums, I shall refrain from reciting all or even part of his many accomplishments and innumerable honors. Spaceman knew him as the architect of victory, which he fashioned as supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe. G.I. Joe knew him by the simple nickname of Ike. Gentlemen, I present General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower. G.I. Joe, General Abner, members of the Armed Forces, and members of your family. G.I. Joe, General of the Army, in attempting to catch the words of previous speakers, I have decided that this microphone and this hall may be suited to a crooner, but very little to a speaker. And I can't sing, and you're going to have to suffer with me. But if there's anyone that thinks that he knows how to handle the thing, I'll be glad to change places with him this instant. It is a very heartening, a very encouraging thing to know that members of our civilian components in all the services would turn out on a Sunday afternoon to take thought of our country's problems in the organization and maintenance of our security, to be here to give up the time to meet and exchange ideas. I assure you that I am proud to be with you. I am even proud to be with all this brass that you heard introducing. Thank you. The last time that I met with such an array of stars and gold braids from all the services, I think was the final briefing for the Normandy attack. We had present a king, at least two prime ministers that I recall, admirals, generals, air marshals. There may have been a colonel or two got in, but... I know this. Some wag figured out that if a German blockbuster had hit St. Paul's School that morning, that everybody in the armed services of both Britain and America would have gotten at least one promotion, some several. And it happened he made that observation to another junior who said, well, where's the blockbuster? I'm quite sure he felt we were expendable. There is, there has been, and there will be, discussed with you every aspect of this business of training in time of peace, its values, its needs, what it means to our country. I am going to bring up one point, really one only, that could scarcely come to you except from someone who has been forced either to exercise high command or to serve in those staffs and in those places where the larger decisions of war are necessarily made, where you people will be serving if ever again we are so unfortunate as to have to go to war. It is an indirect product of training that I want to talk about. It is a fortifying of your mind to become convinced that you are doing the right thing at a given moment. Napoleon once said, do not look for genius in war except as you look for someone who can do an average thing when everybody else is going crazy. Now that ability comes from training. There may have been a few Napoleons who could keep their minds, their intellectual processes in order just as a congenital heritage from their forebeggers. I think that for most men it is a product of training. You learn what it is that force means on the field of battle, in the air, on the sea, on the ground. You learn the means and methods by which that force is applied, what it can mean, what defeat can mean, what victory can mean. and in contemplating those things you gradually develop your mind to do your part satisfactorily, that is, on an average basis when the crisis comes. It is a peculiar product of training because, in my opinion, you won't be especially aware of the fact that you have it. You won't know that you have achieved this power like you know that you can write a march table or shoot a machine gun or handle any of the complicated weapons of war. That you know. That is like working out a little mathematical problem. You get the right answer and you prove it's right. This is one of those things that you merely believe you have but, in my opinion, you must have it or the United States cannot win the next war. I have known soldiers who prayed not only before every battle but before any significant decision that they had to make. They learned that when the chips were down it was necessary that they bring to bear to the problem a clear head, a clear mind, and a clear conscience. That's what they were praying for. Not merely for success. I maintain that it is through training, through contemplation of these problems, contemplating by yourself, when you look at a book and you study techniques, you are not merely learning that. You are training your own mind. Gentlemen, I believe that it is in you that the future of this country rests. In you and those like you that you will be training and it will come along the boys that are still in high school and behind. Let us pray to God that you never go to war but certainly it's going to be your skill and your wisdom that will help keep us out of war as that skill and wisdom is applied to our diplomatic and foreign service problems but more also as the whole world understands that you of the air, of the Navy, of the ground are thinking of your problems, are preparing yourself for them, and are ready to meet them. May I in closing express a particular satisfaction on my part that at this meeting all services are represented. Friends of mine of the Navy and of the ground and of the air, some of them who served with me through the late war, all of whom I am proud to call my comrades in arms of that conflict. And I find this, as you get further and further away from Washington, it does not seem to be too difficult for Army, Navy, and Air officers to be friends. in fact, I should say that the friendship grows in direct proportion to the distance you get away from that city. Just as I have no grief for anyone who may be, have been engaged in any of the late reports and incidents that have disturbed all of us so much, just in that way I condemn no one. But I am certain of this, that all of us here recognize that in the union of the services is the true armed strength of the United States. And that means civilian as well as regular and it means line as well as staff. And above all, it means the people in the field as well as those in Washington. To each of you, my salute, my thanks for you coming today. My great hope that you will continue to think and ponder about these very serious questions in the very same way who have been pondering about them and is evidenced by your presence here today. And if you do so, you will always be ready for that war which we pray will never come. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.