Radio and television's microphones are in front of City Hall today, and television is the honored guest. The Mayor of the City of New York is host to the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, the Joint Committee of Television Broadcasters and Manufacturers, the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc., and cooperating agencies. The Mayor's Committee, the Honorable Joseph V. McKee, Commissioner of Commerce, Mr. Bernard F. Gimbel, President of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, Mr. Frank Lee Dunahue, Director of Commerce, Mr. J.R. Popperly, Distinguished Official of WOR and Mutual and Co-Chairman for the Broadcasters for the Mayor's Committee on Television Week, Mr. Roland Guilford, Co-Chairman of the Manufacturers, Mayor's Committee for Television Week, and Mr. Gerald O. K., Co-Chair, O. K., that sounds like a pun, Mr. Gerald O. K., K-A-Y-E, Co-Chairman for Manufacturers, the Mayor's Committee for Television, and he'll O. K. all television activities to make New York a TV town. And now in just a moment, after personal greetings are over, that distinguished citizen of radio, Mr. Tex McCrary, will act as host. In the meantime, the photographers are having a very busy time photographing the Mayor and Mr. McCrary and Jinx Falkenberg. As I told you before, the lady in the red cape and the broad-brimmed hat is that wonderful voice you're here with Tex McCrary telling you about all the interesting people in the world on the network facilities. And now we're just waiting for a few formalities to be concluded. The Mayor is meeting the young ladies who are representing the television of their various stations here in New York City. Miss Anne Maggio is WNYC's TV girl, and she's down there with all the group, having the time of her life and making her acquaintance with TV as well. The cameras are clicking. That little touch of lightning from the bulbs on the cameras, we hope, does not develop into a thunderstorm that seems blackening over City Hall Park at the present moment. But the weatherman will please keep out of City Hall Park until the TV program is over. You're invited to look on from a distance, Mr. Weatherman. Now the cameramen are issuing rather those usual pragmatic orders and getting service because we know we want a record of these events when we refer back to them in the various files, and that's important too. As the ancient Chinese said, nothing tells more than a picture. It depends a lot on the picture too. Now we're just waiting a few moments, then you'll hear the voice of Mr. Tex McCrary, who will act as master of ceremonies and chairman of today's meeting in front of City Hall. And as again, for the benefit of those who tuned in late, this is TV week in New York City, and the mayor has coined the slogan, Let's Make New York TV Town. And now in a few moments, you'll hear the regular order program here in front of City Hall. The girls are taking their seats now. Jinx Falkenberg is acting as host to the young ladies. And now in just a moment, we'll hear the voice of Tex McCrary, who will act as chairman and present the regular order program. And now ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tex McCrary, distinguished citizen of radio and television. Thank you very much, Tommy Cowan. I usually get introduced as Tex Falkenberg, and I don't mind a bit. Would those of you who are not standing, please do so. And Captain Labar, will you play the national anthem? Do so. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Is the second day of Television Week in New York City. So proclaimed last week by his honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer. Probably a lot of you out there came from small towns exactly the way I did. And probably a lot of you have often felt that there is no booster spirit in New York City, except for three rival baseball teams. Well, this is a perfect example to me of the sort of booster spirit that you find west of the Hudson. There should be and there will be more of it under Bill O'Dwyer. Television means a great deal to the people of New York City. You're going to find out today specifically how and why it means so much to you. It's the one industry that had to stand still during the last war. It's coming of age now. And in a sense, this ceremony is a first birthday party. Actually, television first hit the screens 20 years ago in New York. But it's growing up now. To be a window on New York for the rest of America and on the rest of America for New York. I'd like you now to meet and listen carefully to an old friend of all of us. A famous newspaper man who is now director of the Department of Commerce. The man who's really organized this whole production here now. And the moving spirit behind Television Week. The director of the Department of Commerce of New York City, Mr. Frank Lee Donohue. Thank you, Tex. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen. You know, I like to think of New York City as television's hometown. Not merely because television was born here about 20 years ago with the first public broadcast television show. But in terms of the service and the friendship, the good neighborship that you find in most small towns. We think of hometowns as communities of friends and neighbors. Neighbors who share each other's joys, sympathize, and sorrows. And it's in the terms of service and friendship that New York is really television's hometown. Some time ago, or several weeks back, we were unfairly criticized. The mayor was criticized by those who didn't know the facts. It was stated that the mayor did not recognize the value of television to New York. Ladies and gentlemen, for years, ever since the mayor has been in office, Mayor Bill O'Dwyer, we have been doing a quiet and continuing job for television. Before the advent of this administration, it sometimes took as many as seven or eight days to clear a television permit. By that I mean a permit to shoot television photography on the sidewalks of New York or to put on a show in Madison Square Garden. Today, in less than an hour after an application is filed, the television cameras are up or the motion picture cameras are in place and shooting is started. Every time you see a baseball game at Ebbets Field or the Yankee Stadium or at the Polar Grounds, a boxing match at the Madison Square Garden or a basketball game, remember that the first step in processing permission, the facilities to use those sports arenas, has come through the Department of Commerce. The mayor had set up back several years ago what he called the Division of Motion Picture and Television Coordination. That was absorbed by the reactivated and revitalized Department of Commerce, which the mayor ordered to reorganize on a professional basis on January 1st, 1948. Since that time, we have processed thousands of permits for television, and not merely a case of processing permits either. We've given all types of services to television. We've given all types of services to television. We help television out of scrapes. We've given them consultation service. We've given them the use of physical properties. As a matter of fact, we've never turned down any reasonable request from television. I think that the city has proved its right to call itself a good neighbor to television, and we have established the fact, through service and cooperation, that New York really is television's hometown. I thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Frank, very much. And now, a song from the Fire Department Glee Club that really fits this occasion, and the name of it is Marching Along Together. That's the spirit of television week. Thank you. Marching Along Together. Marching Along Together. The life is wonderful side by side. Marching along, marching along with a song. Rum-dee-diddly, here we come with a joyful song. Side by side. Without a do, without a drum, we're here to chase the dinks away. Rum-dee-diddly, here we come. We're happy hinky-dinks today. Marching Along Together. Life is wonderful side by side. Life is wonderful side by side. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you. And now, my much better and more easily identified half. Jinx Falkenberg is going to introduce to you the Miss Television from each of the television stations of New York City. Jinx, you're on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. How are you girls doing holding up down there? I understand you were told that if you could lift those sets, you could walk away with them yourselves. Be very nice. But I want all of you standing out there to see and meet in person the girls that you probably very often have tuned in on sets like these or those that you have at home. By the way, how many of you standing around here have television sets? Would you raise your hand? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. More than ten. Well, that's good. Two thousand and one. Two thousand and one. Oh, you've counted. All right. Well, then, you undoubtedly have seen the six, seven girls that I'm going to introduce. And you know how on all stations they usually pause and say, time for station identification. We always say this is station WNBC AM and FM, New York. I'd like to introduce the girls to you by their channel numbers. I'm sure they've never been introduced like that before. Let's start at the top of the dial. There is no channel one that works that I know of, is there? No. So we'll start with channel two. Miss channel two. Hello, everybody. I'm Judy Lin of CBS and I'm on the show Three is Company. Judy Lin of CBS Channel Two, the show Three is Company. Next, as you go down the dial, channel four. Thank you. I'm Cathy Norris from WNBT, the Cathy Norris Show, 10 to 11 every morning. Thank you. Have you seen Cathy? She does all your shopping for you early in the morning. I think she gets some good bargains herself, too. Next, channel five. Right next to four, channel five. Miss channel five. Oh, no, no. Miss Chanel, I killed it. Chanel five. Pat Michael, WABB, Dumont, The Magic Cottage. And next, channel seven. Ann Russell, WJZ TV, Market Melodies, two hours at a time. Two hours. Well, you've probably seen Ann Russell with her Market Melodies. Excuse me, Mayor. I was blocking the view. I'm sorry. And now, you're... Only temporary. Only temporary. You're City Station, Mayor Bill O'Dwyer. And it's not you, Miss WNYC. Ann Matthew, WNYC. We'll keep on going down the dial. Ann Russell, channel seven. And now, channel nine. Barbara Gay, WOR TV, Mr. and Mrs. Mystery. And you're Mrs. Mystery. Yes. That's right. And next, channel 11. Gail Meredith at WPIX, The Gail and Bill Show. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You've got all the channels identified, and we're going to try and do something, blend something. Now, if you just hold the music for one second, because two of these girls, CBS, Judy Lynn and Gail Meredith from WPIX, on the way down here, wrote a little song. And it's- And it's- And it's- In consequence, this afternoon, with a great sense of pride in our city, with a great sense of pride in this new industry, I do two things, Mr. Popperly. I welcome you here for this television week, for this celebration. And on behalf of the sick in our hospitals, the deepest gratitude that I could express is mine and theirs to you and the television industry. And now, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll bear with us for one minute, we're going to let you in on the making of a part of a television program. Tonight, on NBC and any other network that wants to pick it up, there will be a prediction party. Bob Hope, Ed Wynn, Sid Caesar, Paul Whiteman, Sam Goldwyn, leaders in every field will predict what television will mean by 1952. We want to shoot on sound film right now the prediction that the mayor will make tonight on that program from 9 to 9.30. And our reporter on that program is going to be Jinx. And Jinx, I think you better get ready. For the benefit of the radio audience, there's a little rehearsal here now between the mayor and Jinx Falkenberg. We should have television universal for this. Jinx and her very handsome appearance, and the mayor of the city of New York. And here they are. Ready? Closer. Now, look, when you get ready to shoot, you just say, how about everything? Yeah. Ready? Closer. Now, look, when you get ready to shoot, you just say, how about everything? Yeah. Ready? Closer. Now, look, when you get ready to shoot, you just say, how about everything? Yeah. And now, Mr. Mayor Bill O'Dwyer, mayor of our city of New York, I wonder if you can give us your prediction of what television will be like in 1952. Jinx, I have it all written down here in a piece of paper, and I'm going to read it to you. All right? Fine. Now, Jinx, you left Hollywood. You left the movies. And you came to New York to go into radio and then into television. You didn't need Hollywood for that, did you? And you never will need Hollywood, as long as you have New York with it. That's in the nature of a prediction. I'm going to do everything that I can to keep television in New York as the headquarters of the industry. Now, you want a prediction about 1952, huh? All right? I predict the television will take political campaigning back to the face-to-face contests of the Lincoln-Douglas debates. You remember the debates on slavery, the Freeport debates in Illinois before the Civil War. Those debates were made in the presence of masses of people who came to hear the two giants of their day debate. Now, our political campaigns will take place right in your living room. That's one. And I predict that by 1952, television is going to redesign the American living room. Design it around the television set. It used to be the fireplace, but the television set is more interesting. The movies and the automobiles, Detroit, Hollywood, they took the American people out of their homes. Television, by 1952, will put people back into their homes. And that's the way it should be. Finally, if there should be a war, that is a total war. I believe television will make Americans from New York to California realize that all of us are next door neighbors. And that realization is an essential part of civilian defense. Unity is strength. President's ministry is strength of military security. footage of military security. There will be support to light switch behaviors and that have Bunun, try propels horses, one open, ettries 보세요. citizen will come into your living room through the medium of television. Jenks, here's a suggestion. I think show business should see to it that the USO is organized again. You and Tex took Bob Hope, Irving Berlin, to Germany for Christmas a year ago. Why doesn't the television industry send another Christmas show this year to Tokyo? That will have to do, Jenks. I'll take the question. Thank you. All right. That's fine. All right. All set? Pass up and everything. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. In your own living room tonight, you'll see yourself on television from 9 to 9.30. No talk about hash knife this time. We got the hash knife. And now, Captain LeBoer, we'll wind up this celebration on the steps of City Hall of Television Week with Stars and Stripes Forever.ambeta in chance and during their symphonyании, it will. Freshman'sAyama, the primary character is full on film.iamo0r 2021 and after the fancy 99.30 people have donatedwegs of red voitures for projects, they change their knowledge of their accompanying the DIOS sir suits as us. And so, ladies and gentlemen, television was the distinguished guest received at City Hall today, and the slogan, Let's Make New York TV Town, will resound until it meets up with the very predictions that the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, predicted would all be faxed by 1952. The progress of television has been painted very vividly by the distinguished people concerned with the science of television and its development, and you have heard the mayor's earnest plea to keep television and all its manufacturing facilities and factories here in New York City, where already the $118 million valuation of it as a trade agency will develop, no doubt, into countless millions by the time the mayor's prediction of 1952 becomes an accomplished fact. The mayor of the city of New York was host to the distinguished committee who will work out the television schemes for New York City. The Honorable Joseph V. McKee, Mr. Bernard F. Gimble, Mr. Frank Lee Dunahue, Mr. J.R. Popperly, Mr. Roland Guilford, and Mr. Gerald O'Kane. Now, Mr. Gerald O'Kane is the co-chairman for manufacturers for the mayor's committee for television week. So it looks as though everything is okay for television, and Jinx Falkenberg and Tex McCrary added the luster of the activity, the special dramatic activities, to the features of the program here in City Hall Park today in front of this building. Mr. Tex McCrary was the master of ceremonies and general chairman and made the general presentations. And now that is about all we can bring you from City Hall Plaza. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. You're tuned to WNYC, New York.