Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses the scientist and the atom. Now to open today's discussion, we present Harrison Brown, atomic scientist of the University of Chicago. Mr. Brown. Last Wednesday, the new 11 million dollar building which houses the University of Chicago's Institutes for Basic Research was formally opened. The building which is across the street from the site where the first self-sustaining chain reaction took place contains research facilities for the Institute for the Study of Metals, the Institute of Radio Biology and Biophysics, and the Institutes for Nuclear Studies. The facilities of the Institutes include a large cyclotron, a betatron, equipment for attaining extremely low temperatures, and an electron microscope in addition to general laboratory facilities. Over 300 workers are engaged in research and associated activities. Gathered with me today are three men who have played important roles in the building of these institutes. Cyril Smith, director of the Institute of Metals, formally in charge of metallurgy of the Los Alamos Atomic Energy Project. Willard Libby, professor of chemistry in the Institute for Nuclear Studies. And Herbert Anderson, professor of physics, and the man primarily responsible for the design and construction of the cyclotron, of which the University is so justly proud. Smith, you have been intimately associated with the research institutes since their founding about five years ago. I wonder if you could tell us a little about the way in which they were formed. Well, five years ago, most of us were hard at work on the atomic bomb. Everybody knows the result of that work. From the standpoint of the scientists working on this, one of the most interesting aspects of it was showing the great value of cooperation between people in different fields. And as we started to think about work after the war, we realized that many of the interesting scientific subjects were those in the border lines of established fields, topics spreading over physics and chemistry and many other things. We realized that it would be desirable to have a research system set up so that it would be possible for people to get together, to share their ideas, to mutually stimulate each other, and to have available equipment on a scale that would be quite impossible for people working within a given department. Well, now the research institutes are called the Institutes for Basic Research, and I think that perhaps we could give a few examples of the kind of work that is going on. We have within the Institute biologists, physicists, chemists, and we have all of these nice facilities and so forth. I wonder, Anderson, if you could give us a few examples of the research work that is now going on within the Institute. That the development of nuclear physics of yesterday are being applied in the fields of chemistry, biology, geology, and astronomy today. In our Institute, we have men who are interested in the origin of the universe, the origin of the earth, the origin of the cosmic rays. And all of these fields have been able to be better understood through our understanding of the nucleus. So we find Harold Urey interested in the origin of the earth and applying the new understanding of the radioactivity of potassium and argon in his studies of the earth. We have Bill Lebby, who is interested in applying the radioactivity of carbon in the study of the history of man's development. Well, Lebby, I wonder if you have a few examples that you could give the people. Well, following Mr. Anderson's lead, Professor Urey has developed a method of measuring the temperatures which existed on earth in past times by measurement of the isotopic composition or atomic weight of the oxygen in seashells which were deposited in those past times. This is the first time we have had quantitative information about temperatures and the results should be of the greatest importance in geology. Another example is some work that we have been concerned with in the use of the radio carbon which is generated in the earth by the cosmic radiation. It makes everyone and everything containing carbon radioactive and the radioactivity persists so long as the person or thing lives. At death, it proceeds to disappear at an immutable rate and the measurement of the radioactivity of dead organic materials apparently gives time elapses since death or the age of the material. You people seem to be talking about things of more cosmic importance than concern me in the Institute for the Study of Metals. In the field of metals, we're not really concerned with astronomical things or things billions of years ago, but we're concerned really just in building up the fundamental understanding of what makes metals useful. We are not aimed at all at developing a metal for given purposes, however. That's really the job of industry, not of people in the academic world. We don't want to find out how to make a material for building jet engines or something of that kind, important though that is. We want merely to understand the laws that are common to all metals, to provide a framework to tie together work in all fields and to make advance by the practical people easier. And of course, we spread very far from metals. The Institute is called the Institute for the Study of Metals, but a great deal of our work is on ionic solid and even something like liquid helium, which is very far from being a metal. In the case of heat treatment, for instance, which is extremely important to the practical steel metallurgist, we're doing some work which does not involve quenching steel and measuring its hardness, but we're studying the movement of the atoms that occurs during heat treatment and other things. And the most important tool that we're using there is a very simple apparatus known as a torsion pendulum, which measures the internal friction of a metal. This was developed originally as a means of studying the vibration damping capacity of metals, and a good illustration of how development in one field will influence another. Well, gentlemen, to me, I think one of the most interesting fields of research now going on in the Institute is over in the biology side. Professor Franck and his group are working on the fundamental problems of photosynthesis, attempting to learn just how plants manage to utilize the energy of the sunlight. And then there is the work that Professor Zillard is doing in microbiology. Zillard was a scientist, a physicist, who was in part, large part, responsible for the atomic energy project during the war. And at the end of the war, he went into biology. I think it provides a striking example of the interrelationship between fields that formerly were thought to be widely divergent. Now, what about some of these machines that exist over at the Institute? Anderson, could you tell us a little bit about the cyclotron? Well, the Institute has built a number of machines. It has a small cyclotron, a betatron, a van de Graaff, and a kevatron. And last Wednesday, it dedicated its new synchrocycrotron, a machine which accelerates protons to 450 million volts, the highest energy ever achieved artificially in the laboratory. And this machine is capable of producing new particles called mesons. The machines, in general, are used by the chemists and the radiobiologists, as well as the metallurgists, the structure of the nucleus, because he has found in the recent years that the constituents of the nucleus have a structure of their own and is devoting his attention to the structure of the constituents of the nucleus. For this purpose, the large synchrocycrotron is essential since it produces the mesons, the particles which come out of the nuclear particles themselves. And the metal is used by the metal. Smith, I think over in the metals institute that you have some machines of considerable interest. Could you tell us a little about those? Well, actually when I hear the nuclear physicists boasting about the huge machines, I sometimes think that in the Institute of Metals, the little things are almost more important than the big ones. This small torsion pendulum that costs perhaps $25 is a very useful tool. However, science doesn't go by that kind of work alone. We do have a large installation for getting very low temperatures, temperatures down to about one degree absolute, so to provide an environment for studying the properties of metals and other things. We have high-pressure equipment so that we can see what happens to metals at pressures up to 15,000, 20,000 at. And so on. I'd like to say that we in nuclear physics are quite happy about having so close by a low-temperature laboratory, such as is provided in the Institute of Metals, since we have a great interest in making use of the liquid hydrogen which is produced there. Well, Smith, I think you made a very important point when you mentioned that there is much science that can be done without benefit of these large, very expensive machines. I know that there are several men in our Institutes who are doing research on very modest budgets and who are doing very important work indeed. However, I do think that all of us must realize that there are certain frontiers of science, as for example, the study of the fundamental nature of matter, of mesons and what have you, that just cannot go on easily without the expenditure of two and a half million dollars or so, which I believe was the cost of our big cyclotron. Now, I think it's very important for everyone to constantly remember that research in science is constantly and unceasingly revolutionizing the condition of our lives. The work of these Institutes, I think, is part of that revolution. Thus far, we've been discussing basic research as such, and I'm just wondering if it wouldn't be a good idea for us to spend some time discussing the way in which basic research eventually can end up with practical applications. I'd like to say that basic research is aimed at the understanding of the general laws of nature. These general laws are at the base of our understanding of particular things. What we in nuclear physics would like to be able to do today is to achieve something analogous to Newton's laws for mechanics or Maxwell's equations for electrodynamics. We'd like to find some equivalent simple law which would serve as a basis for all our understanding of nuclear phenomena. In the metallurgical field, I think it's quite interesting to see the importance of Gibbs phase rule, for instance. It's extremely difficult to see why that should be useful, yet the metallurgists, knowing that certain things can happen and certain queens can't, because of Gibbs rule which says what crystals or phases can exist in contact with each other, saves enormously in carrying out research. One has a framework in which to study new information as it comes up and in which to plan one's work. Well, I think that a very interesting example as to how you can never predict with accuracy what will happen as far as a practical application is concerned. It happened here at the University of Chicago a number of years ago when Dr. Huggins, in our medical school, found a method for treating cancer of the prostate. Now, there were several important ingredients to this treatment which Huggins brought together, none of which had anything to do with cancer. There was one man, I believe in Switzerland, who was studying a chemical which is called phosphatase. There was another man who was studying something as remote from cancer as the seasonal cycle of the hedgehog. And there was still a third man in another country who was studying the lining membrane of the intestine. And there was still another man who was studying certain biological aspects of bulls. Now, none of these individual researchers in themselves had anything to do with cancer, and if they were done today, it is highly dubious that any organization set up to sponsor cancer research would have sponsored their work. And yet, Dr. Huggins put these ingredients together, and out of it emerged a treatment which is a very good treatment indeed. There is a British zoologist by the name of John R. Baker, who made a very nice statement once, I think, when he said that the linking together of a toenail and an umbrella by a surrealist is scarcely more unpredictable than the linkings that result in some of the big discoveries in science. Now, in view of this, I think that we should discuss how industries and so forth are interested in institutes such as ours. I would like to say, Mr. Brown, that your example of Dr. Huggins' research points out very clearly the practicality of basic research. We in our local institutes here at the University of Chicago are primarily concerned with the discovery of the general laws of nature, as Mr. Anderson says, provision of a better understanding of natural phenomena. But there is another aspect to our situation, and that is that we have a number of sponsors, industrial and governmental, who visit us periodically, and engage in discussions of our mutual problems, and who have the opportunity to take the new results of basic research and make technological applications of them. The time lapse between the payoff of basic research and the time of the research is extremely unpredictable. But I think it is fair to say that basic research does pay in terms of dollars and benefit to the general community in all cases in the end. And that one can make an argument for supporting basic research that is purely economic. And there is, of course, an additional argument for basic research, the fundamental human desire to know more about the world and the universe in which we live. Astronomy is an example of this. People are very much interested in astronomical observations. But fundamentally, one need not look to this basic human desire for an argument for the support of basic research. Wouldn't you agree, Libby, that there is some sort of division which exists here, in that in the institutes where basic research is done, the men are left alone to do their basic research, whereas the sponsors come in to see whether there might not be some application of this research. So we leave for the sponsors the problem of applying the results of our work, whereas we, in our turn, can concentrate on doing things that have basic utility. Well, I would like to point out that this element of unpredictability of the usefulness of basic research means that one has just one criterion as to what one does. The interests of the scientists seem to be by far the best criterion to decide what one works on. One does not take the end result. One takes merely curiosity or the aesthetic motivation of the scientist. Well, I believe that most scientists are motivated not by the aspect of practical application, but rather just by the desire to learn, the desire to find new things. The scientist attempts to reduce the innumerable phenomena of nature down to their lowest common denominators, and in that he gets a great deal of personal inner satisfaction. Thomas Huxley expressed the inarticulate feelings of many scientists when he wrote that the research worker is inspired by the supreme delight of extending the realm of law and order ever further toward the unattainable goals of the infinitely great and the infinitely small between which our little race of life is run. Well, I feel myself that the scientist is interested actually in something more than law and order which can be specified as such. There is an element of order, but there is the form which goes through all things. I think the relation between a Mozart Sonata, for instance, and the scientist's enjoyment of the pattern of nature is interesting. We've had a rather interesting example of that recently in my field. We've found, for instance, that the shape of metal grains is patterned almost exactly the same as the shape of biological cells, and a throth of soap bubbles is exactly the same thing. One here sees the same fundamental principles of the relation of surfaces and shapes of things coming out in totally different fields. It is really very beautiful to see these relations. Of course, there is a general human desire to understand things. I think this is one of the essential motivations of our members in the Institute. I like to think of the example of Rutherford, who in 1911 got the idea of the nuclear atom. His idea that the atom was made up of electrons surrounding and circulating around a tiny but massive nucleus is a very important and essential idea in the development of physics. When he got that idea, he couldn't and didn't imagine the practical use which would be put to this conception. Nevertheless, it is hard to imagine how all the developments of chemistry and modern physics could have evolved if they had the wrong idea of what an atom was like. Well, I think that's quite correct, Anderson. I have an additional point about Lord Rutherford, Mr. Anderson. I was reading just this morning a statement attributed to Lord Rutherford as late as 1937, which he claimed, it is claimed that he said that he saw no practical application of his nuclear research. This, of course, was just two years before Hahn's discovery of Fission and all the consequences of that followed. I think it's interesting that Lord Rutherford himself had no real conception of the imminence of the impractical application of his researches. Yes, Libby. I am very much interested in a statement that Robert Hooke made many centuries ago, which I think is indicative of the ramifications that basic research has had in ways other than purely practical. Hooke wrote a code of behavior for England's most distinguished scientific society, and he said the following, that the business and design of the Royal Society is to improve the knowledge of natural things in all useful arts, manufactures, mechanic practices, engines, and inventions by experiments, but not meddling with divinity, metaphysics, morals, politics, grammar, rhetoric, or logic. Now, Hooke's concept of science still exists in many quarters, I think. But who, upon looking over Hooke's list of forbidden subjects, can say with clear conscience that science has not meddled with them? I don't think there is a single concept involved in these subjects that remains unaltered, essentially as the result of basic research. Hey, if you will pardon me, would like to return again to this little bit of research we've been concerned with on the dating of mummies, to illustrate the point that the results of research are extremely unpredictable in their usefulness. The research, uh, consisted, uh, in its original phase, uh, the investigation of the nature of the effects of cosmic rays on the Earth. And subsequent to the institution of this investigation, the thought occurred that this would indeed, uh, allow, uh, allow the dating of mummies. That is, the ancient, uh, uh, uh, times would be written on the, uh, organic materials, uh, remaining at this day. The, uh, method is, um, a direct consequence of the purest, uh, researchers of the, uh, cosmic ray physicists, and, uh, uh, geocarrists who have, uh, spent their lives trying to understand the, uh, uh, the, uh, general makeup of the Earth's atmosphere. Well, gentlemen, in our discussion of the functioning of the research institutes, I think that we have, uh, left out one very important feature, and that is, uh, the training of young men who themselves will eventually go out into, uh, the scientific world. The, uh, Mr. Brown, I would like to say that I agree with you completely. The university's role in the community's life is a unique one. The limiting factor at the present time in the rate of technological expansion in this country is not money, but the number and quality of trained men available. It is the university which largely controls this all-important factor. One, uh, therefore, can include that the training of men is a prime function of the university. We try to remember this in our local institute structure by, uh, recognizing and, and supporting a program of instruction for advanced students in the sciences. Well, gentlemen, uh, I think that we can summarize our discussion today in, uh, the following way. Uh, I think we agree that any technological development depends for its success upon the pieces of fundamental information accumulated bit by bit through the years by scientists the world over. No technological problem can be solved, whether it be to build a new bridge, to build an atomic energy plant, to cure cancer, to create a special new alloy, or to grow more crops, without adequate reservoirs of fundamental knowledge. Knowledge which is, in general, accumulated without thought of the problems to which the information might later be applied. The size of the reservoir of fundamental scientific information is perhaps the most important single feature that determines the extent to which man can control his environment. No scientific discoveries make possible, uh, new technological developments. As it is impossible to predict the nature of new scientific discoveries, it is impossible, impossible to predict with accuracy the extent to which science and technology, properly applied, can help in solving some of the more urgent problems now facing the world. The best that can be done is to point out to the developments that could take place on the basis of knowledge that already exists. It is possible, however, to make one important generalization. The problems now facing the world will not be solved in a satisfactory manner in the absence of vigorous quest for new knowledge in all fields of science, ranging from nuclear physics to astronomy, from bacteriology to zoology. A survey of the basic problems that confront the world demonstrates that contrary to the beliefs held by many people, man has suffered and is suffering under the handicap, not of too much knowledge, but of far too little knowledge. This is nearly as true in the physical and biological sciences as it is true in politics, government, and the broad fields of human relationships. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on The Scientist and the Atom were Cyril S. Smith, director of the Institute of Metals, Herbert Anderson, physicist, Willard F. Libby, chemist, and Harrison Brown, chemist, all of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of The Scientist and the Atom contains the full text of the discussion and interesting supplementary materials on basic scientific research work now going on in the Institute at the University of Chicago. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37 Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, The University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37 Illinois. Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of the National Broadcasting Company. Join the Blanding in their dream house today on NBC. Arm here's report in Great Le episieu. Har blair serious prices produced by Rachel noodles are highest. The Golden Gate mothereą eligible as anintendent rocks at the Uni'ns. Noărion daar 주 requiem! Bair celă din lărătbraș! The Shire Komlăt balpler de auki aceasta ești păr. Deci foarte b couleful. Engineering engineering é o fà râtre gates. Deci Very ești o fà râtre.