We're here in the meeting room between the local 333 representatives and the representatives of the employers of the tankers and the barges. And now here is Mr. Theodore W. Keel, Director of Labor Relations. Mr. Keel. I am pleased to announce that the dispute between the operators of the oil barges and self-propelled tankers and local 333 of the International Longshoremen's Union has been settled and the threatened fuel crisis thus averted. The agreement came when a formula was evolved satisfactory to both sides regarding overtime work on the barges. Under the terms of the agreement, time in one half will be paid whenever two employees are required for work on the barges. In addition, the employers have agreed to place an additional oiler on some of the self-propelled vessels. All other terms of the agreement are the same as those accepted by the Union on behalf of the employees on the tugboats last New Year's Day morning. The main provisions of that agreement were a 10 cent increase, additional grub allowance, and group insurance. Mayor O'Twyer was in constant touch with the negotiations during the entire evening and issued a separate statement in connection with the settlement. Particular thanks are due to Mr. William McCormick, one of New York City's leading businessmen, who spent countless hours with us in helping to settle this dispute. At all times, both sides were fully aware of their public responsibility and worked very diligently to reach this agreement. I'd like to ask, first of all, Mr. Ryan, who is president of the International Longshoremen's Union, to say a few words both to the radio and to the gentlemen of the press. Jack, would you give the boys the mayor's statement? And now, here's Mr. Ryan. And naturally, as president of the International Longshoremen's Association, I'm very happy that the negotiations were completed before midnight so that there need be no fear that the citizens of our city would be further handicapped by this oil crisis. We should take this opportunity to thank Mayor O'Dwyer and his representative, William J. McCormick, as well as Mr. Keel and Mr. O'Grady, and also the federal conciliator, Mr. Thomas Doherty. Joe O'Grady. Thank you very much, Mr. Ryan. Now, let me ask Mr. Captain Bradley, who is president of Local 333. Mr. Ziegler. Come on, Captain. Kind of late in the evening, but you can still walk. Well, gentlemen, I'm glad that this agreement is about to be presented to our membership, and I'm certainly glad that we had come to an agreement before the deadline. Thank you. Now, Mr. Mitchell, who was chairman of the Employers' Negotiating Committee, you have a statement? Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this settlement would ensure a continuance of the friendly relations between the union men and their management that have existed for many years. Now, Mr. Gabriel Gabrielson, who is the delegate on the Union Negotiating Committee. Well, I ain't got very much to say. The only thing that I can say, we had a pretty tough fight with our bosses, but I'm glad that it's straightened out the way it is, and I hope they'll be satisfactory to the men. Good. All right. And Mr. Roman Beck, the attorney for the employers. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the employers, I am very happy indeed that a settlement has been arrived at, even though I must confess that the tremendous added financial burdens that it involves will probably be felt by them for a long time to come. I think that the people of this city, and I want to say this with great emphasis for the gentlemen of the press, should know this because it hasn't been revealed in the press so far, that a gentleman by the name of William J. McCormick has been working with us at the request of the mayor ever since before New Year's Day. He was at City Hall all New Year's Day, the day before New Year's, through the early hours of the morning, and he has given almost all of his time ever since and has made a contribution to the settlement of this dispute, which is something that the people of this city have great thanks to him. And I think that when I say that, I am expressing the thoughts of both the employers and the union. Is that right, gentlemen? That's right. Anybody got anything else to say? If not, we will adjourn this happy meeting and go home. Thank you very much, Mr. Keel. Here's a statement by Mayor William O'Dwyer on the barge and tanker settlement. I appreciate very much the fact that the employers and labor work so patiently with this very troublesome problem and settle their dispute. A secession of fuel oil service at this time of the year to New York City would have inflicted a hardship which had resulted in an illness and possible loss of life. The fact that both sides, realizing this, continue their negotiations to a successful conclusion is something that should not go unnoticed. And as Mayor of the city, I congratulate Mr. T.W. Keel, Director of the Division of Labor Relations, Mr. Joseph O'Grady, Deputy Director, and Mr. William J. McCormick for a job well done. We're here in the meeting room between the local 333 representatives and the representatives of the employers of the tankers and the barges. And now, here is Mr. Theodore W. Keel, Director of Labor Relations. Mr. Keel. I am pleased to announce that the dispute between the operators of the oil barges and self-propelled tankers and local 333 of the International Longshoremen's Union has been settled and the threatened fuel crisis thus averted. The agreement came when a formula was evolved satisfactory to both sides regarding overtime work on the barges. Under the terms of the agreement, time in one half will be paid whenever two employees are required for work on the barges. In addition, the employers have agreed to place an additional oiler on some of the self-propelled vessels. All other terms of the agreement are the same as those accepted by the union on behalf of the employees on the tugboats last New Year's Day morning. The main provisions of that agreement were a 10-cent increase, additional grub allowance, and group insurance. Mayor O'Twyer was in constant touch with the negotiations during the entire evening and issued a separate statement in connection with the settlement. Particular thanks are due to Mr. William McCormick, one of New York City's leading businessmen who spent countless hours with us in helping to settle this dispute. At all times, both sides were fully aware of their public responsibility and worked very diligently to reach this agreement. I'd like to ask, first of all, Mr. Ryan, who is president of the International Longshoremen's Union, to say a few words both to the radio and to the gentlemen of the press. Jack, would you give the boys the mayor's statement? And now, here's Mr. Ryan. Naturally, as president of the International Longshoremen's Association, I'm very happy that the negotiations were completed before midnight so that there need be no fear that the citizens of our city would be further handicapped by this oil crisis. We should take this opportunity to thank Mayor O'Dwyer and his representative, William J. McCormick, as well as Mr. Keel and Mr. O'Grady, and also the federal conciliator. Thank you.