Personality of Water Dogs 101 A Dealer Apps去 Good evening, folks. This is the third evening that we have asked permission to come into your home and talk to you about city business. Now, I've received a lot of letters from people who wrote in. Apparently, they listened to the last two evenings that we were here. And their idea was that we should at some time take up the subject of hospitals. I realized that hospitals is one of our most important services to the people. It's a hard thing to be sick. It's a hard thing to be sick and have to go to a hospital. It's a much, much harder thing to be sick and have no hospital to go to or a good one not available. Your city has done a lot for hospitals over the years. We've been the pioneers of public hospitals. I've invited here this afternoon, this evening, Commissioner Marcus Kogel. This is Commissioner Kogel here to my right. Hospital Commissioner who's been with the hospital department since he was a boy. Alongside of him is a professor of medicine, Dr. Elaine Raleigh, who is now and will be for the next year or so with the hospital department trying to build up the outpatient department. And to my left here is Commissioner Fred Zumulian, the Commissioner of Public Works, who has many duties. But one of them is to plan, arrange for the architectural work, the building, the supervision of building of the physical plan. Dr. Raleigh, it's hot here tonight. I'm sure it's hot for the people listening in, too. Seems to me that the ladies can stand hot weather a whole lot better than the men. At least they're always comfortable. What do you think the reason for that is? Well, I don't want to make any statement that I could be held up for later, but I think men are a little slow-witted on this question. Why don't you take your coats off? That would be the quickest way to settle that. Will that be all right? It'd be quite all right with me. Gentlemen, would you mind taking your coats off? It is really hot in here. Thanks, Dr. Raleigh. Of course, that isn't the only solution to the problem. Well, that will do for tonight. Right. Now, if any of you gentlemen listening in want to take your coats off and be comfortable on a hot night, that'll be all right with us, too. Now, for tonight, ladies and gentlemen, we'll start in with the Commissioner. I'm the President of Hospitals, Dr. Kovl. Dr. Kovl, the hospital set up to meet the sick in our city is made up for the most part of private hospitals or volunteer hospitals and the municipal plant, isn't it? That's right, General. They're mainly the voluntary hospitals and the municipal hospitals. Yeah. The voluntary hospitals are non-governmental, non-profit-making hospitals that take in patients, pay part, pay, and do a lot of charity work. Well, they do some work for our needy sick, too, don't they? Yes, sir. We have in the charitable institutions budget approximately $12 million to pay for the care of the indigent sick that are fundamentally the responsibility. The municipal hospitals are for whom we have no room in our municipal hospitals. Now, in other words, that with all that we're doing in our municipal hospitals for the needy sick, we also have to make use of services of private or volunteer hospitals, and for that, we pay about $12 million a year. That is right, General. Now, that is not, that does not come out of your budget, does it? Not at all. That's part of the controller's budget. All right. Now, by the way, how much, how big is your budget for hospitals allowed? Our budget for day-to-day activities of the Department of Hospitals is over $80 million this year. Now, that has, that has increased a whole lot, hasn't it, since we came into office? Well, General, when you came into office, the budget was somewhere around $36 million. Yeah. 37, I think it was, that year, in 1946. And then it jumped up to $80 million. What are the reasons, Doctor, for that jump? Well, a, a part of the, uh, jump, of course, is due to the increase in costs, but most of the jump is due to the fact that the services have expanded a great deal, and we've done, we're doing a great deal more for patients. We're terribly overcrowded. You know, just in the past six months, we have been serving 1,000 meals a day more than we had six months before. By the way, when we came in in 1946, as I recall it, the census, that is the number of people every day in our municipal hospitals, about 16,500. That is correct. Is it more or less now? Well, today it's over 21,000. 21,000. Well, that, too, of course, would bring up the, uh, that would bring up the cost, wouldn't it? It would. Well, now, you talked about the hospitals being overcrowded. How overcrowded would you say they are? In what way are they overcrowded? Well, General, they're so overcrowded that it's almost impossible in some of the hospitals to get food carts down to the patients. It's difficult. Why? Why would that be? Because one bed is right next to the other. The beds are in the aisles. The beds are in the corridors. The solaria. The treatment rooms. Every available space. Every corner is occupied by beds. Yes. Well, why, uh, have you, uh, are you short of room? Well, first, we have obsolete facilities. We're short of space. But, uh, I, I think a great deal of the overcrowding, uh, uh, a large number of our patients is due to the fact, very strangely, that there have been such tremendous advances made in medicine that people live a lot longer. And, uh, living a lot longer, they're subject to the chronic degenerative diseases. They get sick more often, and we have many, many chronic diseases, many more than we ever had before. Say that one again. You say that medicine has increased over the years. It has developed, uh, new techniques and new medicines, new antibiotics, all that. And that, as a result, you have more people sick than before you had these. That's a very interesting paradox. You know, at the turn of the century, the average life expectancy at birth was 47 years. Today, it's 67. People who live to be 67 live long enough to develop many conditions which they hadn't had before. Do you know that 75 years ago, only 7% of the causes of death were among the chronic disease group? Today, 75% of the causes of death are due to chronic disease. By the way, while you're on the subject of chronic disease, that is a type of illness that comes with age as a rule, isn't it? Well, not necessarily, but as a rule, that's true. And you find it in that general age level, don't you? That's right, sir. Now, you have to find a place for the chronic disease patients, don't you? That's right. If you don't have them in the wards where there are acute medical patients, that means you have placed them somewhere else where they can be treated specially. That's right. That is correct, sir. Now, during the last four years, we spent about $40 million out, didn't we, building hospitals? That is correct, sir. And among them is that Burt S. Kohler hospital that you can see from the East River up on the island. That's a 2,000-bed hospital. We also built that cancer hospital up in Presbyterian, up to 163rd Street, to Francis Delafield, didn't we? Yes, sir. And didn't we build one for the memorial, too? There's the James Ewing Hospital, which is part of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Institute group. That's also for cancer, isn't it? That's right. Now, what happened to that 572-bed hospital down in Kings County? Well, that one was under construction, and it ought to be ready by the fall of this year. That's for tuberculosis. We also take over, don't we, that hospital at Neponset, the United States Department of Health? Well, General, we took it over today. In fact, today we put in there about 25 patients, the first group of patients. How many would you eventually put in there? Eventually, we'll have 300 patients there. 300? Tuberculosis patients. You're still far dry from what you need, aren't you? Well, our biggest problem really is tuberculosis. Yeah. Actually, one quarter of our patients in the hospitals today are tuberculosis patients. Dr. Kogel, what would you say is the answer to the overcrowding in the hospitals? Well, construction is only part of the answer. We have to develop, and we have developed, certain dynamic techniques, certain new things to take care of patients, perhaps in a different way. Dr. Raleigh here is very much interested in one of those, the improvement of the outpatient services. That certainly is a way to take care of many patients on an ambulatory basis without making it necessary for these people to go into the hospital. Well, let's start off with your municipal hospital plant, where the 21,500 patients are being taken care of. Now, in that plant, you have a number of old, old buildings, haven't you? Oh, in that plant, we have many buildings, General, that are more than 50 years, and we have some that are over 100 years. Yeah. They have to be rehabilitated. They have to be completely replaced, the 50, 100-year structures. And some hospitals will be new altogether. Some hospitals have to be reconstructed. They have to be made functional. We have to provide those facilities that the modern practice of medicine requires that the doctor have in order to do a good job. Now, the nurses also present a problem, don't they? You've got to have a new nurse's home, nurse's school. Well, you know, we can't have hospitals without nurses. That's right. They actually take care of the patient, and we have to have certain other ancillary facilities, even like laundries. But with nurses, we are contemplating, for instance, doing over again. In fact, Fred Zamula knows the contract is going out soon. The Bellevue Hospital School of Nurses, which will be our large training center for nurses in Manhattan and the Bronx. Well, now, last year, we got $150 million for construction and rehabilitation, didn't we? That is right, sir. And that, at the present time, is being planned. The hospitals that that will build are being planned by Commissioner Zimula now. That is correct. Commissioner, how far have we gone on that? Well, General, our first job that will be under construction will probably be in hospitals, will be the Bronx, East Bronx Hospital. That's a hospital of some 750 TB patients in the first stage of construction. We're going to do that hospital and all the staff buildings. It's a virgin property up there, and it's an entire new site. How long would you say it would take before we can really have the $150 million worth of new construction rehabilitation finished? Well, it would be a good four years, General. Four years? We'll finish the entire job. At that time, will you have any, will you have provided any new beds for our hospital plans? Well, the Bronx Hospital is a brand new hospital. There isn't anything that it is replacing. It is, some patients probably will be sent from other portions of the city, but it's a brand new building. It's not taking down one and putting up another. Well, Dr. Cotter, you told me that even when we spent $150 million, we wouldn't have many new beds. There would practically be no new beds, except for the East Bronx Hospital. The 750 bed general care part of it, because the TB part is really part of the replacement at Seaview. And that 1,500 bed unit on Welfare Island, and there, again, 500 beds for TB is also part of the Seaview replacement. Except for that 1,000 bed and the East Bronx, you'll have no additional beds. But I want to make one point, General. You know that the Bronx, most people don't realize that the Bronx hospitals are the most crowded hospitals in the department. With the exception of Harlem. Why is that? There's no group. It's just that... Lack of hospitals in that neighborhood? It seems that there aren't sufficient voluntary hospitals, and the city just hasn't built enough municipal hospitals. The average occupancy of the municipal hospitals in the Bronx is over 120%. Yeah. Now, tell me, Dr. Cotter. You have gone over, first of all, you've given a good consideration to the spending of $150 million, haven't you? Yes, sir. Now, you... Suppose you tell the people about... First of all, there's a big responsibility, as everyone understands. You get $150 million to build hospitals. You'll feel that responsibility very keenly, and I know that you did. I know that I did. It's a difficult thing for a man to go out and take $150 million and say, this is what we'll do with it. How did... What did you do to make sure that every penny of that $150 million would be properly spent and would benefit the hospital plan? Well, General, it was you who really did that, because... Well, tell us what we did. You asked that we appoint an advisory committee of the most distinguished hospital leaders and public health leaders in the city. Yeah. And they're the ones who carefully scrutinized every part of this program and decided on the priorities, on things that had to be completely replaced and what needed merely mild rehabilitation or a certain degree of rehabilitation. Now, that is the exact program that those top flight planners in the hospital field agreed on. That is the program that was turned over to Fred Zumulin for him and his engineers to go to work on and plan. That's correct, General. I see. And, Fred, you say that that whole $150 million could... program could be done in how many years? About four years, General. Not completed. Yes, we can complete it if we... With the whole construction? We are... We have now the East Bronx out for bid. Yeah. We are for bid this month. We have the East Harlem General, which is the... There's that 89th Street. That's ready for bid. We have another hospital on Welfare Island that is fast becoming ready for bid. It's being planned at this time. Is that in addition to the Burd-esque Cola? That's a big hospital. That's in addition to the Burd-esque Cola, a 1,250-bed hospital. That's at 1,500-bed hospital. It's 1,500-bed. 500-bed of TB and 1,000-crunk. Yeah, yeah. And then in addition to that, we have the Queens General, the city hospital in Queens. They are about 50% finished in plan, and we'll be ready for bidding before the... How many beds will that be? We call the Ellumhurst job. That's 830 beds. That'll be a general hospital with a psychiatric commitment service, just like Bellevue and Kings County. Well, do you agree with Commissioner Zemmuelen that that whole $150 million program will be finished in four years? I think that's a little optimistic, John. General, I'd say it would be more like six, wouldn't it? Let me explain why I say it can be done. Yeah, let's hear that. I say this, that it takes a year to build a modern hospital, to plan a modern hospital, and it takes a year and a half to build them. And any delay in doing it in two and a half years, from the start of planning to the end of the job, is because of changing while the hospital is being built or being designed. Tell us about that. Oh, I... You've always got to... I have because it don't move fast enough for me. The medical profession has what they call a medical technique, and those techniques change constantly, John. General, I think it's... And unless you can hold that technique long enough for us to build a building around it, we're not going to finish it in four years. I think when we're ready to spend something like $16, $17, $18, or $20 million for a building, we ought to keep it up to date. We ought to see to it that we put in everything we possibly can that is required, and... Well, I'd be the last to suggest anything different, General, except that everybody realizes that it's been in the construction business, that there's no building ever built but what the owner didn't turn the key in the door the day the building was open and say, I wish I had done something different. So it went... Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait. You see, this is an old... Ladies and gentlemen, this is an old argument I have between the engineer and the builder and the doctors. Now, the doctors take the position... They know what they should have in the hospital. They insist that they get that. Then, Fred Zemulian and his boys go to work and they draw up the plans or they're half completed and new changes come in, sometimes brought about by new methods, new machinery. I don't know what brings it about, but there's always some kind of a squabble between the doctors and what they want and the engineers and what they think the doctor should have. Now, that's the argument. Dr. Raleigh, you say you agree with Dr. Kogel, and I'd be surprised if you didn't. Well, I do more than agree with Dr. Kogel, but I think that sometimes perhaps the construction is slowed down, and by that time there are things that have happened that you'd like to get in. Now, there is one thing, though, that I don't think any of you mentioned. Fred, you can't go out, even if you had all the plans completed. You say it takes about a year to finish the plans. If you had all the plans completed, you can't go through with this building program without having to move patients, can you? And the doctors will be responsible for that. You know, General, the way things are now, when we build, let's say, the East Harlem General Hospital, which is a replacement of the Metropolitan Hospital, we cannot close down the Metropolitan Hospital until the program is almost entirely complete and we see where we stand. Well, you see, that brings up the point, General, that the outpatient program can take up this slack, because in the outpatient department, you can go on taking care of people without having to move them in and out of beds. Suppose, Dr. Raleigh, I tell the people that you are a professor of medicine and have worked with outpatient work for a long time in Bellevue, very successfully. You've had an idea that the hospital should be developed along two fronts, haven't you? Definitely. The one, the acute medical case where they have to be taken into the hospital, into the hospital bed, known as the inpatient. Is that right? That's right. The other part of people, you can walk in, something matter with them, but you can treat them, and when you treat them, they walk out and go to their homes. Right. Now, that is known as outpatient care. Is that right? Yes, sir. Now, you have been an advocate for a long, long time of developing in the hospital the outpatient department. I have, and of course you... Can you tell us what the benefits of that are? Well, the benefits are both to the city, to the city hospital plant, and to the patient. To begin with, it'll be a physical impossibility to build a bed for every patient in this city or in any other. That's right. Secondly, people are better off, unless they're acutely ill and require the techniques of hospital care, they're better off in their homes. They're happier. There's less emotional disturbance. Thirdly, if you take care of the patient properly in the outpatient department, you've got a large staff of doctors there. If they have the means of taking care of the patient, of making the diagnosis, when the patient does go in the hospital, he doesn't have to spend his life there waiting for the x-ray to come up. It's all been done. Now, that's just ordinary common sense. All right. Let's make that point clear. You say that there are times where a person is occupying a bed while a diagnosis is being made. Right. Who didn't have to be in that bed while the diagnosis was being made if the outpatient department was built up bigger than it is at the present time. Not only bigger, but better equipped. Because we must have the techniques there. But it's done again and again. And practically all of the big medical centers now are developing their outpatient departments. Because this isn't anything new. Commissioner Kogel's had this in mind for a long while. And you spoke about it over a year ago. But examples could be cited again and again. In diseases, for example, like thyroid, preoperative treatment for thyroid disease. Many of the patients are prepared now without putting them in the hospital. They're put in the hospital. They stay in a few days before operation. Ten days after and they're out. Why, we used to hospitalize people for three months for hypothyroidism in the old days. But these new techniques. In other words, they were holding down bed space that some real sick person wanted and couldn't get. That somebody, these people, I don't mean to say these people aren't sick, but they were holding down bed space for techniques that you cannot use outside of the hospital. Whereas there are innumerable techniques today of treatment and care and diagnosis that can be done in a well-equipped outpatient department. And you can do all of that easily and less expensively than, I'm saying that, you'll notice with my eye on the Commissioner Zemulin over there, I repeat, less expensively. Well, I'll tell you a story. No more fighting now. Let's have it. I know the argument's going to go on. Then, inpatient. And it won't cost you a bed. And it won't cost you as much in a nursing service. Well, Lauren, suppose you tell the people, first of all, about this plan in which you now are taking charge. This is the building up of the outpatient department in the 30-odd hospitals in our city plan. And just give us, first of all, how you could do it, what you'd have to do to bring it up to a maximum of service. And then, what you think it will do for the needy, sick in the city down through the years once it gets going. Well, we will house all of the techniques for diagnosis in one building. Now, this is being begun at Bellevue. But, of course, the other city hospitals will do the same just as soon and as rapidly as possible. All of the techniques will be housed in one building. The patient will come in, be seen in a medical clinic, and the medical clinics are running every day. The diagnostic procedures will be ordered. They will be done right there in that building. The x-rays, laboratory diagnosis, basal metabolism, electrocardiograms, and so forth. He'll return to his doctor. By separating this service from the inpatient service, we hope to be able to do these techniques in a reasonably short time, just as would be done in a doctor's office. If the diagnosis warrants hospitalization, the man will go in. If the diagnosis is such that the patient can come repeatedly to the outpatient department and be treated, then he may never have to go into the hospital. And integrated with Dr. Kogel and your home care program, this really presents an up-to-date way of practicing medicine for the people in the city of New York. Now, what you mean is, we'll take Bellevue, but it will apply to everyone else, won't it? Yes, sir. Every other hospital. Yes, sir. What you mean is that if the outpatient department is built up on a level with the inpatient, and that your personnel and that your equipment and the outpatient department is of equal quality, then it's only a matter of transferring records from the outpatient to the inpatient if they have to go in. Is that right? Well, I'm very glad you mentioned that point of records, because one of the things that's going to be part of the development of this technique in care and efficiency is to put in the unit record system in Bellevue Hospital, which means that if the patient is worked up in the outpatient department, that record goes right along with them, like a book, into the inpatient service. That's not an easy thing, is it? You have to work on that. Well, I'll tell you what it takes. It takes trained personnel. It takes time. Have you got the personnel now? We're building up the personnel. The commissioner has put in for the personnel. We can't put the record system in until we have the trained clerks to handle it. We need other things. It's a curious thing. You have to consider the kind of paper you're going to write your records on, because they must last. And then we have to do another thing. We have to microfilm the records at Bellevue Hospital to make room, because otherwise we'll have to all move out just to house the records. I'm glad someone at Bellevue finally decided on that, General. Didn't you have some horrible friends from Eulen about his work in Bellevue Hospital, didn't he? Didn't she? Some argument. Well, I'm at him just for a little pink job is all I want. I told you the other day, General, we were way ahead of him. We got the contract in before the board already. Oh, yes. He's moving so fast it'll be done if I don't get back up there quickly. Even the doctors can't work that fast for it, can they? They ask for a thing and it's done before they ask for it. That's right. We have it on the board today. Well now, would you say, ladies and gentlemen, especially Dr. Raleigh and Dr. Kogel, would you say that to take up the subject of hospitals, it's an impossibility to finish that subject in one half hour? That's right. And I have followed your advice and not tried to cover too much of this very important subject in a half an hour. What I wanted to do was to lead up to the subject of hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, so that you'd first get an introduction to this great, big, big, important subject. And two weeks from tonight, to have again another talk on hospitals so that we can get into the specific things that are done there and even there. We don't stand a chance of covering the whole subject. Believe me, we're very much helped when we get your letters. You who have been listening in, if you have something that you'd like to have discussed or if you want some of the points made here tonight clarified so that you can understand them well, won't you please write in to us and ask us. We'll be very happy to do the best we can to let you know. Eight million people are a lot of people. There are bound to be many, many hundreds of thousands of them sick. Most of them, in many cases, have not got the money for adequate medical treatment. It is up to our hospital plant to do that job. To do that job means to prepare to do the job. Now, with this new program for construction and with the successful building up of the outpatient department that Dr. Raleigh speaks about, we believe that we will set up our city plan against the next 50 or 100 years and be prepared to do a really good job in this important field. Thank you. Good night. God bless you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.