In the most marvelous luncheon which the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has arranged for his Imperial Majesty the Shaw of Iran, Mr. Grover A. Whelan, chairman of the mayor's committee, has just risen to speak, and now the next voice is out of Mr. Whelan. And I'm sure that we all hope that it will not be many months before he'll return to us. He is not only a great soldier, a great diplomat, but a fine friend. And he understands that human relations are perhaps one of the most important things that we have in this life together with peace. And that's the thing that he is working for, and I'm sure that is an important part of his mission here, for a better understanding not only his own people, with the rest of the world, but with all the other nations. It's a great privilege for me to present to you his Imperial Majesty, the Shah of Iran. applause Chant Thank you. Thank you. For the way they received me and showed their comprehension to me and, I think, to the problems of my country. I was deeply moved and I will never forget it because they were not either obliged nor forced to show to me their kindness. And this is the most important factor in the relations between the humankind and the individual. To do the things you want to do or say the things you want to say under no pressure by your own will. Only fearing God and your conscience. Now going back to my written speech. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. lovely DIV Claro was a young man. Thank you. Anch uncles, both still and moving, of the kind of reception New York gives to visitors whom it desires to honor. those advanced intimations were but shadows of the real thing now I know what a New York reception is like for what and for I have had it I'm still having it here in this room as the guest of you Mr. Whelan and in the presence of this distinguished company representing so many different walks of life in this great metropolis since I arrived in your country I've been asked about a certain confusion in names which it would perhaps be useful for me to explain I'm an Iranian but the language I speak is Persian when the Iranian government some 15 years ago decided that Iran not Persia should be our official name in international usage this represented a change for our foreign friends rather than for ourselves the fact is that we have called our country Iran for more than 1500 years it was not meant that the designation Persia should be thrown into oblivion so I'm an Iranian or a Persian if the word Persian is more aphonious to your ears its use will meet no objections from me as I drove up Broadway this morning from Bowling Green to City Hall I knew I was traversing historic ground it is a street that goes back to the Dutch origins of New Amsterdam it is ground on which personalities of the utmost distinction have traveled en route to an official welcome at New York's center of government I shall not be thought immodest I hope if I speak of the pride of the honor I felt in being included in such a company that pride is not personal although I should be less than human if I did not have a warm feeling at the heart I'm thinking more of the beloved ancient land which I represent the independence of Iran is written in the records of 25 centuries our national origins of course as modern archaeological research has shown go back much further than that yet I am the first Shah of Iran or Persia officially to visit the United States I'm here at the gracious invitation of your government the long bonds of friendship between our two countries are now I hope to become closer than ever we both seek a stable international order based upon a secure peace without peace we cannot expect to devote ourselves with full effect to our urgent domestic tasks which are for their object an improvement in the living standards and the general welfare of our respective peoples I thank you Mr. Whelan and I thank the citizens of New York for the cordial and generous reception given me I shall report to the Iranian people that New York's repute among the great cities of the world suffers from understatement I shall speak hereafter with knowledge and I shall devote whatever influence I possess as a traveller to correcting that condition ladies and gentlemen may I ask your indulgence by permitting his imperial majesty to leave immediately because he must be at the United Nations in less than a half an hour we would appreciate it if you'd remain the way you are until we leaveêtre working and you're leaving tonight in more aousse or inús It's regrettable that the very wonderful luncheon that was arranged here by Mayor O'Dwyer of the City of New York for the Shah of Iran makes it necessary that he leave at this time in order to be able to appear before the session of the United Nations at 4 o'clock. It looks now as though the party here at the Starlight Roof is breaking up because of the necessity of schedule. We have heard the splendid address which the Shah of Iran made at City Hall in responding to the Mayor of the City of New York. When the crossroads of history meet as they so often do here in New York City the great and wonder city of these United States where the government of the United States began it was very interesting indeed to watch the Shah of Iran at City Hall a young boy it seemed a boy but of about 30 I believe is his age I never discuss age because we've had so much of it ourselves and in the matters where he was responding in which he was responding to the Mayor of the City of New York he seemed so anxious to turn to the Mayor and address him instead of keeping his voice on the microphones and it really distressed him as a matter of courtesy not to turn to the Mayor directly and almost forget the fact that he was broadcasting. It was a wonderful picture indeed to think that the graying hairs of the Mayor of the City of New York heading as he does the great government of the City of New York and charged with a responsibility even greater than that of the Shah of Iran descended as he is from the King of Kings and the ancient cradle of humanity there in the Near East well it was very interesting indeed to watch this boyish young man the shore of Persia bowing so deferentially to the Mayor of the City of New York a young man who as almost a peasant left the shores of Ireland and set out to the University of Salamanca to study then found pedagogical methods a little bit too slow for his, well we shall we say his nature to create faster and more active and serviceable techniques well we know he left Salamanca sailed from Spain came to the United States we often wonder as he helped build the Woolworth building across from City Hall if he looked across that acre there at City Hall and gazed wistfully at that quiet serene little document of real architectural beauty but not very often serene in carrying out the mandates of the people of the City of New York in its legislative processes well the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable William O'Dwyer was greatly honored by this mere youth from Iran the cradle of the Caucasian race there in the Near East and when we think back into the realms of culture literature and art and the beauty and the contributions which the very ancient land of Persia has made well we saw this young man here representing that ancient land and his royal succession of over 6,000 years bowing deferentially to the young peasant from Ireland who was the Chief Magistrate of the City of New York the Honorable William O'Dwyer it was a beautiful lesson in history it was a beautiful lesson in humility it was a beautiful lesson in the qualities of mankind that do so much to make us related as human beings and in time and because of communications in this very medium of radio we will come quicker and closer together and exist as a human family and the young man today who appeared at City Hall for the reception by the Mayor of the City of New York the Honorable William O'Dwyer epitomized all that youth and enthusiasm can do to bring about the union of humanity and human beings the Shaw of Persia has much black hair well combed and well trained but he also has very big ears and big ears mean generosity and we know in the Mayor's own tribute to the Shaw of Persia in which he said that the Shaw of Persia I'm going back to the ancient title but the new title of course is the Shaw of Eron everything's new today but custom is ourselves and that which is old is wonderful as Verdi the great operatic composer said we are safe in going back to that which is old if that which is new does not beat up with the qualities of that which is old and the oldest thing in the world is the human heart and the Shaw of Persia in his youth and handsomeness and wonderful deferential quality to the young Irish boy who is the chief magistrate of the city of New York the Honorable William O'Dwyer well we've seen pictures in museums we've read books we've seen literature outlining the majesty and the greatness and the power of the Shaws of Persia and this recent descent of that great line of rulers was most deferential to the whited hairs and the responsibility of the young Irish boy who became the chief magistrate of the city of New York a wonderful tribute to democracy because democracy means our friendship and our love and our belief in each other it was epitomized here at the Waldorf and the Shaw said I must be in time for the United Nations and he left here without even making a speech after the mayor had made such beautiful preparations here at the starlight roof of the Waldorf for the entertainment of this young man he goes to the United Nations where we all hope that the peace of the world will evolve from the discussions that have been lengthy and a bit torturous but we do know that when we tell our troubles to anybody else they become less and we've made a friend and a sympathetic listener and may we hope that out of it all will come the fact that we are human beings and the human heart is the greatest thing in the world in the world in the world in the world in the world this is the God in the world that creates everything in the world and so we take leave of you from the Waldorf Astoria he goes to the United Nations where we all hope that the peace of the world will evolve from the discussions that have been lengthy and a bit torturous but we do know that when we tell our troubles to anybody else they become less and we've made a friend and a sympathetic listener and may we hope that out of it all will come the fact that we are human beings and the human heart is the greatest thing in the world it transcends and coordinates everything which God in his greatness has meant for all mankind and so we take leave of you from the Waldorf Astoria and the brilliant luncheon which the mayor of the city of New York arranged for the shore of Persia which the shore has deserted in order that he may rush to the United Nations and work out the plan of the good and welfare of you and all the people of mankind this is the municipal broadcasting system we return you now to the studios you