. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Welcome, the city of our God. We shall be led in the scripture reading by the Reverend Dr. Charles Young Trigg, minister of the Salem Methodist Church in New York City. You may be seated. You may be seated. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restores my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We shall be led in the prayer by the Reverend Dr. Herbert King, minister of the Grace Congregational Church in New York City. Let us with reverence be quiet and bow our heads in thanksgiving to Almighty God. O thou blessed God, thou who art the only potentate of nations, who with thy strong arm and sleepless vigilance dost direct our nation in the path of integrity, when we earnestly seek thee for guidance, we invoke thy presence in this goodly gathering to honor a fellow American whom the people have raised to preeminence in our nation's life and who, according to the light shining within him, hath dealt justly and loved mercy and walked humbly with thee. We bless thy name for this nation. Of many nationalities and races and religions, born of pioneering and immigration and revolt against the mean and stifling sins that crush man, that deprive us, that humiliate the dignity of men and women. We thank thee that thou hast given us in the fullness of time some warm-hearted and brave-spirited men and women of all races in our political life to lead us, believers in the four freedoms, champions of civil rights, proclaimers of liberty, and prophets of that day of equity and charity when people of all lands may abide in peace and plenty to the glory of thy holy name. We pray that thou wilt ever give to our republic wise and fearless leaders without vacillation and duplicity, confirmed in their devotions to men and women of the commonwealth, pure in their motives, right and just in their councils, discreet in their administration of the affairs of our nation. Enlighten and direct us, O Lord, the multitudes whom thou hast ordained with the power of the ballot, that we may counsel with knowledge and be counted for equity, that our nation may grow in peace and unity, in strength and honor, that with loyalty, industry, and godliness we may prosper in freedom under an equal law, and our nation may magnify thy holy name in all the earth, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. At this point, the malvigated choirs will now render for us the anthem Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, my friends, I am very happy and proud and honored to be here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I tell you, I tell you, I'm so proud. It's the same, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, you're that, you know, so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud, I'm so proud. that evil, Rule 22, which makes possible a filibuster which cannot, under present circumstances, be broken. You know I fought against that ever since I came to the Senate, and I'm going to continue to fight against it. That rule was adopted through an immoral and iniquitous conspiracy between the Dixiecrats and a few northern Republicans. We've got to wipe it out. I believe we can wipe it out with the support of public opinion which is coming over to our side in increasing numbers every day. And I say to you that at the beginning of the next session of Congress, we are going to introduce a resolution which will make possible the adoption of new rules for the Senate. Rules that will guarantee that the majority will and will rule. And that all measures can be brought to a vote after reasonable debate. I don't want to have gag rule. I want reasonable debate. But certainly reasonable debate does not mean the authorization of tactics that make action impossible. I know that so long as Harry S. Truman is in the White House, he's going to fight for equal rights for everybody. And I know too that when he leaves the White House, that his interest is going to remain unabated. And that his counsel, his fighting heart, his fighting spirit will always be at the disposal of those who think with him on this matter. And I know too that the other great Democrat we're going to put into the White House, Adlai Stevenson, will follow in his footsteps. As far as I'm concerned, I think I need not assure you of my continued deep interest and my continued determination to fight for the great moral causes in which we're all enlisted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The King of the Lord And of His might And of His might And He shall live forever and ever And of His might And of His might Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. United States of America, while in office, has honored our community by visiting it twice and making historic pronouncements of universal significance and concern in our midst. We the Interdenominational Minister's Meeting of Greater New York and Vicinity, out of our sense of gratitude for the courageous and unflinching, determined and sincere stand taken by our beloved President in the use of his good offices to make real and vital our full political and constitutional heritage of human rights. On your behalf, take this means of expressing our sincere appreciation for the heroic efforts of his leadership, the leadership of Harry S. Truman. We are certain that the spirit of the hymn writer Charles Wesley fused with yours, Mr. President, in your conscious strivings as national leader in the fight for human rights. These are Charles Wesley's words. A charge to keep I have, a God to glorify, a never dying soul to save and fit it for the sky, to serve the present age, my calling to fulfill. Oh may it all my powers engage to do my master's will. We believe that you have earnestly sought to serve your age, Mr. President. We believe that you have earnestly engaged your powers to actively bring his will to pass. This medal is a special award, specially created by the unanimous action of the Interdenominational Minister's Meeting of Greater New York and Vicinity. This award is being presented for seven years of consistent fight for human rights to the President of the United States of America. Humanitarian, devout Christian, seeker after the peace, dispenser of international goodwill, fighter for human rights, Harry S. Truman. To you, my friends, there is another piece of poetry which is there to our hearts. God of our weary years, God of our silent tears, thou who hast brought us thus far on our way, thou who hast by thy might led us into the light, keep us forever in the path we pray. Lest our feet stray from the places our God where we met thee. Lest our hearts, drunk with the wine of the world, we forget thee. Shadowed beneath thy hand, may we forever stand, true to our God, true to our native land. Dr. C. Asipanza Johnson, by the authority granted me as chairman of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Award Committee, I give this medal to you for a presentation to the President of the United States. Thank you. Not yet, not yet, not yet. Not yet. In every program of this kind, we have always been honored by the chief executive of our city. This afternoon, it is not an exception. We are very pleased and honored to have on the platform with us this afternoon. It is honored the mayor of the city of New York, who will now bring greetings from our great city. Mr. Mayor. Mr. President, Ms. Margaret Truman, Dr. Johnson, Senator Lehman, Borough President Wagner, Borough President John Cashmore, and the next United States Senator from the state of New York, members of the Interdenominational Ministers Alliance, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed proud to join you in welcoming President Truman to the city of New York. And Mr. President, I offer you the sincere hearty greetings of all the people of our city. I am proud, too, that the Alliance, as our hosts, here honor the President who has done more for civil rights legislation than any president in our entire history. The Interdenominational Ministers Alliance, representing the ministry of this community, are alert to the spiritual problems of hundreds of thousands of residents here. They have a lively interest in the state of the nation. They have a lively interest in civil rights. In fact, so well-versed are they in civil rights legislation that they are for the second time presenting their medal to President Truman. The President, this is a high compliment to their good judgment. And it shows that they remember their true friends. Back in 1948, at the Democratic Convention, when opposition was strong and the future uncertain, President Truman stood and fought for a strong civil rights plank in the platform. He withstood the walkout of six southern states. He withstood a Dixiecrat candidacy and the loss of many votes that could have been his very easily just for a compromise. But he still won the election. He won because his friends stood by him. While the shouting went on, while the poll takers pondered his defeat, while a great percentage of the press railed against him, his friends just quietly went out and voted for him. I am positive from what I saw here in the city of New York and from what I see here, that a good many of those friends are right here with us today. Throughout our history, we have had famous and able presidents. Presidents who have been outstanding because of their connection with our development as a nation. Washington is known as the great general and statesman who formed our new nation. Jefferson is known as the framer of the Constitution that protects us. Lincoln was the great emancipator who turned slavery into freedom. Franklin Roosevelt developed a new deal for the working people of this country. the country. Just as these presidents are known for their contributions, so will President Truman be known as one who recognized the constitutional rights of all citizens. He will be known to history. He will be known to history as the father of civil rights. Even though he is not a candidate for the presidency, he continues to campaign unselfishly for the program he knows this nation must have. President Truman has given the Democratic Party a platform with a strong civil rights plank on which all of its candidates can and will stand. He developed that plank. And every one of you knows that Adlai Stevenson has spoken just as strongly for civil rights in Richmond, Virginia, as he will in New York. Neither he nor the president talks one way in the north and another way in the south. Both speak one way, and they speak the truth to all the people of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, before closing, may I ask you this, have you registered? Yes. Yes. If you haven't, you can't do a blessed thing for President Truman or civil rights. So if you haven't registered already, do it before the day is finished. And may I point out to you that in order to carry out the program of President Truman, to carry on the splendid fight made by Senator Lehman, to carry on the fight that we know will be made by the next President of the United States, Adlai Stevenson, it's equally important to make sure that we send to the United States Senate to help Senator Lehman, the gentleman who sits on this platform today, the Democratic candidate for Senator from the State of New York, John Cashmore. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. May we all stand and sing the hymn, the back of the leaflet, God of grace and God of glory. Grant us wisdom, grant us courage, lest we miss thy kingdom's goal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. p has Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Station WLIB will carry the President's speech. Mr. President, we are more than delighted to see you again and to welcome you on this same spot made historic by your presence four years ago. When partisan prejudices shall have been relegated to the limbo of the past, when the future historian with sane and sober judgment shall take up his pen to chronicle the events of our time, the name of Harry S. Truman will be emblazoned in letters of gold. This, Mr. President, we have no doubt will come to pass. For your continuous stand on civil rights, your unwavering concern for a better world of peace and goodwill among men, all men who love freedom shall someday raise up monuments to your honor. We, Mr. President, we of the interdenominational ministers' meeting of Greater New York want to say here and now, Mr. President, you have wrote well. You do not have one message for South Carolina and another message for New York. You preach the same gospel. Your message is the same everywhere. You are here. You are here. Liberty and justice for all. The peoples of color, not only in America but throughout the world, will ever sing your praises for your integrity and courage in an unpopular cause. On behalf of my brethren, it is now my proud privilege to present you, in connection to the FDR Memorial Award, this special award, this medal wrought in gold for seven years of faithful service in the cause of human brotherhood. May God continue to bless you, and may you live long to do his will. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States of America. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Dr. Johnson, members of the Interdenominational Minister's Meeting, Mr. Mayor and distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply appreciate the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Award you've just given me. I appreciate it all the more because I received the same award here in Darnsbrook's Park four years ago this month. That was an occasion I shall never forget. The deep feeling that poured forth from the hearts of many thousands of people who were assembled in this park four years ago was one of the most moving experiences of my whole life. Mrs. Truman remarked that it was the greatest and most dignified meeting she had ever attended, and that's something for her to say. You, of course, know that Darnsbrook's Park is named after a very gallant youth who was a private in the Army of the United States. He gave his life for his country in the best American tradition. It is to the credit of the people of this great city of New York that his heroism has been appreciated and acknowledged. That meeting last year was the high point of the 1948 campaign. I knew then that you had placed your trust in me. We pledged ourselves that day to a great enterprise, the end of racial injustice and unfair discrimination. And I'm here to say to you now, that fight will never cease with me as long as I live. I'm very proud of this award. Franklin Roosevelt beat back the Depression. He led us to victory in war. He gave us a chance to create a world order based on the equal worth and dignity of every individual. It is up to us to make good on the chance he gave us. Today, I am winding up a trip across this great country in which I have urged the American people to elect Adlai Stevenson as president. There are a great many reasons why you should do that. The Democratic Party under Adlai Stevenson offers you the best hope of peace in the world. The Democratic Party offers you the best protection against depression. And not least, it offers you continued progress toward full civil rights for all Americans. Now, many people have wondered how I came to have such a deep interest in civil rights. I want to tell you about that. Right after World War II, religious and racial intolerance began to show up just as it did in 1919. There were a good many incidents of violence and friction, but two of them in particular made a very deep impression on me. One was when a Negro veteran, still wearing his country's uniform, was arrested and beaten and blinded. And not long after that, two Negro veterans with their wives lost their lives at the hands of a mob. It is the duty of the state and local government to prevent such tragedies. But as president of the United States, I felt I ought to do everything in my power to find what caused such crimes and to root out the causes. It was for that reason that I created the President's Committee on Civil Rights. I asked its members to study this situation and recommend to the whole country what we should do. Their report is one of our great American documents. When it was handed to me, I said that it was a new charter of human freedom. Five years have passed, but I have never seen anything to make me change my mind. Those five years have seen some hard fighting by those who believe in civil rights for all our people. Women like that great lady, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt. Men like your own good senators, Herbert Lehman and Bob Wagner. And the fine Democrats you have sent from New York to the House of Representatives. These five years have seen a lot of progress. Progress in spite of obstacles that have been placed in our way. I want to review that progress for you today. Right after the Committee on Civil Rights made its report to me, I sent to the Congress a special message, making ten recommendations for new legislation. Only two of these ten recommendations have been approved by the Congress. The opponents of civil rights in the Congress have blocked every effort to enact such important legislation as a fair employment practices law, an anti-poll tax law, an anti-lynch law. Not only that, they have succeeded in changing the rules under which Congress operates so as to make it impossible to stop a filibuster. What are the opponents? Who are the opponents of civil rights? All you have to do is to look at the record. Read the Congressional record and you'll find them. I sent a good FEPC bill to Congress. But the Republicans introduced the McConnell Amendment, a toothless substitute for FEPC. And the Republicans in the House voted two to one for that amendment, beating the Democratic majority that wanted FEPC. The Republicans also introduced and got passed in the Senate the Wherry Rule, making it next to impossible to stop these filibusters. That's the Rule 22 that Governor Lehman was talking to you about. It's no accident that these anti-civil rights measures bear the names of Republican legislators. Republicans introduced them. Republicans approved them. The Republicans deserve this recognition for they are always on tap to provide just enough votes to ensure the defeat of civil rights measures. When Congress refused to act, I went ahead to do what I could within the executive branch itself. This fight of ours cannot stop just because we've been blocked in the United States Congress. First, I acted to stop racial discrimination in the armed services. The Navy and the Air Force have now eliminated all racial distinctions. And for over two years, every soldier coming into an Army training unit in this country has been assigned on the basis of his individual merit, regardless of race or color. All the troops in Korea are now integrated, and integration is going forward elsewhere overseas. I also had a Fair Employment Board set up in the Civil Rights Commit—in the Civil Service Commission. Today, every federal agency has a Fair Employment Practices program that is working. Any federal employee or applicant for a federal employment who feels he has been discriminated against because of race can now ask for and receive justice. At my request, the Solicitor General of the United States went before the Supreme Court to argue that Negro citizens have the right to enter state colleges and universities on exactly the same basis as any other citizen. And we won that fight! We won that fight! And more than a thousand Negro graduates and professional students have been accepted by ten state universities that had barred their doors to Negroes before. This means that this country will have more men like Lewis T. Wright and Ralph Bunch. At my request, the Solicitor General again went before the Supreme Court and argued against the vicious restrictive covenants that had prevented houses in many places from being sold to Negroes and to Jews. It was a great day in the history of civil rights when we won that case also before the Supreme Court. As one result of that decision, more Negroes are homeowners today than ever before in American history. Our locally operated public housing projects are increasingly open to families of all races and creeds. The number of integrated projects has increased eightfold in eight years. In the last few years, nine states and eight cities have forbidden discrimination or segregation in public housing. In the last few years, eleven states and twenty cities have enacted fair employment practices laws. This is where the greatest gap exists in our federal law and civil rights. And I've repeatedly urged the Congress to pass the kind of law we need. Such a statute must have enforcement powers if it is to mean anything. To talk about voluntary compliance with fair employment practices is just plain nonsense. Federal fair employment legislation with enforcement power is greatly needed and it ought to be on the books. And I'm going to keep fighting for it. Come hell or high water. Progress has been made in assuring Negroes the opportunity to exercise their right to vote as citizens. The courts have made the infamous white primary a thing of the past. Thank God for that. And there are only five poll tax states left in this union. Nevertheless, we still need laws to abolish the poll tax and otherwise protect the right to vote where intimidation or restriction still exists. In the last five years, two states have enacted anti-Lich laws. Five states and forty-five cities have passed laws against wearing masks in public, which will strip the hoods off the Ku Klux Klan. One of the finest things that's happened recently was the conviction and prosecution of those Ku Klux Klan down in North Carolina, Southern State. This is splendid progress in the fight to guarantee our citizens' protection against mob violence. But it's not enough. It is the clear duty of the federal government to stand behind local law enforcement agencies and to step in if they fail to control mob action. That is exactly what we have been doing through the FBI and through the Civil Rights Section of the Department of Justice. Last year, a mob formed in Cicero, Illinois, and prevented a Negro veteran and his family from moving into an apartment house. Fortunately, Illinois was blessed with a great governor who is now your Democratic candidate for president. Governor Stevenson, who believes in action in these matters, restored law and order with the National Guard. But a local grand jury did the incredible thing of indicting not the ringleaders of the mob, but the Negro veterans' lawyer and the property owner. At this point, the federal government stepped in to prevent a gross miscarriage of justice. And it obtained an indictment of the city officials who had failed in their duty to assure equal justice under the law, and the officials who had abetted the mob were tried and convicted in the federal court. It was also last year that this nation was shocked by the bomb murders in Florida. The bomb murder in Florida of Harry T. Moore and his wife. These tragic deaths came shortly after the bombings of synagogues and Catholic churches and of the housing project at Carver Village. For several months, the FBI has been gathering evidence on the mobs responsible for these outrages. And this week, the United States government began to present that evidence to a federal grand jury at Miami. These are examples how your federal government under Democratic president stands behind the constitutional guarantees of human rights. The federal government could do a better job if we had stronger civil rights laws. And we must never let down in fighting for those laws. Now, the progress we have been making in the field of human rights is in grave danger. Make no mistake about that. We are menaced by the forces of reaction which would have government turn its back upon the common man. These forces of reaction are organized in the Republican Party. They would have our government cease to be what it is, what it has been for 20 years under the Democrats, the protector of the weak against the mighty. And these policies, as sure as you're standing here, would lead us back to the dark days of the Depression. And Depression is always a breeder of hate among human beings. You and I are not going to let this happen. We're not going to turn the clock back. We're not going to turn the country over to the greedy interests that control the Republican Party. They're not interested in equal rights. Now, remember this. One person in this country has to think of all the people all the time. That person is the President of the United States. If you want this civil rights program to continue, you must make the right man President this year. Now, every special interest in the United States has a highly paid lobby at Washington, who spend their time banqueting the legislators and trying to force legislation through for their special interests. The only lobbyist that the 150 million people have who can't afford to hire one is the President of the United States. Now, on one hand, there is the Republican candidate for President. He's the front man for the party that adopted the wherry rule in the Senate, making it harder to stop a filibuster than at any time in history. His party is one that produced watered-down version of FEPC in the House and would not permit even that version to come to a vote in the Senate. His is the party that beat a retreat this year in the civil rights plank of its platform. That's the lousiest plank you ever read on the subject. And while the Republican candidate was in uniform, he told the Armed Services Committee of the Senate that a certain amount of segregation is necessary in the Army. You and I know this is morally wrong. And what's more, it's even militarily wrong. Our troops in Korea are demonstrating every day that Americans can stand side by side, regardless of color, and fight better because of it. Now, the Republican candidate and his party's platform have refused to pledge effective action for assuring equal rights for all our citizens. You could not even depend on them to save what we have now. And goodness knows that's not enough. And now, while the Republican candidate is whispering promises to you, he's been touring the South to woo the Dixiecrats into the Republican fold. What do you think the Republican candidate and the Dixiecrats governor talk about when they sit down together for lunch? Do you think they talk about civil rights? No! I think maybe they talk about taking them away. You can draw your own conclusion when the Dixiecrats governor announces after the lunch he's going to vote Republican this year. I'm afraid, my friends, that the Republican candidate does not offer you much hope so far as civil rights are concerned. On the other hand, there's the Democratic Party, the party of proven performance. This is the party that has taken the great forward steps I've just described, the greatest since the abolition of slavery. The Democratic platform this year contains the strongest civil rights plank ever adopted by any political party in this country. Our candidates have taken their stand firmly on that platform. You can count on them to fight to carry it out. You've placed your trust in me four years ago when I dedicated myself to our great cause, and I've tried not to let you down. I'm here today to tell you that you can place the same trust in the Democratic candidates in this election year. And I assure you, with all the sincerity I have, that they will fulfill your trust in exactly the same way. Adlai Stevenson has shown by everything he's done and said that he believes deeply in the equality of human beings. He will bring new courage and new energy to the fight for civil rights. He has the courage to say the same things about civil rights in New York and in Richmond, Virginia. He's been a great civil rights governor, and he will make a great civil rights president. Let me tell you some of the things he's done. When he gave his inaugural address as governor in 1949, he listed the matters he wanted the Illinois legislature to take up. High on that list was an FEPC. But Adlai Stevenson was not asking for the toothless kind of FEPC, so you can imagine what happened to his request. It passed the Democratic House, only to be killed by that Illinois Republican Senate. In the following session, both houses of Illinois legislature were Republican-controlled. That year, the House bill died in committee. But get this one. This is really a good one. The Republican-controlled Senate committee reported out Adlai Stevenson's FEPC, but they brought it out with a recommendation that it be not passed. That's an example of the same kind of Republican double-talk we get in Washington all the time. Now, let me tell you some other things about Stevenson and what he did. He didn't make a lot of noise about them. He just quietly issued an executive order ending segregation in the Illinois National Guard. And he issued another executive order taking race out of the Illinois Employment Service forms. And it was during his administration that segregation was finally wiped out in the Illinois public schools. And he said, I think some of our generals could take lessons from him on how to get things done. Andy Stevenson also helped make it possible for Negro sailors to have duties other than messmen. That was during the war when he was assistant secretary of the Navy. You people know that if there is one thing I fought for as President of the United States, it has been the protection of the God-given rights of every citizen of this great country. I solemnly pledged myself to that task at this meeting four years ago. Today, I have listed some of the things we have accomplished in the great fight. And Adlai Stevenson has shown by his record that he will continue the fight with renewed vigor. Now, it's not enough to nod your heads in agreement when you talk about this fight we've been making together. You must go to the polls in such numbers that you can defeat the forces of reaction. You have until 10.30 tonight to register. And you're not worth a hoot to the Democratic Party unless you're registered. Make sure your name is on the books and that your friends' and neighbors' names are on the books by the time those books close tonight. And on November the 4th, let's roll up a great majority for Adlai Stevenson and the Democratic Congress, and we'll support him in his battle for civil rights. Thank you, guys. Thank you, guys. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Thank you. I forgot something. I want to tell you how much I think of that chorus and that band. They're wonderful. Now I've got a helper along with me that I depend on almost absolutely as my greatest asset, and that's my daughter. Would you like to meet her? Thank you. May we remain standing while Dr. Joseph Cephas Hill, pastor of the Mount Calvary Methodist Church, pronounce the benediction. Dr. Hill. May the peace of God that passes all understanding, the sweet communion, fellowship of the Holy Spirit, abide with you all now and forever. Amen. Amen.