Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today we pause briefly so that the University of Chicago Roundtable can take this opportunity to congratulate Anniversary, which is this week celebrating its 100th anniversary. Today the Roundtable discusses War and the Christian Church. To open today's program, we present Bernard M. Loomer, Dean of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago. Mr. Loomer. Modern warfare is characterized by a steady and progressive development and use of weapons of greater mass destruction. Such things as firebombs and jelly gasoline bombs have become part of the conventional equipment of war. This causes the concerned Christian to wonder whether he can sanction the use of any of the weapons of mass destruction. In fact, what weapons shall he be prepared to use or not to use? Can we find some absolute line we can draw? Can we say that Christians can approve of using swords and spears, but not guns? Conventional bombs are jellied fire, but not atomic bombs. Uranium bombs, but not hydrogen bombs. Can we say that Christians are seek to pledge their nations not to stock this or that weapon, even though the enemy stocks them? Or not to use some weapons, even though the enemy uses them? To help the American churches come to a better understanding of this problem, the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America appointed in 1950 a commission to deal with the problem of the Christian conscience and methods of mass destruction. The report of this commission is the center of our concern today. Joining me in today's University of Chicago roundtable discussion of this topic are the commission. Angus Dunn, Bishop of the Washington Diocese of the Protestant Episcopal Church and Chairman of this commission, and Robert Calhoun, Professor of Historical Theology of Yale University. Bishop Dunn, as chairman of this commission, would you give us a brief report of this work contained in this commission's work? Well, Mr. Blumer, as you've already indicated, we were asked to think about the problems presented to Christian conscience by the weapons of mass destruction. Obviously, I can't do justice to the report in a couple of minutes, and I hope people will read it and think about it. We started out with the plain fact, plain to all of us, that this ugly, rotten thing we call war, as a result of the genius of modern science, is constantly mounting in dimensions, becoming more and more all-engulfing and breaking out of the bounds in which decent men have tried to keep even so indecent a thing. We were faced with the question as to whether it can be held with any bounds, and whether we can draw some limits as to the kind of weapons we use. Of course, our pacifist fellow Christians, in a way, can escape from the force, because they're deeply and genuinely convinced that the only Christian thing is to stay out of it all, and bear their witness for love and reconciliation at whatever cost to themselves or even to others. But most of us on this commission were of the opinion that in the kind of world we live in, with the kind of people we are and other people are, we have to take a responsible part in the struggle to maintain and extend some order and decency in our world. And then the question comes, does that mean we must accept whatever weapons are put into our hands or are in the hands of others without any limits or are we to use any conceivable means? And to that, in general, our reply was that since the only possible justification for war is that it saves something worth saving or guards something worth guarding or leave something decent to build on, not just for ourselves but for others. We must strive for limitations, not so much in what we fight with but how we use them and for what purpose. Does that give us any clear line in advance as to just what weapons we could use in some circumstances? To that our answer is no, but it holds us responsible all the time to God and our fellow men as to how we shall fight and what for. We have to admit that in, we had to admit in our discussions, that in all out war of great powers for survival, whatever considerations we may set up will almost certainly be broken through. And therefore, because looking at the whole thing and trying to look at it with honest eyes, we see in it all, we see in all out global wars, a physical and moral disaster. our deepest conviction was that the real alternative open to us is a struggle for the way of peace. Well, Calhoun, you dissented, at least in certain respects, from this report. Can you, uh, tell us what in essence your dissent consisted of? Well, the primary conclusion of the report, to which the chairman has just referred, I'm in complete agreement. It appeared to me that the introductory analysis of the problem was sound. It appeared to me that the final conclusion, that we must devote ourselves to the prevention of war as such, was sound. But in the middle section of the report, it appeared to me that there was a fundamental inner contradiction. On the one hand, it was urged that military necessity must not be regarded as the ultimate norm for determining what should and what should not be done. And yet it appeared to me that when specific issues were examined, that was in fact the norm that was steadily applied. Well, now let me take a look at some of the implications of your position, Calhoun. Uh, first of all, to understand what your dissent consists of. Do you, in the first place, um, believe that law and order are necessary for society? It seems to me that modern society, large, inclusive, diverse community, simply cannot live without the structure of law, backed where necessary by coercive force. That is to say, in the ordinary, uh, affairs of communal life, such coercion is necessary. I agree. You agree. But I take it then you are troubled when this business of coercion gets carried to the ends of using these larger weapons of mass destruction in order to enforce this very law, this very, in the larger communities. It appears to me the difficulty is that as yet we have no larger community within which there is an agreed and established structure of law, and within which, therefore, police power in the proper sense can be employed. It appears to me that war is not analogous with police action. It involves the attempt to impose by force the will of one community upon members of another community. And at that point, I find myself going back. So that from your point of view, the Christian faith excludes the weapons of mass destruction? Not merely the weapons of mass destruction, although it appears to me that those have become a kind of underscoring of the essential character of war as it has developed through the centuries. Well, Bishop Dunn, uh, let's take a look at your, uh, side of the story. Isn't it true that, uh, at least for many Christians, certainly, uh, many Christians in America, that, uh, Christianity is to be understood in terms of perfect love, perfect sacrifice, uh, such as symbolized by the cross, or such as symbolized by the someone in the mind? You regard, in other words, your report as being a Christian standpoint. Certainly, I agree, uh, uh, Dean, that, uh, the Christian is one who recognizes himself and his fellows as standing under the demands of this perfect love. Uh, I believe that we, uh, as individuals and we, uh, looking out on our fellows, uh, have to recognize that, that we, uh, have not the power as yet within ourselves to meet the full demands of this love and therefore must live always under forgiveness and in forgiveness. I also believe that in the service of this, that part of the service of this love is, to our fellows, is to help build for them that order of justice, um, and decent relationships, which is essential for their freedom and, uh, and for their growth, uh, in humanity. But this, this focuses the problem for us, doesn't it? The question is, is the Christian faith comparable with the use of these weapons of mass destruction? I should be inclined to judge that the commissioners of the whole were unanimous in the view that there is no intrinsic moral difference between one weapon and another weapon. The atomic bombs can be used to produce more quickly the same kind of destruction that can be produced more slowly with conventional weapons. But we were agreed that the tool in Flora is not of itself found for moral exclusion of the one and moral acceptance of the other. If there is moral distinction, it must be found at another point. Yes, I would certainly say that. What we actually said was that the real moral line between what may be done and what may not be done by the Christian, lies not in the realm of the distinction between weapons, but in the realm of the motives for using and the consequences of using all kinds of weapons. At that point, it seems to me, would you agree Bishop Dunn, that although there is no intrinsic moral inferiority in the atomic weapons, nonetheless, they do have certain characteristics which pose the common problem in a new and exaggerated way. The atomic bomb is, in fact, not simply a weapon, it has become also a symbol, a symbol with psychological and political implications, a symbol of the dread that many folk have of the dominance of machines over human life, a symbol especially of American power, and in the minds of very many folk of American pride. If we use that weapon, we must use it with clear understanding of its psychological and political aspect, as well as of its physical aspect. Therefore, Professor Calhoun, even those of us, the majority of the Commission, who took the view that in the last dreadful necessity, we might feel it right to use this weapon, and nevertheless stressed that to do so would be an act of dreadful responsibility. Well, Bishop Dunn, I'm not clear as to your answer to Calhoun's question. How does the report go beyond this position of not having military expediency become the basic, the primary criterion in regard to what weapons we use? Well, I would say here that it becomes a question of the meaning of the word military expediency. I recognize full well that when any body of men, or even two men, get fighting with one another, it's very easy for all considerations, save that of decisively winning the immediate conflict, it's very hard to get any other motives functioning. But my view, and I think the view of the majority of the Commission, was that military means are always subject to moral purposes, that is, what are you doing? What are you trying to gain? What are you trying to preserve? And if all are used of any weapon, the Christian consciousness be concerned with what is going to be the long-run effect of what we are doing, what are we going to be able to guard or preserve by this, not only for ourselves and our side, but for mankind. I agree with that, Jill, the matter, and it is precisely because I agree that I find myself troubled by questions which the report seems to me not fully to have answered. It appears to me that although one weapon of mass destruction and another do not differ intrinsically in moral work, the use of any and all weapons of mass destruction in such fashion that the result is the physical devastation of the basis for verbalized living on the part of the people who become the targets of these weapons, is likely to destroy the very values which the war ostensibly is being thought to preserve. Actually, I find myself pushed in the direction of Christian pacifism precisely because I agree so heartily with my colleagues in the commission that there are fundamental human values to which we all are committed, and it appears to me that this way of seeking to preserve them is likely to be self-defeated. I think it's quite obvious in reading the report that the majority of us, and I don't imagine that Professor Calhoun would differ with it here, recognizes that the dread horns of our dilemma, the two evils that we see confronting us, are on the one hand the spread in the world of a brutal, heartless, totalitarian tyranny, that on the one hand as that which we would hold off and seek to avoid spreading, and none of us think incidentally we can do it just by military measures, and on the other hand the terrible hazards, physical and moral, of total war. And in general, I think it's fair to say that the majority took the view that you wouldn't prevent the spread of tyranny by weakness, you'd only prevent it by strength. And that we felt that there was nothing to do but to take the risk of total war, and terrible as they are, in order to hold off the spread of tyranny. Hoping against hope, praying that we might have the wisdom and the restraint to stand it off and avoid either of these dread alternatives. Well, now, Bishop Dunn, are you, uh, agreeing, then, with, uh, Calhoun, that, uh, once the war gets started, this we will condone, and what weapons we will not condone becomes somewhat academic? I certainly agree that in all-out struggle that reaches the level where each side believes it's struggling for, for actual physical survival, there's very little likelihood of restraints being exercised. Short of that, we can at least hope that other considerations than immediate military advantage can at least be operative. Well, I agree that in the final struggle, they're likely to break down. I am, uh, paradoxically, paradoxically enough, somewhat cheered by this agreement, because, uh, I am of the opinion that we can't really get very far dealing with the question, specifically, of what weapons of mass destruction Christians can conscientiously use, and, uh, those that they can't use. Because even if we outlaw, uh, all kinds of, uh, weapons of mass destruction, we are still faced, it seems, with the fact that, uh, we have pure scientific research going on. We cannot, uh, we cannot, uh, in the foreseeable future at least, prevent scientists from carrying on their research, from thinking scientifically. No, we want to do that. Right? But that being the case, we can never tell, in the future, uh, what discovery could lead to a weapon of even greater mass destruction than anything we now have. Such that, uh, my conclusion is that part of the, the problem here is the relation of science to other aspects of our community life, so that science will not be in the position of playing the dominating the primary role in, in, in this, in this whole situation. It's just because we really shared that view, uh, Dean Loomer, that the report said, uh, that, uh, because the choice is open to us on the plane of war, and appears so tragic, and offers a little hope, we're convinced that the way out of our darkness must be sought not primarily by technological control, by limiting some one or other weapon, but on the political and the moral plane. Well, if this is the, if this is the, if this is the conclusion that we come to, at least in this regard, then a more basic question is, uh, what are, alternatives are open for the Christian in, in dealing with this, with this, uh, present-day situation? Richard Dunn, I, I understood you to say that, uh, you are willing to, uh, run the risk of war in order to attempt to defeat tyranny. Calhoun, I understood you to say, or at least to imply that you would rather run the risk of having totalitarian tyranny, uh, than carrying on war as it will and probably must be carried on if we have an all-one conflict. Well, you're quite correct, and I've, I've really stated it already, but in my view, and I think the majority of the commission shared it, we are willing, we believe that we should take the risks of war, rather than accept totalitarian tyranny, and seek to hold both off until other and more constructive forces can operate. Surely there can be no argument that the desirable outcome, in as far as there can be a desirable outcome from our present dilemma, is to hold off both. But it appears to me that there is genuine difference for judgment as to the methods, the procedures, the immediate objectives that are likely to be more nearly in line with our desire for the enhancement of human living. And for myself, I confess that since it is impossible for us to avoid risk of one sort or another, it appears to me that the risk of destruction of the basis for those values to which we are committed is greater. If we move into all-out war, than it would be, if for going military victory, and the chance for military victory, we should seek, rather, to take and explore the risks of a period of tyranny. When Bishop Dunn described the tyranny we confront as brutal and heartless, he was using language, vivid and rhetorical, but I think not entirely precise. Well, Carol, we understand. Do you really think it's a possibility that the American people as a whole would adopt a non-violent resistance toward aggression? I'm confident that they would not. In the present state of American opinion, it seems to me that that possibility is too remote to be politically viable. My suggestion, rather, is that if there were a situation in which large-scale agreement to resist the advance of tyranny by non-violence rather than by military procedures, actually became a political and social possibility, than the way that I am suggesting would have some chance of proving its superior worth. You would mean that this concern would manifest itself in terms of a more understandable foreign policy, for example, than we now have? A greater concern for political and economic justice, not only here, but elsewhere? It seems to me, surely, that our practical concern is not so much with what might be possible under conditions that do not now obtain, but rather with what the Christian Church and what individual Christians may now do to move in the direction of preventing the war that we agree in regarding as disastrous. Well, that's because the Commission was so firmly of the mind that our hope does not lie primarily in military victory, or in building up the power that would make sure or even make possible military victory, but that it must lie ultimately in moral and political victories, that we put the whole weight of the latter part of our thought in that direction, and for that reason that we unanimously rejected as a temptation of the devil the idea of preventive war, that is, of initiating anything as physically and morally disastrous ourselves. And we were thoroughly of the opinion that only by strengthening the moral and political help of our own country, and in every way strengthening the material and political help of those areas of the world with which we can still have free contact, that only so was there any hope of a real victory, since as we report put it rather vividly, and I can say this because I didn't invent the image, the military means are only the hand, and the political and social help that lies behind it is the body of any community, and the hand is useless if the body is sick. With the positive aspect of that view, all of us were not only in unanimous accord, but in enthusiastic accord. We were in accord also, as I recall it, on the judgment that it is necessary now to seek to strengthen the forces that make for economic and social health, not in the world, not in selected areas of the world, but all around the world. So far as the Christian church is concerned for the well-being of all mankind, and not simply the members of a particular national or cultural community, it appears to us a Christian obligation to seek mutual understanding, to seek for the breaking down of those barriers which now do so much to keep suspicion, mistrust, and vindictiveness alive. Well, with that I certainly agree, that certainly expressed the mind of the whole commission, and I would say another thing that we will certainly agree on with this, that in the period we believe in the years ahead, America is going to be faced with a tremendous... ...at once, strong, strong in arms, strong in economy, strong in inner political strength, and also patient, and wise, and humble. And some of us think that only a nation that stands under God can meet such a demand as that. Well, then we agree that the answer to the question as to what specific weapons of mass destruction Christians can use in all good conscience is a difficult, if not an impossible, question to answer just in terms of itself. Therefore, I take it we are also agreed that the way out of this particular impasse is to put our emphasis upon the constructive things that not only those in the churches, but those outside the churches can do. I like, Bishop Dunn, the emphasis that you have just made on patience and strength to carry this through, because obviously we are a nation that has been by itself, pretty largely we have not been dependent on other nations, other peoples, to a great extent, therefore, we have not had to take them into account. And I think the ability to bear tensions, to do it patiently, is one of the assets that the Christian Church can contribute to this cause. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on War and the Christian Church, were Angus Dunn, Episcopalian Bishop of Washington, D.C., Robert L. Calhoun of the Divinity School of Yale University, and Bernard L. Loomer, Dean of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion of war and the Christian Church, contains the full text of today's discussion, and publishes the text of the recent report of a special commission of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, on the Christian conscience and weapons of mass destruction. This report served as the basis of today's Roundtable discussion. You will want to read it. You and your friends will want copies of today's Roundtable pamphlet, which includes this special supplement, send 10 cents in coin to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order, and make your subscription begin with today's program on War and the Christian Church. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the Roundtable celebrates its 20th year of continuous broadcasting. Be sure to hear next week's special anniversary discussion of national security and individual freedom. May we invite you to join the new Roundtable Home Study courses in Human Rights, World Politics, and Economics in the Modern World. These courses are open to all, and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, three 24-volume sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica are awarded to the students in the three home study courses most successfully completing the course in that month. Today's program originated from WRC in Washington, D.C. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Poets. Stay tuned for the American Forum on NBC. The Roundtable Commission on NBC. The Roundtable Commission on NBC. Second Finance The Roundtable Commission on NBC. The트le of Iowa Courts *** 이� vegan Wolf On NBC.