Mr. Delano, we are going to ask you, before General O'Dwyer speaks, to officially give to the City of New York and to all of us here this portrait, which is so much Jimmy. Your Honor, it is my privilege as Chairman of the Art Commission of the City of New York to turn over to you, and so to the City, this portrait of our former Mayor, James J. Walker. When in December 1945 the Board of Estimates voted the sum of $2,500 for a portrait of Mr. Walker, this commission expended much effort in search of the man who would make the best posthumous likeness. The commission chose Leopold Seifer, and this portrait is a tribute to the artist as it is to the man he portrayed, for he is endowed with the qualities which so much endeared Jimmy Walker to the citizens of New York. Boston is noted for its stern Puritanism, Philadelphia for its benevolent Quakerism, but New York holds a unique reputation of which it may well be proud, for this enormous city most completely represents all sorts and conditions of men of all breeds and creeds. Jimmy Walker, by his wit, his grace, his vitality, and his love of mankind, appealed to this heterogeneous population, and something gay left us when he departed. The art commission has pride in presenting this portrait to hang on our city home. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Burke, members of the family, and all who loved Jimmy, those who were here, those who are listening in, and those who can't listen in. As mayor of this city, one of the happiest moments in the turbulent two years that I've been at City Hall is to be the medium, by which the city receives back again to City Hall, Jimmy Walker. This time, forever and ever. Those of us who knew him had a privilege that future generations will not have. Posterity will see this picture, will gather an impression of what his physical appearance was, will they get the wit? Will they get the grace? Will they get the warmth of his heart? Will they know, as they look over these photographs of the mayor of the city, that this one, above all others, loved mankind? Will they know that there was no hurt in him? Will they know that there was an affection in him? Will they know that while he loved New York, and was New York, will they know of his graciousness? Will they know of his ability on the speaking platform? They will not. The best that Boston has to give, Mr. Chairman, the best that the nation of the world can give, will have to fall short in a painting of showing the true, real Jimmy Walker. We, who knew him, had the privilege of knowing him. We know it. Posterity will not. But at least what we have to give, has been given. And that is what I, as mayor, received this morning. All that is left of Jimmy Walker to remain in City Hall as long as there is a City Hall. And I would like to welcome Jimmy back. You will. Don't you want the picture first? Long as I recall. Let's welcome Jimmy back. And now Mrs. Nan Walker-Burck will unveil the portrait. And there is Jimmy Walker on the staircase of City Hall. As Mayor O'Dwyer said, forever and ever, as long as there is a City Hall. It's a splendid portrait, and one that will add to the over $2 million collection of pictures and portraits in this great edifice, the City Hall of New York. There are those possibly who like more flamboyant buildings, people who criticize sometimes the very contours and beauty of this building as not being flamboyant enough for a city like New York. If they have a sense of proportion, they will realize in this beautiful building, quality is represented in such a way that no other building might very successfully or well replace it. And in all these proportions of grace and humor and heartiness, James J. Walker adorned the building when he occupied it as mayor of the city of New York. And the same staircase of which the famous guests who were received by the city in the memorable occasions when they received the courtesies of the city from Mayor Walker is crowded now with the friends and people who recall those times and situations and the greatness of New York then, now, and forever. We're just waiting now if there's any interesting little episode before the workmen take the portrait from the temporarily arranged easel, I would say, rather, here on the staircase landing and taken over and fastened it to the wall opposite room nine, where the newspaper men always knew there was a story and something that would add to the brilliance and color of New York City. In most of which his regime, he faced a situation created by those who didn't have the proper interpretation of slaking their thirst and we know what picturesque days they were. But that was not a city creation. That came through the medium and the idea of a great noble experiment that has since passed away with many other equally noble ones, with less regret, however. Well, we bring to a conclusion now because there's the workmen taking over the portrait. It'll be hung on the wall there right near room nine and James J. Walker is back in City Hall, as Merrow Dwyer said, forever and ever, as long as there is a City Hall. Everyone here is happy, pleased at the loyalty and the honesty in New York City in respecting the quality and the integrity of the individual, regardless of the vicissitudes of life. And no one met them more gracefully, more blithely, and with less, we might say, retaliation, than James J. Walker. There is no one can print to one printed word of accusation or unfriendly remark attributed to this great New Yorker, James J. Walker. Thank you from City Hall. We return to our studios.