Monday, July 3rd. Good morning. How was your appetite this morning? Did you know that your appetite may be satisfied by foods that deprive the body of its nutritional needs? Well, that's the truth. Many common illnesses and much of the poor health which some folks enjoy from childhood to old age are caused by improper food selection. To help you understand this problem better, I shall tell you about some families in Pennsylvania who thought they were eating the right kinds of food. A couple of years ago, these same families cooperated with a group of nutritionists and other research workers from the Pennsylvania State College in a family food study. This experiment was made up of 64 typical American families, including 239 persons, ranging in age from 15 days to 74 years old. This study gave us a picture of these people before and after the experiment. Medical examinations at the beginning of the study showed that many of the group were in poor health. One of the purposes of the study was to determine to what extent improved food purchasing, improved storage, preparation, and consumption of food would result in better physical well-being of these families. The homemakers who cooperated in the study were given a pattern for proper eating which included all the basic seven foods. They were supplied with menus based on this pattern and were given suggestions for attractive ways for serving food. These suggestions included a large variety of menus and actually thousands of choices of food and food combinations. So you see that being well-fed and adequately nourished means the same thing. Good nutrition is based upon a variety of foods such as the basic seven groups. It means selecting foods wisely both at the market and in your meal plan. It includes raw foods and cooked ones prepared so that the food value is retained. Time will not allow me to tell you the full details of the Pennsylvania nutrition study. However, you will be interested to know that it revealed that many supposedly healthy people had eaten their way to poor health. The doctors found that some were suffering from minor nutritional disturbances which might easily have become serious by continued improper eating. Some of the folks at the beginning of the experiment had really serious disorders caused by poor food habits. After one year of proper food selection under the guidance of the nutritionists, there was great improvement in the physical conditions of these families. Such as less fatigue, less jittery nerves, better skin conditions and healthier gums. There were fewer colds and there was more normal growth and steady gain in weight for the children. The study revealed that many families had followed a poor diet pattern because of food likes and dislikes. It proved that food preferences seldom include all the basic food essentials. Individual need should influence food selection. Each individual needs different amounts of the various food nutrients according to age, size, sex, physical condition and activity. The Pennsylvania study indicates that it is wise to determine the food needs for your family for the entire week and follow this plan as closely as possible. That's the same advice I'm always giving you to plan your meals in advance for several days or a week, then shop accordingly. Everyone needs three good meals a day. When your child fills his tummy with soda pops, cracker jacks, ice cream and candy between meals, he will probably eat very little food at mealtime. His appetite has been appeased by the sweets and sodas. He may be undernourished because he does not get the essential protein for growth and for muscle repair. He may miss the necessary vitamins and minerals that his body needs for growth and general well-being. If he gets an adequate amount of all the basic seven foods every day, your child will probably have less desire for these between-meal extras which satisfy his appetite but may give him very little nutritive value other than calories. If he has an in-between lunch, it should contribute to his total day's food needs. This Pennsylvania study included adults as well as children. The same thing happens when an adult fills up on these non-nourishing foods between meals. I have an attractive leaflet called Good Cooks, Good Eating. It includes the basic seven wheel of good eating, gives a menu pattern and several excellent recipes. It will help you keep your family well-fed, so why not send for a copy? Just write to me, Iva Bennett, WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for Good Cooks, Good Eating. Thank you and good morning. Good morning. Today is the 4th of July, and I hope you're planning a grand day of fun at home or at the beach. This year we've been celebrating a wonderful four-day weekend. Children are out of school. Most business places are closed. We're free to have a good time. But what about you homemakers? Has it been a holiday weekend for you? Or will you be standing over a hot stove cooking today while the rest of the family is out enjoying the sun? Since the sun will be shining its brightest in the next two months, I would like to talk this morning about the sunshine vitamins, vitamin D. When the sun shines, our bodies absorb some vitamin D. This is because the ultraviolet light rays of the sun act on certain oils naturally present in the normal skin and produce vitamin D. However, several factors affect the amount of vitamin D that is stored up in the body this way. Here in New York, as in other large cities, we have interferences which cut down the ability of the ultraviolet light to reach our skin. The season of the year influences the vitamin D value of the sun. During the three summer months in temperate climates such as ours, the sun is hot and bright. At other times, the sun is less bright and we spend more time indoors. So we get less of this essential nutrient, vitamin D. The time of day makes a difference, too. The sun is hottest when it's directly overhead. You feel its heat most between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. And that is just when its vitamin D powers are the greatest. In cities like New York, the clouds, fog, smoke, and smoke screen out much of the ultraviolet light rays of the sun. Ordinary window glass does not permit the passage of light rays through it. Therefore, you can't give the baby a sun bath in your crib, carriage, or playpen, nor near a sunning window unless the window is open. He must get the direct rays of the sun. Clothes may make the man, as the saying goes, but they prevent the sun from reaching the skin. While New Yorkers and other city dwellers get less sun than their country cousins, our beautiful beaches are a big benefit. You know from experience that it's very easy to get a bad sunburn in a relatively short time on the beach. The sun is not obstructed and we wear little clothing. There's also reflection from the sun rays from the water and the sand. Don't overexpose yourself. Vitamin D is stored in the body and the human requirement for it is small. Definite allowances have been set up by the National Research Council only for children and for pregnant and nursing women. Vitamin D is one of the fat-soluble vitamins like vitamin A. This means that it is less easily destroyed than most of the other vitamins and that it can be stored in the body for use when needed. At present, we know that vitamin D is required by all children. Doctors prescribe some form of fish liver oils or other concentrates for babies very early in life. Since this has been a routine practice with most physicians, we seldom see a child with rickets. You know those symptoms. Bowed legs, knocked knees, enlarged joints, narrow distorted chest, and sometimes stunted growth and crippled conditions due to poor bone formation. Apparently, we were meant to get vitamin D from the sunshine for very few foods contain it. This is why fish liver oil is given to the babies. This is why fish liver oil is given to the babies. This is why fish liver oil is given to the babies. Egg yolk, butter fat, and fat types of fish like salmon contain small amounts of this nutrient. The bones and teeth of children are built from the minerals, calcium and phosphorus particularly. Vitamin D seems to help form the minerals into the strong, sturdy bones and teeth. The fact that the ultraviolet light rays of the sun are most powerful between the hours of 10 and 2 may give you the wrong idea. While you might get a lot of vitamin D by lying in the direct sunlight during the midday heat, you will probably also get a very bad sunburn. Gentle, gradual toasting is the rule to follow for a good tan. As long as you get the direct rays of the sun, your body will absorb vitamin D through the body surfaces which are exposed. Doctors prescribe one of these fish liver oil products for children because we have so little sunshine here in this area. Fish liver oils will provide vitamins A and D. Your doctor is the one to advise you about how much and when to give it to your child. Our leaflet, which tells about why your baby needs vitamin D, is available if you would like it. Just write a card to me, Iva Bennett, Station WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for the vitamin D leaflet. Have a grand holiday all day long. Thank you and good morning. Wednesday, July 5th. Good morning. This is the story of a perfect crime. A crime committed in practically every kitchen throughout the land. However, the interesting feature of this story is that in every case, the killer is innocent and also unfortunately aware of the nutritional havoc for which he or she is responsible. To add to the perfection of this already perfect crime, the killer neither knows the time, place, or the victims. Now I know you are wondering how many of you have innocent victims lying about your kitchen. Where are they? They are down the drain, in the sink, in the pot, in the air, and on the windowsill. And who are they? They are the most tortured twins in the archives of culinary crimes, minerals and vitamins. Briefly, this is what happened. Mrs. Homemaker went down to the market and purchased several pounds of bright green crisp spinach, which she knew was very good for the health of her family. Upon arriving home, since the spinach is for tomorrow's dinner, she placed it on the windowsill, in the direct rays of the midday sun. Here we find the first victim, vitamins, sunburned and half blistered, some of them destroyed because of exposure to the sunlight after being harvested. The next day, in order to freshen up and re-crisp the spinach, Mrs. Homemaker placed it in a pan of water and let it soak for several hours. Here we have the second murder, committed death by force drowning. Water-soluble vitamins and some of the precious minerals were dissolved out of the spinach because of the soaking. Next, she boiled the spinach uncovered and in lots of water for over an hour so that it would be well done. And as the spinach cooked, she stirred it frequently. Here we come into the third and fourth annihilation. Vitamins strangled with too much heat and smothered with too much water and exposure to air. Of course, air is necessary for we humans, but fatal to vitamins, especially vitamin C. Now to complicate matters, she added baking soda to keep the green color. Thus, we have another death. This time, the vitamins killed by chemical reaction. The taste and texture was changed some too. The final act in this melodrama is the draining of the spinach. She poured the water from the spinach into the sink and down the drain. By so doing, the few remaining vitamins and minerals were successfully disposed of, really buried alive. And what finally reached the family dinner table? An unattractive mass of tasteless food, no longer containing those essential vitamins and minerals which regulate our body processes and help to repair our tissues. Now, how should Mrs. Homemaker prepare the vegetables to leave the vita, or life, in the vitamins, and to preserve the precious minerals? First, she should properly store the vegetables in a cold place until cooking time. Then, wash and clean the vegetables quickly, and not allow them to stand in water. In cooking vegetables, she should use a small amount of water. Have the water boiling before adding the vegetables. Use a tightly covered pot, and cook without stirring. By putting a lid on the pot, and not stirring, less air reaches the vegetables, and fewer vitamins are destroyed. Cook the vegetables only until they are tender and still crisp. Cooking vegetables in this manner will not only save a great deal of the nutritive value, but the vegetable will look tempting and taste delicious. Your family will enjoy them. If you would like to have a pamphlet, Spare Those Vegetables, which includes good advice about caring for and cooking vegetables, just write a card to me, Ivor Bennett, WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for Spare Those Vegetables. Listen again tomorrow, same time, same station. Thank you, and good morning. Good morning. Quick as a wink, you can create summer magic for main meat dishes. Put your refrigerator to work. Come out of the kitchen for a bit of relaxation during the warmer part of the day. Plan your day carefully. Use the cool hours for your oven cookery, if you, that you may want to do. Roast your meat early in the morning. Let it cool, and if you desire to serve it hot, slice and reheat it just before serving. Any leftovers from the roast should be used. Dice them and combine with potatoes or macaroni or rice. For color, flavor, and texture, add raw carrots, green peppers, celery, or cucumbers. Chill and serve on a bed of crisp salad greens. Toss the mixture with your favorite salad dressing. It makes a cool and refreshing main dish. A cold, jellied meat is a nice way to use leftovers. One delicious fruit that combines well in a molded, jellied loaf is cherries. Cherries add color and a pecan flavor that is oh so good. Cherries furnish some vitamin C and some amounts and very small amounts of other nutrients. Green peppers can be served as a cool summer dish. Use bits of cooked meat or poultry with them. If the supply of meat is small, add strips of hard cooked eggs or cheese. Mix the meat and other protein foods with the bread crumbs or rice and stuff the peppers with them. Some folks pour a tomato sauce over them. Why not plan on a roast of lamb or veal, which will be good sliced cold. It's nice to have it ready for another meal or two. If there's enough for a third meal off the roast, make it a creamed or an ala-king dish. Serve it on whole wheat toast or dark rice. Fresh tomatoes can be stuffed for hot weather dishes with the same type of filling. Cut off the stem ends of the tomatoes. Scrape out the tomatoes with a tablespoon. Use the inside to combine with your filling. Turn the open end of the tomato down on wax paper to drain. It gives a dry inside and prevents the filling from becoming soggy. Stuff them with cottage cheese and chives or with a fish or chicken salad. Serve the stuffed tomatoes on a shredded cabbage bed and topped with mayonnaise or sour cream dressing. Don't let your perennial favorite meatloaf be forgotten. Bake it early in the day. Stretch your meatloaf by adding oatmeal or mashed potatoes or whole wheat bread crumbs to it. Chill the meatloaf and slice it for dinner. Serve it with cottage cheese garnish if you like. Cottage cheese could be enhanced by adding chopped parsley, chives or watercress or with crushed pineapple. It makes a festive dish. Consider meat as your main dish because it is one of your building blocks. Meat offers you protein needed for growth of children and repair of muscle tissues. Protein foods are needed for the maintenance of healthy adults as well as children. Don't forget that meat also furnishes B vitamins and iron and other minerals. Better eating for better health will not only include meat, poultry and fish. It calls for every member of the Basic 7 group in active daily service. Don't let appetites lag these warm days. Keep your meats meal tasty, delightful and refreshing. Spare yourself the heat of the kitchen. Plan to do your baking or roasting in the early morning. To relieve you of one warm weather chore, spending the food dollar wisely, write for meat for thrifty meals. It gives you last minute information on different ways to cook meat. Information about cooking meat rare and well done is included, so I'm sure you'll want a copy of this excellent leaflet. Just write to me, Iva Bennett, station WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for meat for thrifty meals. Write today. Thank you for listening and good morning. Good morning. Today I would like to talk to you about protein in our meals, with special emphasis on fish. Every living being must have proteins, as these are substances in food, which build and maintain our body muscle and tissue. To keep well, you must have enough of the complete proteins in your meals every day. Meat, poultry, fish, eggs, cheese, and milk are the foods rich in the complete protein. Our American standards of living are as high as they are, simply because our animal agriculture provide us with so much of these protein foods. Boys and girls need proteins to grow. A twelve year old needs as much protein as a man. Teenage boys and girls need more protein than their hard working fathers. Expectant and nursing mothers need more protein than other women. The average man and woman needs enough protein and other nutrients to maintain healthy bodies and a reserved supply in case of severe illness or accident to muscle tissue. One way you can save money on your food budget is to use proteins wisely. You can get the proteins you need from many other foods than expensive meats. Most fish is equal to meat and poultry and protein and is often cheaper per pound. There are almost endless varieties of fish. The finny fish from fresh and salt water. The shellfish such as oysters and clams and scallops and mussels. Crustacea such as crabs, lobsters and shrimp. All are commonly called seafoods. Our problem is to eat some of the good varieties we have been largely ignoring and to take full advantage of the abundance of fish which is available now. Every fish offered in the market is nutritious and when properly cooked is very delicious. Seafood or fish contribute to the day's meals high quality protein for building and maintaining strong muscles and for promoting growth in children. In addition, seafoods contribute some iron and copper. Oysters are especially good in this element. And all of these for that matter, calcium, iron and phosphorus for strong bones and healthy blood and tissues. And the B vitamins needed for good digestion, steady nerves, clear skin and good health. Fat fish have varying amounts of vitamin A. This vitamin is essential for good night vision, clear skin and healthy mucous membrane. When preparing canned fish, be sure you save and use the oil or liquid. Also the softened bones which are a good source of calcium. Salt water fish supplies the valuable mineral iodine which is necessary to prevent goiter. Here are a few points on how to judge good fish. Fresh fish have firm elastic flesh. Test by poking the flesh gently. If it's fresh, the flesh should spring back. If it's stale, the dent will remain. The eyes should be bright, not filmed or sunken. The gills should be fresh in color. Live fish should be swimming in a tank, not resting sluggishly at the bottom. Frozen fish should be hard frozen. Fish in brine should be covered in brine and have a brine odor and a firm flesh. Dry salt fish should be clean, firm flesh and have evidence of salt on the surface. Smoked fish must be firm with a sweet smoky odor. Find out what day fresh seafood arrives at your market and plan to use it then. Since fish is very perishable, patronize clean markets that provide good refrigeration. Leftover cooked fish should be tightly covered as odor penetrates other foods. To cook fish, use the method best suited to the types of fish to be cooked. In general, lean fish is better when baked or boiled. Fat fish, when broiled or pan fried. Your hands will not smell fishy if you chill them thoroughly in cold water before touching the fish. And then after working with fish, cleanse your hands by washing in hot water and salt. A strong solution of salt is also recommended for dishes which contain fish. fish. If you'd like to receive more suggestions and tips on fish, simply write the word fish on a postcard and send it to me, Iva Bennett, station WNYC, New York 7, New York. Have a grand weekend. Thank you for listening. Good morning. Monday, July 10th. Good morning. From biblical times on up to this modern age, pastoral tribes are reported to have enjoyed robust health. They live to a ripe old age in spite of poverty. This factor puzzled many scientists and was the cause of a good deal of investigation. The science of nutrition seems to have an explanation for it. These tribes live mainly on the produce of their herds, such as the various forms of milk and cheese. The results of recent experiments agree with the shepherds. Milk is not only needed for children, it's an important food for adults, too. Milk makes its valuable contribution to our diet through its calcium, protein, vitamin A, and riboflavin content. Very few of the foods we eat, other than milk, contain a generous amount of the mineral calcium. We therefore rely on milk as its richest source. Calcium has various functions to perform in our body. Our bones and teeth depend on it for their hardness and strength, and it helps to regulate the heartbeat. We used to think that once we were grown up, our bones and teeth change very little. Today, some authorities contend that all of our tissues, including the bones and teeth, undergo a slow but constant change. In this process, building materials are being used up and have to be replaced. Good nutrition provides the body with all the essential materials for the tissues to draw on. If a diet contains too little calcium, this mineral, in the course of time, may be withdrawn from the bones so that they become weak and brittle. This may be the reason why many older people bones break so easily. Get the total daily amount of calcium recommended by the National Research Council, all from milk. An adult would need three and one half, eight ounce glasses of milk each day. If you like to drink milk, you'll have no problem in getting the full day's quota. If you don't like to drink milk, you can use it in cooking and still get all you need. Cereals such as dark farina or oatmeal are tasty and nourishing when cooked with milk. Try a cream soup of potatoes with either leaf, carrots, or a new green cabbage in it. Add plenty of milk, then watch your family go for it. Especially in the summertime when your main course is likely to be a salad, a substantial soup helps to round out the meal. Cream dishes, custards, bread pudding, and the all-time favorite dessert of men, creamy rice pudding, provide good opportunities to use milk. If you find that using all the milk you want takes too big a share out of your budget, our three-way milk plan is going to help you out. This is how it works. Instead of using only whole fresh milk, use part evaporated and part dry skim milk for cooking. Evaporated and dry skim milk offer more advantages than their penny-stretching quality. Since they are concentrated types of milk, you can add them to many of your dishes without increasing the volume very much. This is a boon to people who need plenty of nourishment, yet cannot eat large amounts of food at a time. Dry skim milk and unopened cans of evaporated milk can sit on your pantry shelf with your groceries. Since they do not have to be kept cold, they don't take up the valuable refrigerator space. Cheese, too, is an excellent source of calcium, especially the hard whole milk cheese known as cheddar or store cheese. The nippy flavor of sharp cheese brings appetite appeal to your meals. Try to mix small chunks of hard cheese with your salad greens, such as chicory and escarole. Add a little garlic-flavored French dressing, and you have a salad bowl fit for a king. A few days ago, I got a grand idea from a friend, and I would like to share it with you. On her meatless days, she serves a green vegetable with a baked potato and milk as a beverage. After the potatoes are done, she opens them at the top, puts a small pat of butter into each, and then tucks a generous piece of cheddar cheese way down into the potato. Sprinkle the potato with paprika, and put them back in the oven for just a minute until the cheese is melted around the edges. This makes the most delicious and substantial meal at low cost. But I almost forgot to remind you that to get the calcium value of an eight ounce glass of milk, you would have to have a one and one fourth inch cube of cheese, or at least one ounce of whole milk cheese. Our booklet, called The Three-Way Milk Plan, offers more practical ideas for getting calcium into your diet. If you'd like to have it, just write to me, Ivor Bennett, station WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for The Three-Way Milk Plan. I'll be glad to send you a copy. Thank you for listening, and good morning. Tuesday, July 11th. Good morning. During hot weather, people do all kinds of things in an effort to keep cool. Eating and drinking comes in for a share of attention these summer days. While the cooling effect of what we eat or drink is more or less temporary, let's study the contribution of food value, if any, which is made by these hot weather specialties. Every day I hear the jingle, jangle, jingle of the man who sells ice cream on a stick and in Dixie Cups. He usually appears about noon, does a thriving business during the noon hour, and stays around in the area all afternoon. He comes back in the evening until the last child is called home to bed. The block of ice cream on a stick has generally replaced the ice cream cone in popularity. The food value of the ice cream is just about the same. But the thin, crisp, pastry cone probably had a few less calories than the chocolate coating surrounding the ice cream bar. When I was a college student, we learned that there are two general types of ice cream. One is made with cream only plus flavoring and perhaps some fruit. We made all kinds of ice cream in our classes, using light cream and heavy cream. We found that the ones made with heavy cream were rich and delicious in flavor, but very high in fat. The other kind of ice cream is made with a custard or pudding base and uses lots of whole milk with only a little amount of cream. Most of the ice creams sold in cones, on sticks and in Dixie Cups today are like this second kind, made with a custard base. Since they have less fat, they contain fewer calories and more food value. When the ice cream is made with chocolate or is chocolate covered, the calories are slightly increased. When a food is nutritious and still not a high calorie food, it will not increase the body heat and will help to build up reserve strength and health. Many folks use evaporated milk to make ice cream, as it has the velvety texture of cream, yet it is whole milk. Sometimes people like an ice or a sherbet instead of ice cream, thinking the calories will be much less. Generally speaking, these ices and sherbets are made with fresh fruit or fruit juice and milk, so that they do not contain the rich fat of cream. However, sometimes some of them have more sugar, because a rather tart fruit is often used. It is surprising how little sugar is really required. Most people use more than is necessary. There is a delicious refrigerator, orange sherbet, made with evaporated milk, orange juice, a bit of lemon juice and sugar. You may use either fresh or canned orange juice. Folks often attempt to cool off by drinking quantities of soft drinks, iced tea or coffee or similar beverages. How do these rate nutritionally? Soda pop and similar soft drinks have no food value except calories. Iced tea and coffee are somewhat like the hot beverages and therefore have no food value except for the sugar or cream one adds to it. When cold, they usually require more sugar than the hot drinks, so that it adds up more calories to the diet. Well, perhaps it adds a little vitamin C if lemon juice is added to the tea. Lemonade made with fresh fruit juice or with fresh lemons, general slices of the peel included too, adds some vitamin C to the day's requirement. However, the calories mount in proportion to the sugar added. So make your lemonade real tart with only a minimum of sugar. The combination of fruit juices in a punch is much more nourishing than a fruit aid that is made mostly of water. Ice cubes added to chill the juices will make the beverage most refreshing. Besides, because the fruit juice used, punch may become a rather expensive beverage. I use the canned orange and grapefruit juice and keep it in the refrigerator all summer. It's ready when the guests arrive. From the standpoint of quenchability, water is probably the best bet for hot weather. From the standpoint of food value and cooling relief, milk would take top honors, and ice cream and fruit punch next in order. Evaporated milk drinks made with the summer fruits like berries, mashed bananas, and whatever you have available, makes a very nourishing and refreshing summer drink. Beat them a little with the egg beater for a frothy appearance. Have the milk and the fruit very cold at the start and add just enough ice cubes to ensure its coldness. Use straws like you get at the soda fountain and your children and guests will love it. They'll be getting a very nourishing beverage too. A leaflet called evaporated milk drinks is yours if you'd like one. Just write a card to me, Iva Bennett, WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for evaporated milk drinks. Thank you and good morning. Wednesday, July 12th. During these hot summer days, hundreds of people go to the beaches to escape the heat. We naturally think of swimming on hot days, and it's a good form of exercise as well as an enjoyable way to cool off. Some women complain of not wanting to go swimming, but hesitate to put on a bathing suit. Well, it's because they say they're too fat and would not want to be seen wearing a bathing suit or other beach clothes. Your weight is important not only for reasons of wearing a bathing suit or size 16 or 18 dress, but for health reasons. The best person to decide if you are overweight or underweight is your doctor, because people vary in shape and build of the body. Skinny folks look just as bad as the fat ones on the beach or anywhere. However, many people have an idea that their weight is not what it should be. If you think that your weight is more or less than it should be, it would be a good idea to visit your doctor and ask him about it. Recently, I heard three doctors discuss the subject of overweight or obesity. They all agreed that for general good health, it is very important not to be overweight, and that most people are overweight because of overeating. One point that was discussed was the importance of eating three meals a day even when reducing. Some people think the best way to lose weight is to go without breakfast, eat a skimpy lunch, and then a big dinner. Well, it seems as if this is not a good idea. If you eat one big meal a day, you may gain weight instead of losing it. No one can get all of the necessary nutrients needed for good health in just one big meal. Some parts of the body may not be adequately nourished. A reducing diet should include plenty of health protective foods. There's milk. Even if you are reducing, adults need at least a pint of milk daily, either as a beverage or in cooked foods. A glass of buttermilk or skim milk would be much, much better than whole milk for those who wish to lose weight. These forms of milk have less calories and are particularly good. Orange, grapefruit, or tomato juice should be taken every day along with other fruit. Right now, cantaloupe is in season and should be eaten often. These fruits all have vitamin C and are lower in calories than many fruits. The canned fruit has sugar in it. Calorie counters should also remember to use only the unsweetened orange and grapefruit juices. A small potato should be included in your meals every day, even when reducing. It isn't the potato that makes you fat, but what you put on the potato. So just forget the gravy and too much butter. To keep the most food value, it's best to cook the potato in its jacket, then eat the skins too. Besides being good tasting and high in minerals and vitamins, most vegetables are low in calories. Vegetables help to fill you up and prevent hunger pangs. Raw vegetables should be eaten often. During this hot weather, it would be better for lunch to have a salad of cottage cheese and chopped greens seasoned with tomato or lemon juice. Perhaps you'd like that. But there'd be no oil or salad dressing, of course. Protean foods are quite important and should be included every day in a reducing diet. An egg a day, if possible, but by all means at least five eggs a week. Cottage cheese and cheddar type cheese should be included in the meals often. When you buy meat or fish, select the lean kind. It's better to broil meat or fish rather than to fry it, for as the meat broils, the fat drips off and leaves fewer calories. Cereals and bread are needed for health protection as well as for energy. Of course, you should not let the hot bread, such as waffles, griddle cakes and biscuits, tempt you if you really want to lose weight. They taste good, but that only lasts for a few minutes, while the extra pounds that they add will last for weeks and weeks. It takes willpower to stick to a reducing diet, but if you do, you will in all probability lose weight. Overweight can be dangerous to general health, and we all want to aim for good health with plenty of pep and vitality to really enjoy life. Stop and think for a moment how you do look in a bathing suit. How would you look in that new dress you admire so much? If you think you would need to reduce, see a doctor and ask him. Exercise your willpower and your won't power. Our leaflet, Through the Looking Glass, has helped many to reduce in a sensible way. It includes a menu plan and a list of foods to avoid as well as those one should eat when trying to lose weight. If you'd like a copy, just write to me, Iva Bennett, WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for Through the Looking Glass. Thank you and good morning. July 13th, Thursday. Good morning. An ideal way to spend some of the summer vacation is to pack a lunch and head for the park. It isn't necessary to make a long trip. A nice local park will serve the same purpose as one far away. Youngsters enjoy picnics, and it can be a pleasant day for mothers. Appetites lag during the summer heat, therefore it's important that mothers prepare nutritious, refreshing, and tempting lunch. Careful planning of a lunch will prove rewarding. A lunch consisting of several basic foods will serve the needs of the mother and child. A hearty sandwich, which some protein food in it, is a good beginning. Fillings of peanut butter with jelly or jam. Hard-cooked egg salad or salmon salad are suggested during these hot summer days. Care should be taken to eliminate any filling that requires refrigeration, for you may want to go to the park early. Whole wheat, rye, enriched white, and raisin breads are all recommended for sandwiches. Thin sliced bread is handy for preschool children who may not like bulky sandwiches. Butter or fortified margarine spread on the bread before the filling will prevent some of the sogginess. Cutting the sandwiches in half before serving makes easier handling by the children. Milk is an important part of the lunch. At least one half pint, an eight ounce glass, for lunch for all children. This should be increased whenever more milk is desired. Anywhere from one half to one pint is recommended for adults. Milk can be stored in a thermos bottle to keep it cool. If there is a store near the park, containers may be purchased, then it will not need to be carried, and can be cool whenever you want it. Paper cups may be used in place of glasses. A variety of fruits are in season. Peaches, plums, grapes, and bananas could be included in your lunch. Using fresh fruit as dessert eliminates cake and cookies. This is a real time saver for the homemaker who would bake her own. Fruits are more nutritious than cookies. All fruits should be washed before packing. Tomatoes are plentiful all summer. Small, whole tomatoes will supply a scarabic acid or vitamin C. They are easy to carry and to eat from hand. Tomatoes should also be washed before packing. Strips of green pepper and carrots add interest to a lunch. More vitamin C and A are supplied by these succulent vegetables. Children will enjoy munching on them. In fact, it is good to have some extra ones along in case the kids get hungry before and after lunch time. They are better for them than sweets. One day you might like to take this type of lunch. Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches on whole wheat bread, carrot strips, plums, and of course milk to drink. Then vary your lunch on other days. By additional foods, you can adjust the above lunch to meet everybody's needs. The preschool child may be satisfied with just half a sandwich. In that case, one half of a hard cooked egg or a piece of cheddar cheese should be offered. These can be held conveniently in the hand by the child. Mothers can be sure that this type of lunch contains adequate protein for the body building and repair. For older and more rapidly growing children, an increased amount of food is necessary. Two sandwiches instead of one and additional fruits and raw vegetables may be needed to satisfy some appetites and their nutritional requirements. Mothers can adjust this lunch to meet their own needs. If more food is indicated, add a hard cooked egg or a piece of cheese for her. Additional milk and fruit will also increase the food value. With a basic lunch, a mother can adjust a lunch to meet the needs of her whole family. Time and money will both be saved. Youngsters will get a nutritious meal even at lunch time in the park. Help your children to enjoy the summer and yet keep them well fed. A pamphlet entitled The Lunch Box was prepared by our Bureau of Nutrition. It is available to you upon request. Many useful suggestions are given in it. Just drop a postcard to me, Ivor Bennett, station WNYC, New York 7, New York, and simply ask for The Lunch Box. Thanks for listening and good morning. Friday, July 14th. Good morning. One of the most pleasant aspects of summer is the variety of fruits available. I believe they do compensate just a little for all the hot weather we must endure. However, it will be wise to purchase different fruits when they are really abundant and not when they first appear in lesser quantities on the market. When melons and especially cantaloupes first came out, my husband headed straight for that part of the fruit counter. The melons were luscious looking and very tempting. I almost felt a little mean when I suggested that we wait a few more weeks until the price came down. Many of us have limited food budgets and we must shop wisely if we want to get the most food value from our money. But now I need no longer restrain him. He can go directly to the cantaloupes anytime he wants to and select as many as he wishes, for the market is full of them. Sometimes he will buy one that is ripe if we plan to serve the musk melon, which is another name for cantaloupes, for dinner. Since our time is limited, we only go to market about once a week. If we intend to have cantaloupes later in the week, we will purchase a melon that is less ripe. In this way we can have fresh ripe fruit all week long with no waste due to spoilage. I find that many housewives do not know how to select a ripe melon. Many of them have always relied upon the clerk to select them for them. It rather amuses me to see the housewives asking my husband as if he were selecting a melon for us. His opinion on their melon when no clerk is available. But he certainly looks as if he knows what he is doing and so he does. If it is a ripe musk melon he is seeking, first he will look for one that has quite a bit of netting over the surface. This netting should be coarse, quirky, of grayish color. The dark green background may have a grayish or rather yellowish change. Next he will smell of the melon. Last of all he will feel for the softness part at the blossom end. I say last because sometimes repeated pressure can also cause softening of the melon. Occasionally you may be very disappointed in the flavor if you rely only on the softness at the end of the melon as an indication of its ripeness. Cantaloupes are both delicious and nutritious. As you know every one of us needs foods rich in vitamin C each day. Cantaloupe is one of the foods which is rich in vitamin C. Oranges are the richest sources of vitamin C. A half-sized medium cantaloupe has about the same amount of vitamin C as 4 ounces of orange juice. It can be substituted for one serving of citrus fruit. The rich color of the inside of the cantaloupe suggests that they are rich in vitamin A. And they do contain a large amount of this vitamin A. A half of a medium-sized cantaloupe will supply the average adult with enough vitamin A for one day. Those of you who must watch your waistline will be glad to learn that cantaloupes are low in calories. Take advantage of the abundant supply and serve cantaloupe often to your family. It tastes best after being filled and chilled in the refrigerator. My time is almost up and I've only told you about the one food, cantaloupes. If you'd like to know more about other foods, which we all need every day, and how to include them in your diet, send a postcard to me, Iva Bennett, station WNYC, New York 7, New York, and ask for our leaflet, Choose and Use the Right Foods for Your Family Every Day. This leaflet describes the basic seven foods. It also gives some hints on cooking and shopping, and briefly describes which foods are rich in protein, minerals, vitamins, and fats. Many foods, as cantaloupe, are both delicious and very nutritious. Thank you for listening and good morning. Thank you. Thank you.